“If lawmakers think they can use a balanced-budget amendment as a fig leaf of fiscal responsibility after just voting for such an irresponsible spending bill,” he said, “they should think again.”

It has been a painful few months for those worried about growing budget deficits. In December, Republicans celebrated the passage of an overhaul of the tax code, which the Congressional Budget Office now says will add nearly $1.9 trillion to budget deficits from 2018 to 2028, a figure that includes lost revenue as well as additional interest costs.

This year, Congress approved a two-year budget deal to increase strict limits on military and domestic spending, and lawmakers subsequently approved a $1.3 trillion spending plan that provides big increases in funding.

On Monday, the budget office released an updated forecast that took into account the tax bill and the spending legislation, and the consequences were grim. The deficit is now projected to exceed $1 trillion in 2020, and deficits over the next decade are expected to total $11.7 trillion, up from the $10.1 trillion that had been expected last June.

“This Congress and this administration likely will go down as one of the most fiscally irresponsible administrations and Congresses that we’ve had,” Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, observed this week.

Yet on Thursday afternoon, House Republicans took to the floor of their chamber to proclaim the peril of the rising national debt, which has topped $21 trillion. For Republicans, the debate over the proposal amounted to an opportunity to vent — but not much more than that.

Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia and the proposal’s sponsor, said the constitutional amendment would apply needed “external pressure” to force Congress to make difficult decisions — a “stop me before I kill again” argument that has long propelled the balanced budget amendment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s time for Congress to stop saddling future generations with the burden of crushing debts to pay for current spending,” Mr. Goodlatte said. “We should not pass on to our children and grandchildren the bleak fiscal future that our unsustainable spending is creating.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But the attempted display of fiscal responsibility did little to soothe some conservative critics of the Republicans’ recent spending spree.

“The base does not want to see a stupid bad bill and then go get patted on their head,” said Adam Brandon, the president of FreedomWorks, a conservative advocacy group.

Amending the Constitution to require the federal government to have a balanced budget has been discussed for decades, and proposed amendments failed in the House and Senate in 2011. The vote held on Thursday fulfilled a commitment that the Republican leadership in the House had made to conservative lawmakers last year.

But Democrats assailed Republicans for preaching fiscal responsibility not long after voting for a tax bill that is projected to widen deficits. They warned that the proposal, if it ever became reality, would lead to deep cuts to Social Security and Medicare, programs that are driving up spending as the population ages.

“Like some stormy sermon from Trump on the virtues of chastity, I believe these House Republicans today really do deserve a gold medal for hypocrisy,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas.

In addition, economists critical of the idea of a balanced-budget amendment argue that it would essentially tie the hands of the government in the event of a recession, making economic conditions even worse.

“It would force the government to kick the economy when it was down, because it would force the government to raise taxes and cut benefit programs, or any other type of spending, when times were bad — which is exactly the opposite of what you want to do,” said Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning research organization.

In another sign of the discomfort being felt by Republicans over the recent spending bill, the White House and congressional Republicans — including Representative Kevin McCarthy, the majority leader — have been discussing whether to try to rescind some previously approved spending.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Using procedures laid out in a 1974 budget law, such an effort could pass the Senate with only a majority, allowing Republicans to sidestep Democrats whose votes were needed to pass the spending bill last month.

But even that would be a difficult threshold to reach, given the Republicans’ razor-thin majority in the Senate. The idea of clawing back already-approved funding has quickly run into resistance from some Republican lawmakers who are not eager to chip away at what had been a painstakingly negotiated spending plan.

Lawmakers are already looking toward coming up with spending legislation for the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. By going back on what had been a bipartisan agreement, future negotiations would presumably become more difficult.

On Thursday, House Republicans also unveiled their farm bill, which includes significant new work requirements for recipients of benefits through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which provides food aid for around 40 million low-income Americans.Mr. Mulvaney defended his actions as lawful, painting himself as a humble bureaucrat and reformer.

“I’m not seeking to undermine the mission of the bureau,” Mr. Mulvaney insisted, adding that he no longer wanted it to be a regulatory “black hole.”

Just hours after testifying, Mr. Mulvaney unleashed a blistering memo to bureau staff members that accused some inside the agency of leaking the outlines of a proposed $1 billion fine against Wells Fargo. The potential fine was reported by Reuters on Monday.

“I am extraordinarily concerned that some of these leaks might have come from bureau employees,” he wrote, according to a copy of the memo forwarded by a person on the distribution list.

Mr. Mulvaney’s memo seemed to offer at least partial confirmation that the Reuters report was grounded, describing the leaked material as “confidential” information.

“I recognize that there may well be some (a few? a lot?) of people who work here who aren’t happy that I’m working here. That’s fine,” Mr. Mulvaney wrote. “I also recognize that these folks might be interested in undermining my leadership here, or in quite simply looking to make me look bad.”

He has instructed the bureau’s inspector general to investigate leaks, he said.

Mr. Mulvaney said he was not seeking to stifle legitimate whistle-blowers, but added that he would “support any disciplinary and other actions taken against any bureau employees” found to have divulged information about investigations.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The bureau does not play games,” he concluded.

The question of Mr. Mulvaney’s legal ability to run the consumer bureau stems from the provision in the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that created it. The statute mandated that the bureau, which draws its funding from the Federal Reserve, retain complete independence from other federal agencies — particularly the Office of Management and Budget, which oversees rule-making for the executive branch.

The appeals court, which fast-tracked the case, is expected to release a final ruling — which could order Mr. Mulvaney’s ouster — within the next few weeks, according to a person with knowledge of the case.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If that happens, Justice Department lawyers, who maintain that Mr. Trump has the right to appoint Mr. Mulvaney under the 1998 federal Vacancies Reform Act, are likely to appeal the case directly to the Supreme Court.

At that point, Mr. Trump would face a tough choice: Keep Mr. Mulvaney in the post under a legal cloud, pending an appeal, or replace him with another appointee who would most likely face a ferocious confirmation fight.

“Of all the people in the federal government, Donald Trump chose the one person, Mick Mulvaney, who isn’t supposed to run the bureau under the law,” said Deepak Gupta, Ms. English’s lawyer and a former lawyer at the watchdog agency.

A spokesman for Mr. Mulvaney did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Mr. Mulvaney, who has frozen new enforcement cases since taking over the bureau, is required to step down by June 22, under the vacancies law. But he could stay in the job if Mr. Trump nominates his successor, remaining in place until a new director is confirmed by the Senate.

While Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee largely praised his work, Democrats were unimpressed.

Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who helped create the bureau, confronted Mr. Mulvaney with examples in which he called for the abolishment of the bureau and argued that it was clear from his leadership that he was trying to tear it apart.

“You’ve taken obvious joy in talking about how the agency will help banks a lot more than it will help consumers, and how upset this must make me,” Ms. Warren said. “You’re hurting real people to score cheap political points.”Photo

Federal officials added new urgency on Thursday to the hunt for a drug kingpin convicted of orchestrating the 1985 death of a Drug Enforcement Administration agent, announcing that the fugitive had been added to the F.B.I.’s 10 most wanted list.

The notorious kingpin, Rafael Caro Quintero, who rose to prominence as a marijuana and cocaine trafficker in the 1980s, has evaded the authorities since he was released on a legal technicality from a Mexican prison in 2013.

Mr. Caro Quintero was serving a 40-year sentence for the kidnapping, torture and murder of Enrique Camarena, known as Kiki, who was working undercover in Mexico as a D.E.A. agent.

The announcement on Thursday put new pressure on the Mexican authorities in a case that has long been a source of friction. Tensions between the two countries are already high, as President Trump has incorrectly called Mexico the “most dangerous country in the world,” and has pointed to its problems with violence as justification for his proposed border wall.

The move also comes as the United States and Mexico struggle to contain a cartel-fueled drug trade streaming across the southwestern border.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

American law enforcement officials say that since his release, Mr. Caro Quintero has returned to his old ways and now leads the Sinaloa cartel.While in Italy, Mr. Pruitt “refused to stay at hotels recommended by the U.S. Embassy, although the recommended hotel had law enforcement and other U.S. resources on site,” according to the letter, in which the lawmakers ask Mr. Pruitt to turn over documents related to the claims. Instead, Mr. Pruitt chose to stay “at more expensive hotels with fewer standard security resources,” while bringing along his own security team “at taxpayer expense.”

In addition, Mr. Perrotta played a central role in approving Mr. Pruitt’s regular use of first-class flights, and has often joined him in first class, including during the trip to Italy last June, for which travel costs totaled at least $120,000, according to public records. And when Mr. Pruitt wanted a secure place to make sensitive phone calls, Mr. Perrotta pushed for the construction of a $43,000 surveillance-proof booth in Mr. Pruitt’s office in Washington, over the objections of colleagues who had advocated a less expensive option. Mr. Perrotta also pressed, unsuccessfully, for a bulletproof vehicle for Mr. Pruitt and a bulletproof desk for his security detail.

From the time Mr. Pruitt arrived at the E.P.A., the Trump transition team requested increased security for him, suggesting that safety was a concern. But as Mr. Pruitt’s security measures and requests have grown over the past year, various internal reviews at the E.P.A. have questioned the need.

Mr. Perrotta, who joined the Secret Service in 1995 and moved to the E.P.A. in 2004, declined requests for comment left at his office at the E.P.A. and at his security consulting firm, Sequoia Security Group. An E.P.A. spokesman defended the heightened security measures, repeating previous E.P.A. assertions that Mr. Pruitt “has faced an unprecedented amount of death threats” and that “members of the president’s cabinet should be kept safe from these violent threats.”

A native New Yorker, Mr. Perrotta, 50, made a name for himself in the mid-1990s when he worked for the Bronx district attorney, investigating gambling and loan-sharking activities of the Gambino crime family, and then later helping efforts that led to the arrest and conviction of John Gotti, the longtime boss of the Gambino family.

Photo

Longtime E.P.A. employees described Mr. Perrotta as a backslapper and a fast-talker who enjoys talking about his mob-busting days and has given the impression that he chafed under the leadership of others.

Since taking over the protective detail weeks after Mr. Pruitt’s confirmation in February 2017, Mr. Perrotta has cheekily referred to himself as the agency’s sheriff and has whistled the distinctive tune made famous by the Western film “The Good, the Bad and the Ugly,” said two E.P.A. officials who worked with Mr. Perrotta. On occasion, he has worn a black cowboy hat and boots around the E.P.A. office, a move that some colleagues considered a lighthearted allusion to Mr. Pruitt’s home state, Oklahoma.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Perrotta, a polarizing figure in the agency, is viewed among some career officials as playing to Mr. Pruitt’s ego and security fears to seize power over rivals. The measures he advocated in the name of security provided Mr. Pruitt with perks more commonly associated with heads of state, and often came over the objections of top agency officials. Some of them complained that Mr. Perrotta was playing fast and loose with the rules, but that he could not be challenged because he was thought to have Mr. Pruitt’s blessing.

Ercole Gaudioso, a former New York Organized Crime Task Force investigator who worked the Gotti case with Mr. Perrotta, says he thinks his former junior partner, with whom he keeps in contact, may find the work of protecting a cabinet secretary boring by comparison.

“He was the guy who wanted to be out fighting the bad guy all the time,” Mr. Gaudioso said.

In a self-published 2016 book detailing his work in law enforcement, Mr. Perrotta acknowledged skirmishes during his career, particularly in its early days.

“It often appeared to me that my fellow agents and supervisors did not quite get me, my motivations and authenticity often maligned and misunderstood,” he wrote. “I have come to accept that I contributed to this misconception and false labeling in part because of my high level of energy.”

Mr. Perrotta became Mr. Pruitt’s security chief after the administrator removed Eric Weese, a special agent who had a reputation, even before Mr. Pruitt’s arrival, for closely following agency rules, even if it might mean standing up to political appointees, according to Fred Burnside, who led the E.P.A.’s criminal enforcement division from 2008 to 2010.

“We always encouraged anyone to speak up if they disagree with the direction of the organization,” Mr. Burnside said.

Mr. Weese had denied Mr. Pruitt’s requests to use lights and sirens when being driven in his agency-issued vehicle to restaurants and airports, and also made it clear he would be opposed to signing off on security waivers to allow Mr. Pruitt to fly in first class.

Mr. Perrotta not only indulged those requests, but also quickly moved to restrict access to Mr. Pruitt, making his office and the rest of that floor of the E.P.A. headquarters off-limits to anyone who was not on a list drawn up by Mr. Perrotta, said Ronald Slotkin, former director of the agency’s multimedia office.

Photo

“We used to be friends,” Mr. Slotkin said, referring to Mr. Perrotta. Then, he said, “boom, overnight this list was blocking me from getting in.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Perrotta urged Mr. Pruitt to take other steps in the name of security that struck some as excessive, including the surveillance-thwarting booth and the sweep for listening devices.

Sweeps are typically initiated by the agency’s homeland security office and are conducted by government personnel or certified outside contractors, two agency officials said. Mr. Perrotta, instead, turned to Mr. Steinmetz, a vice president at the security firm that Mr. Perrotta founded in 2013 and continues to work for even while on the E.P.A. payroll. The agency confirmed that Mr. Perrotta had gotten a waiver to maintain outside employment.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It was an emergency, they needed it right away,” said Mr. Steinmetz, who had conducted security sweeps for other government agencies, but never previously for the E.P.A. “I dropped everything and took care of it.”

Mr. Steinmetz, who received $3,000 for the work, said none of the money went to Mr. Perrotta or his company. The E.P.A. did not respond to a question about whether the sweep turned up anything. But Mr. Steinmetz suggested it had been necessary because “there are people there working behind the scenes doing anything they can to cause embarrassment for this administrator,” including, he said, “holdovers from the previous administration.”

The sweep, conducted within weeks of Mr. Pruitt’s taking office in February 2017, inflamed tensions between Mr. Perrotta and the agency’s homeland security office, where officials were increasingly — and openly — skeptical of the expensive security demands.

Things got so heated that a scuffle broke out during a meeting last summer of the agency’s top security and administrative staff, according to attendees. They said that Mr. Perrotta traded expletives with Mario Caraballo, who until recently served as the deputy associate administrator of the homeland security office, and that the two men had to be physically separated.

Frictions persisted as Mr. Perrotta worked to consolidate power within the security detail, giving his team a top role in evaluating threats against Mr. Pruitt and determining the financial resources needed to combat them.

One part-time member of the security detail, John C. Martin, was removed when it was discovered that his cellphone had an application that allowed him to communicate confidentially, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The application was discovered after the E.P.A. did an audit of government-issued mobile devices, looking for secure applications such as Signal and WhatsApp, which could be used to communicate with members of the media, as well as for legitimate government work. Mr. Martin had raised questions internally about the bug-sweeping contract and the security booth, agency officials said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Perrotta later instructed Kevin Chmielewski, a Trump administration political appointee who had served as Mr. Pruitt’s deputy chief of staff, to confiscate Mr. Martin’s gun and badge, according to agency officials. Mr. Chmielewski later told associates that he regretted carrying out Mr. Perrotta’s instructions, which he came to believe were retaliatory.

Photo

Mr. Perrotta also retained more than a dozen private security guards for Mr. Pruitt’s trip to Italy, a decision that would typically be made by the agency’s homeland security office and the State Department.

According to an E.P.A. official who was involved in the trip, Mr. Perrotta and the security guards attended a five-course meal at a Rome restaurant with Mr. Pruitt and his staff, a rarity for security personnel, who usually do not dine with those they protect.

Officials from the E.P.A.’s homeland security office, under Mr. Caraballo, questioned the need for all of the additional security expenses. “EPA Intelligence has not identified any specific credible direct threat to the E.P.A. administrator,” a memo from Mr. Caraballo’s office said in February.

After excerpts from the memo were made public by two Democrats in the Senate this week, Mr. Pruitt’s staff confirmed that Mr. Caraballo had been removed from his job. He is one of several career officials who have been reassigned or removed after challenging Mr. Perrotta’s implementation of enhanced security measures for Mr. Pruitt. Even political appointees have not been immune.

After months of objecting to Mr. Pruitt’s security spending, Mr. Chmielewski, who had been among the first employees of Donald J. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, was asked to surrender his credentials, electronic security card and parking pass to one of Mr. Perrotta’s agents late one night in the agency’s parking lot.

Mr. Chmielewski refused, got in his car and began driving to his family’s home in Maryland, at which point he got a call from Mr. Perrotta, according to an administration official briefed on the exchange and the letter sent Thursday by Democrats in Congress. If Mr. Chmielewski did not immediately return to the E.P.A. to surrender his credentials, security card and parking pass, Mr. Perrotta said he would drive to Mr. Chmielewski’s home that night and personally retrieve them.

Mr. Chmielewski reported the exchange, which he characterized as a threat, to the White House and to the E.P.A.’s internal affairs and criminal investigative divisions. Mr. Chmielewski, Mr. Martin and others who have crossed Mr. Perrotta have told associates that they are concerned Mr. Perrotta will not be held to account by the inspector general.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even after Mr. Perrotta’s colleagues raised concerns about his oversight of Mr. Pruitt’s security, Mr. Perrotta and the assistant inspector general who oversees investigation, Patrick Sullivan, have been spotted drinking beers together at Elephant and Castle, a bar across the street from the E.P.A. headquarters. The men were both with the Secret Service before coming to the E.P.A. Mr. Perrotta initially worked in the inspector general’s office when he arrived at the agency, and moved to the security detail late in George W. Bush’s presidency.

A spokesman for the inspector general did not dispute that Mr. Perrotta and Mr. Sullivan were “friendly” but disputed that they socialized outside of work and added that the office has “impairment and impartiality requirements” intended to prevent bias in any investigation.

Mr. Steinmetz, the business associate of Mr. Perrotta, said he had been encouraged by Mr. Perrotta to be candid if contacted by the inspector general.

“We’ve got nothing to hide,” said Mr. Steinmetz. “I know the guy. I know that he’s straightforward. He’s honest.”BEIJING — In an elegantly furnished back room at a conference in eastern China in December, a member of the Chinese leadership asked American tech executives attending the event for help.

The official, Wang Huning, a Communist Party strategist who has spent much of his career sizing up the United States as a geopolitical rival, wanted to know whether President Trump was serious about a trade war with China — and whether they could serve as a channel of communication to the White House.

He has not been alone.

For the past few months, some of the most powerful men in China — allies of President Xi Jinping with longstanding ties and deep experience with the United States — have been casting about for a better understanding of Mr. Trump and how to respond to his combative trade agenda, according to several people they have consulted.

Vice President Wang Qishan has met in recent weeks with a series of American business leaders and former cabinet officials to question them about Mr. Trump’s trade threats. Liu He, the Politburo member coordinating economic policy, has done the same. One longtime China scholar in the United States said five officials had visited him seeking advice in the past two weeks alone.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In these meetings, the Americans have warned that Mr. Trump’s complaints should be taken seriously because of widespread frustration in Washington with Chinese policies, especially a $300 billion program to dominate critical high-tech industries, known as Made in China 2025, that has alarmed the United States national security establishment.“We are experiencing a dangerous time in our country,” Comey writes, “with a political environment where basic facts are disputed, fundamental truth is questioned, lying is normalized and unethical behavior is ignored, excused or rewarded.”

“A Higher Loyalty” is the first big memoir by a key player in the alarming melodrama that is the Trump administration. Comey, who was abruptly fired by President Trump on May 9, 2017, has worked in three administrations, and his book underscores just how outside presidential norms Trump’s behavior has been — how ignorant he is about his basic duties as president, and how willfully he has flouted the checks and balances that safeguard our democracy, including the essential independence of the judiciary and law enforcement. Comey’s book fleshes out the testimony he gave before the Senate Intelligence Committee in June 2017 with considerable emotional detail, and it showcases its author’s gift for narrative — a skill he clearly honed during his days as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.

The volume offers little in the way of hard news revelations about investigations by the F.B.I. or the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III (not unexpectedly, given that such investigations are ongoing and involve classified material), and it lacks the rigorous legal analysis that made Jack Goldsmith’s 2007 book “The Terror Presidency” so incisive about larger dynamics within the Bush administration.

What “A Higher Loyalty” does give readers are some near-cinematic accounts of what Comey was thinking when, as he’s previously said, Trump demanded loyalty from him during a one-on-one dinner at the White House; when Trump pressured him to let go of the investigation into his former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn; and when the president asked what Comey could do to “lift the cloud” of the Russia investigation.

There are some methodical explanations in these pages of the reasoning behind the momentous decisions Comey made regarding Hillary Clinton’s emails during the 2016 campaign — explanations that attest to his nonpartisan and well-intentioned efforts to protect the independence of the F.B.I., but that will leave at least some readers still questioning the judgment calls he made, including the different approaches he took in handling the bureau’s investigation into Clinton (which was made public) and its investigation into the Trump campaign (which was handled with traditional F.B.I. secrecy).

Photo

“A Higher Loyalty” also provides sharp sketches of key players in three presidential administrations. Comey draws a scathing portrait of Vice President Dick Cheney’s legal adviser David S. Addington, who spearheaded the arguments of many hard-liners in the George W. Bush White House; Comey describes their point of view: “The war on terrorism justified stretching, if not breaking, the written law.” He depicts Bush national security adviser and later Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice as uninterested in having a detailed policy discussion of interrogation policy and the question of torture. He takes Barack Obama’s attorney general Loretta Lynch to task for asking him to refer to the Clinton email case as a “matter,” not an “investigation.” (Comey tartly notes that “the F.B.I. didn’t do ‘matters.’”) And he compares Trump’s attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to Alberto R. Gonzales, who served in the same position under Bush, writing that both were “overwhelmed and overmatched by the job,” but “Sessions lacked the kindness Gonzales radiated.”

Comey is what Saul Bellow called a “first-class noticer.” He notices, for instance, “the soft white pouches under” Trump’s “expressionless blue eyes”; coyly observes that the president’s hands are smaller than his own “but did not seem unusually so”; and points out that he never saw Trump laugh — a sign, Comey suspects, of his “deep insecurity, his inability to be vulnerable or to risk himself by appreciating the humor of others, which, on reflection, is really very sad in a leader, and a little scary in a president.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During his Senate testimony last June, Comey was boy-scout polite (“Lordy, I hope there are tapes”) and somewhat elliptical in explaining why he decided to write detailed memos after each of his encounters with Trump (something he did not do with Presidents Obama or Bush), talking gingerly about “the nature of the person I was interacting with.” Here, however, Comey is blunt about what he thinks of the president, comparing Trump’s demand for loyalty over dinner to “Sammy the Bull’s Cosa Nostra induction ceremony — with Trump, in the role of the family boss, asking me if I have what it takes to be a ‘made man.’”

Throughout his tenure in the Bush and Obama administrations (he served as deputy attorney general under Bush, and was selected to lead the F.B.I. by Obama in 2013), Comey was known for his fierce, go-it-alone independence, and Trump’s behavior catalyzed his worst fears — that the president symbolically wanted the leaders of the law enforcement and national security agencies to come “forward and kiss the great man’s ring.” Comey was feeling unnerved from the moment he met Trump. In his recent book “Fire and Fury,” Michael Wolff wrote that Trump “invariably thought people found him irresistible,” and felt sure, early on, that “he could woo and flatter the F.B.I. director into positive feeling for him, if not outright submission” (in what the reader takes as yet another instance of the president’s inability to process reality or step beyond his own narcissistic delusions).

After he failed to get that submission and the Russia cloud continued to hover, Trump fired Comey; the following day he told Russian officials during a meeting in the Oval Office that firing the F.B.I. director — whom he called “a real nut job” — relieved “great pressure” on him. A week later, the Justice Department appointed Robert Mueller as special counsel overseeing the investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia.

During Comey’s testimony, one senator observed that the often contradictory accounts that the president and former F.B.I. director gave of their one-on-one interactions came down to “Who should we believe?” As a prosecutor, Comey replied, he used to tell juries trying to evaluate a witness that “you can’t cherry-pick” — “You can’t say, ‘I like these things he said, but on this, he’s a dirty, rotten liar.’ You got to take it all together.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Put the two men’s records, their reputations, even their respective books, side by side, and it’s hard to imagine two more polar opposites than Trump and Comey: They are as antipodean as the untethered, sybaritic Al Capone and the square, diligent G-man Eliot Ness in Brian De Palma’s 1987 movie “The Untouchables”; or the vengeful outlaw Frank Miller and Gary Cooper’s stoic, duty-driven marshal Will Kane in Fred Zinnemann’s 1952 classic “High Noon.”

One is an avatar of chaos with autocratic instincts and a resentment of the so-called “deep state” who has waged an assault on the institutions that uphold the Constitution.

The other is a straight-arrow bureaucrat, an apostle of order and the rule of law, whose reputation as a defender of the Constitution was indelibly shaped by his decision, one night in 2004, to rush to the hospital room of his boss, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, to prevent Bush White House officials from persuading the ailing Ashcroft to reauthorize an N.S.A. surveillance program that members of the Justice Department believed violated the law.

One uses language incoherently on Twitter and in person, emitting a relentless stream of lies, insults, boasts, dog-whistles, divisive appeals to anger and fear, and attacks on institutions, individuals, companies, religions, countries, continents.1 Business Day

Does Facebook Know You Better Than You Do?Economists across the political spectrum say President Trump is right to highlight concerns about trade with China. But many add that he would do better to enlist international allies to help pressure Beijing.

____

Photo

3. “Told you so.”

That’s the general sense from privacy experts on recent revelations about Facebook’s collection of user data. For the first time, users may be more willing to put up with inconveniences in return for a lot more privacy.

Here are the big takeaways from two days of congressional testimony by the company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, above.

And our podcast “The Daily” looks at Capitol Hill’s learning curve on tech.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

____

Photo

4. A damning report released by Missouri’s House of Representatives told how the governor, Eric Greitens, above, made unwanted sexual advances toward his former mistress before he ran for office.

The salacious details, including accounts of violent and coercive behavior, put the first-term Republican governor’s political future in deep trouble. He labeled the report “tabloid trash.”

The state attorney general, Josh Hawley, called for Mr. Greitens to resign. (Mr. Hawley, also a Republican, is trying to distance himself from the governor as he seeks to unseat Senator Claire McCaskill.)

____

Photo

5. Battles over education funding and teacher pay are threatening Republicans’ grip on some of the country’s most conservative states. They could become a major issue in some important midterm and local races this fall.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Arizona teachers laid the groundwork this week for a walkout. (Above, a demonstration in support of them.) Oklahoma teachers went on strike to protest low school budgets. Teachers in Kentucky are protesting a pension reform bill. And last month, West Virginia’s Republican-controlled government made concessions to striking teachers.

Republicans and Democrats see the unrest as a symptom of unease about years of belt-tightening after popular tax cuts.

____

Photo

6. A Colorado civic group is spearheading an effort to buy The Denver Post, which is in open revolt against the New York hedge fund that owns it. The 125-year-old paper excoriated the fund, Alden Global Capital, as “vulture capitalists” in an editorial last Sunday.

Local newspapers across the country have been devastated by the loss of revenue from print advertising, and The Post’s owner ordered more job cuts last month.

The civic group, Together for Colorado Springs, says potential investors have so far pledged $10 million.

____

Photo

7. Good riddance, Harvey, Irma, Maria and Nate.

The World Meteorological Organization has officially retired the names of the four 2017 storms from the rotating roster of cyclone names. Above, Puerto Rico after Maria.

The meteorologists do that when “a storm is so deadly or costly that the future use of its name on a different storm would be inappropriate for reasons of sensitivity.”

Only one other storm season has ever produced more banishments: 2005, the year of Dennis, Rita, Stan, Wilma and Katrina.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

____

Photo

8. It was Holocaust Remembrance Day, an internationally recognized date that commemorates the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising.

But a new survey found that in fact, the Holocaust is fading from memory in the U.S. Many adults — particularly younger ones — are fuzzy on basic details, like the number of people killed or what Auschwitz, above, was.

The study was commissioned by the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, which negotiates restitution for Holocaust victims and their descendants.

____

Photo

9. Players for the Yankees and the Red Sox brawled on the field at Fenway Park on Wednesday night. It all started when a 97-mile-per-hour fastball from Boston reliever Joe Kelly found its intended target: Tyler Austin’s ribs. Austin charged Kelly, and both benches — and bullpens — quickly emptied.

The crowd, as they say, went wild. And while the league will surely impose discipline for the scuffle, our baseball writer predicts it will do so with a wink.

“Two glamour franchises, rolling around on the grass, in a game televised by MLB Network. Well, it was a beautiful sight for business,” Tyler Kepner noted wryly. (The Rockies and the Padres also fought on Wednesday.)

____

Photo

10. Finally, the gladiators of “Scandal” are leaving the arena.

We talked to the show’s creator, Shonda Rhimes, above right, and three of its stars about how the over-the-top political drama became a ratings juggernaut. The last episode airs April 19. (And you can relive its seven wildest moments here.)

“We were going to do our own thing our own way,” explained Kerry Washington, second from left, who played the inimitable Olivia Pope. “And we were going to make it loud and bold and to hell with what everybody says TV is supposed to look like.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On the late-night shows, the hosts took stock of House Speaker Paul Ryan’s sudden resignation. From Stephen Colbert: “Fare thee well, Paul Ryan, we’ll all miss your famous catch phrase: ‘No, I hadn’t heard what the president said, but if true, that is troubling.’”

Have a great night.

____

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Step out onto the roof of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and you are confronted by a towering figure, somewhat humanoid but with a ferocious face that looks like a primate mask. She-He-It-They visually dwarfs the jagged Manhattan skyline and the treetops in Central Park. Kneeling before this behemoth is a second figure, bowing in supplication or prayer, with long cartoonish human hands and a scraggly tail emerging from its shiny black drapery.

Welcome to Huma Bhabha’s “We Come in Peace,” a spare and unsettling sculptural installation for the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Roof Garden Commission, which opens on Tuesday and runs through Oct. 28. While the figures aren’t meant to be scary, in at least one way they can be interpreted as a warning sign. The title harks back to science fiction, the line an alien uttered to a human in the 1951 movie “The Day the Earth Stood Still” — but it ripples with other associations: colonization, invasion, imperialism or missionaries and other foreigners whose intentions were not always innocent.

Ms. Bhabha, 56, who was born in Karachi, Pakistan, and educated at the Rhode Island School of Design and Columbia University (she lives in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.), is a smart choice for the rooftop commission. Working in figurative sculpture — or some version of it — she provides a cross-cultural approach that is needed particularly at this moment, making connections among histories, languages and civilizations, and our shared present and future. Her work has been included in large international exhibitions, including “All the World’s Futures” at the Venice Biennale in 2015.

Unlike recent years and other commissions, where the Met roof felt like a playground or an obstacle course, Ms. Bhabha’s project is shockingly, refreshingly, simple. There are only two sculptures, arranged in a kind of dialogue with the open-air roof serving, as Ms. Bhabha describes it in the accompanying catalog, as a kind of stage — an elegant play on the traditional pedestals on which sculptures were customarily displayed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Her commission feels like an extension of the complex conversation going on downstairs, inside a museum packed with 5,000 years of art history. (The rooftop show was organized by another transplant from the same region: Shanay Jhaveri, who is originally from Mumbai and was hired by the Met in 2015 as its first curator of modern and contemporary South Asian art.)

Photo

Both figures wre originally carved in cork and Styrofoam. Ms. Bhabha generally works in scrappy, ephemeral materials. But these would obviously not survive a season on the roof, so the sculptures have been cast in bronze. And yet they retain much of their original tactility and distressed appearance. The bronze is covered with patina color, and gouges and markings on the colossal, golemlike figure read either as symbols or language — or perhaps a kind of cosmic wear and tear, harking back to sci-fi aliens. But — and this is particularly noticeable if you’ve been wandering the floors below — the work is also a contemporary update of the Gorgons and Medusas in Greek and Roman Art, the deities in the Asian wing, or the warriors and spirits in the Met’s current, excellent exhibition “Golden Kingdoms: Luxury & Legacy in the Ancient Americas.”The elderly couple, Ernest S. Heller and Rose Heller, are long dead. Their lawyer said the apartment near the East River was something of a salon where artists and musicians — including, in the 1960s, Chagall himself and composer Aaron Copland — would meet.

The artworks, which were valued at $750,000 at the time of the theft, would be worth millions in today’s art market.

The painting was discovered in part because an aging criminal, a terminally ill man who is 72 and who had been involved with Bulgarian organized crime, wanted to make a clean breast of things before he dies, according to Marc Hess of the F.B.I.’s Art Crime Team, the special agent who is investigating the case. The painting had been hidden in the criminal’s attic.

“One of the things he did say to me is that he was partially motivated by his imminent demise,” Mr. Hess said in a telephone interview. “He talked about meeting his maker and trying to clear his conscience and make things right before he dies.”

The complaint sketches the outlines of a tale worthy of a noir novel. It also deepens the mystery of the carefully executed heist, shrouding the identities of two of the players, in part because the Art Crime Team, based in Washington, D.C., is still investigating the theft and trying to find more of the stolen art, according to Mr. Hess, his supervisor and the prosecutor handling the case.

The document reveals that one of the thieves — who has a degree in fine arts and is identified only as Person 1 — had worked in the Hellers’ apartment building. Several people with knowledge of the case said he was the superintendent or the assistant superintendent. A few years after the theft he had been arrested and convicted on federal charges that he committed similar crimes: stealing artworks from other apartment buildings where he worked, according to the document.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The complaint tracks his ill-fated effort to sell the Chagall, complete with a no-honor-among-thieves falling-out he had with a co-conspirator.

Person 1 became frustrated in his own efforts to unload the painting, and in the late 1980s or early 1990s he sought the assistance of the man who is now 72 years old, who was to serve as a fence and who planned to sell it through his Bulgarian organized crime connections.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The fence found a potential buyer. But then the man identified as Person 1 sought to cut him out of the deal. That’s when the fence stole the painting from Person 1 and stored it for years in the attic.

In about 2011, he tried to sell it to a gallery owner in Washington, D.C., according to the complaint. But the owner said he could not display the painting for sale without paperwork showing ownership or provenance, or a certificate from the Chagall committee, which controls the artist’s estate.

At that time, the gallery owner recognized the artwork as the same painting that had been brought to him in 1989 by an unidentified man, who also had no provenance or proof of ownership, and with whom the gallery owner also declined to do business.

Then, in January of last year, the 72-year-old man returned to the same gallery and again tried to sell the painting to the gallery owner, and the owner again refused, according to the complaint.

But this time, the gallery owner suggested that the man with the painting contact law enforcement. He did so, calling the F.B.I., and later that month, he turned the painting over to agents.

The complaint and the attorney for the Hellers’ estate, Alan Scott, say that the estate intends to sell the painting at auction if it is returned. The estate has agreed to repay the insurance company for the settlement and any related expenses, and donate the remainder of the proceeds to the residuary beneficiaries identified in the Hellers’ will: the MacDowell Colony, an artists’ colony that will receive 80 percent; and Columbia University and NYU Langone Medical Center, which will each receive 10 percent.

Mr. Heller, who was in the jewelry business and imported pearls, detailed the provenance of the Chagall in a 1990 oral history prepared by Lincoln Center. He said that he had inherited the painting from his father, Samuel Heller, who had purchased it directly from Chagall in Paris for $50 in 1913.Photo

THE ITALIAN TEACHER

By Tom Rachman

341 pp. Viking. $27.

The romantic image of a genius who is at best self-absorbed and at worst plainly monstrous in private life is familiar from countless biographies of painters (writers, composers, directors). The annals of art are littered with abandoned women, neglected offspring, heartbreaks and betrayals. Yet Gauguin, after deserting his family, went on to paint his celebrated landscapes of Tahiti, and Picasso — who fathered four children by three women, juggled mistresses and wives, and helped drive two of them to suicide — forever changed the face of modern art. Morality and immortality, it must be acknowledged, do not necessarily go hand in hand. In fact, the opposite often seems to be true: To achieve real mastery, the artist must be obsessed with work, fiercely protective of his time, ruthlessly selfish in his dealings with those who would impose upon him — all the small, needy people who ask for crumbs of his soul yet ask in vain — for all of it, undivided, is laid on the altar of Art.

Such a Great Artist, the capitalization almost palpable, is the subject of Tom Rachman’s engaging and subtle third novel, “The Italian Teacher.” In the opening scene, the aptly named Bear Bavinsky appears to his adoring son as a magnificent giant who, rising from his bath, leans on the 5-year-old for balance, making the boy tremble under his weight. Like many a subsequent episode, this feels both vividly realistic and effortlessly symbolic, foretelling the unbalanced relationships within the family, the man ever a dominant, expansive, larger-than-life figure who will continue to cast his shadow on numerous successive wives and progeny. (We learn the exact head count of Bear’s children only at his funeral; Picasso, who may have served as the inspiration for a few plot peregrinations, had nothing on him.) Painted in bold, convincing brush strokes, Bear strides through life with confidence and vitality, joking, scowling, smoking pipes, spreading his mood, “the man’s pleasures clapping you on the shoulder,” charming and impregnating young women, discarding them as they get older, mussing his children’s hair, feeding his children’s hopes, crushing his children’s dreams and always thinking about, talking about, breathing art.

Photo

Art is not, however, the focus of Rachman’s novel. To be sure, art lovers will find a steady scattering of treats — anecdotes about Giacometti and Picasso, aesthetic judgments (Correggio and Renoir are reviled, Dürer and Soutine admired), pithy aphorisms (“Success in art is 50 percent timing, 50 percent geography. The rest is talent,” a cynical dealer says), and snapshots from the art world, from the elegant Roman gatherings of the 1950s, where “the moneyed all speak of art, the artists all speak of money,” to the auctions at the turn of the millennium, where Bulgarian crime bosses and Malaysian baby-bottle billionaires snatch up critically sanctified masterpieces. Yet such glimpses are oblique, and profound insights into the nature of artistic greatness are not on offer. While Bear’s genius does not seem to be in doubt, we are given a rather one-note, not to say gimmicky, impression of his work: His wildly colored paintings are all extreme magnifications of this or that body part, “a bare throat filling the huge canvas, or a roll of tummy fat, or a pricked shoulder”; significantly, his portraits never once include a subject’s face.

Yet Rachman appears in perfect control of his material. This is not an aesthetic treatise but, first and foremost, a morality tale about fame and family, “the long, loud effect of fathers.” For Bear Bavinsky, while unquestionably the book’s central presence, is not, in fact, its protagonist. It is his son, Charles “Pinch” Bavinsky, whose much more obscure life we follow in its chronological unfolding, from childhood to old age. Pinch’s mother, Natalie, a struggling Canadian potter, is Bear’s third wife, living with him for a decade before being deserted for a new family. Insecure, solitary, unattractive, Pinch loves his father with a fierceness that veers uncomfortably close to worship, and, post-abandonment, he will spend years trying to impress the absent man. As an adolescent, he harbors artistic aspirations of his own, “imagines enduring in history, a major painter, he and Dad recalled together,” but Bear, with casual cruelty, dashes his ambitions in an understated yet gut-wrenching scene. “I got to tell you, kiddo,” he says. “You’re not an artist. And you never will be.” Crushed, Pinch turns to art history, styling himself as “the future critic of renown” who will become famous for writing the definitive biography of Bear Bavinsky. Yet this dream, too, comes apart in due course, not without Bear’s heavy hand in the debacle, and Pinch steps out of his father’s spotlight and slowly fades into adulthood, his life a modest existence of a language instructor at a London school — the slyly ironic “Italian teacher” of the title.

Pinch’s middle years, and the middle of the book, are meandering and seemingly plotless, filled with sadness, disappointment and tenuously formed and lost connections. Yet the quiet story remains engrossing, by turns gently humorous and pathetic, mundane and poignant. Unlike his father, Pinch leaves few traces, forms few attachments, sires no children. Rachman’s gift for characterization, on full display in his first novel, “The Imperfectionists,” seems oddly underused here, for the characters are fewer, less defined. Apart from Bear, the only figures who stand out in Pinch’s surroundings are his mother, the tormented woman with her own ruined dreams, and his best friend, who has a penchant for pastel scarves, scandalous opinions and hard drinking. This lingering vagueness sounds a curious echo to Bear’s faceless paintings, almost as if Pinch sees the world but dimly, blinded by the glare of his father’s personality, by the light of his father’s art. Indeed, Bear’s presence or absence remains the shaping force of Pinch’s existence well into his later years; but as he ages, the question of his acquiescence, of his volition, begins to hover more and more insistently. Is Pinch really as oppressed by his father’s overbearing (pun intended) will as he appears? Or is he largely culpable for the ending of his mother’s life, the collapse of his one meaningful love affair, the fate of his father’s legacy?

As “the grizzled legend,” already in his 80s, nears death, the story quickens, bringing the themes of posterity and accountability to the fore. How precisely are reputations made? What separates the immortals from “the billions whose inner lives clamor, then expire, never to earn the slightest notice” — how much of it is luck, how much personality, how much talent? And does talent give one the right to trample others? Bear himself believes so. In an explosive confrontation at the heart of the book, the father says to his son, “You work for me.” The aftershocks of this emotional eruption ripple through to the end, bringing upheavals and reversals in their wake. As the hour of reckoning draws nigh, the ironies grow thick, and the eventual dramatic resolution feels somewhat forced; while some readers may see a heartwarming message here, I, for one, found it highly ambiguous and not a little horrifying. Yet so apparent are Rachman’s humanity and intelligence throughout that this ambiguity must be fully intended. There are no black-and-white answers in life and art, not even in our present age of increasing personal responsibility. “The Italian Teacher” is a psychologically nuanced pleasure.Why did Paul Ryan choose not to run for re-election? What will be the consequences? Your guess is as good as mine — literally. I can speculate based on what I read in the papers, but so can you.

On the other hand, I do have some insight into how Ryan — who has always been an obvious con man, to anyone willing to see — came to become speaker of the House. And that’s a story that reflects badly not just on Ryan himself, not just on his party, but also on self-proclaimed centrists and the news media, who boosted his career through their malfeasance. Furthermore, the forces that brought Ryan to a position of power are the same forces that have brought America to the edge of a constitutional crisis.

About Ryan: Incredibly, I’m seeing some news reports about his exit that portray him as a serious policy wonk and fiscal hawk who, sadly, found himself unable to fulfill his mission in the Trump era. Unbelievable.

Look, the single animating principle of everything Ryan did and proposed was to comfort the comfortable while afflicting the afflicted. Can anyone name a single instance in which his supposed concern about the deficit made him willing to impose any burden on the wealthy, in which his supposed compassion made him willing to improve the lives of the poor? Remember, he voted against the Simpson-Bowles debt commission proposal not because of its real flaws, but because it would raise taxes and fail to repeal Obamacare.Why did Paul Ryan choose not to run for re-election? What will be the consequences? Your guess is as good as mine — literally. I can speculate based on what I read in the papers, but so can you.

On the other hand, I do have some insight into how Ryan — who has always been an obvious con man, to anyone willing to see — came to become speaker of the House. And that’s a story that reflects badly not just on Ryan himself, not just on his party, but also on self-proclaimed centrists and the news media, who boosted his career through their malfeasance. Furthermore, the forces that brought Ryan to a position of power are the same forces that have brought America to the edge of a constitutional crisis.

About Ryan: Incredibly, I’m seeing some news reports about his exit that portray him as a serious policy wonk and fiscal hawk who, sadly, found himself unable to fulfill his mission in the Trump era. Unbelievable.

Look, the single animating principle of everything Ryan did and proposed was to comfort the comfortable while afflicting the afflicted. Can anyone name a single instance in which his supposed concern about the deficit made him willing to impose any burden on the wealthy, in which his supposed compassion made him willing to improve the lives of the poor? Remember, he voted against the Simpson-Bowles debt commission proposal not because of its real flaws, but because it would raise taxes and fail to repeal Obamacare.Identity politics gained traction on the left, but now the Trumpian right has decided to fight fire with fire. Populism is a form of identity politics because it’s based on in-group/out-group distinctions. It says anybody who doesn’t think or look like us is not a true American.

This tribal mentality is tearing the civic fabric and creates a war of what Goldberg thinks of as “ecstatic schadenfreude” — the exaltation people feel when tribal foes are brought down.

I love the way Goldberg provocatively tells his story, but I partially disagree with it. The central tension in his book is between Locke, who emerges as a rational, calm, pipe-smoking economist, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who emerges as a wild-haired, passionately resentful rock star. The liberal order emerges from the individualism of Locke and is threatened by group consciousness and romantic resentments of Rousseau.

But America is both rational and romantic, both Locke and Rousseau. We have a rationalist constitution, but we have a shared national faith and are an emotional community, rooted in our land, inspired by our history, warmed by the hope of our common future.

The core problem today is not tribalism. It’s excessive individualism, which has eaten away at our uniting faith and damaged our relationships with one another. Excessive individualism has left us distrustful and alone — naked Lockeans. When people are naked and alone they revert to tribe. Tribalism is the end product of excessive individualism.

Goldberg is suspicious of nationalism and has a tendency to think that any effort to build a national community puts you on the express lanes on the road to serfdom.

His conservatism is missing the bonding sentiments of Edmund Burke, and the idea that the little platoon of the family is nestled in the emotional platoon of the neighborhood and the emotional platoon of the nation. Tribalism is not the only way to form a group; there’s also the redeeming and forgiving love of community, and a shared national faith. Goldberg misses the way Hamilton, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt built a national community that didn’t crush local communities but rather reinforced them.

Goldberg is right to fight tribalism on the left and the right. But you can’t reweave a fragmented nation by appealing just to Lockean individualism. Gratitude is too weak a glue to hold a diverse nation together. Renewal will come through the communitarians on the right and the left, who seek ways to improve relationships on a household, local and national level.Identity politics gained traction on the left, but now the Trumpian right has decided to fight fire with fire. Populism is a form of identity politics because it’s based on in-group/out-group distinctions. It says anybody who doesn’t think or look like us is not a true American.

This tribal mentality is tearing the civic fabric and creates a war of what Goldberg thinks of as “ecstatic schadenfreude” — the exaltation people feel when tribal foes are brought down.

I love the way Goldberg provocatively tells his story, but I partially disagree with it. The central tension in his book is between Locke, who emerges as a rational, calm, pipe-smoking economist, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who emerges as a wild-haired, passionately resentful rock star. The liberal order emerges from the individualism of Locke and is threatened by group consciousness and romantic resentments of Rousseau.

But America is both rational and romantic, both Locke and Rousseau. We have a rationalist constitution, but we have a shared national faith and are an emotional community, rooted in our land, inspired by our history, warmed by the hope of our common future.

The core problem today is not tribalism. It’s excessive individualism, which has eaten away at our uniting faith and damaged our relationships with one another. Excessive individualism has left us distrustful and alone — naked Lockeans. When people are naked and alone they revert to tribe. Tribalism is the end product of excessive individualism.

Goldberg is suspicious of nationalism and has a tendency to think that any effort to build a national community puts you on the express lanes on the road to serfdom.

His conservatism is missing the bonding sentiments of Edmund Burke, and the idea that the little platoon of the family is nestled in the emotional platoon of the neighborhood and the emotional platoon of the nation. Tribalism is not the only way to form a group; there’s also the redeeming and forgiving love of community, and a shared national faith. Goldberg misses the way Hamilton, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt built a national community that didn’t crush local communities but rather reinforced them.

Goldberg is right to fight tribalism on the left and the right. But you can’t reweave a fragmented nation by appealing just to Lockean individualism. Gratitude is too weak a glue to hold a diverse nation together. Renewal will come through the communitarians on the right and the left, who seek ways to improve relationships on a household, local and national level.ASTRAL WEEKS

A Secret History of 1968

By Ryan H. Walsh

Illustrated. 357 pp. Penguin Press. $27.

In 2015, the musician and journalist Ryan H. Walsh published an article in Boston magazine about “the untold story of how Van Morrison fled record-industry thugs, hid out in Boston and wrote one of rock’s greatest albums.” The album was the sylvan, ineffably spiritual “Astral Weeks,” released in 1968, when Morrison was 23. Walsh’s article included less-than-sylvan details about cash handoffs to gangsters, someone smashing an acoustic guitar over Morrison’s head and insights from the singer’s first wife, Janet Rigsbee (“Being a muse is a thankless job, and the pay is lousy”).

“Astral Weeks” was recorded in New York City, but it was “planned, shaped and rehearsed in Boston and Cambridge,” Walsh writes in his new book, which shares its title with the album. “This fact has been a secret kept in plain view.” What exactly this secret yields is a question that the book never quite answers. Morrison’s work had to be conceived somewhere, after all, and the album’s otherworldly pastoral vibe means that almost any earthly answer — any place other than an unknown planet covered only in ferns and flutes — would be a surprise.

Van the Man, who’s front and center in the montage of characters on the book’s cover, didn’t talk to Walsh, but that’s no matter; the singer’s oppositional crankiness tends not to produce much. More troubling for the project is the width of its lens.

“While researching the album’s half-buried local connections, my curiosity about Boston in the late ’60s grew into obsession,” Walsh writes. And that’s how the book reads, as the record of an obsession, with the surfeit of granular detail, the loose anecdotal structure and the numerous cul-de-sacs that implies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is not to say that Walsh’s book lacks charm. It opens with a fresh angle on one of the stalest scenes in music history, when Bob Dylan went electric at the Newport Folk Festival in 1965. A harmonica player named Mel Lyman, one of many musicians upset by Dylan’s plugging in, took the unlit stage at the event’s end, Walsh tells us, and blew a mournful version of “Rock of Ages.”

Photo

Less than two years later, Lyman founded the Fort Hill Community, a group of musicians and activists and dropouts who lived in a series of connected homes in the Roxbury section of Boston. Much of the book is concerned with the commune’s activities, including its publication of Avatar, a controversial underground newspaper that took firm stances on the Vietnam War (anti-) and astrology charts (pro-).Photo

Good riddance, Harvey, Irma, Maria and Nate.

They were the monsters of the hurricane season from hell. Now, their names — already cursed, loathed and spray-painted on hastily bought plywood — have been banished.

An international committee of meteorologists has officially retired the names of the four 2017 storms from the rotating roster of cyclone names. They do that, the World Meteorological Organization says, when the committee judges that “a storm is so deadly or costly that the future use of its name on a different storm would be inappropriate for reasons of sensitivity.”

Four scratches from a single season is a lot, but it is not really a surprise, considering how nasty the storms were.

Harvey dumped up to five feet of rain along and near the Texas coast, flooding much of Houston, the nation’s fourth-largest city, and scores of other communities. Irma smashed through the Caribbean and then whacked Florida. Maria devastated Dominica, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Nate wreaked widespread destruction in Central America.

Photo

Together they killed at least 340 people, directly or indirectly — and the true toll is almost certainly much higher. To update its count, Puerto Rico is conducting a review of every death on the island since Maria made landfall there.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So you can see why the National Hurricane Center said on Thursday that the names “don’t bear repeating.”And we do. iPhones, iPads, computers, eyeglasses (sun, bifocals, trifocals), jackets, scarves, gloves, belts, shoes. All manner of identity — green cards, passports, birth certificates. A variety of Very Important Documents. So many wedding rings! The number of people trying to get unmarried by tossing their wedding rings into the trays rolling through security screening may, or may not, surprise you.

The JFK Airport Lost & Found listings are reliquary in nature, its objects imbued with sacredness by the seekers. It is a purgatory of desire and the lack implicit in desire.

You can read these appeals until you become one of the lost items in need of finding. Eventually we will lose our hair, our teeth, our memory, our dignity, our way, our very lives, but these 300 some pages of items important enough for people to want back is a testament to the search. What are we really searching for? This is the shadow that haunts this museum and its exhibit of loss, yearning and love.

Item No. 1082801

NO WORKERS, NO BAGS

AND HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE FROM AROUND THE WORLD

GETTING NO HELP.

Hello, After sitting on the runway for 4 hours and then waiting in Baggage claim aisle, only to see no bags come for hours and hours, I had to return to care for a family member and leave my luggage behind. Please find my luggage and mail to my house. Last nights disaster at Terminal One was inexcusable. There were no workers, no bags and hundreds of people from around the world getting no help. Please help!

Item No. 1081027

BEFORE HE RETURNS FROM THE HOLIDAYS

(OH MY GOODNESS)

Oh my goodness my boyfriend is going to be so upset with me if I don’t track this down. I left his Nintendo switch on a China southern flight into JFK. I was in row 48, I believe in seat A, at the window. I have not broken it to him that I left it behind and I’m hoping that it can be returned to me before he returns from the holidays with his family. I appreciate any and all help.“Can you spell that?” said a pharmacy worker at a Rite Aid on Featherbed Lane in Mount Eden, in one of the areas with the highest opioid-related overdose rates in the city.

“We don’t carry it,” said a pharmacy worker at a Rite Aid on Westchester Avenue in Mott Haven, another such neighborhood.

Some pharmacy workers inaccurately said that only the person in need of the drug could buy it, and then only with a prescription. “Are you having an overdose? You can’t buy it for someone else,” a pharmacy worker said at a Walgreens in Bronx Park, another area with a high overdose death rate. “If it’s for someone else, they would need to get a prescription.”

Photo

Activists on the front lines of the crisis were alarmed by the findings. “It’s shocking and upsetting,” said Van Asher, who runs daily operations and the syringe exchange at St. Ann’s Corner of Harm Reduction in the Bronx. “That’s akin to if I were a diabetic and I went to pick up my insulin and they didn’t have it,” he said. “It’s a lifesaving drug.”

The importance of having naloxone available was made clear just last week, when the United States surgeon general, Dr. Jerome M. Adams, issued a national advisory recommending that more Americans carry it and learn to use it — the first advisory from the surgeon general in more than a decade.

Naloxone comes in either an injection or a nasal spray commonly known by the brand name Narcan. New York City officials are engaged in what the city’s health commissioner calls a “full-court press” to get the drug to the public, and since last July, more than 70,000 naloxone kits have been distributed to the police, health care providers, homeless shelters and community-based organizations. When the mayor recently announced the city would spend an additional $22 million a year on anti-opioid initiatives, bringing annual funding for its HealingNYC program to $60 million, he said some of the extra funds would go toward increased training and distribution of naloxone.

But that did not mean pharmacies should be neglected, Mr. Asher said. “People might go to pharmacies who would never go into a needle exchange,” he said. If they were told they needed a prescription or had to wait for the drug, they could grow discouraged and might not have it when they needed it. The consequence?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s the loss of a loved one,” he said. “Plain and simple.”

Olivia Lapeyrolerie, a spokeswoman for Mr. de Blasio, called the situation “unacceptable” and said that City Hall had instructed the health department to immediately contact all the participating pharmacies.

The drug was hardest to find outside Manhattan, The Times found. This winter, a woman in her 40s named Rebecca tried to buy naloxone in Brooklyn after learning that a friend was bingeing on prescription painkillers. (Rebecca asked to be identified only by her first name to protect her friend’s privacy.) “I’ll just throw it in my work bag and I’ll have it wherever I go,” she recalled thinking.

She pulled up the city’s map on her phone, and a number of pharmacies in Downtown Brooklyn came up. At the first Duane Reade she visited, when she asked for naloxone, “I had to repeat it a couple of times,” she said. “They were nice enough but they said they didn’t have any in stock.”

At the next store on the list, another Duane Reade, she had no better luck. “He just said, ‘Nope. We don’t carry that.’ I went around the corner to a CVS and got the same story from them. The pharmacist said I was one of three people who had ever come to ask for it. The lead pharmacist popped her head up and said, ‘Is everything O.K.? Is this an emergency?’ ”

“They have these giant billboards in the subway,” she added, referring to the city’s public awareness campaign featuring posters of people who saved someone’s life using naloxone. “You’d think there would be some follow-through.”

Photo

The program was created with the idea that anyone, including minors, could walk into a participating pharmacy and leave with the drug, under what is known as a standing order: Pharmacists were to use the city health commissioner’s name, Mary T. Bassett, in place of a prescribing physician’s. They were to show the customer how to administer naloxone and bill their insurance. (Initially, Rite Aid and some independent pharmacies enrolled; the chains CVS and Walgreens, which owns Duane Reade, later announced their own standing orders, increasing the number of pharmacies on the list.)

In response to queries about the availability of the drug, Dr. Bassett said of the pharmacies, “They are learning, as we are.” She added: “We want everyone to be able to walk into a pharmacy and get naloxone.”

According to the health department, if a pharmacy on the list did not have naloxone in stock, but offered to order it, they were considered to be meeting the program’s guidelines. If a pharmacy enrolled in the program required a prescription, however, that was a mistake.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Dr. Bassett said that in addition to contacting stores on the list, the department would send workers to as many as 800 independent pharmacies in neighborhoods with high rates of overdose deaths.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To determine how readily available the drug is, The Times placed calls to all 720 pharmacies that the city said were taking part in the program over a one-week period in March. At about 270, naloxone was in stock and no prescription was required; roughly 90 more had it in stock but required a prescription.

At the other 360 or so pharmacies, naloxone was not available. Most pharmacists said it was out of stock, citing low demand, but could be ordered. But dozens said their store did not carry the drug. Several locations on the list, which was last updated in January, had nonworking numbers.

There was also widespread confusion among pharmacy workers about dispensing protocol, including whose insurance should cover the drug. Visits to pharmacies around the city revealed that signs and pamphlets about the drug were rare.

In at least one case, confusion over prescription requirements has had serious consequences.

This winter, a man overdosed outside a Rite Aid on Richmond Avenue on Staten Island. “A man ran in. He started screaming, ‘Someone give me Narcan!’ ” said a customer named Lisa, who asked to be identified only by her first name. “They said, ‘We can’t give it to you without a prescription.’ He said, ‘There’s a guy dying in the parking lot!’ They said they were not allowed.”

Lisa went outside and waited for an ambulance with other bystanders. “The guy was totally lifeless. He was just lying there,” she said. Workers at Rite Aid confirmed the episode.But, to date, new progress has been slow. States like California and New York already had progressive clean-energy policies that were well underway before Mr. Trump took office. And few states have managed to significantly step up policy action; efforts to put a price on carbon failed to pass through legislatures in Washington and Oregon this year.

But in New Jersey, Gov. Philip D. Murphy has seen some success, and these energy bills, which the governor has indicated he will sign, mark a significant step. Having made environmental issues a focus of both his campaign and his early tenure, Mr. Murphy has already signed numerous executive orders, including one that laid the groundwork for expanding offshore wind energy near Atlantic City.

While his administration has struggled to sell the tax increases arising from his inaugural budget to fellow Democrats, he has largely had success when it comes to moving the state forward in combating climate change.

“The environmental reality in this state for the past eight years, and if that weren’t enough, the environmental chops of the Trump administration,” Mr. Murphy said in an interview, “felt like an urgent crisis.”

The inclusion of the nuclear subsidy, though, has dampened enthusiasm among some environmental groups for the package of measures, exposing the rift among those who view nuclear energy as inherently clean — in that it has no greenhouse gas emissions — and those who view the industry as a threat because of safety, regulation and waste disposal issues.

Mr. Murphy is wholly in favor of nuclear energy.

“I believe the biggest bridge we have to our clean energy future are the nukes and, not to mention, the thousands of jobs they support,” he said.

The ambitious goals set forth in the renewable energy bill have caused concern among some environmental groups usually opposed to nuclear energy. But the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has been supportive of New Jersey’s efforts toward renewable energy, has said it will not oppose the nuclear subsidy bill.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“We don’t want to see the abrupt closure of nuclear plants, because if you close them tomorrow, we know that they’ll just be replaced by more fossil fuels,” said Dale Bryk, senior strategic director at the defense council. “You have to have an orderly transition plan that involves scaling up renewables first, so that when the nuclear plants close, they’re replaced with clean energy.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Indeed, environmental groups are increasingly being forced to grapple with the climate consequences of retiring nuclear plants. Across the United States, there are still 99 nuclear power plants in operation that supply one-fifth of the nation’s electricity without generating any carbon dioxide emissions. Six reactors have closed since 2013 and more than a dozen more are scheduled to retire by 2025 unless states decide otherwise.

New Jersey’s nuclear subsidy bill is similar to programs passed recently in New York and Illinois, where the Legislature would give the nuclear power plants financial credit for the carbon-free electricity they produce. Every three years, the companies that operate these reactors will have to open their books and show that they need the subsidies to stay operational.

In New Jersey, the Oyster Creek nuclear reactor is expected to close, but the subsidies would benefit the remaining three.

Still, some environmentalists in New Jersey have scoffed at this plan, viewing it as falling short in transparency for not requiring the utility companies to open their books to the public. And, they assert, the inclusion of the nuclear subsidy taints the clean-energy efforts in the companion bill.

“It’s going to put a chilling effect on spending more for renewable energy, because to build out renewable will cost much more,” said Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey Sierra Club. “This bill is about a nuclear subsidy, and that’s the primary purpose. And that’s the diversion to make you think you’re getting something that you’re not.”

The two bills will likely lead to an increase for New Jersey utility ratepayers, though the exact amount remains murky. The cost of subsidizing nuclear energy will be passed down to each ratepayer at a fee of approximately $41 a year, but Mr. Murphy has said he hopes to require public utilities to slash rates based on savings from the new federal tax law, which could potentially offset any increase.

The ambitious goals for renewable energy also follow a trend among the cities and states that have pledged to commit to upholding the Paris accord: By exceeding their share of the national commitments that would have existed under the international agreement, the states are accelerating the country’s overall progress, despite the headwinds from Washington.

“If you look at the United States commitments under Paris, these percentages would more than uphold New Jersey’s share of the burden,” said Robert C. Orr, one of the architects of the 2015 Paris Agreement as the United Nations secretary general’s lead climate adviser. He is now dean of the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland.

“Obviously, New Jersey is a significant state, but it’s not a driver in the same sense that California is,” Mr. Orr said. “But by putting New Jersey in a group with California and New York and then Vermonts and the Marylands, you start to see, not getting all the way to Paris targets, but you start to see the trend line moving toward us meeting Paris.”Years later, some of the half-ironic paper signs that Pierre had taped to the many doors of his home were still there. “This is a work space,” one of them read. “If you are not working, go out to the streets and revolt.”

I remember my first sight of him, when I walked into his place early in the 2011 revolt while reporting for The New York Times Magazine. Pierre was at his desk, a huge, pear-shaped figure with a beard and shoulder-length gray hair that soared in every direction.

All around him, protesters were sprawled on chairs and mattresses, surrounded by the shambolic bric-a-brac of Pierre’s life: gilt-framed paintings, encyclopedias, dead plants, chipped tile tables covered with laptops and ashtrays and plates of half-eaten food.

He presided over it all like some absent deity, chain-smoking Marlboros, dressed in a T-shirt bearing the Kentucky Fried Chicken logo of Colonel Sanders and below it, the words “May Your Grandfather Rest in Peace.”

I introduced myself, and Pierre glanced up, pushing back the plastic glasses that were always sliding off his nose.

“I’m just like everyone else,” he said. “No one knows anything.”

I did many interviews at Pierre’s place over the following weeks. I was on his balcony when the news broke of Hosni Mubarak’s fall from power and the sea of protesters in Tahrir Square broke into wild roars of joy. Pierre jumped up and down with glee, making the floorboards shake.

That night, he wrote on Facebook: “INCREDIBLE the kids did it. Bravo and thanks.”

Pierre continued to make his apartment available through much of that year, and I, like many other reporters, stopped in when I could to hear his take on the evolving political scene.

Photo

He was far less sanguine than the naïve young protesters he hosted. He told friends he considered Mr. Mubarak’s ouster a kind of coup by the military, and worried that Egypt’s immature political factions would feud and pave the way for more autocracy. His fears proved prescient.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the election of the Muslim Brotherhood leader Mohamed Morsi in 2012, Pierre withdrew from politics, and in the following year, as a vengeful popular movement arose to oust Mr. Morsi, Pierre closed his Tahrir Square apartment in disgust and headed to the beach for the summer.

His bursts of gruff sarcasm concealed a shy, sensitive nature. He was upset, friends said, that the “kids” never bothered to visit him after the frenzy of 2011 had passed. But when provoked, he could rise into a fury made all the more intimidating by his bulk.

Not long after the 2011 revolt, a senior officer in Egypt’s military police confronted Pierre outside his house, saying he wasn’t Egyptian.

“I’m more Egyptian than you!” Pierre shouted back, in a voice so loud, the officer turned and fled. “How dare you!”

Pierre Tewfick Antoine Sioufi was born in Cairo in 1961 to a wealthy Christian family that spoke French at home. His father, Antoine Sioufi, an antiquarian, was of mixed Iraqi and Greek heritage; his mother, Maryse-Liliane Soussa, was Lebanese. An only child, Pierre grew up in Cairo’s elegant Downtown area — near Tahrir Square — in an apartment filled with art and some 40 cats.

He attended a Jesuit academy until one day, in his midteens, he told his parents that he had had enough of school. They had no objection, so he educated himself with books at home instead.

In his 20s, he decided to attend the American University in Cairo, where he became a fixture of the theater scene and hung around for years, playing roles in a variety of plays and films. He eventually earned a degree in business administration.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Friends remember Pierre as being always at the center of a crowd, but his gregariousness concealed an inner hurt. “More than anyone I knew, he seemed orphaned in some way,” one friend wrote in a testimonial after his death.

In later years he ran the family antique shop, tried his hand at painting and photography, and took up collecting all kinds of objets d’art: postcards, wrought ironwork, Egyptian movie posters, picture frames and heart-shaped rocks, to name a few.

In 2013, he married Beatrice Ghiringhelli, whom he had been seeing for several years. One friend said the wedding was the first time he had seen Pierre in a button-down shirt. His usual outfit was a T-shirt, string pants and Birkenstocks, which he wore on all but the coldest winter days.

Ms. Ghiringhelli, who confirmed the death and lives in Athens, is his only immediate survivor.

Pierre was wealthy, having inherited the entire Downtown building he lived in. But he despised the presumption that came with wealth and power. He preferred to live like the bohemian students whose revolution he so admired.

At the height of his renown, a few months after the fall of Mr. Mubarak, Pierre gently slapped down those who were making him into a spokesman.

“I wonder abt all those people who send me chat messages or private messages asking me about Tahrir,” he wrote on Facebook. “I AM unfortunately NOT @Tahrir. Cannot give details about it. Thank you for taking this into consideration.”