Veterans of Washington policymaking in the Middle East offered conditional praise for Mr. Trump’s restrained approach to the strike, if not necessarily his more bellicose rhetoric. In hitting three sites associated with Mr. Assad’s chemical weapons capabilities, limiting it to a single night and conducting it in conjunction with Britain and France, they said it sent a message while avoiding a deeper involvement and minimizing the risk of provoking Syria’s patrons, Russia and Iran, into retaliating themselves.

“However, I don’t think the strike clarifies U.S. policy,” said Meghan O’Sullivan, who oversaw the Iraq war as Mr. Bush’s deputy national security adviser. “In theory, there is not necessarily an inconsistency between a targeted, multilateral strike against chemical weapons sites and the withdrawal of troops that have been fighting ISIS. But the strike does really call into question the wisdom of pulling back American forces now in highlighting the question of what our objective really is in Syria.”

Others argued that the strike was a waste that accomplished little and, in the process, exceeded the president’s authority as commander in chief since he did not obtain authorization from Congress first. Critics said that if Mr. Trump was truly moved by humanitarian concern over the victims of last weekend’s attack, he should reverse his policy of barring virtually any new Syrian refugees from the United States.

“The ongoing bloodshed and war crimes in Syria are a stark reminder that Syrian civilians need our support now more than ever,” Noah Gottschalk of Oxfam America said in a statement. “Yet the Trump administration still lacks a coherent strategy to actually bring an end to the conflict and instead has sought to slash humanitarian aid and slam the door on Syrian refugees.”

By most accounts, the strike essentially left in place the status quo on the ground. It did little if anything to weaken Mr. Assad beyond any chemical weapons stores it destroyed, leaving him to continue waging war on his own people through conventional means. It did nothing to exact the “big price” Mr. Trump promised to impose on Russia and Iran for enabling Mr. Assad’s chemical attacks.

Indeed, Mr. Trump has shown little interest in trying to steer Syria to a resolution of its civil war, eschewing the sort of Geneva diplomacy that absorbed Mr. Obama’s last secretary of state, John F. Kerry, to little apparent effect. Mr. Trump sees Syria in two boxes — the fight against the Islamic State, in which he has declared near victory, and the multisided civil war that he wants no part of, saying as he did just days ago, “Let the other people take care of it now.”

Photo

But that is an artificial bifurcation in a country torn by violence on all sides. The civil war affects the ability of the Islamic State to operate and vice versa. Mr. Trump may have opted for the more cautious approach urged by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis instead of a more crippling attack that may have been favored by his new national security adviser, John R. Bolton, but he did not settle the larger question.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asked on Friday before the missiles began flying to explain America’s strategy in Syria, Heather Nauert, the State Department spokeswoman, demurred. “I’m not going to get ahead of the president,” she said.

Even when the president spoke later that night, he was somewhat vague in describing his own strategy. While he said he was “prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” he did not explain what he meant or how far he was willing to go beyond saying he would also use economic and diplomatic tools.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Colin H. Kahl, who was the national security adviser to former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., said Mr. Trump “wisely avoided hitting regime targets where there was a significant risk of killing Russians” but for that very reason did little real harm to Mr. Assad.

“Indeed, the relatively cautious nature of the strike signaled that we were deterred from taking larger action, potentially undercutting the credible U.S. threat of doing more down the line if the regime continues to use chemical weapons,” he said.

Fundamentally, these factors are not that different than they were during Mr. Obama’s presidency, but Mr. Trump often seems unaware of history, even recent history. His use of the phrase “mission accomplished” on Saturday, for example, invited unwelcome comparisons to Mr. Bush’s experience.

Mr. Bush appeared on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln in May 2003 after American troops toppled Saddam Hussein in Iraq and declared the end of major combat operations. Behind him was a large banner declaring “Mission Accomplished,” which White House aides later said was meant as a congratulations to the carrier crew returning home but became a metaphor for miscalculation as a virulent insurgency consumed Iraq.

“Um...I would have recommended ending this tweet with not those two words,” Ari Fleischer, who was Mr. Bush’s White House press secretary at the time, wrote on Twitter on Saturday. When Mr. Bush made his appearance in spring 2003, he said, the words seemed fitting. “By the Fall,” he added, “the shot of Bush with the banner became a symbol of what went wrong.”

Philip H. Gordon, who was Mr. Obama’s White House coordinator of Middle East policy, said one of the challenges for Mr. Trump was calibrating his language with his actions. In effect, Mr. Gordon said, the president seemed to be trying to find a reasoned middle ground in Syria that belies his own tough talk.

“You can make a case that we are trying to thread a needle that’s tough to thread, but the needle is to do enough to deter the regime from using chemical weapons but not so much that sucks us into the Syrian civil war and gets us into conflict with Iran and Russia,” he said.

Rather than pay attention to Mr. Trump’s words, Mr. Gordon said the strategy was better articulated by Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and Mr. Mattis, who described the strike as an effort to stop Mr. Assad from using chemical weapons but noted that it was not intended to achieve broader goals.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“What May and Mattis said could be considered a legitimate strategy,” Mr. Gordon said. “The risk is, with this president and this administration, is he going to be disciplined enough and restrained enough to thread that needle? Those are not his fortes.”Representative Ed Royce, Republican of California and the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said his committee would hold a hearing in the coming days to examine American policy in the region. He said he expected the Trump administration to begin clarifying its views.

“Military force cannot be the only means of responding to these atrocities,” he said.

Democrats, who have found precious little ground on which to agree with Mr. Trump, generally offered narrower praise, with some denouncing the strikes — conducted alongside Britain and France but without Congress’s assent — as illegal.

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, described “a pinpointed, limited action” as “appropriate” but warned the United States against being drawn into a larger war with the Syrian government.

Representative Eliot Engel of New York, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said he held little hope that the administration would succeed in deterring Syria from using chemical weapons.

“A year ago, when our military struck targets in Syria in response to another chemical weapons attack, I warned that such an action with no strategy to back it up would fail,” he said. “Tonight’s announcement seems like history repeating, and there’s no reason to expect a different result absent a broader Syria strategy.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, who sits on both the Foreign Relations and Armed Services committees, said that Mr. Trump had seriously erred in not seeking Congress’s consent.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“President Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes against the Syrian government without Congress’s approval is illegal and — absent a broader strategy — it’s reckless,” he said.

Mr. Kaine warned that allowing Mr. Trump to strike a foreign power without such authorization could provide a dangerous precedent.

“Today, it’s a strike on Syria — what’s going to stop him from bombing Iran or North Korea next?” he said.

At the insistence of Mr. Kaine and others, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is expected to begin debate this month on a new authorization of military force against terrorist and other extremist groups, including in Syria. The authorization, commonly referred to as an A.U.M.F., would replace a law passed shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

But it would not address Mr. Assad’s government or the possibility of a larger use of force to intervene in the Syrian civil war.

Photo

A handful of Republicans joined Democrats in questioning the validity of the operation. Representative Thomas Massie, a conservative Republican from Kentucky, quipped on Twitter that he could not recall the Constitution giving the president the authority to strike Syria.

In a statement, Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, warned that “it is vitally important that the Trump administration honors the Constitution by working with Congress on further military action.”

“The United States is not at war with the people of Syria, and I anticipate that the administration will quickly present their long-term intentions to the American people,” he continued.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, not all Republicans had reservations. Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas and one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal supporters in Congress, gave unqualified approval.

“The Butcher of Damascus learned two lessons tonight the hard way,” he said, referring to Mr. Assad. “Weapons of mass destruction won’t create a military advantage once the United States is done with you, and Russia cannot protect its clients from the United States.”

And Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, urged the administration to act more aggressively, fretting, “I fear that when the dust settles this strike will be seen as a weak military response, and Assad will have paid a small price for using chemical weapons yet again.”

“Assad has likely calculated a limited American strike is just the cost of doing business,” he said. “Russia and Iran will view the limited action as the United States being content to drop a few bombs before heading for the exits.“4 World

We Asked Syrians About U.S. Airstrikes. This Is What They Said.Legislation to ensure access to drug samples for generic drug manufacturers has broad support in Congress, from Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, on the left to Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, on the right. A similar bill in the House also has diverse backers, including Representatives Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, and Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, who is the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus.

Under the bill, a generic drug developer could file a lawsuit, and a federal court could require a brand-name drug maker to provide samples of its product to a generic company “on commercially reasonable, market-based terms.” The court could also award damages if it found that a drug maker had refused to sell samples “without a legitimate business justification.”

Brand-name drug companies make several arguments against the legislation. First, they say, it is not needed. The F.D.A. approved 1,027 generic drugs last year, a record number, and nearly 90 percent of prescriptions are filled with generic medicines, suggesting that generic manufacturers have generally been able to obtain the samples they need, the brand-name companies say.

Second, they say, the bill would be a boon to trial lawyers, giving them an incentive to sue brand-name pharmaceutical companies for damages, which could be worth more than sales of the proposed generic drug.

Finally, they say, the legislation could endanger patients because generic drug developers might not follow the strict safety protocols that the government requires for some brand-name drugs.

But the F.D.A. says that “no additional requirements are needed to protect patient safety” in tests to show the equivalence of generic and brand-name drugs. The “testing typically involves a relatively small number of human subjects and a small number of doses and therefore a relatively low level of risk,” the agency said.

Photo

At a time when researchers are using sophisticated science to develop new treatments and cures, the fight over physical samples — a few thousand pills — sounds mundane. But it has huge implications for consumers’ access to affordable medicines.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The F.D.A. says it has received more than 150 inquiries from generic drug companies unable to obtain the samples needed to show that a generic product works the same as a brand-name medicine. Some of the disputes over samples involve drugs that are costly to patients and to the Medicare program and that have experienced sharp price increases in recent years.

“Without generic competition, there is no pressure to drive down the costs of these medications,” the food and drug agency said. Under current law, it said, it cannot compel a brand-name drug manufacturer to sell samples to a generic company.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the legislation would save the federal government $3.8 billion over 10 years, mainly because Medicare, Medicaid and other health programs would spend less on prescription drugs. Savings for consumers and private health insurance plans could be much greater.

Lawmakers of both parties pushed for the legislation to be included in a far-reaching budget bill signed by Mr. Trump in February, but it was dropped at the last minute.

Even without action by Congress, generic drug companies say the denial of drug samples needed for testing may violate federal antitrust law because it tends to perpetuate a monopoly for the makers of some brand-name medications. But it typically takes years for courts to resolve such claims.

Mylan, a generic drug company, wants to obtain samples to develop a generic version of Revlimid, a brand-name cancer medicine sold by Celgene. At a court hearing in Newark in December, Jonathan M. Jacobson, a lawyer for Mylan, told a federal district judge that “Revlimid costs patients who are dying $20,000 a month.”

“These are some of the most ill patients in the world,” he said, and “if there were generics on the market, the price would be much lower, and people would live longer.”

Celgene said in court papers that it had no obligation to help a potential competitor and that it had “valid business justifications for declining to sell samples on the terms demanded by Mylan.” Moreover, Celgene said its overriding concern was for the safety of patients.

But Mylan, the generic drug company, said this was no excuse because it had devised safety protocols similar to those followed by Celgene.

The secretary of health and human services, Alex M. Azar II, has repeatedly said that drug prices are too high. The administration, he said, will soon roll out “a whole slate” of proposals to reduce those prices.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Azar has suggested that private companies — pharmacy benefit managers — should have a role in negotiating prices for drugs under Part B of Medicare. Those drugs are typically administered by infusion or injection in doctor’s offices and hospital outpatient departments.At the same time, Mr. Macron is trying to reinforce France’s position as an enforcer of international treaties, which includes the Chemical Weapons Convention that 192 countries have signed.

Mrs. May is in a more precarious position, with a tense standoff developing with Russia over the poisoning of a former Russian spy, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia Skripal, with a weapons-grade nerve agent. Mrs. May has been under pressure to respond forcefully to Moscow for the attack, which exposed hundreds of citizens in southwest England to the deadly substance.

On Saturday, the British leader described the airstrikes in Syria as “right and legal,” drawing an explicit distinction between those and the poisoning of the Skripals — the first use of chemical weapons in Europe since World War II.

Mrs. May also benefited from the timing of the airstrikes, two days before lawmakers were to return from vacation. While not obligated to consult Parliament, she may have felt constrained to do so and could easily have lost a vote on a strike. Another imperative for Britain was to reciprocate the support that London has received from the United States in the dispute with Russia over the poisoning.

“I don’t think she had much choice,” said Justin Bronk, a research fellow for air power at the Royal United Services Institute, a defense and security focused research institute in London. “By announcing the strikes through Twitter, President Trump made this a personal call to action with his own image and credibility at stake, and he’s an openly transactional president.”

Britain also wants to prove its use as an ally to Mr. Trump at a time when its international influence is under question because of its withdrawal from the European Union, and as it hopes to strengthen trade ties with the United States.

On Saturday, as reaction to the strikes rolled in from around the world, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: “A perfectly executed strike last night. Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Opinion polls suggested that the British public’s support for strikes was lukewarm. So in backing Mr. Trump’s airstrikes without seeking prior approval from lawmakers, Mrs. May took a political risk, albeit one that should be manageable unless the conflict escalates.

Photo

The prime minister did come in for criticism. The leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, criticized Mrs. May, arguing that “bombs won’t save lives or bring about peace.”

Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, faulted Mrs. May for failing to follow recent precedent and seek parliamentary approval. But Mrs. May brushed aside the protests, presenting her decision to order “limited, targeted and effective” strikes against Syria as vital in deterring future use of chemical weapons.

London has looked on with concern as Mr. Macron has cultivated close ties with Mr. Trump, while Mrs. May’s relationship with the White House has been more complicated and tense.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Macron, for his part, faced criticism on the far left and the far right for his decision to join the attack on Syrian targets. The leader of the far left France Insoumise party, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, accused Mr. Macron on Twitter of attacking Syria without proof of chemical weapons use and without a United Nations mandate, a European Union agreement or a vote of the French Parliament.

“This is a North American adventure of revenge, an irresponsible escalation,” Mr. Mélenchon said.

On the extreme right, Marine Le Pen, the leader of the National Front, said France had lost a chance to “appear on the international scene as an independent power.” The party’s deputy leader, Nicolas Bay, called Mr. Macron “a vassal” of the United States.

For both Mrs. May and Mr. Macron, the strikes made good on their respective predecessors’ pledges to retaliate over Syria’s use of chemical weapons. In 2013, when the government of President Bashar al-Assad was suspected of using chemical weapons on his own people, both François Hollande, then president of France, and David Cameron, then Britain’s prime minister, said he had cross their red lines.

But when it came down to launching the missiles, Mr. Cameron failed to secure Parliament’s approval, and Mr. Hollande backed down when it became clear that President Barack Obama had second thoughts because he was afraid of being drawn into a larger fight with Mr. Assad.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was easier for the leaders to sign on to this missile attack, as there was no discussion about a far-reaching military campaign or about regime change. And there was an explicit effort to avoid hitting bases where troops from Russia and Iran, allies of Mr. Assad, might be amassed.

The United Nations Security Council held an emergency meeting on Saturday but rejected a Russian resolution condemning the missile strikes in Syria. European Union foreign ministers, meanwhile, planned to meet on Monday to tackle the tense situation in Syria.

A draft statement, written before the strikes, proposed looking at fresh sanctions on Syria, including blacklisting more people over the development and use of chemical arms.

The NATO secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, later expressed support for the strikes by its three member states, saying that they “will reduce the regime’s ability to further attack the people of Syria with chemical weapons.”

Mr. Stoltenberg said in a statement that Syria’s use of chemical weapons was “a clear breach of international norms and agreements.”

He added, “NATO considers the use of chemical weapons as a threat to international peace and security, and believes that it is essential to protect the Chemical Weapons Convention,” which Syria signed in 2013, leading to a ban in the country on the manufacture or use of such weapons.They also sell Trump merchandise on their website and have embarked on a speaking tour that offers fans the chance to see them live for $50 a ticket (or $150 if you would like to take a picture with them and eat hors d’oeuvres).

They were paid $1,274.94 by the Trump campaign in November 2016 for “field consulting,” according to documents filed with the Federal Election Commission. The White House did not respond to an email asking what those services entailed.

Why were they mentioned in the Facebook hearings?

The sisters received a note from Facebook on April 5 that said the company determined the content on their page to be “unsafe to the community.” They said the note, along with a decline in traffic to their page, was proof that Facebook has an anticonservative bias.

Their Facebook woes have been heavily covered on Fox News, and their case was taken up by Republican lawmakers during the hearings, including Representative Billy Long, Republican of Missouri. He asked Mr. Zuckerberg, “What is unsafe about two black women supporting President Donald J. Trump?”

Mr. Zuckerberg said there was “nothing unsafe” about their support for the president. Diamond and Silk responded to two interview requests with an email that said, “Statement: We’ve made contact with Facebook and are looking to get this matter resolved.”

On Thursday, a Facebook spokeswoman said the note the company had sent to the two women should not have been sent and was a result of a communications problem, not a partisan bias. She also said any dip in their traffic was caused by new policies that show Facebook users more posts from friends and fewer from public pages.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

She said Facebook was investigating how the note came to be written and sent.

Do Diamond and Silk have critics?

Yes, they do. They have been criticized for supporting an administration deeply unpopular with African-Americans and being unrepresentative of African-American women (94 percent of female African-American voters cast ballots against Mr. Trump).

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Bree Newsome, an artist and activist, described them in an interview as “a modern-day minstrel show” aimed at “white conservatives who want to believe Trump can’t be racist or they themselves can’t be racist because there are these two black women named Diamond and Silk who are constantly rooting for Trump.”

Ms. Newsome said their performances relied on “stereotypical images of black women” that would not be celebrated on conservative media if they were not Trump supporters.

Keith Boykin, an adjunct professor at Columbia University and a former White House aide to President Bill Clinton, offered a similar critique.

“If these two women, the way they speak, the way they talk and act and behave, were saying anything that was contradictory to Trump, the Trump supporters who defend them would be the first to attack them,” Mr. Boykin said.

Mr. Boykin said their conservative fans, who are often quick to note their race and gender, “only want to listen to the people who reaffirm their narrow, limited vision of what blackness is all about and how black people should perceive white people and specifically how they should perceive Donald Trump.”

What does President Trump think of them?

The White House did not respond to an email asking that question on Thursday. But in the past Mr. Trump has said he is a fan of Diamond and Silk.

The sisters appeared at several Trump rallies during the campaign and have visited Mr. Trump in the Oval Office. At a rally in 2016, Mr. Trump described the first time he saw them on television and invited them onstage.

“I turn on my television one night and I see these two on television,” he told the crowd. “I say they are the greatest, what is it?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump then asked them to “do a little routine.” The sisters took the microphone and obliged.

“The silent majority has spoken, baby!” Diamond told the crowd. “Build that wall, Donald J. Trump!”Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived in Damascus, Syria, on Saturday to investigate the attack in Douma, the group said in a post on Twitter.

Mr. Mattis was working to slow the move toward a military response, concerned that a missile strike could spark a wider conflict between Russia, Iran and the West.

And Mr. Trump sent mixed signals about timing. On Wednesday, he warned Russia on Twitter that missiles “will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ ” But the next day, he added: “Never said when an attack on Syria would take place. Could be very soon or not so soon at all!”

At a news conference on Saturday morning, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain said that the strikes had been “the right thing to do,” in part for the “operational security” of those carrying them out.

Assad absorbed another blow.

The airstrikes sent an unambiguous message to Mr. Assad, and it was not clear that it would change his thinking. He remained firmly in power thanks to the support of Russia and Iran.

Mr. Assad has essentially been under siege since the Syrian civil war began more than seven years ago. In that time, he has dealt with the war, airstrikes, sanctions, Islamic State militants, a variety of rebel groups and a crumbling economy.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Syrian state news media reported that many of the missiles had been intercepted, the Syrian presidency’s Twitter account posted a video that appeared to show Mr. Assad showing up for just another day at the office.

The events depicted could not be independently verified.

Capitol Hill remained divided.

The reaction in Washington was divided along party lines, with the strikes bringing praise from Republicans and criticism from Democrats like Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader.

“The Butcher of Damascus learned two lessons tonight the hard way,” Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, said in a statement. “Weapons of mass destruction won’t create a military advantage once the United States is done with you and Russia cannot protect its clients from the United States.”

Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, complained that Mr. Trump had not sought permission from Congress. Proceeding with the strikes, he said, was “illegal and — absent a broader strategy — it’s reckless.”

Photo

Russia deploys angry rhetoric.

Russia called for an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council and offered some harsh warnings before the attack. (At the meeting, thehe Security Council later rejected a Russian resolution condemning the missile strikes.) But the speed and the tone of the Russian reaction on Saturday, stressing that the attack had not resulted in a direct confrontation and was rather limited, suggested almost relief on the part of the Kremlin.

According to Russian state news media, President Vladimir V. Putin condemned the missile strikes as an “act of aggression against a sovereign state” and against the United Nations Charter.

Gen. Valery V. Gerasimov, the chief of staff for the armed forces, had warned that Russia would “take retaliatory measures,” but he included an important caveat: Russia would attack missiles and the platforms from which they were launched only in the event that Russian military personnel were placed in danger.

The Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian Parliament, stated that it would discuss the airstrikes “next week.”

Photo

May avoided a conflict at home.

Mrs. May has said she believed there was a need to send a strong message about the use of chemical weapons, but she also had compelling diplomatic and political reasons to support the United States — and to carry out the strikes as soon as possible.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One imperative was the desire to reciprocate the support London has received from the United States in the dispute with Russia over the poisoning of a former spy, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia S. Skripal, on British soil.

Mrs. May, who made an explicit connection between the airstrikes in Syria and the poisoning of the Skripals, benefited from the timing of the airstrikes, two days before lawmakers were to return from vacation. While not obligated to consult Parliament, she may have felt constrained to do so and could easily have lost a vote on a strike, as her predecessor David Cameron did in 2013.

Britain also wants to prove its use as an ally to Mr. Trump at a time when its international influence is under question because of its withdrawal from the European Union, and when it hopes to strengthen trade ties with the United States.

Photo

For France, a red line was crossed.

President Emmanuel Macron had prepared his nation for this moment: He had discussed the possibility of airstrikes and made clear early in his presidency that the use of chemical weapons was a red line.

While pressing for a military response to the use of chemical weapons, Mr. Macron has also said he wants to work on a peace deal for the region, creating a dual-pronged strategy that has support in France. Mr. Macron has cultivated a closer relationship with Mr. Trump than other Western leaders, but he has also reached out to Mr. Putin.

He will visit both presidents in the coming weeks: Mr. Trump at the end of April and Mr. Putin in May.4 World

We Asked Syrians About U.S. Airstrikes. This Is What They Said.“We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” he said.

[Read the full text of President Trump’s address »]

But Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who had urged caution in White House deliberations leading up to the strike, told reporters on Friday night that there were no more attacks planned unless Mr. Assad again uses gas on his own people.

“We confined it to the chemical weapons-type targets,” Mr. Mattis said. “We were not out to expand this; we were very precise and proportionate. But at the same time, it was a heavy strike.”

The assault was twice the size and hit two more targets than a strike that Mr. Trump ordered last year against a Syrian military airfield. Launched from warplanes and naval destroyers, the burst of missiles and bombs struck Syria shortly after 4 a.m. local time on Saturday.

They hit three of Mr. Assad’s chemical weapons facilities: a scientific research center in greater Damascus that was used in the production of weapons, and two chemical weapons facilities west of Homs, one of which was used for the production of the nerve agent sarin and the other was part of a military command post, said Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Video

Residents of Damascus, the capital, woke to the sounds of multiple explosions shaking the city before the dawn call to prayer.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Syrian state television said government air defense systems were responding to “the American aggression” and aired video of missiles being fired into a night sky. It reported that 13 missiles had been shot down by Syrian air defenses near Al-Kiswa, a town south of Damascus. American officials said they could not yet confirm that.

Mr. Trump called on Syria’s patrons in Russia and Iran to force Mr. Assad to halt the use of poison gas in the seven-year-old civil war that has wracked his country.

“To Iran and to Russia I ask: What kind of a nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of innocent men, women and children?” he said. “The nations of the world can be judged by the friends they keep. No nation can succeed in the long run by promoting rogue states, brutal tyrants and murderous dictators.”

Russia responded with sharp words. “We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences,” Anatoly Antonov, the ambassador to the United States, said in a statement. “All responsibility for them rests with Washington, London and Paris.”

Taking umbrage at Mr. Trump accusing President Vladimir V. Putin in his speech of not living up to a promise to disarm Syria of its chemical weapons, Mr. Antonov added, “Insulting the president of Russia is unacceptable and inadmissible.”

Video

In choosing to strike, it appeared that Mr. Trump’s desire to punish Mr. Assad for what he called a “barbaric act” — and to make good on his tweets promising action this week — outweighed his desire to limit the American military involvement in the conflict, at least in the short term.

The strikes marked the second time that Mr. Trump has attacked Syria to punish the government after it was accused of using chemical weapons. The White House had sought to create a response that would be more robust than the attack in April 2017, when the United States fired 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at a Syrian air base that was back in use a day later.

Unlike last year, France and Britain joined the United States in retaliating for the suspected chemical attack last Saturday in the town of Douma, outside Damascus, but Germany refused to take part, even though Chancellor Angela Merkel called the use of chemical weapons “unacceptable.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain said Syria had left the allies no choice. “This persistent pattern of behavior must be stopped — not just to protect innocent people in Syria from the horrific deaths and casualties caused by chemical weapons, but also because we cannot allow the erosion of the international norm that prevents the use of these weapons,” she said.

But she also emphasized the limits of the operation’s goals, reflecting the reluctance in London as well as Washington to become too immersed in the fratricidal war in Syria.

“This is not about intervening in a civil war,” she said. “It is not about regime change. It is about a limited and targeted strike that does not further escalate tensions in the region and that does everything possible to prevent civilian casualties.”

Photo

[Read statements by France and Britain, and a declassified French document on the airstrikes.»]

Defense officials said that Tomahawk cruise missiles were launched from at least three American warships, while B-1 bombers dropped long-range missiles on targets. French and British warplanes also fired long-range missiles, while a British submarine launched cruise missiles.

Early reaction to the strikes from Capitol Hill appeared to break down along party lines, with Republicans expressing support for the president and Democrats questioning whether Mr. Trump has a well-thought-out strategy for what happens after the military action is over.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“President Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes against the Syrian government without Congress’s approval is illegal and — absent a broader strategy — it’s reckless,” said Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, who has long argued that presidents should request permission from Congress before taking military action.

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, said that “one night of airstrikes is not a substitute for a clear, comprehensive Syria strategy.”

Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the House Republican majority whip, wrote in a statement: “President Trump is right to assert that the Assad regime’s evil acts cannot go unanswered.”

A fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons was to begin investigating the episode on Saturday in Douma, which had been held by rebels before the suspected attack. The mission’s job was only to determine whether chemical weapons had been used, not who had used them.

Video

Medical and rescue groups have reported that the Syrian military dropped bombs that released chemical substances during an offensive to take the town. A New York Times review of videos of the attack’s aftermath, and interviews with residents and medical workers, suggested that Syrian government helicopters dropped canisters giving off some sort of chemical compound that suffocated at least 43 people.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the world body, accused the Syrian government of using banned chemical arms at least 50 times since the country’s civil war began in 2011. State Department officials said the United States was still trying to identify the chemical used on April 7.

Leaders in Syria, Iran and Russia denied that government forces had used chemical weapons, and accused rescue workers and the rebels who had controlled Douma of fabricating the videos to win international sympathy.

On Friday, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, a spokesman for the Russian Defense Ministry, said images of victims of the purported attack had been staged with “Britain’s direct involvement.” He provided no evidence.

Karen Pierce, Britain’s ambassador to the United Nations, called those allegations “bizarre” and “a blatant lie.”

Mr. Mattis had sought to slow down the march to military action as allies compiled evidence of Mr. Assad’s role that would assure the world the strikes were warranted. Mr. Mattis also raised concerns that a concerted bombing campaign could escalate into a wider conflict between Russia, Iran and the West.

Photo

Before the strikes, the United States had mostly stopped aiding Syria’s rebels, like those who were in Douma, who want to topple Mr. Assad’s government. The Pentagon’s most recent efforts in Syria have focused on the fight against Islamic State militants in the country’s east, where it has partnered with a Kurdish-led militia to battle the jihadists. It is the roughly 2,000 American troops there that Mr. Trump has said he wants to bring home.

In his televised address on Friday night, Mr. Trump sought to repeat his desire to disentangle the United States from the Middle East at some point. “It’s a troubled place,” he said. “We will try to make it better, but it is a troubled place. The United States will be a partner and a friend, but the fate of the region lies in the hands of its own people.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Russian forces and Iranian-backed militias also are deployed around Syria to help fight the rebellion — including the Islamic State and other extremist groups — that has surged against Mr. Assad since the conflict started.

Last year’s American attack on Syria came after a chemical attack on the village of Khan Sheikhoun killed scores of people. Mr. Trump ordered a cruise missile strike against the Al Shayrat airfield in central Syria, where the attack had originated. The base was damaged, but Syrian warplanes were again taking off from there a day later.

Still, the response set Mr. Trump apart from President Barack Obama, who declined to respond with military force after a chemical weapons attack in August 2013 killed hundreds of people near Damascus, even though Mr. Obama had earlier declared the use of such weapons a “red line.”

Mr. Obama ultimately backed off a military strike and reached an agreement with Russia to remove Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal. That agreement was said to have been carried out, although a series of reported chemical attacks since have raised doubts about its effectiveness.Analysts said the limited nature of the strike probably would not compel Russia or Iran into taking significant action.

“The Russian and Iranian responses will likely be shrill rhetorically, but direct responses are unlikely,” said Dennis Ross, a longtime Middle East expert who has worked for several presidents and is now at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “The targets struck were tied to C.W. infrastructure,” he added, meaning chemical weapons, “and not the bases where the Russians and Iranians are.”

Mr. Ross said it was possible that Iran could respond indirectly by using Shia militias against American forces in Iraq or possibly Syria but even that he said was “less likely because of the limited nature of this attack.”

In the hours and days leading up to the strike, the potential consequences consumed officials meeting at the Pentagon, in the White House Situation Room and at Fort Meade, Md., where United States Cyber Command is situated.

American officials doubted that Russia or Iran would counterattack directly against United States forces in the region. But they focused on the prospect of an asymmetric retaliation that would rely on Moscow and Tehran’s formidable cyberabilities — one that would be harder for Washington to prepare for, or defend against.

Video

There was no immediate intelligence that such an attack was being planned. It was also uncertain how much either Russia or Iran would take the risk of widening the crisis in Syria with a cybercounterattack on the West.

But American officials said they were girding to respond to a range of possible acts of retaliation — including an online strike that could block communications to United States troops in combat zones.

Photo

The heated language in the days before the strike focused as much, if not more, on Russia than on Syria, underscoring the dangers of a spiral into a more dangerous confrontation between the two former Cold War adversaries.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hours before the strikes began, Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, engaged in a scathing exchange with her Russian counterpart at a Friday meeting of the Security Council.

The Russian ambassador, Vasily A. Nebenzya, accused the United States and its allies of reckless warmongering. Mr. Nebenzya said that there was no confirmed evidence that chemical weapons had been used in Douma and that the United States and its allies had “demonstrated they have no interest in an investigation.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Trump’s threats of a strike on Mr. Assad’s forces, Mr. Nebenzya said, were “unworthy of a permanent member of the Security Council.”

Ms. Haley said she was incredulous at Mr. Nebenzya’s defense of the Syrian government and his overall portrayal of events. “I’m in awe of how you say what you say with a straight face,” she told him.

For all that, Russia loomed large in the discussions back in Washington about how to proceed. During an American military video conference call, several officials expressed concern about the possible Russian reaction to a strike on Syrian facilities, particularly in light of Moscow’s threats to shoot down incoming missiles.

During the call, military officials said that it was imperative to take steps to protect American Navy destroyers from Russian counterattacks. But a potential online strike loomed as a possibility — and a way for Russia and Iran to sidestep a direct confrontation with the United States military.

Just weeks ago, the Department of Homeland Security identified Russia as the source of malware “implants” in the American electric grid and released samples of code to utilities to help them clean out their systems. The warning accused Russia of mounting a series of intrusions against American and European nuclear power plants and water and electric systems, in what analysts interpreted as a move to test Moscow’s capacity.

Iran hit American banks with a major denial of service attack nearly six years ago, and tried — unsuccessfully — to manipulate a dam in Westchester County, N.Y. Iran is among the most sophisticated midsize powers in using cyberweapons, skills that the country has invested in heavily since the United States and Israel conducted a crippling online attack on its nuclear enrichment sites.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As he prepared the military for retaliation, Mr. Mattis also warned of a potential propaganda counterattack by Syria, Russia and Iran after a Western strike. Defense Department officials underscored the need to show the world convincing evidence that Mr. Assad’s government indeed initiated a chemical attack in Douma.

Russian troops and mercenaries are deployed to Syria, and Iranian forces and militias are also in the country, and could retaliate against the thousands of American troops in Syria and Iraq. United States personnel in Erbil, a Kurdish city in northern Iraq, were readying for a potential Iranian attack on their forces there, according to an American official.

With days of warning that Mr. Trump planned to take action, Syria moved some of its aircraft to a Russian base in hopes of deterring Americans from attacking there — and, in turn, igniting aggressions between the two Cold War powers. Mr. Trump made sure not to target that base on Friday, averting the chance of hitting Russian targets but also sparing the Syrian air force.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said hours before the strike that he was concerned that the military leadership was being too cautious. “I’m worried whether or not we have the right generals with the right mind-set,” he said on Fox News Radio.

“If our military leaders are listening to Putin and we back off because Putin threatens to retaliate, that is a disaster for us throughout the world,” he added. “You can’t let one dictator tell you what to do about another who has crossed two red lines.”“Is this still a buddy movie?” he said, “or is Abe the ex?”

White House officials insist it is still the former, pointing out that Mr. Abe is the only leader to be a repeat guest at Mr. Trump’s estate, Mar-a-Lago. The men have met six times and spoken by phone 20 times, though not since March 8, the evening that Mr. Trump stunned Mr. Abe, as well as his own aides, by accepting Mr. Kim’s invitation to a meeting.

Mr. Trump, a senior administration official said, has a lot of respect for Mr. Abe’s views on North Korea. In two days of meetings — alone and with their aides — the leaders are likely to discuss issues ranging from the demands Mr. Trump will make of Mr. Kim to the venue for the meeting.

Among the most politically salient issues for Mr. Abe is the status of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea. He is expected to ask Mr. Trump to raise the matter with Mr. Kim in their meeting, and a person briefed on the White House’s preparations said the president would probably assure Mr. Abe that he would do so.

Still, for Mr. Abe, who has been a stalwart supporter of Mr. Trump’s sanctions against North Korea, the summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim raises other problems. The first is that it leaves Japan isolated in what has been a round robin of diplomacy involving North Korea.

South Korea, China and the United States have all been in contact with the North about potential meetings. Japan has not. If anything, anti-Tokyo propaganda in North Korea has intensified as Mr. Kim has reached out to leaders in Seoul, Beijing and Washington.

Japan, moreover, has different security concerns than those of the United States. While Mr. Trump is likely to press Mr. Kim to halt development of intercontinental ballistic missiles, which could theoretically strike American territory, Japan is much more concerned about the North’s medium-range missiles, which have already landed in waters around Japan.

American officials declined to say whether Mr. Trump would raise the issue of intermediate-range missiles, repeating only his general demand that North Korea relinquish its nuclear arsenal.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The coordination between the Japanese and the White House is excellent,” said Michael J. Green, a senior Asia adviser to President George W. Bush. “But the problem is that the president is so unpredictable.”

Mr. Trump’s treatment of Japan on trade is a case in point. He initially said he planned to impose metals tariffs on all nations to buoy a struggling American industry. But one by one, American allies, including Canada, Mexico, Australia, the European Union, Brazil and South Korea, were given exemptions to the tariffs — all except for Japan.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“That’s exactly what we want to ask the U.S.,” said Takehiro Shimada, a spokesman for the Japanese Embassy in Washington. “Why?”

Some analysts said it was a calculated attempt to gain leverage over Japan in coming trade talks.

“Logically, they should have excluded Japan. They didn’t,” said William Reinsch, an Asia trade expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “They’re going to twist Abe’s arm when he shows up.”

When Mr. Trump withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, he proposed a bilateral trade deal with Japan in its place. But Japan’s deputy prime minister, Taro Aso, ruled out that possibility in March, saying that such a negotiation would lead to unnecessary pain for Japan.

Instead, Japan forged ahead with a deal among the accord’s 11 remaining members, which they reached on March 8. Japan maintains that this agreement is still fragile, and that negotiating another pact with the United States could put its success at risk.

But Mr. Trump’s about-face on the Trans-Pacific Partnership could breathe new life into trade talks. Japan has said that it would be willing to enter a one-on-one deal only if it would serve as a bridge to the United States’ getting back into the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

“If you want to try to get the Japanese into talks,” Mr. Reinsch said, “I think the best way to do that is to tell them we’re prepped for rejoining the T.P.P.”

The Japanese responded to Mr. Trump’s statement about the trade pact with a mix of puzzlement and cautious optimism. American officials said they expected both the tariffs and the Trans-Pacific pact to come up during the meeting, and noted that Mr. Trump has indicated a willingness to grant further exemptions if he can come to agreeable terms.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The trouble could flare if Mr. Trump tries to strike a tougher deal with Japan than his predecessor did.

Japan is wary of the bullying approach the Trump administration has taken to revising global trade pacts. In particular, it is unlikely to give additional concessions on agriculture, after opening up its heavily protected markets to the other members of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

“For them, that is a nonstarter,” said Wendy Cutler, the vice president of the Asia Society Policy Institute.

Mr. Abe, who is trying to weather a political scandal at home, has little room for maneuver with Mr. Trump. Until now, he has largely delegated trade-related matters to Mr. Aso, who has been carrying on an economic dialogue with Vice President Mike Pence. But White House officials are increasingly frustrated by what they regard as slow-walking on the part of the Japanese.

“Abe knows he’s walking into a meeting where Trump may have a short fuse on trade,” Mr. Russel said.Mr. Comey said the F.B.I. did not contradict the Clinton campaign at the time because it was not yet appropriate to confirm an investigation. “Still, the bitterly fought episode, parsing word choices, was only a small taste of what was to come, and many within the F.B.I. knew it,” he wrote.

For the Clinton campaign, minimizing the significance of the inquiry was important to prevent it from becoming a bigger political liability as she headed into the Democratic primary season. Indeed, when Mr. Comey was ready in October 2015 to publicly confirm the investigation, Loretta E. Lynch, President Barack Obama’s attorney general, instructed him to call it a “matter” instead. Ms. Lynch, he wrote, “seemed to be directing me to align with that Clinton campaign strategy.”

Jennifer Palmieri, who was Mrs. Clinton’s communications director and signed the campaign’s nearly 2,000-word criticism of the Times report, said on Friday that she and the other advisers did not know at the time of the July 2015 article that their candidate was under criminal investigation.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Pushing back against the Times report was a politically smart — and, she noted, effective — move by the campaign. She said she was “surprised” when the criminal investigation was later made public that The Times did not make a bigger deal of the fact that the paper had been right.

Asked to comment on Friday, Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, said, “Mr. Comey’s account speaks for itself.”

Mr. Comey’s handling of the email inquiry has long been controversial. After a year of investigating, Mr. Comey concluded that no criminal charges were warranted against Mrs. Clinton, but he publicly criticized her for being “extremely careless” in handling sensitive information.

Three months later, shortly before the 2016 election, Mr. Comey announced that thousands of messages relevant to the inquiry had been discovered on the laptop of the estranged husband of one of Mrs. Clinton’s closest advisers. A week later, just two days before the election, Mr. Comey announced that a review of the emails had turned up no evidence to change his original conclusion.

Mrs. Clinton and her allies have long blamed Mr. Comey’s public announcement for shifting the momentum of the campaign in its final days, leading to the election of Donald J. Trump, the Republican candidate. In a book of her own last year, Mrs. Clinton said that Mr. Comey had “shivved” her.

Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey as F.B.I. director in May 2017 while Mr. Comey was overseeing an investigation into Russia’s interference in the campaign and whether there was collaboration with Mr. Trump’s campaign.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump originally cited a memo faulting Mr. Comey’s handling of Mrs. Clinton’s case in terms similar to criticisms lodged by Democrats, but later acknowledged that he was thinking about the Russia inquiry when he made the decision. He has since accused Mr. Comey of going too easy on Mrs. Clinton and has pressed the Justice Department to reopen the investigation into her emails.Photo

WASHINGTON — The Trump administration, which has been on the verge of a trade war with China, opted on Friday not to label the country a currency manipulator, breaking a key campaign promise by President Trump to punish a government he has called the “greatest currency manipulators ever.”

The Treasury Department, in its biannual currency exchange report, scolded China for its lack of progress in reducing the bilateral trade deficit with the United States, but did not find that it was improperly devaluing its currency, known as the renminbi.

“Treasury is strongly concerned by the lack of progress by China in correcting the bilateral trade imbalance and urges China to create a more level and reciprocal playing field for American workers and firms,” the report said.

It was the third time since Mr. Trump assumed the presidency that the Treasury Department opted not to accuse China of improper meddling. China has long maintained a strong grip on the value of its currency and, for years, weakened it compared with the dollar to make Chinese products cheaper to sell in the United States and other countries. More recently, China has made a big show of gradually loosening its grip, an effort meant to mollify critics like Mr. Trump and experts who have long urged Beijing to let markets fix financial problems in the world’s second-largest economy.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

China had a $375 billion trade surplus in goods last year, the largest of any of America’s trading partners. That gap has become a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s, who has cited the trade deficit with China as a main reason for his administration’s aggressive approach, including the tariffs and investment restrictions he has threatened.The deal involving Mr. Broidy was not known to be a subject of the federal investigation. It is unclear whether the F.B.I. has scrutinized Mr. Davidson, who is no longer representing the former Playboy model. Her new lawyer is Peter K. Stris, who also now represents Ms. McDougal.

The model involved in the deal with Mr. Broidy is Shera Bechard. In a statement, Mr. Stris said she was “deeply distressed” that the arrangement had been revealed. Though Mr. Stris did not say whether she was challenging the deal, he accused Mr. Cohen and Mr. Davidson of “profoundly disturbing and repeated collusion.”

Photo

In his statement, Mr. Broidy apologized to his wife and family while acknowledging the affair. He said that “she alone decided that she did not want to continue with the pregnancy, and I offered to help her financially during this difficult period.”

He lamented that the issue had become a national news story, which he attributed to the publicity surrounding the federal investigation of Mr. Cohen. He said that the lawyer “reached out to me after being contacted by this woman’s attorney, Keith Davidson,” and that he hired Mr. Cohen after Mr. Cohen “informed me about his prior relationship with Mr. Davidson.”

In fact, the contract in Ms. Bechard’s case included the same aliases that were used in the 2016 contract with Ms. Clifford — “David Dennison” and “Peggy Peterson” — according to a person familiar with it.

A spokesman for Mr. Davidson said he could not confirm or deny the details of the agreement. In a statement, Mr. Davidson said, “I’ve always acted in my client’s best interest, and appropriately in all matters.”

Mr. Cohen declined to comment.

Mr. Davidson’s relationship with Mr. Cohen forms part of the basis for a lawsuit Ms. McDougal has filed seeking to get out of her contract with A.M.I.; The Enquirer never ran her story after buying it in August 2016.

Photo

In the lawsuit, she contends that Mr. Cohen played a secret role in the negotiations for that deal, though he had no formal reason to be involved, given that the talks were between Ms. McDougal and the tabloid media company. The Times reported earlier this year that Mr. Cohen and Mr. Davidson discussed the deal the day before Ms. McDougal signed the contract.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Broidy was a national deputy chairman of the R.N.C.’s finance committee, a title he shared with Mr. Cohen, who remains in that role. Mr. Broidy is the second member of that committee to resign this year amid questions involving their behavior with women and deals to silence them. In January, the casino magnate Stephen Wynn stepped down from the committee’s chairmanship after allegations of sexual misconduct surfaced against him, one resulting in a settlement of $7.5 million.

Mr. Broidy was a major fund-raiser for former President George W. Bush, but he is particularly connected in Mr. Trump’s orbit.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

He got his start in business as an accountant and then as an investment manager for Glen Bell, the founder of Taco Bell. He was a vice chairman of Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee, has met frequently with top White House officials and had an Oval Office meeting with the president in October, according to documents obtained by The Times.

During the wide-ranging October meeting, Mr. Broidy raised numerous topics high on the agenda of the United Arab Emirates, a country that has given his security company a contract worth hundreds of millions of dollars. He pitched the president on a paramilitary force his company was developing for the U.A.E. and urged Mr. Trump to fire Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state, who the U.A.E. believed was insufficiently tough on its rival Qatar.

The documents show that Mr. Broidy has worked closely with George Nader, an adviser to the U.A.E. and a witness in the special counsel’s investigation, to help steer Trump administration policy on numerous issues in the Middle East. Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, is examining Mr. Nader’s possible role in funneling Emirati money to finance Mr. Trump’s political efforts. There is no indication that Mr. Mueller’s team is looking into Mr. Broidy.

In 2009, Mr. Broidy pleaded guilty to charges that he made nearly $1 million worth of illegal gifts to New York State officials in order to win an investment of $250 million from the state’s public pension fund. Among the gifts were trips to Israel and Italy, payouts to officials’ relatives and girlfriends and an investment in one relative’s production of a low-budget movie called “Chooch.”Federal agents raided the office and hotel room of President Trump’s longtime personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, on Monday. They seized business records, emails and material from Mr. Cohen’s cellphones, tablet, laptop and safe deposit box, and looked for details about Mr. Cohen’s efforts to suppress negative information about Mr. Trump during the campaign.

Prosecutors demanded information from a wide breadth of records, including documents related to the “Access Hollywood” tape, in which Mr. Trump made vulgar comments about women, and materials related to secret agreements Mr. Cohen made with women who claimed to have had affairs with Mr. Trump.

The president’s advisers have concluded that the wide-ranging corruption investigation in New York poses a greater and more imminent threat to the president than even the special counsel’s investigation, according to several people close to Mr. Trump.

The deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, personally approved the warrant, which was obtained after a recommendation from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. On Friday, Mr. Cohen asked a federal judge in Manhattan to block the Justice Department from reading documents related to his decade-long legal representation of Mr. Trump.Beyond the immediate question of whether the new strikes actually accomplished the stated goal of diminishing Syria’s capacity to make and use chemical agents, the attack posed the risk of drawing the United States more deeply into a conflict in which Russia and Iran have more invested than ever in keeping Mr. Assad in power.

The United States is “locked and loaded” to strike again if Mr. Assad is believed to renew his use of chemical weapons, Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, told the Security Council on Saturday at an emergency meeting called by Russia.

“We are confident that we have crippled Syria’s chemical weapons program. We are prepared to sustain this pressure, if the Syrian regime is foolish enough to test our will,” Ms. Haley said.

She said that Russia had failed to abide by a 2013 promise to ensure that Syria got rid of its chemical weapons stockpiles.

“While Russia was busy protecting the regime, Assad took notice,” she said. “The regime knew that it could act with impunity, and it did.”

The Pentagon provided no immediate evidence that the sites that were struck were producing substances covered by the 2013 agreement between Russia and the United States to eliminate Syria’s chemical arms.

Photo

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Friday that the American government was confident that Syrian forces had used chlorine in the deadly attack on civilians last Saturday in Douma, but did not provide evidence.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The White House has cited photographs and videos from Douma to make the case, and has dismissed alternative explanations from the Syrian and Russian governments. It said that the nerve agent sarin may have been used in addition to chlorine.

Chlorine, as a commercially available substance, was not included in the 2013 agreement. But the Chemical Weapons Convention, which Syria joined as part of the 2013 deal, prohibits the use of any chemical as a weapon.

The American-led strikes on Syria jolted residents of Damascus, the capital, from their beds as their walls and windows shook. American officials said the offensive was to punish Syria for the Douma attack, which left scores dead.

A group from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which had announced a fact-finding mission to determine if chemical weapons were used in the Douma attack, arrived in Damascus on Saturday morning, the group said in a statement.

A statement by the Syrian military said 110 missiles had been fired in the American-led strike. Three people were injured in Homs, it said. Videos from Damascus showed Syrian air defense missiles launching into a dark night sky, and the Russian military said that at one Syrian air base, all 12 cruise missiles that targeted the site had been shot down.

Defense Department officials batted down those claims, saying that the entire American-led operation was over and the targets were destroyed before Syria launched any of the 40 missiles it fired into the air.

“Taken together, these attacks were able to overwhelm the Syrian air defense system,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, the Pentagon’s Joint Staff director, said at a news conference. “None of our aircraft involved were successfully engaged by Syrian defense forces.”

He added that the barrage of missiles had hit their targets within a couple of minutes at most. He said that all three targets had been destroyed, and that all warplanes had returned safely to base.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the strikes were limited, with an eye toward making sure they did not draw retaliation from Russia and Iran and set off a wider conflict. For that reason, Mr. Assad may still be able to use chemical agents in the future.

“I would say there’s still a residual element of the Syrian program that’s out there,” General McKenzie said. “I’m not going to say that they’re going to be unable to continue to conduct a chemical attack in the future. I suspect, however, they’ll think long and hard about it.”

Photo

In a statement, the British government said that Prime Minister Theresa May, President Emmanuel Macron of France and Mr. Trump had agreed in separate phone calls that the military strikes had been a success, “sending a clear message that the use of chemical weapons can never become normalized.”

But the limited nature of the strikes left some members of Congress and other observers underwhelmed.

“I fear that when the dust settles, this strike will be seen as a weak military response and Assad will have paid a small price for using chemical weapons yet again,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a member of the Armed Services Committee, said in a statement. “Assad has likely calculated a limited American strike is just the cost of doing business.”

Randa Slim, an analyst at the Middle East Institute, tweeted: “If this is it, Assad should be relieved.”

Sure enough, early Saturday morning, Mr. Assad’s office posted a video that appeared to show him strolling into work in a suit and tie and carrying a briefcase as if nothing had happened.

Condemnation of the strikes from Syria’s allies was swift.

“The United States and its allies continue to demonstrate blatant disregard for international law,” said the Russian ambassador to the United Nations, Vasily A. Nebenzya, on Saturday. “It’s time for Washington to learn that the international code of behavior regarding the use of force is regulated by the United Nations Charter,” he added.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran, called the strikes “a crime” and the leaders of the United States, France and Britain “criminals.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“But they will not benefit from this attack, just as they committed similar crimes over the past years during their presence in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan and did not benefit from them,” he said.

There were no signs of immediate retaliation, suggesting that Mr. Assad and his allies planned to weather the storm, perhaps in the belief that the United States was mostly concerned with avoiding deeper involvement.

“If I were Assad, I would be thinking, ‘Let them get it out of their system. Things are still trending in the right direction today,’ ” said Faysal Itani, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council. “Nothing that Trump said on television really touched on the Syrian conflict.”

In announcing the strikes Friday night, Mr. Trump suggested that more American action could be on the way. “We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” Mr. Trump said. Other officials, however, said the United States and its allies were done for now.

Photo

Saturday’s strikes were more extensive than those Mr. Trump launched in the wake of another reported chemical attack last year, involving nearly double the number of missiles. But much has changed in Syria in the meantime to make Mr. Assad and his allies more secure.

The rebels who once threatened his control have been routed from all of Syria’s major cities, and even from smaller strongholds like Douma, the last town they held near Damascus, which they surrendered after the reported chemical attack last weekend.

Meanwhile, the war has further shattered Syria, and international powers including the United States, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Iran — along with militant groups including Hezbollah — have intervened to fight for their interests.

Iran and Russia have expanded their military reach. Russia has a presence on most Syrian military bases, and its air force has been essential to Mr. Assad’s recent advances. Iran has used the chaos of war to strengthen its proxies to deter and possibly confront Israel.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The United States still has about 2,000 troops in eastern Syria working with a Kurdish-led militia to fight the jihadists of the Islamic State. But with the militants now nearly defeated, American officials have started thinking about when to withdraw. Before the suspected chemical weapons attack in Douma, Mr. Trump had said he wanted to bring them home soon.

While the United States called for Mr. Assad to leave power early in the conflict and gave cash and arms to the rebels who sought to overthrow him, it has more recently resigned itself to his remaining in power. That was partly because it feared the vacuum that could emerge if Mr. Assad’s government collapsed, and partly because it was clear that Russia and Iran were willing to invest more in winning than the United States was.

So Saturday’s strikes remained focused on punishing him for using chemical weapons. Last year’s strikes had the same goal, but only succeeded for a limited time.

“Military interventions have a shelf life,” said Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy who studies Syria. “For a certain time, it prevented them from using chemical weapons, but after a while it dissipated. So we’ll have to wait to see how this attack is different.”

Mr. Trump made it clear when announcing the strikes that he does not consider it the job of the United States to fix problems in the Middle East.

“No amount of American blood or treasure can produce lasting peace and security in the Middle East,” he said. “It’s a troubled place. We will try to make it better, but it is a troubled place.”

He did, however, speak of working closely with American allies in the region such as Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Qatar to ensure that Iran did not capitalize on the defeat of the Islamic State.

Still, such an international coalition would be starting years behind what Russia and Iran have already done, and some of the Arab allies Mr. Trump mentioned are not even speaking to each other. Mr. Trump has so far shown little penchant for the kind of strategic alliance-building it would take to change the direction of the war.

Some Syrians, however, took solace in the sight of smoke rising from Mr. Assad’s military bases.

“For many Syrians, the fact that their butcher was punished is incredibly cathartic,” Mouaz Moustafa, the executive director of the Syrian Emergency Task Force, which opposes the government, wrote on Twitter. “But war continues.”Beyond the immediate question of whether the new strikes actually accomplished the stated goal of diminishing Syria’s capacity to make and use chemical agents, the attack posed the risk of drawing the United States more deeply into a conflict in which Russia and Iran have more invested than ever in keeping Mr. Assad in power.

The United States is “locked and loaded” to strike again if Mr. Assad is believed to renew his use of chemical weapons, Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, told the Security Council on Saturday at an emergency meeting called by Russia.

“We are confident that we have crippled Syria’s chemical weapons program. We are prepared to sustain this pressure, if the Syrian regime is foolish enough to test our will,” Ms. Haley said.

She said that Russia had failed to abide by a 2013 promise to ensure that Syria got rid of its chemical weapons stockpiles.

“While Russia was busy protecting the regime, Assad took notice,” she said. “The regime knew that it could act with impunity, and it did.”

The Pentagon provided no immediate evidence that the sites that were struck were producing substances covered by the 2013 agreement between Russia and the United States to eliminate Syria’s chemical arms.

Photo

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Friday that the American government was confident that Syrian forces had used chlorine in the deadly attack on civilians last Saturday in Douma, but did not provide evidence.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The White House has cited photographs and videos from Douma to make the case, and has dismissed alternative explanations from the Syrian and Russian governments. It said that the nerve agent sarin may have been used in addition to chlorine.

Chlorine, as a commercially available substance, was not included in the 2013 agreement. But the Chemical Weapons Convention, which Syria joined as part of the 2013 deal, prohibits the use of any chemical as a weapon.

The American-led strikes on Syria jolted residents of Damascus, the capital, from their beds as their walls and windows shook. American officials said the offensive was to punish Syria for the Douma attack, which left scores dead.

A group from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which had announced a fact-finding mission to determine if chemical weapons were used in the Douma attack, arrived in Damascus on Saturday morning, the group said in a statement.

A statement by the Syrian military said 110 missiles had been fired in the American-led strike. Three people were injured in Homs, it said. Videos from Damascus showed Syrian air defense missiles launching into a dark night sky, and the Russian military said that at one Syrian air base, all 12 cruise missiles that targeted the site had been shot down.

Defense Department officials batted down those claims, saying that the entire American-led operation was over and the targets were destroyed before Syria launched any of the 40 missiles it fired into the air.

“Taken together, these attacks were able to overwhelm the Syrian air defense system,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, the Pentagon’s Joint Staff director, said at a news conference. “None of our aircraft involved were successfully engaged by Syrian defense forces.”

He added that the barrage of missiles had hit their targets within a couple of minutes at most. He said that all three targets had been destroyed, and that all warplanes had returned safely to base.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the strikes were limited, with an eye toward making sure they did not draw retaliation from Russia and Iran and set off a wider conflict. For that reason, Mr. Assad may still be able to use chemical agents in the future.

“I would say there’s still a residual element of the Syrian program that’s out there,” General McKenzie said. “I’m not going to say that they’re going to be unable to continue to conduct a chemical attack in the future. I suspect, however, they’ll think long and hard about it.”

Photo

In a statement, the British government said that Prime Minister Theresa May, President Emmanuel Macron of France and Mr. Trump had agreed in separate phone calls that the military strikes had been a success, “sending a clear message that the use of chemical weapons can never become normalized.”

But the limited nature of the strikes left some members of Congress and other observers underwhelmed.

“I fear that when the dust settles, this strike will be seen as a weak military response and Assad will have paid a small price for using chemical weapons yet again,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a member of the Armed Services Committee, said in a statement. “Assad has likely calculated a limited American strike is just the cost of doing business.”

Randa Slim, an analyst at the Middle East Institute, tweeted: “If this is it, Assad should be relieved.”

Sure enough, early Saturday morning, Mr. Assad’s office posted a video that appeared to show him strolling into work in a suit and tie and carrying a briefcase as if nothing had happened.

Condemnation of the strikes from Syria’s allies was swift.

“The United States and its allies continue to demonstrate blatant disregard for international law,” said the Russian ambassador to the United Nations, Vasily A. Nebenzya, on Saturday. “It’s time for Washington to learn that the international code of behavior regarding the use of force is regulated by the United Nations Charter,” he added.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran, called the strikes “a crime” and the leaders of the United States, France and Britain “criminals.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“But they will not benefit from this attack, just as they committed similar crimes over the past years during their presence in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan and did not benefit from them,” he said.

There were no signs of immediate retaliation, suggesting that Mr. Assad and his allies planned to weather the storm, perhaps in the belief that the United States was mostly concerned with avoiding deeper involvement.

“If I were Assad, I would be thinking, ‘Let them get it out of their system. Things are still trending in the right direction today,’ ” said Faysal Itani, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council. “Nothing that Trump said on television really touched on the Syrian conflict.”

In announcing the strikes Friday night, Mr. Trump suggested that more American action could be on the way. “We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” Mr. Trump said. Other officials, however, said the United States and its allies were done for now.

Photo

Saturday’s strikes were more extensive than those Mr. Trump launched in the wake of another reported chemical attack last year, involving nearly double the number of missiles. But much has changed in Syria in the meantime to make Mr. Assad and his allies more secure.

The rebels who once threatened his control have been routed from all of Syria’s major cities, and even from smaller strongholds like Douma, the last town they held near Damascus, which they surrendered after the reported chemical attack last weekend.

Meanwhile, the war has further shattered Syria, and international powers including the United States, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Iran — along with militant groups including Hezbollah — have intervened to fight for their interests.

Iran and Russia have expanded their military reach. Russia has a presence on most Syrian military bases, and its air force has been essential to Mr. Assad’s recent advances. Iran has used the chaos of war to strengthen its proxies to deter and possibly confront Israel.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The United States still has about 2,000 troops in eastern Syria working with a Kurdish-led militia to fight the jihadists of the Islamic State. But with the militants now nearly defeated, American officials have started thinking about when to withdraw. Before the suspected chemical weapons attack in Douma, Mr. Trump had said he wanted to bring them home soon.

While the United States called for Mr. Assad to leave power early in the conflict and gave cash and arms to the rebels who sought to overthrow him, it has more recently resigned itself to his remaining in power. That was partly because it feared the vacuum that could emerge if Mr. Assad’s government collapsed, and partly because it was clear that Russia and Iran were willing to invest more in winning than the United States was.

So Saturday’s strikes remained focused on punishing him for using chemical weapons. Last year’s strikes had the same goal, but only succeeded for a limited time.

“Military interventions have a shelf life,” said Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy who studies Syria. “For a certain time, it prevented them from using chemical weapons, but after a while it dissipated. So we’ll have to wait to see how this attack is different.”

Mr. Trump made it clear when announcing the strikes that he does not consider it the job of the United States to fix problems in the Middle East.

“No amount of American blood or treasure can produce lasting peace and security in the Middle East,” he said. “It’s a troubled place. We will try to make it better, but it is a troubled place.”

He did, however, speak of working closely with American allies in the region such as Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Qatar to ensure that Iran did not capitalize on the defeat of the Islamic State.

Still, such an international coalition would be starting years behind what Russia and Iran have already done, and some of the Arab allies Mr. Trump mentioned are not even speaking to each other. Mr. Trump has so far shown little penchant for the kind of strategic alliance-building it would take to change the direction of the war.

Some Syrians, however, took solace in the sight of smoke rising from Mr. Assad’s military bases.

“For many Syrians, the fact that their butcher was punished is incredibly cathartic,” Mouaz Moustafa, the executive director of the Syrian Emergency Task Force, which opposes the government, wrote on Twitter. “But war continues.”Veterans of Washington policymaking in the Middle East offered conditional praise for Mr. Trump’s restrained approach to the strike, if not necessarily his more bellicose rhetoric. In hitting three sites associated with Mr. Assad’s chemical weapons capabilities, limiting it to a single night and conducting it in conjunction with Britain and France, they said it sent a message while avoiding a deeper involvement and minimizing the risk of provoking Syria’s patrons, Russia and Iran, into retaliating themselves.

“However, I don’t think the strike clarifies U.S. policy,” said Meghan O’Sullivan, who oversaw the Iraq war as Mr. Bush’s deputy national security adviser. “In theory, there is not necessarily an inconsistency between a targeted, multilateral strike against chemical weapons sites and the withdrawal of troops that have been fighting ISIS. But the strike does really call into question the wisdom of pulling back American forces now in highlighting the question of what our objective really is in Syria.”

Others argued that the strike was a waste that accomplished little and, in the process, exceeded the president’s authority as commander in chief since he did not obtain authorization from Congress first. Critics said that if Mr. Trump was truly moved by humanitarian concern over the victims of last weekend’s attack, he should reverse his policy of barring virtually any new Syrian refugees from the United States.

“The ongoing bloodshed and war crimes in Syria are a stark reminder that Syrian civilians need our support now more than ever,” Noah Gottschalk of Oxfam America said in a statement. “Yet the Trump administration still lacks a coherent strategy to actually bring an end to the conflict and instead has sought to slash humanitarian aid and slam the door on Syrian refugees.”

By most accounts, the strike essentially left in place the status quo on the ground. It did little if anything to weaken Mr. Assad beyond any chemical weapons stores it destroyed, leaving him to continue waging war on his own people through conventional means. It did nothing to exact the “big price” Mr. Trump promised to impose on Russia and Iran for enabling Mr. Assad’s chemical attacks.

Indeed, Mr. Trump has shown little interest in trying to steer Syria to a resolution of its civil war, eschewing the sort of Geneva diplomacy that absorbed Mr. Obama’s last secretary of state, John F. Kerry, to little apparent effect. Mr. Trump sees Syria in two boxes — the fight against the Islamic State, in which he has declared near victory, and the multisided civil war that he wants no part of, saying as he did just days ago, “Let the other people take care of it now.”

Photo

But that is an artificial bifurcation in a country torn by violence on all sides. The civil war affects the ability of the Islamic State to operate and vice versa. Mr. Trump may have opted for the more cautious approach urged by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis instead of a more crippling attack that may have been favored by his new national security adviser, John R. Bolton, but he did not settle the larger question.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asked on Friday before the missiles began flying to explain America’s strategy in Syria, Heather Nauert, the State Department spokeswoman, demurred. “I’m not going to get ahead of the president,” she said.

Even when the president spoke later that night, he was somewhat vague in describing his own strategy. While he said he was “prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” he did not explain what he meant or how far he was willing to go beyond saying he would also use economic and diplomatic tools.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Colin H. Kahl, who was the national security adviser to former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., said Mr. Trump “wisely avoided hitting regime targets where there was a significant risk of killing Russians” but for that very reason did little real harm to Mr. Assad.

“Indeed, the relatively cautious nature of the strike signaled that we were deterred from taking larger action, potentially undercutting the credible U.S. threat of doing more down the line if the regime continues to use chemical weapons,” he said.

Fundamentally, these factors are not that different than they were during Mr. Obama’s presidency, but Mr. Trump often seems unaware of history, even recent history. His use of the phrase “mission accomplished” on Saturday, for example, invited unwelcome comparisons to Mr. Bush’s experience.

Mr. Bush appeared on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln in May 2003 after American troops toppled Saddam Hussein in Iraq and declared the end of major combat operations. Behind him was a large banner declaring “Mission Accomplished,” which White House aides later said was meant as a congratulations to the carrier crew returning home but became a metaphor for miscalculation as a virulent insurgency consumed Iraq.

“Um...I would have recommended ending this tweet with not those two words,” Ari Fleischer, who was Mr. Bush’s White House press secretary at the time, wrote on Twitter on Saturday. When Mr. Bush made his appearance in spring 2003, he said, the words seemed fitting. “By the Fall,” he added, “the shot of Bush with the banner became a symbol of what went wrong.”

Philip H. Gordon, who was Mr. Obama’s White House coordinator of Middle East policy, said one of the challenges for Mr. Trump was calibrating his language with his actions. In effect, Mr. Gordon said, the president seemed to be trying to find a reasoned middle ground in Syria that belies his own tough talk.

“You can make a case that we are trying to thread a needle that’s tough to thread, but the needle is to do enough to deter the regime from using chemical weapons but not so much that sucks us into the Syrian civil war and gets us into conflict with Iran and Russia,” he said.

Rather than pay attention to Mr. Trump’s words, Mr. Gordon said the strategy was better articulated by Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and Mr. Mattis, who described the strike as an effort to stop Mr. Assad from using chemical weapons but noted that it was not intended to achieve broader goals.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“What May and Mattis said could be considered a legitimate strategy,” Mr. Gordon said. “The risk is, with this president and this administration, is he going to be disciplined enough and restrained enough to thread that needle? Those are not his fortes.”Russia’s ambassador, Vasily A. Nebenzia, said the three Western powers had carried out “aggression against a sovereign state, which is on the front lines of the fight against terrorism,” without proof that chemical weapons had been used, much less by forces overseen by President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Russia’s ally.

“The United States and its allies continue to demonstrate blatant disregard for international law,” he said.

Mr. Nebenzia heaped scorn on a claim made Friday by the United States defense secretary, Jim Mattis, that the United States Constitution gave the president the right to take military action to defend “vital national interests.”

“It’s time for Washington to learn that the international code of behavior regarding the use of force is regulated by the United Nations Charter,” Mr. Nebenzia said.

The United Nations Charter recognizes two justifications for using military force against another country, self-defense or the permission of the Security Council.

Mr. Nebenzia also said that the Western powers should not have acted until a chemical-weapons inspection team, which arrived in Syria on Saturday, had been given a chance to do its work. The inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons will try to determine whether chemical weapons had been used in the Douma attack.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador, called the American-led intervention “justified, legitimate and proportionate.”

She said that the United States, Britain and France had acted “to deter the future use of chemical weapons by holding the Syrian regime responsible for its atrocities against humanity.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The pictures of dead children were not fake news,” she said. “They were the result of the Syrian regime’s barbaric inhumanity.”

The United States “gave diplomacy chance after chance after chance,” she said, only to have Russia block, last Tuesday, an effort to set up an independent body to investigate chemical attacks in Syria.

“While Russia was busy protecting the regime, Assad took notice,” Ms. Haley said. “The regime knew that it could act with impunity, and it did.” The United States and its allies “were not going to let that stand,” she said, adding that Mr. Trump had told her that the United States was “locked and loaded” and ready to strike again should Syria use banned weapons again.

“When our president draws a red line, the president enforces the red line,” she said, a clear rebuke of Mr. Trump’s predecessor, Barack Obama, who in 2013 declined to retaliate against Syria after a chemical weapons attack even though he had called the use of such weapons “a red line.”

Karen Pierce, the British ambassador, defended the assault as a “limited, targeted and effective strike” made after British intelligence found strong evidence that Mr. Assad’s forces were responsible. The French ambassador, François Delattre, said that Mr. Assad knew that he was flouting global norms.

“The Syrian regime knew full well what it was doing,” he said. “Once again, it wanted to test the threshold of the international community’s tolerance, and it found it.”

Sacha Llorenty, the Bolivian ambassador, countered that “you can’t combat the alleged violation of international law by violating international law.”

He accused the United States, Britain and France of being “imperialist” empires that “consider themselves superior to the rest of the world.” He added: “They think that they’re exceptional. They think that they’re indispensable. And hence, they think that they are above the law, above international law.”The United States, along with France and Britain, launched military strikes on Friday against three sites the Trump administration said were part of Syria’s chemical weapons program.

TURKEY Hasaka Afrin Manbij KURDISH CONTROL Idlib Raqqa ISIS CONTROL REBEL CONTROL Latakia GOVERNMENT CONTROL Deir al-Zour SYRIA West of Homs Two storage facilities targeted 1 2 Abu Kamal LEBANON Sparsely populated areas April 7 Suspected chemical attack 3 Damascus Research center targeted IRAQ Sweida Dar'a JORDAN 50 MILES TURKEY Hasaka Manbij Afrin KURDISH CONTROL Raqqa REBEL CONTROL ISIS CONTROL SYRIA Deir al-Zour West of Homs Two storage sites 1 2 Abu Kamal GOVERNMENT CONTROL LEB. April 7 Suspected chemical attack 3 IRAQ Damascus Research center JORDAN 50 MILES TURKEY KURDISH CONTROL Syria REBEL CONTROL ISIS CONTROL GOVERNMENT CONTROL West of Homs Two storage sites 1 2 Damascus Research center 3 IRAQ 100 MILES JORDAN By The New York Times | Sources: Conflict Monitor by IHS Markit (control areas as of April 9, 2018).

The administration said the attacks were in response to a suspected chemical attack by Syria that killed more than 40 people near Damascus.

“The three facilities are — or more appropriately, were — the fundamental components of the regime’s chemical weapons warfare infrastructure,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, the Pentagon’s Joint Staff director, said at a news conference Saturday morning.

But General McKenzie acknowledged that the Syrian government most likely retained some ability to attack its own people with chemical agents. And administration officials briefing reporters Saturday afternoon were careful not to claim that the facilities were actively in use at the time of the attack.

1 2 Him Shinshar chemical weapons storage site and bunker

A satellite image of one of the storage facilities taken in 2017. DigitalGlobe

One of these sites was “the primary location of Syrian sarin and precursor production equipment,” Gen. Joseph E. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at a news conference Friday night.

The other site “contained both a chemical weapons storage facility and an important command post,” General Dunford said.

3 Barzah research and development center

BEFORE AFTER BEFORE AFTER BEFORE AFTER A satellite image of the research center taken in 2017, left, and images taken before and after the bombings. DigitalGlobe; Planet.com (before and after)

This site was a military research facility near Damascus and a center for the development and production of chemical and biological weapons said Defense Department officials. There were previously three buildings at this site, and now there is “nothing but rubble,” according to the Pentagon.Mr. Assad has become something of a “human shield” limiting Russia’s options, noted Vladimir Frolov, an independent foreign affairs analyst and columnist for Republic.ru, “but it was a choice that Moscow made.”

President Putin often waits for days before weighing in on an international crisis, so his issuing a statement within hours of the attack indicated that the Kremlin considered it a critical situation.

Mr. Putin called for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss the attack. Other than that, however, he limited himself to repeating Russian claims that no chemical attack had taken place to warrant the onslaught, and that Washington was only worsening a dire humanitarian crisis.

“Russia condemns in the strongest possible terms the attack against Syria, where Russian military personnel are assisting the legitimate government in its counterterrorism efforts,” Mr. Putin said in the statement. “Through its actions, the U.S. makes the already catastrophic humanitarian situation in Syria even worse and brings suffering to civilians.”

Like Mr. Assad, Russia condemns all opponents of the Syrian government as “terrorists.”

The calmer tone was a noticeable change from preceding weeks, when many commentators suggested that the United States and Russia were slouching toward a replay of the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, which brought the two Cold War adversaries to the brink of a nuclear confrontation.

Some Russian news outlets, while trying to make light of the panic mode, also provided practical advice, like which Moscow metro stations were the most secure against nuclear attack and how much water people should take with them to a bomb shelter.

Photo

In the weeks before the attack, Moscow issued repeated warnings, particularly from Gen. Valery V. Gerasimov, the chief of staff for the armed forces, that the Kremlin would “take retaliatory measures.” The general hinged his warning on the important caveat that Russia would attack missiles and the platforms from which they were launched only in the event that Russian military personnel were placed in danger.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The attack was barely over before the Defense Ministry rushed out its statement stressing that its two main installations in Syria — the air base at Hmeimim and the naval base at Tartus — had not been threatened.

Lt. Gen. Sergei F. Rudskoi, the head of the military’s operations department, said at a briefing that no cruise missiles fired during the attack entered the Russian air-defense zones and repeated the Russian assertion that the attack had nothing to do with chemical weapons.

“We believe that this strike is not a response to an alleged chemical attack, but a reaction to the successes of the Syrian armed forces in the struggle to liberate their territory from international terrorism,” he said.

If anything, the Kremlin may have been somewhat pleased, albeit secretly, that the United States had hit targets well away from the primary areas of Russian control, one analyst suggested.

“Russia has its own zone of interests in Syria, which is on the shore of the Mediterranean,” said Aleksei V. Makarkin, of the Center for Political Technologies.

“The U.S. hit targets that are outside of this zone,” he said. “Of course Russia is upset, but this is just an element of the new Cold War, only one element among several, including sanctions, which are a much more serious problem for Russia.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In one telling sign of the lack of urgency regarding Syria, the Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian Parliament, put out a statement saying it would discuss the airstrikes “next week.”

At home, of course, the bluster will continue. “For the domestic audience, everything will be covered by tough statements,” said Mr. Golts, the military analyst, noting that few in Russia will complain that the Kremlin did not follow through on its threats to attack the United States military assets in the region.

While the Russian military has undergone an overhaul in recent years and has developed some high-tech cruise missiles and other weapons, a direct confrontation with the United States forces in Syria risked a humiliating walloping, he noted.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The secretive Russian mercenary forces in Syria already lost “a couple of hundred” fighters in a skirmish with American-backed Kurdish forces in February, the C.I.A. director and secretary of state nominee, Mike Pompeo, said in Senate testimony last week. Russia had no desire for a similar confrontation involving its regular forces.

Photo

Mr. Putin has twin goals in Syria. First, he is staunchly opposed to regime change fostered by outsiders of the kind that brought chaos to Iraq and Libya.

Second, he sees Syria as leverage to restore Moscow not only to its role as a power broker in the Middle East, but to the status of world policeman that it shared with the United States in Soviet days. The fact that Mr. Trump has started to criticize him and Russia more openly for allying with Mr. Assad has yet to dent those hopes.

In his speech Friday night, Mr. Trump said Russia and Iran should not want to be associated with a “mass murderer” like Mr. Assad, and — as he did after a more limited attack on Syria for the same reason a year ago — declared that Mr. Putin and Russia had failed to fulfill the promise to eliminate all Syria’s chemical weapons.

“Russia must decide if it will continue down this dark path or if it will join with civilized nations as a force for stability and peace,” Mr. Trump said. “Hopefully, someday we’ll get along with Russia and maybe even Iran, but maybe not.”

Mr. Putin will accept limited strikes against Syria that do not indicate a sustained American effort to help the opposition, said Mr. Frolov, the foreign affairs analyst, and would avoid engaging Mr. Trump on the rest.

“The Kremlin is still hoping for a summit with Trump, so it will largely ignore his comments about Putin,” Mr. Frolov said. “There is still some residual hope that a good personal meeting may turn things around.”

The Russians did crow that Syrian air defense systems had managed to shoot down a dozen or so cruise missiles, using equipment “manufactured more than 30 years ago in the Soviet Union,” according to the Interfax news agency. The United States military did not confirm or deny the assertion.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Russian Foreign Ministry greeted the missile attack with its habitual sarcasm. Without naming the United States specifically, Maria Zakharova, the spokesman for the ministry, zeroed in on the claims of moral leadership and exceptionalism among the allies who launched the attack.

“You have to be really exceptional to shell Syria’s capital at the moment when the country is getting a chance for a peaceful future,” she wrote on Facebook.

In a news briefing on Saturday, a spokeswoman for the United States Defense Department, Dana W. White, said, “The Russian disinformation campaign has already begun.” She noted, “There has been a 2,000 percent increase in Russian trolls in the last 24 hours.”

Even with the immediate threat of a confrontation out of the way, several Russian analysts noted that the proximity of the two sides in Syria, not to mention the shifting positions of Mr. Trump, left plenty of room for confrontation.

“The danger is that at one point something completely unexpected and spontaneous can happen — for instance a missile can miss its target and hit something sensitive,” said Mr. Makarkin.The deal involving Mr. Broidy was not known to be a subject of the federal investigation. It is unclear whether the F.B.I. has scrutinized Mr. Davidson, who is no longer representing the former Playboy model. Her new lawyer is Peter K. Stris, who also now represents Ms. McDougal.

The model involved in the deal with Mr. Broidy is Shera Bechard. In a statement, Mr. Stris said she was “deeply distressed” that the arrangement had been revealed. Though Mr. Stris did not say whether she was challenging the deal, he accused Mr. Cohen and Mr. Davidson of “profoundly disturbing and repeated collusion.”

Photo

In his statement, Mr. Broidy apologized to his wife and family while acknowledging the affair. He said that “she alone decided that she did not want to continue with the pregnancy, and I offered to help her financially during this difficult period.”

He lamented that the issue had become a national news story, which he attributed to the publicity surrounding the federal investigation of Mr. Cohen. He said that the lawyer “reached out to me after being contacted by this woman’s attorney, Keith Davidson,” and that he hired Mr. Cohen after Mr. Cohen “informed me about his prior relationship with Mr. Davidson.”

In fact, the contract in Ms. Bechard’s case included the same aliases that were used in the 2016 contract with Ms. Clifford — “David Dennison” and “Peggy Peterson” — according to a person familiar with it.

A spokesman for Mr. Davidson said he could not confirm or deny the details of the agreement. In a statement, Mr. Davidson said, “I’ve always acted in my client’s best interest, and appropriately in all matters.”

Mr. Cohen declined to comment.

Mr. Davidson’s relationship with Mr. Cohen forms part of the basis for a lawsuit Ms. McDougal has filed seeking to get out of her contract with A.M.I.; The Enquirer never ran her story after buying it in August 2016.

Photo

In the lawsuit, she contends that Mr. Cohen played a secret role in the negotiations for that deal, though he had no formal reason to be involved, given that the talks were between Ms. McDougal and the tabloid media company. The Times reported earlier this year that Mr. Cohen and Mr. Davidson discussed the deal the day before Ms. McDougal signed the contract.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Broidy was a national deputy chairman of the R.N.C.’s finance committee, a title he shared with Mr. Cohen, who remains in that role. Mr. Broidy is the second member of that committee to resign this year amid questions involving their behavior with women and deals to silence them. In January, the casino magnate Stephen Wynn stepped down from the committee’s chairmanship after allegations of sexual misconduct surfaced against him, one resulting in a settlement of $7.5 million.

Mr. Broidy was a major fund-raiser for former President George W. Bush, but he is particularly connected in Mr. Trump’s orbit.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

He got his start in business as an accountant and then as an investment manager for Glen Bell, the founder of Taco Bell. He was a vice chairman of Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee, has met frequently with top White House officials and had an Oval Office meeting with the president in October, according to documents obtained by The Times.

During the wide-ranging October meeting, Mr. Broidy raised numerous topics high on the agenda of the United Arab Emirates, a country that has given his security company a contract worth hundreds of millions of dollars. He pitched the president on a paramilitary force his company was developing for the U.A.E. and urged Mr. Trump to fire Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state, who the U.A.E. believed was insufficiently tough on its rival Qatar.

The documents show that Mr. Broidy has worked closely with George Nader, an adviser to the U.A.E. and a witness in the special counsel’s investigation, to help steer Trump administration policy on numerous issues in the Middle East. Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, is examining Mr. Nader’s possible role in funneling Emirati money to finance Mr. Trump’s political efforts. There is no indication that Mr. Mueller’s team is looking into Mr. Broidy.

In 2009, Mr. Broidy pleaded guilty to charges that he made nearly $1 million worth of illegal gifts to New York State officials in order to win an investment of $250 million from the state’s public pension fund. Among the gifts were trips to Israel and Italy, payouts to officials’ relatives and girlfriends and an investment in one relative’s production of a low-budget movie called “Chooch.”The report’s release, which had been anticipated for months, comes at a time when the F.B.I. and the Justice Department are under intense scrutiny by Republicans on Capitol Hill and by President Trump for their continuing investigation of possible links between the Trump campaign and Russia. Mr. Trump, who considers the Russia investigation a “witch hunt,” has fumed in recent days after an F.B.I. raid of his personal lawyer’s office and hotel room in New York.

The inspector general’s report also provides the president and his allies with a convenient counterpoint to a new memoir by James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director Mr. Trump fired last May. The book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” is scheduled to be released on Tuesday, but details began to trickle out Thursday night, including pointed criticisms of Mr. Trump.

On Friday afternoon, Mr. Trump, who has sought to tarnish the reputation of his investigators, pounced on the report on Mr. McCabe, calling it a “total disaster.”

“He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey - McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes!” he wrote on Twitter.

Michael R. Bromwich, a lawyer for Mr. McCabe, replied to the president’s tweet, writing in one of his own that his client was considering filing a defamation suit. “Stay tuned,” he wrote.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The inspector general report was unsparing in its assessment of Mr. McCabe. The review accused Mr. McCabe of lacking candor when he spoke to Mr. Comey shortly after the October 2016 article was published, when he spoke with F.B.I. investigators and then in two conversations with investigators for the inspector general.

Lack of candor, or knowingly providing false information, is a fireable offense at the F.B.I.

The inspector general said that when investigators asked whether Mr. McCabe had instructed a pair of aides to provide information in October 2016 to Devlin Barrett, then a Wall Street Journal reporter, Mr. McCabe said he did not authorize the disclosure and did not know who did.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McCabe subsequently said he approved the F.B.I.’s contact with the reporter, according to the review.

The newspaper article delved into a dispute between F.B.I. and Justice Department officials over how to proceed in the investigation into the Clinton Foundation. It revealed a meeting during which Justice Department officials declined to authorize subpoenas or grand jury activity. The article said that some F.B.I. agents thought that Mr. McCabe had slowed the investigation.

But The Journal, citing anonymous sources including “one person close to Mr. McCabe,” detailed a tense conversation with a senior Justice Department official in which Mr. McCabe insisted that the F.B.I. had the authority to press ahead with the investigation.

The inspector general concluded that that engagement initiated by Mr. McCabe had not been justified under the media policy of the F.B.I. and Justice Department and constituted misconduct.

Specifically, the report said, providing an anonymous quote about the content of a conversation between Mr. McCabe and another department official “served only to advance McCabe’s personal interests and not the public interest, as required by F.B.I. policy.”

Mr. McCabe disputed that conclusion, saying that he took the steps he did to protect the F.B.I.’s reputation. In his interactions with investigators, he said that he had not intended to mislead and in one case reached back out to the inspector general’s office to correct earlier comments.

The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, is expected to release a larger report in the coming weeks about the F.B.I.’s actions during the 2016 election.

The report on Friday generated split reaction on Capitol Hill. Top Republicans said that it clearly justified Mr. McCabe’s firing, and highlighted the importance of truthfulness in federal law enforcement. Democrats, while not disputing that point, warned that the report should not be connected to the Russia investigation.

Earlier on Friday, Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I., formally elevated David L. Bowdich, the bureau’s third in command, to succeed Mr. McCabe as deputy director. Mr. Bowdich, the former top agent in the Los Angeles Field Office, has been the acting deputy director since January.Just like that, she had stumbled into a growing industry that makes money by coaxing women into having surgery — sometimes unnecessarily — so that they are more lucrative plaintiffs in lawsuits against medical device manufacturers.

Lawyers building such cases sometimes turn to marketing firms to drum up clients. The marketers turn to finance companies to provide high-interest loans to the clients that have to be repaid only if the clients receive money from the case. Those loans are then used to pay for surgery performed by doctors who are often lined up by the marketers.

Interviews with dozens of women, lawyers, finance executives and marketers, as well as a review of court records and confidential documents, indicate that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of women have been sucked into this assembly-line-like system. It is fueled by banks, private equity firms and hedge funds, which provide financial backing.

Photo

The profits are immense. So are the costs to women. Some suffer physical problems from the surgery. Others say they have become depressed or unable to work. Still others have to get mesh reinserted.

Ms. Plummer’s brush with the industry left her wearing diapers.

Faulty Products

The industry of providing financing to law firms involved in litigation is not new. In recent years, it has expanded into a diverse array of businesses. A spate of companies, such as a Brooklyn outfit named Law Cash, have popped up to provide upfront cash to plaintiffs hoping for big legal settlements.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The litigation surrounding mesh implants is a lucrative niche. These so-called mass tort cases, some of which began six years ago when problems with the implants started to arise, encompass claims brought by tens of thousands of women who say they were harmed by the same products.

Millions of women worldwide received mesh implants. They are used to correct a condition called pelvic organ prolapse, which occurs when a woman’s organs fall and press against her vagina because of weakened pelvic muscles. That causes urinary and other problems. The mesh reinforces the pelvic wall.

But many women complained that the implants caused problems such as bleeding and discomfort during sex.

Litigation against the implants’ manufacturers, including Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson, proliferated. There are more than 100,000 plaintiffs in federal court alone. Many more are involved in litigation at the state level or outside the United States.

Representatives of Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson said they stood by the quality of their products. The mesh manufacturers have set aside more than $3 billion to cover potential mesh-related settlements.

Not all plaintiffs are equal. Some law firms — which are paid a percentage of any settlements — realized that women with the implants still in their bodies tended to receive smaller settlements than those who had them taken out.

“Defendants have offered next to nothing to settle cases involving mesh products that have not been removed,” Ms. Plummer’s lawyers at McSweeney Langevin, a small Minneapolis personal injury firm, wrote in a letter advising her to get the implant taken out.

Rhett McSweeney, a co-founder of the law firm, said in a statement that the firm never forced clients to undergo unnecessary surgery and “never directed a client to a particular doctor.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Plaintiffs’ firms turned to marketers to recruit clients. Women with mesh implants said they soon started receiving torrents of unsolicited phone calls, some originating overseas. The women said they didn’t know how these marketers had found them and seemed to know their medical histories.

“I think my privacy was breached,” said Jennifer Godsoe, 66, who lives in Cumberland, Me. “The more I think about it, the more upset I get.”

Some women had vague memories of answering an online ad about mesh problems. The only thing linking some other women was that they previously had the same doctors, court records show.

Women who took the marketing bait were connected to doctors willing to perform the mesh-removal surgery — although that process remains murky. One critical player was Surgical Assistance, a Florida company led by Wesley Blake Barber, which acted as a middleman between the women, doctors and funding companies. Mr. Barber’s lawyer declined to comment.

In a deposition last summer, Mr. Barber outlined how the company had lined up doctors in Florida and Georgia to perform the surgery. In one online ad, an actor in a white lab coat assures women suffering from their mesh implants that relief is near. By calling a toll-free number, the women will be set up with a “network of qualified surgeons” who remove the mesh without requiring upfront payments.

Women who opted for surgery were flown to Florida and Georgia, put up in motels and sent to walk-in clinics, court filings show. The women generally didn’t meet the doctors who would be operating on them until shortly before the procedure. Before going under the knife, few women got a second opinion.

Dan Christensen, a lawyer who ran MedStar Funding, which financed mesh removal surgery, said in an interview that it was “ludicrous” to argue that women had undergone unnecessary surgery.

“You have to have a doctor willing to put his license on the line,” he said. “Why jeopardize your license?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

$14,000 a Day

The work was lucrative. Doctors stood to make $14,000 a day.

Doctors sometimes churned through four or five removals in a day. Each procedure typically cost about $21,000, according to lawsuits brought by women against the mesh manufacturers. Of that, doctors pocketed roughly $3,500 per surgery; most of the rest went to the medical centers where the surgery took place.

Law Cash offered Danette Charnetzky, a hospice worker in Waynesburg, Ohio, financing for a removal surgery in December 2014. Ms. Charnetzky, another McSweeney client, agreed to pay the money back, at a double-digit interest rate, if the litigation was successful. Within a week, she and her husband were on a plane to a surgical center in a Florida strip mall. The process was a terrifying blur.

“I wish I could have changed my mind, but we were already there,” said Ms. Charnetzky, 49, who hasn’t received any money from the pending litigation against the mesh manufacturer. “I just prayed for the best.”

She got the worst — or something close to it. Ms. Charnetzky said she had needed two more procedures to repair scar tissue left by the Florida surgery.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Rhonda Espeland, 63, who was living in Arizona, also had a bad experience. Since her mesh implant was removed in January 2015, she has developed incontinence. “I may need another surgery,” she said.

The bladder problems have left Ms. Espeland unable to work, and she hasn’t received any money from litigation against her mesh manufacturer. Boxes of diapers are regularly delivered to her door.

The doctor who performed her surgery — and similar procedures on hundreds of others — was Earle M. Pescatore. In March 2014, around the time that he started doing lots of procedures, Mr. Pescatore and his wife filed for bankruptcy, citing liabilities of $1.5 million, including $38,000 they owed to the Internal Revenue Service, according to court filings. Dr. Pescatore said in a deposition that he had little memory of women he operated on.

Photo

“Any treatment that Dr. Pescatore provided would have been medically necessary,” his lawyer, Mark DiCowden, said.

While studies have shown that up to 15 percent of women with mesh implants will encounter problems, removing the mesh is not always recommended. Taking it out is more complicated than inserting it because the mesh is made of fiber that is designed to bond with tissue.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many of the women who got the surgery had limited or no health insurance. They rarely discussed the surgery with their primary care physicians before arriving at the clinics. Some said they had felt rushed into getting surgery.

Dr. Victor Nitti, a surgeon specializing in complex pelvic issues at NYU Langone Health in New York, said serious mesh problems should be addressed with surgery. But, he said, “scaring a patient who has limited to no symptoms into removal is just dangerous and irresponsible.”

Dr. Nitti said he had grown concerned about such scare tactics after some patients told him that they had been contacted by marketers.

Funding Machine

A handful of specialized finance firms funded the surgery that Ms. Plummer, Ms. Espeland and other women got. Court filings show that the two main players are Law Cash and Banyan Finance of Boca Raton, Fla., and that the firms charge double-digit interest rates.

Ross Elgart, Banyan’s chief executive, did not respond to requests for comment.

Lew Fidler, Law Cash’s general counsel, said financing surgical procedures such as Ms. Plummer’s is a small portion of the company’s business. He said the firm, which typically provides cash advances to help plaintiffs pay for everyday expenses, ensures that each surgery is necessary.

“I feel for anyone who didn’t get the outcome they were looking for, but we are not doctors,” Mr. Fidler said. “We don’t substitute our judgment for a licensed physician.”

Law Cash, like other firms, is paid back for a surgical advance only if the person gets a settlement. The firms contend that high interest rates cover the risk that some borrowers will never collect settlements. Some women, however, said the high interest rates had never fully been explained to them.

As a result of those steep interest rates, plaintiffs who do collect settlements see much of the money go to the financing firms. Another large slice goes to their lawyers.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Medical funding for personal injury litigants was a topic of discussion Friday in Las Vegas at the mass tort industry’s big annual conference, titled “Mass Torts Made Perfect.” Law firms are eyeing mesh used to treat hernias as the next gold mine.

The industry has grown thanks in part to a gusher of money from mainstream financial institutions. Law Cash gets funding from DZ Bank, Germany’s second-largest bank, and Melody Capital Partners, a hedge fund with $1.8 billion in assets.

McSweeney Langevin, which has represented more than 1,000 women in mesh litigation, got backing from EJF Capital, a Virginia hedge fund with $10 billion in assets, according to corporate records.

Many of McSweeney’s clients initially were signed up by a now-defunct law and marketing firm, Alpha Law. The Washington firm had signed up 14,000 women for the mesh litigation. Its unusual role in the litigation was the subject of a series of Reuters articles.

The industry tries to keep the network of marketers and financiers out of sight — and some participants have refused to answer questions in depositions, citing their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.

“People are claiming the Fifth and so on and so forth,” said Magistrate Judge Cheryl Eifert in West Virginia, who is hearing one of the mesh cases in federal court. “They don’t have to talk about necessarily how much money they make, per se, but if someone would just give them an idea of how the arrangement works. But nobody’s willing to do that.”

Mr. Barber of Surgical Assistance, for example, asserted the privilege nearly two dozen times in a deposition.

Swollen Like Balloons

Jerri Plummer never figured out whom Yolanda worked for. But in December 2014, Dr. Whitney Shoemaker performed the implant-removal surgery. Until the day of the operation, Ms. Plummer had never spoken to Dr. Shoemaker. Her lawyer declined to comment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hours after Ms. Plummer went under the scalpel, she said, she was hustled back to a Hampton Inn just off the freeway, with a catheter sticking out of her side. The next day, a nurse arrived at the motel, removed the catheter and put her in a taxi to the airport.

Soon after she arrived home in Arkansas, she said, complications developed. Her legs swelled like balloons. Her stomach seized up. Ms. Plummer went to her original doctor for help, she said. He informed her that the damage was irreversible. Worse, she said in court records, he told her that there had been no need for the removal surgery.

Before the surgery, Ms. Plummer loved to take walks with her two pit bulls and to eat with her husband at Red Lobster. Now chronic incontinence forces her to wear diapers all day and has left her too worried about wetting herself to venture outside.

With the help of a local lawyer, James R. Baxter, she is suing Law Cash; Dr. Shoemaker; Mr. Barber and his firm, Surgical Assistance; and lawyers at the McSweeney firm.

Mr. McSweeney declined to comment on the lawsuit. His firm is trying to get Ms. Plummer’s lawsuit moved from federal court into private arbitration, where there is no judge or jury. In his statement, he said the firm “had no role” connecting clients with surgical funders like Law Cash or Banyan Finance.

The law firm now has clients sign a waiver that advises them that cash advances to pay for surgery “are terrible loans with extremely high interest rates.”

Ms. Plummer said she had never received such a warning. She feels that she was victimized twice — first by the mesh manufacturer and then by her lawyers and doctor. “I was taken advantage of through this whole process,” she said.A public university president in Oregon gives new meaning to the idea of a pensioner.

Joseph Robertson, an eye surgeon who retired as head of the Oregon Health & Science University last fall, receives the state’s largest government pension.

It is $76,111.

Per month.

That is considerably more than the average Oregon family earns in a year.

Oregon — like many other states and cities, including New Jersey, Kentucky and Connecticut — is caught in a fiscal squeeze of its own making. Its economy is growing, but the cost of its state-run pension system is growing faster. More government workers are retiring, including more than 2,000, like Dr. Robertson, who get pensions exceeding $100,000 a year.

The state is not the most profligate pension payer in America, but its spiraling costs are notable in part because Oregon enjoys a reputation for fiscal discipline. Its experience shows how faulty financial decisions by states can eventually swamp local communities.

Oregon’s costs are inflated by the way in which it calculates pension benefits for public employees. Some of the pensions include income that employees earned on the side. Other retirees benefit from long-ago stock market rallies that inflated the current value of their payouts.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For example, the pension for Mike Bellotti, the University of Oregon’s head football coach from 1995 to 2008, includes not just his salary but also money from licensing deals and endorsements that the Ducks’ athletic program generated. Mr. Bellotti’s pension is more than $46,000 a month.According to investigators, the culprits confessed after being arrested and said that they had targeted the young girl as part of a plot to terrorize her nomadic community and drive them away.

As more sickening details have emerged, the horror has grown. Some of India’s biggest film stars have staged a social media campaign to share their disgust. Many Indians say the revulsion they feel — and their anger at their government — is similar to that after the 2012 rape of the young woman on the bus in New Delhi, the capital, when all of India paused for a moment.

“A rape is a rape. This one may be even worse,” said Deepa Narayan, a social scientist who recently published a book on how women are treated in India. “The bus rape was a bunch of drunk men looking for a good time who lost all control. This was a very deliberately planned-out crime, using the rape of a little girl over days as a political weapon.”

In January, when the crime occurred, the girl’s death barely registered beyond local news reports.

But the case roared back to life this week after a mob of lawyers surrounded a courthouse and tried to block police officers from filing charges (the police eventually filed the charge sheet at a judge’s house). Some of the lawyers were aligned with Mr. Modi’s nationalist party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, known as the B.J.P.

Photo

Two B.J.P. ministers in the Jammu and Kashmir state government who had participated in the protests resigned on Friday under widespread criticism, facing accusations of obstructing justice and fanning religious divisions.

One of them, Choudhary Lal Singh, denied that he had quit under pressure from the B.J.P. “I did it because there was pressure from the country,” he said.

India’s ruling party seems to have failed to learn the painful political lessons from the 2012 rape. At the time, the Indian National Congress, now the leading opposition party, was in power, and it was severely criticized for its slow and tone-deaf reaction.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Those same criticisms are now being leveled against Mr. Modi and his party.

The Supreme Court has issued an order to the lawyers involved in the protests to explain why they physically blocked police officials from entering the courthouse. The lawyers have said they were stirred to action by a right-wing Hindu group that is pushing for the investigation to be taken out of the hands of the state police, which they say has a pro-Muslim bias, and given to a national crime bureau they say is more neutral.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This latest rape case is rapidly becoming another low point between India’s Hindus and Muslims; politicians have often stirred the two communities against each other, with fatal consequences. The victim was Muslim, all eight men arrested were Hindus and some of the investigators are Muslim. On the other side of the gulf, Muslims generally distrust the governing party and its Hindu nationalist philosophy.

And this is not the only big rape case the governing party has to deal with right now.

A powerful governing-party lawmaker in the Uttar Pradesh State Assembly has been accused of raping a teenage girl and then conspiring with his brother to help kill the girl’s father after the family complained.

Opposition leaders have turned the coincidence of these two cases to their advantage, holding a midnight vigil and accusing the governing party of protecting rapists and killers. But they might not have had the chance, analysts said, had Mr. Modi showed a little more concern, a little earlier.

“Mr. Modi definitely spoke too late,” said Pratap Bhanu Mehta, vice chancellor of Ashoka University.

Ms. Narayan, the author, agreed. “Modi is always a slow reactor,” she said. “He waits for an issue to go away and when it doesn’t and he’s in a corner, he speaks up and makes platitudes.”

She added: “I think the B.J.P. will suffer from this. They will pay a price for the impunity they’ve unleashed by not treating crimes as crimes but by politicizing them.”Photo

RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazil’s attorney general on Friday charged Congressman Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right presidential candidate who has been running in second place in the polls, with inciting hatred and discrimination against blacks, indigenous communities, women and gays.

The case injected a new jolt of drama into Brazil’s presidential election, which will be held in October. The charge came less than a week after the front-runner in the race, former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, began serving a 12-year sentence for corruption.

The charging document, which was signed by Attorney General Raquel Dodge, includes a long list of incendiary remarks by Mr. Bolsonaro, who has developed a strong and loyal following by using harsh language and vowing to adopt severe tactics to address Brazil’s epidemic of violence.

If convicted, Mr. Bolsonaro, 63, could face up to three years in prison and a $117,000 fine.

Ms. Dodge outlined several passages from a speech Mr. Bolsonaro gave a year ago in Rio de Janeiro, alleging that they constituted “hate speech.” Mr. Bolsonaro lamented the state of quilombolas, traditional communities of Afro-Brazilians that enjoy legal protections.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Residents of one quilombola he had visited recently “did nothing,” Mr. Bolsonaro said. He added: “I think they don’t even manage to procreate anymore.” He also spoke dismissively about indigenous territories.Photo

Nearly three dozen people have been infected in an E. coli outbreak linked to chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Ariz., region, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Friday.

The agency said that it had not yet identified a grower, supplier, distributor or brand common to the 35 cases of infection across 11 states, so it urged consumers to avoid any chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma area.

“If you cannot confirm the source of the lettuce, do not buy or eat it,” the C.D.C. said in a statement. The agency also recommended that restaurants and retailers not serve chopped romaine lettuce from the region.

The people infected so far range in age from 12 to 84 years old. Of the 22 people hospitalized in the outbreak, three had developed a type of kidney failure, according to the C.D.C. No deaths have been reported. Because of an average reporting delay of two to three weeks, illnesses that may have occurred after March 27 have not yet been counted.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The C.D.C. said that 26 of 28 infected individuals surveyed reported eating a salad at a restaurant, with romaine lettuce being the only common ingredient. The restaurants reported using bagged, chopped romaine lettuce.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The agency said it is still working to pinpoint the source of the outbreak.

The infections are somewhat spread out, geographically. Nine people were infected in Pennsylvania, more than any other state. Eight people were infected in Idaho and seven in New Jersey. Connecticut, New York and Ohio each had two people infected. Illinois, Michigan, Missouri, Virginia and Washington State each had one.Unplugging and Yet Not

Just like late-1960s hippies, right? But living an untethered life has gotten easier now that many people need only a laptop and a fast internet connection to earn a living. Websites like Nomadlist help people decide where on Earth to go. The rise of Airbnb makes it easy to rent space in most corners of the globe with a swipe of your iPhone. Roving parents can find global play dates and moral support on Facebook groups like Worldschoolers, which has about 40,000 members.

Lainie Liberti, an administrator of the group, said it’s not just the tense political climate in the United States motivating people to leave. “People are not seeing a future,” she said. “People are starting to focus on living now and focusing on their children. They are re-evaluating what is important to them.”

Photo

Ms. Quain, who worked as much as 100 hours a week running her own company, worried about the values she was imparting to her daughters. “I don’t want them to grow up to be worker bees,” she said. “I want them to grow up to be freethinking entrepreneurs.”

Like many of the new expats, she is home-schooling (“worldschooling” is the more popular term.) Her daughters are learning Spanish at a Medellin day camp and spend their spare time playing Minecraft and Roblox, video games they sometimes play online with other traveling children. She hopes eventually they’ll start their own YouTube channel, if someone will teach them. “Once I get my business up and running,” she said. “I’ll hire people to teach them how to do things.”

What It Costs

Ms. Quain expects to spend about $1,700 a month on housing, day camp, activities and a nanny in Medellin. Paul Kortman, who, with his wife, Becky Kortman, wrote “Family Freedom: A Guide to Becoming a Location Independent Family,” estimates that a family could travel indefinitely on $60,000 a year, a salary he says could be earned with a little ingenuity.

“All you need to do is have a laptop and be an intelligent person,” Mr. Kortman said. “You don’t need a specific skill set.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

It does help, though. Matthew Gillespie, 31, works remotely full-time as a web designer, allowing him; his wife, Chelsea Gillespie, 30; and their 2-year-old daughter, Kailen, to travel indefinitely through Europe, blogging about it at Unsettledown. They left San Diego last May, finding it too expensive.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Burdened by high rent, along with car and student loan payments, they did not see a future where they could buy a home in the area and still pay down their debts. “Our family was telling us to settle down,” Mr. Gillespie said from Prague last winter. “We just didn’t see the value in that.”

Last spring, he and his wife sold their car, their furniture and most of their possessions for about $10,000. So far, traveling has been cheaper. In Croatia, for example, their expenses fell by 60 percent, allowing them to pay down their student loans faster. “If we can make it work, then we’re going to keep going as long as we can,” Mr. Gillespie said.

Mr. and Ms. Gillespie travel with High Sierra backpacks. Kailen has her own pack, too: a tiny one shaped like a bumblebee. They pared down their belongings to the bare essentials, although Ms. Gillespie did carry an orange Bebe skirt and Zara top around Italy all summer because she thought it would make for a great photograph in Florence (she got her shot and unloaded the outfit). “It was totally impractical,” she said.

Photo

A nest egg makes such trips far less nerve-racking (just be wary of traveling somewhere like Monte Carlo and re-enacting that famous scene from 1985’s “Lost in America” when Julie Hagerty’s character loses it all at a Las Vegas casino).

Jessica and William Swenson are financing an 11-month around-the-world trip with their three small children through a mix of savings, inheritance, a severance package and the income from renting out their four-bedroom house with a pool in Livermore, Calif.

Last October, the Swensons set off for China, alerting local media outlets about their adventure. Mrs. Swenson, 34, a photographer, has an Instagram account and a YouTube channel called LetsAdventureSomeMore to document the whirlwind journey, and, perhaps, monetize it.

The family is traveling light, carrying only backpacks — even the children, Ezra, 8, Theo, 6, and Vesper, 5, have them — with a few changes of clothes. Mr. Swenson, 36, an accountant, bald with a full beard, wears a kilt. “He’s Scottish and loves the un-bifurcated life,” Mrs. Swenson said, speaking over FaceTime from an Airbnb in Bali, Indonesia. The family was waiting out a volcanic eruption, hoping their flight to Australia would not be canceled because of ash.

Photo

Surprising Emotions

The Swensons embarked on the trip as a sort of lemonade-from-lemons move after Mr. Swenson’s job relocated, his mother died and the family’s live-in child care moved out.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We were like, ‘That removed all our obstacles,’” Mrs. Swenson said. But even though social media is accessible from around the world, they were also relieved to escape what Mrs. Swenson describes as “a general feeling of anger and bitterness,” that had descended on the progressive Bay Area in the months since Mr. Trump became president. “I’m not really political,” she said. “I try not to engage.”

Of course, sometimes people they meet abroad want to talk United States politics. This the Swensons deflect. “We kind of put the kibosh on it,” Mrs. Swenson said. “We’re here to be students, and not talk about horrible things.”

But not everyone who takes their life on the road does so to escape an unsatisfying one. Sonja Jernstrom, 37, and Chris Jernstrom, 36, left their home in Seattle in June to take a 14-month trip around the world with their two children, Ben, 7, and Emma, 4.

They’re driving through the Americas in a truck with a 70-foot camper before they head off to Asia, the Middle East and Europe. “It was an opportunity to take a midcareer break,” said Mr. Jernstrom, who quit his job in investment management; Ms. Jernstrom is a former environmental scientist. The family is financing their travels with savings and income earned renting out their four-bedroom house out on Airbnb.

Seeing Latin America has been eye-opening. When Mr. Trump was elected, “we both felt like, ‘Gosh, maybe we want to move to Europe,’” Mr. Jernstrom said from Chile. But “this trip has made me appreciate so much about how much we have in the U.S. It’s made me feel like I want to go back to the U.S. and make things better at home.”If it seems as though each time you log into Netflix there are a dozen new original series on offer, it might be because that’s essentially what’s happening. According to Variety, the company’s chief financial officer, David Wells, announced in February that Netflix was aiming to host around 700 original shows worldwide by the end of 2018. In the United States, some of these are shows produced by Netflix, and some are foreign shows for which Netflix has purchased the rights. Either way, it’s more television than any one person can consume.

In order to help you prioritize your queue, we’ll periodically sift through the latest original programming on Netflix and let you know which shows we think are worth watching. This inaugural roundup features crime thrillers, teen comedies, food shows and one of the craziest documentary series in recent memory.

Liv Lisa Fries in “Babylon Berlin.” Beta Film TV Show Babylon Berlin Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like “Babylon Berlin” has everything: Communists, fascists and flappers! Pornographers, cops and gangsters! Set during the Weimar Republic and created with the filmmaker Tom Tykwer (“Run Lola Run”), this hit German crime drama combines the decadence of “Cabaret” with the grit of a contemporary police procedural. At the center of its sprawling story are Gereon Rath (Volker Bruch), a vice-squad detective scarred by his experiences in World War I, and Charlotte Ritter (Liv Lisa Fries), a typist and sometime prostitute who wants desperately to join the all-male police force. For those who hate reading subtitles, there is a dubbed version available on Netflix. But it’s distractingly awkward, so consider giving the show a shot in its original language first.

Bhagwan Rajneesh in “Wild Wild Country.” Netflix TV Show Wild Wild Country Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like In the early 1980s, followers of the Indian guru Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh built a community for themselves on a 63,000-acre swathe of Oregon ranchland. Tensions quickly flared between the commune, called Rajneeshpuram, and its new neighbor, the tiny city of Antelope. From one angle, the conflict appeared to pit xenophobic yokels against a vulnerable religious minority; from another, it appeared that a sex cult was terrorizing a quiet community of working-class retirees. And that was before things in Rajneeshpuram got really weird. The documentary series “Wild Wild Country” uses archival footage and startlingly frank interviews with the former leaders of the community and their adversaries in Antelope to raise big questions about spirituality, democracy and the ethics of self-defense.

0

Carey Mulligan and Nathaniel Martello-White in “Collateral.” Liam Daniel/Netflix TV Show Collateral Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like After appearing in one of last year’s best Netflix original films, “Mudbound,” Carey Mulligan returns to the streaming service with another stirring performance. “Collateral” casts her as Kip Glaspie, an ambitious detective inspector whose investigation into the murder of a pizza delivery man leads her to a far more complicated mystery. With lots of incisive commentary on immigration in post-Brexit Britain and a top-notch supporting cast that includes Jeany Spark, John Simm, Billie Piper and Nicola Walker, this mini-series isn’t just for thriller addicts. Bonus: You can — and will probably want to — watch the entire four-episode season in an afternoon.

A scene from “Ugly Delicious.” Netflix TV Show Ugly Delicious Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like If you’re a fan of Anthony Bourdain’s globe-trotting food-adventure shows, add this series to your queue. With episodes organized around dishes rather than destinations, “Ugly Delicious” sends David Chang, the chef and Momofuku restaurateur, to culinary capitals from Los Angeles to Copenhagen to Tokyo in order for him to sample the best incarnations of everyday meals like pizza and barbecue. Accompanying Chang is a boisterous, rotating cast of pals including Jimmy Kimmel and the “Walking Dead” actor Steven Yeun. In the sweetest episode, “Homecooking,” the host and his longtime collaborator, the food writer Peter Meehan, join Chang’s mother in her kitchen to prepare a Korean-American Thanksgiving feast.

Nicole Byer and Jacques Torres in “Nailed It!” Netflix TV Show Nailed It! Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like Television can never get enough baking competitions, most of which follow the same basic recipe: Talented pastry chefs + high-concept creations + expert judges = sculptural desserts that are a feast for the eyes. “Nailed It!” swaps out the professional contestants in favor of hapless novices who try their damnedest to replicate elaborate wedding cakes and other decorative sweets. The result is Food Network meets Cake Wrecks, with a lot of heart. As host, the comedian Nicole Byer strikes the perfect balance between encouragement and ridicule, and the competitors’ self-aware humor ensures that the show never feels as if it’s taking cheap shots.

[Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.]

Regina King in “Seven Seconds.” JoJo Whilden/Netflix TV Show Seven Seconds Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like In this crime drama from Veena Sud, the creator of “The Killing,” a black teenager is struck by a car while riding his bike and is left for dead. But “Seven Seconds” isn’t a whodunit. We know from the beginning that the hit-and-run collision is an accident, that a white police officer named Peter Jablonski (Beau Knapp) is the culprit and that his colleagues help him cover it up. The question is: Will the burned-out prosecutor assigned to the case (Clare-Hope Ashitey) and her detective partner (Michael Mosley) figure out what happened? And if they do, will a jury punish four cops for what they did to a black teen? “American Crime” fans, take note: That show’s standout actress, Regina King, gives a similarly moving performance in this series as the victim’s mother.

A scene from “The End of the ____ing World.” Netflix TV Show The End of the ____ing World Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like British TV may be best known for Monty Python and costume dramas, but it is also home to some of the most daring teen programming in the English-speaking world. (See: “Skins,” “My Mad Fat Diary,” “Misfits.”) “The End of the ____ing World,” which comes to Netflix by way of Britain’s Channel 4, is an exceptionally dark, suspenseful comedy about two disturbed teens who run away together. But one of these road-trippers, James (Alex Lawther), is only feigning interest in his companion, Alyssa (Jessica Barden). What he really wants is to kick off his psycho-killer career by murdering her — or so he thinks.

Elijah Stevenson and Sydney Sweeney in “Everything Sucks!” Scott Patrick Green/Netflix TV Show Everything Sucks! Save To Watch Ribbon Save to Watch Like Heart Shape Like For a lighter teen comedy, try this charming show about outcasts living in the aptly named town of Boring, Ore., in the mid-1990s. Our heroes are the nerdy A.V. clique and their slightly older, slightly cooler peers in the drama club — two warring factions that unite to make an absolutely ridiculous movie. Odd-couple romances, betrayals, family conflicts, journeys of self-discovery and montages set to period-appropriate songs ensue, so it’s no wonder that “Everything Sucks!” has earned comparisons to “Freaks and Geeks.” While it doesn’t quite live up to that hype, the show is funny, sweet and sure to hit all the right nostalgia buttons for viewers in their 30s.

0

Read more: The 100 Best Movies on Netflix

10 Great Movies Under 90 Minutes Long on NetflixThe results held even after controlling for income, so it doesn’t seem as if buying time is merely an indicator of being wealthier, which may also increase satisfaction. In fact, the researchers found a stronger relationship between satisfaction and buying time among lower-income groups.

But just to be sure that buying time tends to cause greater life satisfaction, the researchers conducted a randomized experiment. Participants in the trial were given $40 on each of two consecutive weekends. On one of those weekends, they were randomly assigned to spend the money on something that would save them time (like going out to eat instead of cooking). On the other weekend, they could make only a material purchase that would not save time (like buying a new shirt).

“When people spent the $40 to save time, they reported being in a more positive mood and feeling less stressed,” said Ashley Whillans, lead author of both the National Academy of Sciences study and the working paper about couples, and an assistant professor at Harvard Business School. “But it is important to note that even if spending a little to buy time increases well-being, spending a lot may not.”

In other words, you can also overdo it. Ms. Whillans and colleagues found that spending $100 to $200 per month on timesaving services maximized satisfaction, but spending more started to reduce it.

This could be because outsourcing may cause you to feel as if you can’t do anything yourself. Or perhaps it’s because of the challenges of managing others. Or maybe when you buy so many services, you’re bound to feel some aren’t done well and regret having not saved the money.

In a finding from other work by Ms. Whillans, outsourcing unpleasant tasks may also cause some people to feel guilty, because they’re transferring the unpleasantness to someone else.

Research on this topic may also be useful to companies. During the 2013-2014 academic year, Stanford University School of Medicine offered timesaving vouchers to doctors as rewards for certain types of work.The results held even after controlling for income, so it doesn’t seem as if buying time is merely an indicator of being wealthier, which may also increase satisfaction. In fact, the researchers found a stronger relationship between satisfaction and buying time among lower-income groups.

But just to be sure that buying time tends to cause greater life satisfaction, the researchers conducted a randomized experiment. Participants in the trial were given $40 on each of two consecutive weekends. On one of those weekends, they were randomly assigned to spend the money on something that would save them time (like going out to eat instead of cooking). On the other weekend, they could make only a material purchase that would not save time (like buying a new shirt).

“When people spent the $40 to save time, they reported being in a more positive mood and feeling less stressed,” said Ashley Whillans, lead author of both the National Academy of Sciences study and the working paper about couples, and an assistant professor at Harvard Business School. “But it is important to note that even if spending a little to buy time increases well-being, spending a lot may not.”

In other words, you can also overdo it. Ms. Whillans and colleagues found that spending $100 to $200 per month on timesaving services maximized satisfaction, but spending more started to reduce it.

This could be because outsourcing may cause you to feel as if you can’t do anything yourself. Or perhaps it’s because of the challenges of managing others. Or maybe when you buy so many services, you’re bound to feel some aren’t done well and regret having not saved the money.

In a finding from other work by Ms. Whillans, outsourcing unpleasant tasks may also cause some people to feel guilty, because they’re transferring the unpleasantness to someone else.

Research on this topic may also be useful to companies. During the 2013-2014 academic year, Stanford University School of Medicine offered timesaving vouchers to doctors as rewards for certain types of work.Is it safe to come out from under the covers yet, spring? Another busy week of ping-ponging political stories consumed much of the news, but there were other great stories you might have missed. Enjoy the warmth, or stay in bed, and read away.

____

Photo

In April 2014, more than 200 girls were kidnapped from a school in Nigeria. Four years later, more than a hundred of them have been freed. The New York Times met and photographed dozens of the students abducted by Boko Haram. Now at a university, they say they are the lucky ones. But their celebrity has a price. International

____

Photo

In “A Higher Loyalty,” the former F.B.I. director doesn’t mince words in describing his interactions with President Trump: “This president is unethical, and untethered to truth.” Book Review

____

Photo

Home number. Address book. The names of his exes. Using a tool that Facebook offers its users, our columnist found out more than he wanted to know about the social network, the ad industry and himself. Tech

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

____

Photo

Many reptiles and amphibians sold in pet stores were not bred in captivity as international law requires, conservationists say, but plucked from forests and rivers. Science“I’m going to push the boundaries and come back as soon as I can, as best as I can, and try to be even better than before. Why not?” he said. Read more »

Photo

Methane is a potent greenhouse gas that traps more than 80 times as much heat as carbon dioxide in its first 20 years in the atmosphere. In its pure form, it’s a colorless, odorless gas, so when it leaks, it can be hard to find.

Enter MethaneSAT. On Wednesday, the president of the Environmental Defense Fund announced plans for an orbital eye in the sky that has the potential to monitor industrial methane leaks all over the planet. Identifying where these leaks are coming from could help governments and industry coalitions work together to address the problem.

The satellite launch is planned for late 2020 or early 2021. Read more »

Photo

The Caribbean island was hit hard by the storm surge and high winds during last year’s destructive hurricane season, and in some parts of St. Barts, the damage is still evident.

But Les Voiles de Saint Barth, an annual sailing regatta created in 2010, will take place as scheduled this week.

St. Barts, at not quite 10 square miles, is too small to host nearly any major sports event. But sailing presents an opportunity to drive business to the island.

Jimmy Buffett, one of the ambassadors for Les Voiles, has also offered support. He sent private planes to help ferry supplies in the early days after the storm and gave a benefit concert at the island in December. Mr. Buffett plans to race aboard a friend’s boat during the regatta. Read more »

Photo

A little more than a decade ago, Paapa Essiedu, 27, had a grand total of one production to his name: a Christmas pageant when he was 8. Now he’s regarded as one of the brightest young stars in British theater.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His performance in “Hamlet,” in a production set somewhere that looks like contemporary West Africa, cemented his reputation. When he stepped onstage, Mr. Essiedu became the first actor of color to play the Danish prince at the Royal Shakespeare Company.

“It’s so important,” he said. “The way we live our lives is informed by what we see. And if stories of all kinds don’t appear, it’s like they don’t exist.”

“King Lear” — in which Mr. Essiedu plays the villainous Edmund — runs through April 29 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, and “Hamlet” arrives at the Kennedy Center in Washington on May 2. Read more »

Photo

New York has had its share of roller-coaster temperatures as winter gives way to spring, but you can still see plenty of beautiful blooms if you know where to look.

There’s the New York Botanical Garden’s 16th annual Orchid Show, and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden’s cherry trees. Macy’s shoppers also got a view of “Once Upon a Springtime,” the store’s 44th annual flower show.

New Yorkers, here’s a guide to the great places to get your flower fix. Read more »

Photo

Did you know Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are getting married? (Probably, yes.)

But have you wondered what Ms. Markle has to do in preparation for joining Britain’s royal family? Does Queen Elizabeth II need to give her permission? Is this wedding important, and should we even care?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

All these questions, and more, are answered in our guide to the big day (and also please enjoy the illustrations — you’ll see squirrels, birds, crumpets and a bunny in a fancy hat.)

And since spring is the start of wedding season, we’ve got a collection of stories of everyday love as well. Read more »

Our photo of the week

Photo

What would you like to see here? Email us at goodnews@nytimes.com. And you can enjoy more of this feature at nytimes.com/goodnews.1 of 11

A suspected chemical attack by pro-government forces in Syria last weekend increased tensions among world powers and threatens to escalate the country’s seven-year civil war.

In addition to the state news media, two of Syria’s allies have denied that chemical weapons were used. Russia is one. What is the other?The New York Times met and photographed dozens of the students abducted by Boko Haram. Now at a university, they say they are the lucky ones. But their celebrity has a price.

Four years later, more than a hundred of them have been freed.

Boko Haram dressed them in dark gowns and head coverings, broadcasting the images to the world the following month.

In April 2014, more than 200 girls were kidnapped from a school in Nigeria. The world responded: #BringBackOurGirls.

“But I’m thinking about my sisters who are still in the back,” in Boko Haram’s clutches, she said.

“I’m happy,” said Ms. Ntakai, who was No. 169 on the list. Now, she is a 20-year-old student who rises at dawn for Saturday yoga class and argues about the benefits and dangers of social media during debate night at the university.

But more than 100 of their former classmates are still missing, held by Boko Haram. About a dozen are thought to be dead.

The government negotiated for the release of many of the Chibok students, who were set free in groups over the last year and a half. A few others were found roaming the countryside, having escaped their captors.

Nearly four years after they were abducted and dragged off to a forest hide-out, more than 100 of the students from Chibok now live on a pristine university campus four hours from their homes here in northeastern Nigeria, their days filled with math and English classes, karaoke and selfies, and movie nights with popcorn.

“I’m ‘back,’ as they say,” said Hauwa Ntakai, one of the Chibok students.

And then, many of their names were joyfully crossed off the list.

For years, the teenagers remained missing, changing from girls into women, lost to a band of extremists known for beating, raping and enslaving its captives.

Far away in America, France, South Korea and elsewhere, public figures and celebrities joined the cause.

“As I began to read each name, my resolve strengthened,” said Oby Ezekwesili, a former education minister who led protests. “They were not just statistics. These were real human beings.”

Negotiators checked the names as they bartered with militants for the girls’ release. And the list became an inspiration for protesters hundreds of miles away in the capital, who kept marching for the girls’ return, day after day.

Soldiers used the list, too, as they combed the countryside for the missing students, marching through the forest, dispatching jets and enlisting the help of foreign militaries.

The list quickly circulated among the grieving parents searching for their daughters, some setting out on motorbikes to confront the Islamist militants who had stormed the school, loaded the girls into trucks and hauled them away at gunpoint.

It took Nigerian officials agonizing weeks to publish the names of all the students Boko Haram kidnapped from a boarding school in the village of Chibok four years ago, on the night of April 14. Once they did, the numbers were staggering.

Nigeria is in its ninth year of war with Boko Haram, a group that has killed and kidnapped thousands of civilians across northern Nigeria. In many respects, the Chibok students, as extraordinary as their plight has been, were just another set of its victims. Many of the young women now consider themselves the lucky ones.

Weeks before the Chibok kidnapping, a group of young boys were burned alive in their own school, a tragedy that failed to resonate around the world in the same way as the mass abduction of the schoolgirls.

The vast majority of Boko Haram’s victims will remain anonymous and unaccounted for, their names never broadcast across the globe. Many of their families will never even know what happened to them. The crimes committed against them occur in remote areas, far from the reach of cellphone networks, and often while the world’s attention is elsewhere.

But the Chibok girls had names. Saratu Ayuba. Ruth Amos. Comfort Habila. Esther Usman.

And from a few weeks after they were taken — when Boko Haram broadcast images of its somber-looking captives, covered from head to toe in long, dark gowns — they had faces.

96 Rahab Ibrahim After negotiating with the government, Boko Haram released 21 Chibok students in 2016. Ms. Ibrahim was one of them.

Teenage students from a village school suddenly became the unwitting representatives of all the dead and missing victims of a crisis that has upended a poor, remote corner of the globe.

They became the daughters of Nigeria, and more broadly daughters of the whole world, embraced and fretted over as though they belonged to everyone.

“When the Chibok abduction happened, it was the articulation of this whole saga,” said Saudatu Mahdi, a co-founder of the Bring Back Our Girls movement. “They became a rallying point.”

But the freed students from Chibok also bear the heavy burden of the celebrity that led to their release.

They are fortunate enough to attend a private university that educates the children of Nigerian politicians, businesspeople and other members of the elite.

But security restrictions on the Chibok students are especially tight. They are not allowed to leave campus without an escort. They can’t have visitors without special permission. And though some of the women gave birth during their captivity, their children are not allowed to stay with them at the university. Administrators say that would distract from their studies.

In fact, the young women have rarely seen their families since they were freed from Boko Haram. The longest period they have spent with their parents, siblings and other relatives since their abduction in 2014 was over Christmas break last year, when they went home for a couple of weeks. Other than that, they have been under close supervision by officials and educators.

As soon as they were released from Boko Haram, the women were whisked to Abuja, the capital, where they spent weeks in the government’s custody, questioned for information that could help find their still-missing classmates — and to satisfy officials that they had not grown loyal to Boko Haram.

Security agents warned the young women not to talk about their time with militants, arguing that it might jeopardize the safety of the students still held captive. Forget about the past and move forward, they were told.

106 Saratu Ayuba Last May, an additional 82 hostages were released. Ms. Ayuba was in that group.

For months, their access to their parents was severely restricted. They weren’t allowed to leave the bland government building that was their dormitory. Even today, their only regular connection to their families is by phone.

Last summer, officials at the American University of Nigeria traveled to Abuja to meet with the government. Back in 2014, the university, in the city of Yola, had taken in about 20 students from Chibok who had been kidnapped by Boko Haram but had managed to escape within hours.

Administrators pitched the government on a plan to take the newly freed women, too. The idea was to incorporate them into a program designed to help them catch up on their studies, reunite them with their former classmates who were already at the university and prepare them for college life.

Now the Chibok students’ lives are highly structured. With militants still at large in the country, they are considered high-profile targets. And as public figures, officials fear, they are vulnerable to exploitation.

“They will not be the normal people they were before they were abducted,” said Ms. Mahdi, secretary general of the Women’s Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative, an advocacy group for women and girls in Nigeria. “A lot of restrictions will come with their lifestyle.”

Officials at the university had no experience educating a large group of former hostages from a village school. But neither did anyone else.

“We’ll take them all and figure it out,” the university’s president, Dawn Dekle, an American, recalled thinking at the time. “They were traumatized as a group. Their healing has to be in a group.”

All but one of the newly freed students agreed to attend. She had already been married at the time she was kidnapped, so she went back to live on her farm near Chibok with her husband.

At the university, officials scrambled to prepare for the students, renovating a dormitory so they all could be housed together and finding classrooms to accommodate the extra pupils.

The assistant dean of student affairs became the women’s de facto principal. A therapist in the United States, who had counseled some of the early escapees from the kidnapping, was recruited to work as the students’ psychologist. A conference room was designated as a prayer room for the few women who are Muslim. And for the Christian students, the person in charge of the university’s recycling program, who also serves as a local pastor, leads Sunday services.

190 Deborah Andrawus While the women now live on a university campus, studying English and preparing for college, they are "free, but not really free."

Last September, more than 100 of the students arrived at the tidy campus, with its trimmed hedges, three-story library and solar-powered buildings. Not everyone was happy to welcome such a large group of women who had spent the past few years living with militants.

Some of the other students were scared that Boko Haram would come for the Chibok women again, especially at a university representing the sort of Western education that Boko Haram has long condemned.

Others worried that the women had grown attached to their captors and could be terrorists themselves. One student told officials that she feared waking up at night to discover one of the women holding a knife to her neck.

After arriving on campus, the women were escorted to the university cafeteria for their first meal. The group drew stares from the other students.

“I could tell they were not feeling comfortable,” said Reginald Braggs, a former United States Navy R.O.T.C. instructor who is in charge of the program for the Chibok students.

Rather than force integration, administrators decided to let the new arrivals eat most meals in their dorm.

All in their 20s now, the women are housed at the university, but in a program that sometimes seems designed for elementary students. Classrooms are decorated with pictures of Spider-Man and basic multiplication tables.

“Remember to flush the toilet and wash your hands,” reads a poster on the bulletin board.

For months, their tablets, all donated, were ordered turned off at night. Messages of positive thinking are plastered on every wall: Never give up. Believe in yourself. Shine like stars.

When some of the women were upset at messing up during spelling bees, administrators gave them the words to study ahead of time. Even their church service, during which the women seemed relaxed and joyful as they sang and danced on a recent Sunday morning, is watered down. Raymond Obindu, a charismatic speaker who bounces beside the pulpit and uses an equally ebullient interpreter, keeps his sermons for the women more uplifting than the ones he delivers to his local congregation.

“The Bible says you are fearfully and wonderfully made,” Mr. Obindu said during the service. “Everyone say, ‘I’m beautiful.’ ”

“I’m beautiful,” the room of women chanted.

He asked if anyone wanted to give thanks.Yet that total number of foreign nationals makes up less than 2 percent of Japan’s population of 127 million, a lower proportion than in South Korea, for example, where foreigners make up about 3.4 percent of the population. The share is much higher in the United States, at 14 percent, and it is close to 40 percent in Hong Kong, according to data from the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.

Obtaining Japanese citizenship is extremely difficult. Since 1952, just over 550,000 people have managed to naturalize as Japanese citizens, most of them ethnic Koreans whose families have lived in Japan for several generations since the colonial occupation of Korea.

Photo

And despite recent efforts to allow highly skilled foreigners to obtain permanent residency more quickly, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has declared that he will not relax immigration policy to address the country’s falling population.

Dr. Sacko says he believes Japan needs to allow in more outsiders, simply as an act of self-preservation.

“Japanese people think they have to protect something,” he said during an interview in English before a reception recently to celebrate his appointment. But, “someone who has a broad view from outside on your culture can maybe help you objectively improve your goals,” he said, occasionally interrupting the interview to greet his guests, switching effortlessly between English, French and Japanese.

Dr. Sacko, the eldest son of a customs officer and homemaker, grew up in Bamako, the capital city of Mali. A strong student, he won a scholarship from the Malian government to attend college abroad.

He had never been anywhere other than the neighboring country of Senegal. With 13 other students from Mali, he was assigned to study in China and landed in Beijing in 1985 to study Mandarin before embarking on a degree in engineering and architecture at Southeast University in Nanjing.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On a vacation to Japan after obtaining his undergraduate degree in 1990, Dr. Sacko found himself enchanted by what he observed as strong community ties and the hospitality toward guests. Although he had begun graduate studies in China, he was frustrated that a government minder always shadowed him when he conducted field research in local villages.

He had also met and started to date a Japanese woman, Chikako Tanaka, whom he later married and with whom he has two sons.

Dr. Sacko moved to Osaka, Japan, for six months of language lessons before enrolling in a master’s degree program at Kyoto University. In meetings with colleagues, he was often asked to take minutes, which helped him improve his listening comprehension and writing ability. At night, he watched Japanese television shows and socialized with Japanese classmates.

Photo

His dedication to becoming fluent distinguished him from other foreigners. “They said, ‘If you speak Japanese, they will put you in meetings and on committees and that’s not interesting,’ ” he said. Many foreigners, he added, “spend too much time among ourselves.”

Dr. Sacko said he had hoped to return to Mali someday, but after a military coup in 1991, his employment options were limited. As he pursued a doctorate in Japan, he worked to understand a culture where people can say the exact opposite of what they mean. “You don’t always catch things from the meanings of the words,” he said. “You have to go deeper.”

Along the way, there were some misunderstandings.

After hosting a few parties at his apartment, his neighbors remarked that he and his friends always seemed happy and that they were envious. Dr. Sacko urged them to join his next party.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Instead, they called the police.

“The police said, ‘You are too noisy,’ ” Dr. Sacko recalled. “And I said ‘But my neighbors like that!’ ”

He applied for a job at Kyoto Seika, which specializes in the arts, and started as a lecturer in 2001. Colleagues say that over the years he has worked very hard to adapt to Japanese social codes while also retaining his own sensibility.

“He deeply understands Japanese culture and the way of thinking,” said Emiko Yoshioka, a professor of art theory whom Dr. Sacko appointed as vice president at Kyoto Seika. “But he also is able to poke fun at the fact that he is a foreigner.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The faculty vote for president was extremely close, with Dr. Sacko winning by just one vote. At his inaugural reception, a group of musicians played Malian music on a patio, and Dr. Sacko stood quietly on a small stage during a parade of speeches from the mayor of Kyoto; the Malian ambassador to Japan; and various academic colleagues, including a professor from Kyoto University who repeatedly slipped up and called him “Professor Mali.”

Ryo Ishida, chairman of Kyoto Seika’s board, noted that the university had recently started a campaign to embrace diversity.

Photo

“But I don’t think his election was much to do with the university’s promotion of diversity,” Mr. Ishida said. “He was elected as the best leader of the university among his colleagues.”

In a practical sense, Dr. Sacko’s appointment could help Kyoto Seika appeal to more foreign students at a time when many universities across Japan are struggling to maintain enrollment.

Already, 20 percent of its student body comes from abroad, much higher than the 4 percent overall ratio of foreign students in Japanese higher education. Dr. Sacko said he hoped to raise Kyoto Seika’s level to 40 percent within a decade.

“I think he will help shrink the distance between Japanese and foreigners,” said Chihiro Morita, 18, an illustration major from Hyogo Prefecture.

Other black residents of Japan said that Dr. Sacko could help improve race relations in a country where performers still appear on television in blackface.

“The fact that he has been placed in such a prominent position will have a significant impact on how we’re perceived,” said Baye McNeil, a Brooklyn-born black columnist for the English-language Japan Times who has lived in Japan for 13 years.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dr. Sacko said he had not experienced racism in Japan but said he was treated differently simply because he does not look Japanese. Despite his Japanese citizenship, for example, he says he is automatically routed to lines for foreigners at the airport when he returns from trips abroad. “It’s not because you’re black,” he said. “It’s because you’re different.”

He said he considered it his mission to foster differences beyond race. When recruiting Ms. Yoshioka as vice president, he told her he wanted her for the job because she was a woman and a single mother.

“If we don’t have a person like you in the top administration of the university, the board will just be filled with men,” he told her when she first hesitated to take the job. “And that doesn’t fit my vision.”The record-setting $35.5 million capitalization — the amount raised from producers and investors to pay an unusually large cast and crew, rehearse an unusually long show and build an unusually elaborate production — was disclosed in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. By comparison, most nonmusical plays on Broadway are between $3 million and $5 million, and even the splashiest musicals rarely top more than $25 million.

But the capitalization is only a portion of what it took to pave the way for “Cursed Child” to get to Broadway.

The Ambassador Theater Group, the British theater giant that operates the Lyric, spent about $23 million to persuade its previous occupant, Cirque du Soleil, to shutter its “Paramour” musical and make way for “Cursed Child,” according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.

Photo

Ambassador, which competed with other Broadway landlords to woo “Cursed Child,” overhauled the Lyric at the behest of the play’s producers. A charmless barn of a theater (previously home to a series of flops, including the $75 million musical “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark”), it was reconfigured to feel more like an old-fashioned opera house, with a vaulted ceiling, a necklace of boxes, and 1,622 seats (down from 1,896). Even the entrance was relocated, from crowded 42nd Street to the less dense 43rd Street.

The work on the building was expected to cost about $10 million, according to documents filed with the New York City Department of Buildings.

The play, a two-part experience with a running time of more than five hours, is a sequel to the series of young adult fantasy novels written by J.K. Rowling about a boy wizard. “Cursed Child” takes place 19 years after the final book, at a time when Harry and his friends have become parents.

“Cursed Child” was written by Jack Thorne, based on a story by Mr. Thorne, Ms. Rowling and the director John Tiffany. It was developed in Britain and has been sold out in London’s West End for 22 months, and last year it won a record nine Olivier awards — the British equivalent of the Tonys — including one for best play. A third production, in Melbourne, Australia, is scheduled to open next year.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In response to questions about the show’s finances, two of the lead producers, Sonia Friedman and Colin Callender, offered a tour of the renovated theater. Strolling through the theater, they showed off phoenix sconces and dragon lanterns and a lobby wall featuring prints of patronuses (silvery animal guardians).

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The color scheme is rich and dark — most of the walls are painted a color called raven plume — and a custom carpet features H monograms (for Hogwarts, Harry’s alma mater). The newly adorned exterior features giant wings and large sculptures of a child (symbol alert!) trapped in a nest.

“We wanted to create a mood, without crossing a line into theme park,” Mr. Callender said. Ms. Friedman added, “It was really important to us that the lobbies and the front-of-house had the atmosphere of the Harry Potter world, because this is the beginning of the audience’s experience.”

Ms. Friedman, who has been vocal about the high cost of working on Broadway, said that the play has cost significantly more to mount in New York than in London. Labor, marketing and theater rentals all tend to cost more in New York.

Photo

“I find the costs here difficult to comprehend,” Ms. Friedman said. “It’s a number I do not like.”

But she also said that particular aspects of “Cursed Child” make it expensive. A play in two parts required twice as much time to rehearse; the show’s elaborate illusions required significant substage mechanics and extra training. It took 16 weeks just to load the show’s set elements into the theater.

Investment documents filed with the New York attorney general’s office offer a rough breakdown of the capitalization, including $11.7 million for the physical production, $7.8 million for “general and administrative” costs, including the design and signage of the facade, $3.4 million for advertising and publicity and $3.2 million for salaries.

That money goes to pay a cast and crew that is much bigger than for most plays. According to Ms. Friedman and Mr. Callender, a shop crew of 220 people was assembled to build and install the scenery and lighting and costumes. The show has 40 actors, a stage crew of 26, some 16 people assigned to wardrobe and hair and 5 stage managers.

“It’s very obvious where the money went — the whole theater has been transformed to fit the show, and the level of technical expertise is like nothing I’ve ever seen on Broadway,” said Jonathon Rosenthal, a 38-year-old I.T. consultant from the Bronx who runs a Harry Potter meet-up group and who saw the play on Broadway earlier this month. “It looks like there is magic going on on the stage.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Broadway production is already largely sold out through next March, although there are periodic releases of more tickets, including some low-priced ones every Friday. Each part of the show had a recent average ticket price of $164.83 and a top price of $286.50; 300 seats per performance cost $40 or less. The two parts can be seen on the same day or consecutive days.

Among the biggest beneficiaries will be Ms. Rowling. The investment papers do not detail her compensation, but say that the “underlying rights owner, licensor and their affiliates” — a group that includes Ms. Rowling — will initially receive 31 percent of the play’s net profits, and that cut will eventually rise to 41 percent as the show moves deeper into profitability. Ms. Rowling can profit from the play in other ways as well; she is the third lead producer, through her company Harry Potter Theatrical Productions.

Her deal appears to be more lucrative than the ones negotiated by other prose writers whose work was the basis of a Broadway show. Harper Lee, before her death, signed an agreement giving her 2.5 percent of the net profits, plus an author royalty, for a coming stage adaptation of “To Kill a Mockingbird” (that money will now go to her estate), while Ron Chernow, the author of a biography of Alexander Hamilton, gets 1 percent of the adjusted grosses from “Hamilton.”

The comparisons, however, are imperfect. Fiction writers generally get a bigger share of profits than do writers of nonfiction, since the novelists actually dream up their characters. And, unlike “Mockingbird,” “Cursed Child” is not adapted from a novel — it is a new story, created for the stage.It played out much the same way last year for Joseph Ponte, the beleaguered commissioner of the city’s jails who was caught inappropriately using his city car for frequent trips to his home in Maine; and, in late 2015, for Gilbert Taylor, whose tenure as head of homeless services ended with a ballooning number of homeless on the street and City Hall finding him a job as a “special adviser” and then as a family court judge.

“He has done extraordinary work,” Mr. de Blasio said at the time of Mr. Taylor. “He made a choice. I respect his choice. I support his choice.”

The mayor presented Mr. Ponte’s departure as a retirement, a decision made by the then-70-year-old for purely personal reasons. That it came after weeks of unflattering headlines was a coincidence, Mr. de Blasio insisted.

“Commissioner Ponte had gotten to a point after years of service to the city and many, many years before that elsewhere, that it was time for him to retire,” the mayor told reporters. The cars had nothing to do with it, he said.

Similarly, Mr. de Blasio said the deaths of two children in close succession, both beaten at home, did not precipitate the departure of the children’s services commissioner, Gladys Carrión, in late 2016.

“I think for Gladys — just a life of this very grueling, tough work, really — it became a point where she just felt exhausted, and she felt she had done all she could do, and that she needed to retire,” the mayor said at the time.

Elected officials have long been reluctant to air the back-room grievances and failures that lead a subordinate to be pushed out of a public job, in part because highlighting such shortcomings could reflect poorly on the person at the top.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. de Blasio, when he was first running for mayor in 2013, was asked by The New York Times what it would take to get fired from a de Blasio administration.

“Well, I fired plenty of people in my day,” he said. “I don’t relish it, but I’ve done it all the time. Where I’ve had to let people go is if they are not vigorous enough, if they’re not productive enough, if they’re not following through on instructions.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But as mayor, he has never made such reasons public when bidding adieu to a subordinate. A person with direct knowledge of the mayor’s approach to personnel decisions said that Mr. de Blasio believes that it makes him look better — politically and as a manager — to praise and defend departing employees publicly even as he or she is being booted.

“There are times when people are fired, and there’s times when people make a choice to leave,” the mayor said on Thursday when asked about his approach during an unrelated news conference in Brooklyn.

“I don’t like to parade out there if I got to the point that someone was fired,” Mr. de Blasio added. “I just want the outcome. If someone is not working out, and I want them out, we find a way.”

There are other factors as well, including whether admitting to firing someone would be taken as evidence of a bad management decision in their hiring.

Mr. de Blasio has also put a premium on diversity in hiring — and he may fear, said a person familiar with the mayor’s thinking, that publicly firing a woman or a prominent African-American or Latino official like Ms. Olatoye, Mr. Taylor or Ms. Carrión, could alienate some voters.

Several top officials have been given interim jobs to ease their exit.

The commissioner of the Mayor’s Office to Combat Domestic Violence, Rosemonde Pierre-Louis, was shunted aside in October 2015 and made a senior adviser on gender equity, as the mayor called her “a tireless advocate for victims and survivors of domestic violence.”

Stacey Cumberbatch, the commissioner of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, told co-workers that she had been abruptly pushed out; she nonetheless landed a job, for the same salary, as an assistant vice president of NYC Health & Hospitals. According to her LinkedIn page, she stayed on that job just four months.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s almost as if you would like there to be firings,” Mr. de Blasio said when asked on Thursday specifically who in his administration he had fired. The mayor and his staff declined to name anyone.

Cynthia Lopez, the head of the mayor’s office of media and entertainment, was pushed out in 2015 after a little more than a year on the job. The number of television pilots filmed in the city had fallen and she was criticized for not networking well with the industry. Peter Wertheim, the chief of staff for deputy mayor Alicia Glen, was sent to tell Ms. Lopez that she was failing at her job, according to two people informed of the issue at the time. In August 2015, she was fired.

Yet Mr. de Blasio praised her in a statement: “I want to thank Cynthia for her incredible passion and focus,” he said.

Perhaps the one time that Mr. de Blasio came closest to using the f-word — fired, that is — in public was in discussing a senior member of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, Ricardo Morales, who was fired in 2017. Mr. Morales cooperated with federal investigators looking into how the mayor did favors for campaign donors, and he was fired on the same day that Mr. de Blasio was interviewed by F.B.I. agents working on that probe.

“I think there was a performance issue and there was a desire to change the way the agency was structured,” Mr. de Blasio said of Mr. Morales, who is suing the city over his firing. “But again, I can’t speak to the details because I wasn’t involved.”“They’re coming,” Christina Blaustein said to her 4-year-old son, Reife, who was practically jumping out of his white beekeeper’s suit just after dawn Friday in Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan.

Reife pulled off his mesh hood and ran to meet a box truck bearing a mural on its side of animated bees buzzing in front of the New York City skyline.

The truck’s back door opened to reveal its cargo: 3 million Italian honeybees.

They did not seem that happy after having endured a 15-hour drive up from Georgia, but Reife was delighted, as he examined the hundreds of wood-and-screen boxes, each one holding more than 10,000 bees.

He picked out two boxes. His mother paid the bee man $150 apiece for them and drove them off to Long Island, where the family keeps hives.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They were among roughly 150 beekeepers who flocked to Bryant Park for the bee delivery, to replenish hives across the city and the region: on building rooftops, in small urban backyards and sometimes even indoors.By the time I met Val, I was deep into my habits: acute hypochondria, perseverating in private, both unwilling to articulate my worst anxieties to anyone and perfectly willing to entertain all of them. We met at a time of mutual vulnerability, both of us unknowingly dating the same woman who seemed to take great pleasure in exploiting our trust and undermining our sanity.

When we came together a few years after that — both free of her, road tripping across the Southwest, kissing sweetly on a friend’s fold-out couch in New Mexico — the philosophy that had governed my entire relationship history evaporated. How could it not? Val was lovely, funny, brilliant — the tenderest, kindest person I’d ever met.

When Val is anxious, she wears it on her face; she needs to talk about it, she cries. As for me, my adrenaline skyrockets and I begin to imagine the many ways death can come to me (liver cancer, aneurysm, stray bullet). Eventually, I shut down mentally and physically, as though the terrible outcomes are predators that can only see me if I move.

We are terrified of mostly opposite things. I am anxious about: insects, germs, disease and mortal injury and death, messy rooms, being late, not honoring my commitments. She is anxious about: rodents, money, her writing, her job, social interactions, conflict, people secretly hating her. There is some overlap between our fears: not being believed, being believed to be crazy, being crazy, the fear that one of us is 10 seconds from leaving the other.

Because of our mutual ex-girlfriend, the process of learning to trust each other was slow and deliberate. “You don’t need to keep me accountable of your whereabouts 24 hours a day,” Val would say to me after I came home late wielding evidence of the train slowdown that had caused my delay, frantic that she’d think I was cheating on her. “If I was angry, I’d tell you,” I’d promise her when she worried that I was squirreling away my rage until it exploded.

The first apartment we rented in Philadelphia abutted a restaurant’s back alley and was blessed with cockroaches and mice. The roaches agitated me; I hated their spindly legs and their constantly probing antennae, the way they darted and the sheer quantity and speed of them. Val became an expert at recognizing my whimper and dashing into the room with her sneaker aloft. But she was pathologically terrified of mice, who were fewer in number but larger and harder to kill and bolder the longer we lived there. She feared they’d run over her feet, and more than once dashed to a chair like a woman in an old cartoon lifting her skirts in terror. I became the de facto exterminator, chasing, catching and disposing of their bodies.

When we began wedding planning, we also performed our anxiety on opposite schedules: When picking a venue and buying our dresses, she fretted while I achieved absolute, meditative calm; when the date neared, she seemed suddenly relaxed. “Whatever happens at the end of the day, we’ll be married!” she reminded me as I sat hunched over a table in my pajamas, three days unshowered, hot-gluing centerpieces and nursing burns on my fingers and yelling about “Kitchen Nightmares” (“This show is entirely about toxic masculinity, and also if I ever suggest we open a restaurant please just divorce me”).

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Back when we first moved in together, I worked a terrible retail job; when I got my first check, I stared at it with utter disbelief. I’d been on my feet for two weeks straight, commuting an hour each way. I was exhausted and barely functioning, and the check barely covered my student loans, much less rent or food or anything else. When she got home from work, I was staring at the wall in our bedroom. “I am useless,” I told her. “Look at this paycheck. I can’t make my half of the rent. I can’t do anything. I’m the absolute worst. Why are you dating me? I’m such a child.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She covered me in a blanket, rubbed the inside of my wrist, brought me seltzer. “I believe in you,” she said. “I believe in your writing. You are more than your paycheck at this moment. I’m in this for a long haul, and if you are too, then we will make this work.”

I’d be in denial if I didn’t acknowledge the joke of our situation, the simultaneous stereotypes of the emotionally volatile artists and the continuously processing lesbians. But we’ve turned these heightened emotional states into engines for our writing and our marriage, a shorthand for the kind of give-and-take that makes relationships work.

We do a lot of sort-of-joking-but-not-really talking about the end times. Blame it on climate change (her anxiety), too many post-apocalyptic movies and video games (mine), and a healthy dose of terror about nuclear annihilation and antibiotic-resistant pathogens (both of ours).

Val laments: “I’m useless, I can’t hunt animals or anything. I have no practical skills of any kind. If the world goes to hell, I’d be dead weight.”

“You wouldn’t be able to be a vegetarian anymore,” I say.

“I know! I’d eat meat. But I can’t start a fire or build a shelter or ——”

“I’m here. I’ll teach you what I know.”

There probably won’t be Zoloft after civilization crumbles. And if the post-apocalyptic cockroaches are the size of mice — or larger! — then what will we do? Learn to throw knives with uncanny accuracy? Run? Until the waters rise, the government collapses and society falls apart, we do what we need to: deep breathing, weekly therapy and the hard, slow work of love.Quickly, Americans shifted from a discussion of policy to a symbolic battle over which side, Democratic or Republican, wasn’t respecting soldiers enough. Had the president disrespected the troops with his comment? Had Democrats disrespected the troops by trying to use a condolence call for political leverage? Someone clearly had run afoul of an odd form of political correctness, “patriotic correctness.”

Since, as recent history has shown us, violating the rules of patriotic correctness is a far worse sin in the eyes of the American public than sending soldiers to die uselessly, the political battle became intense, and the White House was forced to respond. And since in a symbolic debate of this kind nothing is better than an old soldier, the retired Marine general and current chief of staff, John Kelly, was trotted out in an Oct. 19 news conference to defend the president.

He began powerfully enough, describing what happens to the bodies of soldiers killed overseas, and bringing up his own still painful memories of the loss of his son, who died in Afghanistan in 2010. He spoke with pride of the men and women in uniform.

But then, in an all too common move, he transitioned to expressing contempt for the civilian world. He complained that nothing seemed to be sacred in America anymore, not women, not religion, not even “the dignity of life.” He told the audience that service members volunteer even though “there’s nothing in our country anymore that seems to suggest that selfless service to the nation is not only appropriate, but required.” He said veterans feel “a little bit sorry” for civilians who don’t know the joys of service.

To cap things off, he took questions only from reporters who knew families who had lost loved ones overseas. The rest of the journalists, and by extension the rest of the American public who don’t know any Gold Star families, were effectively told they had no place in the debate.

Such disdain for those who haven’t served and yet dare to have opinions about military matters is nothing new for Mr. Kelly. In a 2010 speech after the death of his son, Mr. Kelly improbably claimed that we were winning in Afghanistan, but that “you wouldn’t know it because successes go unreported” by members of the “‘know it all’ chattering class” who “always seem to know better, but have never themselves been in the arena.” And he argued that to oppose the war, which our current secretary of defense last year testified to Congress we were not winning, meant “slighting our warriors and mocking their commitment to the nation.”

This is a common attitude among a significant faction of veterans. As one former member of the Special Forces put it in a social media post responding to the liberal outcry over the deaths in Niger, “We did what we did so that you can be free to naïvely judge us, complain about the manner in which we kept you safe” and “just all around live your worthless sponge lives.” His commentary, which was liked and shared thousands of times, is just a more embittered form of the sentiment I indulged in as a young lieutenant in Iraq.President Trump has sometimes seemed to view military action as a game and foreign policy as something set by online taunts. He seemed to think that as commander in chief he could simply follow his whims.

So it was reassuring that his military response to a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens of people in the rebel-held Damascus suburb of Douma on April 7 was coordinated with Britain and France. In his address to the nation Friday night, he said that preventing the use of chemical weapons was in the “vital national security interest of the United States.”

Earlier this week we got his usual bluster. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart,’” the president said on Twitter on Wednesday, in his best movie tough-guy impersonation, after a Russian diplomat warned that his nation’s forces would shoot down any missile fired at their ally Syria. On Friday night his message to the Syrian regime’s two main defenders, Russia and Iran, was more measured. “What kind of a nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of innocent men, women and children?” he asked. “The nations of the world can be judged by the friends they keep.”

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while this was a “one-off” attack, like the airstrike against Syria a year ago, the targets were involved in the production and storage of chemical agents, not just an airfield. He warned of further attacks if Syria used chemical weapons again.This article has been updated to reflect news developments.

President Trump’s announcement Friday night that the United States, France and Britain had launched airstrikes against Syria in response to a chemical weapons attack might have surprised the people who listened to him campaigning in 2016, when he repeatedly critiqued “stupid” Middle Eastern interventions.

Yet since entering office, Mr. Trump has reversed course. He evidently shares the assumption that America must do something in response to atrocities in Syria — a wholehearted embrace of the Washington bias toward action.

In this, Mr. Trump and his predecessor have something in common: Both he and Barack Obama came into office promising to change America’s foreign policy, but when faced with crises, both yielded to pressure to intervene. This bias toward action is one of the biggest problems in American foreign policy. It produces poorly thought-out interventions and, sometimes, disastrous long-term consequences, effects likely to be magnified in the era of Mr. Trump.

The concept of a bias for action originated in the business world, but psychological studies have shown a broad human tendency toward action over inaction. Researchers have found that World Cup goalkeepers, for example, are more likely to dive during a penalty kick, though they’d have a better chance of catching the ball by remaining in the center of the goal.To the Editor:

Re “Trump Launches Strikes on Syrian Targets” (front page, April 14):

As the Syria tragedy continues to unfold, one bizarre fact is obvious: There are no consistently rational actors on either side. Why would Syria use, and Russia condone, chemical attacks when Syria is already beating the insurgency? Why would the United States, France and Britain launch a strike so circumscribed that it is unlikely to accomplish anything but risk further engagement with Russia?

The only explanations for Syria’s action (but by no means an excuse) might be loss of patience and the desire to limit further damage to infrastructure. There is no explanation for the Western response other than continued prosecution of a feckless strategy that has left real estate stretching from Libya east all the way to Pakistan a boiling cauldron.

Much of the Middle East and South Asia has never manifested tendencies toward either benevolent despotism or functioning democracy. But the scale of violence, however regrettable, was nowhere near today’s. There were flimsy, but functioning, international checks and balances. Our interference, beginning with failure in Afghanistan right from the outset, has reflected our total lack of understanding of regional dynamics, and has been instrumental in creating a multi-regional catastrophe.

The solution, once and for all, is to get out. We no longer have the moral or military capability to fix matters, especially since the American electorate is fed up with our foreign policy incompetence.To adapt the old phrase to today’s G.O.P.: The ships are leaving the sinking rat.

That’s the moral of Paul Ryan’s unexpected but not surprising announcement this week that he will give up the speakership — the second Republican speaker to do so in just three years — and retire after 20 years in the House. The Wisconsin congressman pleaded a desire to spend more time raising his children. This, presumably, after he’d abandoned hope of raising the child in the White House.

Ryan’s departure comes atop the three dozen and counting House Republicans who’ve decided they have better things to do in life than either lose their seats in November or spend the next few years in the likely minority, carping about Nancy Pelosi and trying to stop the president’s impeachment.

Many of these Republicans once believed that Donald Trump alone possessed the kind of political virility needed to vanquish Hillary Clinton and make America great again. Only belatedly have they figured out that the virility comes with a case of syphilis.

“There’s a lot of weariness and a lot of exhaustion, frankly,” Charlie Dent, one of the retiring Republicans, told CNN this week. “The litmus test for being a Republican these days is not about any given set of ideals or principles; it’s about loyalty to the man, and I think that’s challenging.”A liberal can believe that government can do more good or less, and one can debate how much to conserve. But progressivism is inherently hostile to moderation because progress is an unmitigated good. There cannot be too much of it. Like conservative fundamentalism, progressivism contributes to the polarization and paralysis of government because it makes compromise, which entails accepting less progress, not merely inadvisable but irrational. Even when progressives choose their targets strategically — Hillary Clinton, for example, called herself “a progressive who likes to get things done” — the implication is that progress is the fundamental goal and that its opponents are atavists.

Unlike liberalism, progressivism is intrinsically opposed to conservation. It renders adhering to tradition unreasonable rather than seeing it, as the liberal can, as a source of wisdom. The British philosopher Roger Scruton calls this a “culture of repudiation” of home and history alike. The critic of progress is not merely wrong but a fool. Progressivism’s critics have long experienced this as a passive-aggressive form of re-education.

Because progress is an unadulterated good, it supersedes the rights of its opponents. This is evident in progressive indifference to the rights of those who oppose progressive policies in areas like sexual liberation.

This is one reason progressives have alienated moderate voters who turned to Donald Trump in 2016. The ideology of progress tends to regard the traditions that have customarily bound communities and which mattered to Trump voters alarmed by the rapid transformation of society, as a fatuous rejection of progress. Trump supporters’ denunciation of “political correctness” is just as often a reaction to progressive condescension as it is to identity politics.

Where liberalism seeks to ameliorate economic ills, progressivism’s goal is to eradicate them. Moynihan recognized this difference between Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal, which he always supported — as exemplified by his opposition to Clinton-era welfare reform — and Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society, which he sympathetically criticized. The New Deal alleviated poverty by cutting checks, something government does competently even if liberals and conservatives argued over the size of the checks. The Great Society partook more of a progressive effort to remake society by eradicating poverty’s causes. The result, Moynihan wrote, was the diversion of resources from welfare and jobs to “community action” programs that financed political activism.Mr. Manafort was indicted in October for hiding that he was working for a Russian-backed Ukrainian party while lobbying in the United States; charges against him could put him away for the rest of his life. F.B.I. agents raided the home and offices of Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer Michael Cohen this week; according to the Department of Justice, he is under criminal investigation by the Southern District of New York, and he may face charges of bank and wire fraud for paying hush money to prevent news of past sexual affairs from becoming public during the election. By pardoning Mr. Libby, Mr. Trump sends a message to those who might incriminate him in crimes related to conspiring with Russians to tamper with the election: The message is that he will rectify any sadness that protecting a president might cause.

The thing is, Mr. Trump is unlikely to be able to use his pardon power to get out of his legal jam. That’s because several of his potential firewalls — Mr. Manafort, Mr. Cohen and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner — could be charged at the state level for the financial crimes they’re suspected of. A federal pardon would simply move their prosecution beyond Mr. Trump’s control.

And there are many more people who can incriminate the president, whereas in the investigation into Ms. Plame’s exposure, Mr. Libby was one of the only people who could say whether the president had authorized the leak of a C.I.A. officer’s identity. Already, three key witnesses have agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller against the president, so it’s probably too late to start silencing witnesses.

Finally, neither Mr. Trump nor his thoroughly outmatched legal team knows the full exposure he or potential witnesses face. Given the involvement of Russians trying to undermine the United States, the evidence Mr. Mueller may already have collected could well be even uglier than deliberately burning a C.I.A. spy for political gain.

That makes it a lot harder to pull off what George Bush did — protect his firewall.

Finally, Mr. Trump is running out of time. As NBC reported this week, Mr. Mueller is already preparing the first of two reports to Congress. This one will lay out the ways the president has already obstructed his investigation into election tampering. It will reportedly include the discussion of pardons with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, Mike Flynn (who pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate in November). In other words, within weeks Mr. Mueller will inform Congress that President Trump has been offering pardons specifically to undercut the investigation into his actions.

Mr. Trump’s pardon of Mr. Libby makes it crystal clear that he thinks even the crime of making the country less safe can be excused if done in the service of protecting the president. But it doesn’t mean the pardon will protect him.Mr. Jaquette is an assistant professor at U.C.L.A. Ms. Salazar is a doctoral candidate at the University of Arizona.

Mr. Jaquette is an assistant professor at U.C.L.A. Ms. Salazar is a doctoral candidate at the University of Arizona.

Colleges like to tout their commitment to diversity, but the way they recruit students tells a different story.



For example, the typical high school visited by Connecticut College during recruitment events was richer and whiter than the typical high school they didn’t visit. An analysis of 41 other colleges and universities shows a similar trend: high schools that were visited for recruiting events tended to be whiter and wealthier than schools that were not visited.

The findings come from newly collected data on high school recruitment visits, when colleges send representatives across the country to court potential students. We gathered data on these visits throughout 2017 for 150 colleges and universities. (The data does not include other forms of recruitment like brochures, emails and visits not posted online. It also cannot account for instances where a high school may lack the capacity to host recruitment events.)

Knowing which high schools receive recruiting visits is important because debates about access to higher education often focus on students’ abilities but ignore how colleges identify and prioritize prospects.

A study by Meagan Holland at the University at Buffalo found recruitment visits aren’t merely an indicator of each college’s priorities; they also influence where students — and particularly first-generation students — apply and enroll. The study found that many smart kids from less affluent backgrounds are sensitive to “feeling wanted,” often attending colleges that took the time to visit.

High Schools Receiving Visits Were in Wealthier Neighborhoods

Median neighborhood income for ... Typical skipped high school Typical visited high school Stony Brook U. $68.5k $110.8k Rutgers U.–New Brunswick $67.0k $117.6k U. of Massachusetts–Amherst $66.3k $109.8k North Carolina State U.–Raleigh $65.8k $73.9k U. of California–Irvine $64.8k $73.4k U. of Kansas $63.9k $87.3k U. of Pittsburgh–Pitts. Campus $63.4k $103.9k U. of South Carolina–Columbia $63.1k $95.7k U. of Georgia $63.0k $87.8k U. of Colorado Boulder $62.7k $105.6k U. of Cincinnati–Main Campus $62.6k $95.0k U. of California–Berkeley $62.6k $94.3k U. of Nebraska–Lincoln $61.2k $77.6k U. of Alabama $59.7k $88.2k U. of Arkansas $59.1k $76.6k Southern Illinois U.–Carbondale $55.9k $68.4k Median neighborhood income for the typical high school that was ... Skipped Visited $110.8k Stony Brook U. $68.5k Rutgers U.– New Brunswick $117.6k $67.0k U. of Mass.– Amherst $109.8k $66.3k North Carolina State U.–Raleigh $73.9k $65.8k U. of California– Irvine $73.4k $64.8k $87.3k U. of Kansas $63.9k U. of Pittsburgh– Pitts. Campus $103.9k $63.4k U.S.C.– Columbia $95.7k $63.1k $87.8k U. of Georgia $63.0k U. of Colorado Boulder $105.6k $62.7k U. of Cincinnati– Main Campus $95.0k $62.6k U. of California– Berkeley $94.3k $62.6k U. of Nebraska– Lincoln $77.6k $61.2k $88.2k U. of Alabama $59.7k $76.6k U. of Arkansas $59.1k Southern Illinois U.–Carbondale $68.4k $55.9k

The clearest finding from our study is that public high schools in more affluent neighborhoods receive more visits than those in less affluent areas.

Only about a third of households across the country earn more than $100,000 annually, but nearly half of high schools receiving visits by private colleges and universities were in neighborhoods where average incomes were higher. Connecticut College visited neighborhoods with an average median household income of $121,578. Private colleges also disproportionately visited private high schools over public high schools.

Andy Strickler, dean of admissions at Connecticut College, said the school targets high schools that have historically provided students, or other schools that have a similar profile.

He said there was a good reason Connecticut College doesn’t always visit other areas: “There’s a trend for these students to stay closer to home for college.”

While public research universities visited rich and poor neighborhoods nearly equally when recruiting in their home states, they visited the same affluent high schools targeted by private colleges when recruiting elsewhere. Most public colleges also visited far more high schools out of state than in-state. The median income of areas where the University of Pittsburgh recruited out of state, for example, was $114,000, compared with $63,000 for areas that were not visited.

Average median income for the typical visited high school ... In-State Out-of-State Rutgers U.–New Brunswick $112.6k $119.6k Stony Brook U. $104.9k $114.9k U. of Massachusetts–Amherst $95.8k $116.4k U. of California–Berkeley $86.3k $104.5k U. of Pittsburgh–Pitts. Campus $79.1k $114.7k U. of Colorado Boulder $75.0k $115.0k U. of California–Irvine $68.6k $90.1k Southern Illinois U.–Carbondale $68.1k $69.8k U. of Kansas $66.6k $96.0k U. of Cincinnati–Main Campus $64.4k $106.0k U. of Nebraska–Lincoln $63.2k $85.1k U. of Georgia $63.0k $103.2k U. of Alabama $54.7k $90.4k U. of South Carolina–Columbia $53.2k $104.4k North Carolina State U.–Raleigh $52.0k $122.9k U. of Arkansas $46.9k $87.4k Average median income for the typical visited high school ... In-State Out-of-State Rutgers U.– New Brunswick $112.6k $119.6k $104.9k $114.9k Stony Brook U. U. of Mass.– Amherst $95.8k $116.4k U. of California– Berkeley $86.3k $104.5k U. of Pittsburgh– Pitts. Campus $79.1k $114.7k U. of Colorado Boulder $75.0k $115.0k U. of California– Irvine $68.6k $90.1k Southern Illinois U.–Carbondale $68.1k $69.8k U. of Kansas $66.6k $96.0k U. of Cincinnati– Main Campus $64.4k $106.0k U. of Nebraska– Lincoln $63.2k $85.1k U. of Georgia $63.0k $103.2k U. of Alabama $54.7k $90.4k U.S.C.– Columbia $53.2k $104.4k North Carolina State U.–Raleigh $52.0k $122.9k U. of Arkansas $46.9k $87.4k

The attention public universities lavish on wealthy out-of-state schools is a response to state policy. Over the past decade, many states have cut funding for higher education, forcing public universities to become more dependent on tuition revenue. Research shows that public universities responded by enrolling more out-of-state students, who often pay two to three times more than state residents. And of course, only well-off students can afford that.

When Boulder visited the Chicago metro area, it did not tend to visit schools like East Chicago High School, where only 2 percent of students are white. Joshua Lott for The New York Times

Some people argue that poor students and students of color are less likely to attend college because they have lower grades or standardized test scores. But we found that colleges and universities tended to avoid visiting schools in poor areas even when those schools had a large number of students who had performed well on tests.

For example, when the University of Colorado Boulder visited public high schools in the Boston metropolitan area, it focused on schools in wealthy communities but skipped many poorer schools that had higher numbers of students scoring proficient in math.

In their out-of-state visits, our data also suggest, public universities were more likely to visit predominantly white public high schools than nonwhite schools with similar levels of academic achievement. For example, the University of Colorado Boulder visited Dover-Sherborn Regional High School, which is 88 percent white and has about 154 students with proficient math scores, according to the federal Department of Education. But it did not visit Brockton High School, where just 21 percent of students are white but about 622 students have proficient math scores.

“In order to be good stewards of our funding, we consistently recruit at schools that have historically given us applications,” said Colleen Newman, admissions director at Boulder. “Given our limited funding, we are unable to expand our traditional recruitment efforts to all regions and all high schools that have academically talented students.”

Recruitment Is Big Business

A recruiter for the University of Alabama speaks to prospective students at a college fair run by the National Association for College Admission Counseling, at Suffolk County Community College on Long Island. Michael Nagle for The New York Times

Colleges don’t treat recruitment lightly. It’s big business for colleges and the firms they hire. Most colleges identify prospects by purchasing lists of students and their backgrounds from the testing agencies College Board and ACT. They can also hire enrollment management consulting firms, which integrate data from the university with data on schools and communities. This helps them decide which schools should be visited and which should be targeted with emails and brochures. One consulting firm we spoke with even knows information about individual students such as their family income and net worth, and the value of their home.

If colleges have all this data, why aren’t they better at targeting talented poor students and students of color?

The most common explanation is that there aren’t enough of them applying (the so-called achievement gap). Another explanation we hear is that talented students don’t apply because they don’t have the right guidance (called “under-matching”). These explanations assume that doubling the number of high-achieving students who apply would automatically double enrollment. But this treats universities as though they are passively receiving applications, when they are actually actively seeking and encouraging certain applicants over others. Our data suggests universities are determined to court wealthier students over others, and they expend substantial resources identifying and reaching them.

There are many students from poor communities who get excellent grades but end up going to a community college because no one bothers looking for them. If colleges are serious about increasing socioeconomic and racial diversity, they should look for merit everywhere, not just in wealthy, white communities.

Ozan Jaquette is an assistant professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies. Karina Salazar is a doctoral candidate at the Center for the Study of Higher Education at the University of Arizona.I asked some parents in a couple of my Facebook groups for their thoughts about what the social network means to them, particularly with the latest news and the calls to delete it. Here’s some of what I heard:

“This group makes me feel less alone.”

“I felt rescued by a connection made here.”

“I did delete Facebook and found myself sort of unraveling. I feel so alone without it. I’m actually tearing up as I type this.”

Autism is often misunderstood (and it doesn’t help that a weird puzzle piece has been used to symbolize it). But its prevalence means that most people have heard of it. Facebook might be even more valuable for individuals with very rare conditions and their families.

Emily Wilkinson told me about her 5-year-old daughter, who was the first person given a diagnosis of Xia-Gibbs syndrome, caused by a genetic mutation, when she was 20 months old. Since then, about 70 people, mostly children, have been found to have the condition worldwide, and it is thought to lead to both physical and intellectual disabilities. Ms. Wilkinson says the Facebook group that parents and caregivers formed has been life-changing. Members are far-flung, and some of the parents have met in person. There were times when Ms. Wilkinson wanted to delete Facebook, or take a break, but she couldn’t go through with it partly because of the group.

Rivka Einy-Biton has a 3-month-old son who was recently found to have megalencephaly-capillary malformation syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by tissue overgrowth that affects brain development. There are under 300 reported cases of the condition. Joining a private Facebook group for those affected by the syndrome has helped her gain clarity and strength. Her fellow members share advice, resources and pictures of their own children. “In certain ways,” she noted, “this group has been more helpful than many of the specialists we have seen.”

Another parent, Juliet Ross, has a 7-year-old son with eosinophilic esophagitis, a chronic digestive disorder that requires him to use a feeding tube. She said the members of the Facebook group devoted to the condition refer to each other as “our EoE family.” Halloween is difficult for the children because restricted diets leave most, if not all, candy off limits, so the families join forces and mail each other cards instead.

It’s useful, too, that they know the details about providing this specific type of medical care at home. “When I have a feeding tube question in the middle of the night, it’s really helpful that there might be another mom awake, maybe in Australia, who knows the answer,” she noted. The kids themselves can get lonely as the only person in their circle with a feeding tube. It has become common for parents to reach out on Facebook, asking for pictures, so that their children can see that they are not alone.

Of course, it’s not just special-needs parents who find support on Facebook. There are lots of other important groups connecting there, including adults with disabilities. What should we all do?

It’s not that I care about my personal privacy. I’m boring. It is about what Facebook is allowing to happen with the data it has on millions of boring people like me.I asked some parents in a couple of my Facebook groups for their thoughts about what the social network means to them, particularly with the latest news and the calls to delete it. Here’s some of what I heard:

“This group makes me feel less alone.”

“I felt rescued by a connection made here.”

“I did delete Facebook and found myself sort of unraveling. I feel so alone without it. I’m actually tearing up as I type this.”

Autism is often misunderstood (and it doesn’t help that a weird puzzle piece has been used to symbolize it). But its prevalence means that most people have heard of it. Facebook might be even more valuable for individuals with very rare conditions and their families.

Emily Wilkinson told me about her 5-year-old daughter, who was the first person given a diagnosis of Xia-Gibbs syndrome, caused by a genetic mutation, when she was 20 months old. Since then, about 70 people, mostly children, have been found to have the condition worldwide, and it is thought to lead to both physical and intellectual disabilities. Ms. Wilkinson says the Facebook group that parents and caregivers formed has been life-changing. Members are far-flung, and some of the parents have met in person. There were times when Ms. Wilkinson wanted to delete Facebook, or take a break, but she couldn’t go through with it partly because of the group.

Rivka Einy-Biton has a 3-month-old son who was recently found to have megalencephaly-capillary malformation syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by tissue overgrowth that affects brain development. There are under 300 reported cases of the condition. Joining a private Facebook group for those affected by the syndrome has helped her gain clarity and strength. Her fellow members share advice, resources and pictures of their own children. “In certain ways,” she noted, “this group has been more helpful than many of the specialists we have seen.”

Another parent, Juliet Ross, has a 7-year-old son with eosinophilic esophagitis, a chronic digestive disorder that requires him to use a feeding tube. She said the members of the Facebook group devoted to the condition refer to each other as “our EoE family.” Halloween is difficult for the children because restricted diets leave most, if not all, candy off limits, so the families join forces and mail each other cards instead.

It’s useful, too, that they know the details about providing this specific type of medical care at home. “When I have a feeding tube question in the middle of the night, it’s really helpful that there might be another mom awake, maybe in Australia, who knows the answer,” she noted. The kids themselves can get lonely as the only person in their circle with a feeding tube. It has become common for parents to reach out on Facebook, asking for pictures, so that their children can see that they are not alone.

Of course, it’s not just special-needs parents who find support on Facebook. There are lots of other important groups connecting there, including adults with disabilities. What should we all do?

It’s not that I care about my personal privacy. I’m boring. It is about what Facebook is allowing to happen with the data it has on millions of boring people like me.A series of nasty thoughts that had begun as whispers in the back of my head mounted into angry shouts over time. I had moments of happiness and joy over the eight or nine months those dark thoughts haunted me, but as soon as the positive thoughts faded I reverted back into the darkness that had become my default mental setting.

It built gradually, but those dark thoughts vanished in an instant somewhere high above the beaches of Dubai. And I haven’t heard so much as a faint whisper from them since the moment I stepped out of the airplane.

When I got home I began doing some research, and was surprised to find that I’m far from alone. In fact, researchers around the world are currently studying the effectiveness of adventure sports in combating anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder — and for the author and counselor Brandon Stogsdill, as a way to help at-risk youths from underprivileged communities overcome childhood trauma.

“In behavioral therapy we talk about that thought process you had as an automatic negative dialogue, which pops in without any effort, and your brain will create literal neural pathways to make that stronger and stronger until we do something to take ourselves out of it,” he explained over the phone from his office in Seattle.

According to Mr. Stogsdill, depression makes it hard for one to concentrate on the present moment. Instead the depressed brain is constantly dreaming up negative future scenarios or dwelling on traumatic past events. “The healthy thing is to focus on the moment, because we have more control in the moment, and when you’re sky diving you can only focus on right now,” he said.

There are a variety of depression types and levels of severity, he added, and while some may need only high-adrenaline activity to jolt their brains back to a non-depressed state, it is by no means a universal cure.

For sufferers of less extreme depression, however, action sports like sky diving are very effective ways to rewire the brain’s focus back into the present moment. Of course, it’s not the only method. Mr. Stogsdill often counsels underprivileged youth on the ski hill, and found painting an effective tactic for focusing his thoughts on the present moment and combating depression after a BMX accident rendered him temporarily immobile.

When I signed the intimidatingly long waiver at the flight school in Dubai, I had no idea that I would land back on earth feeling like a completely new person, or at least back to the person I was before my battle with depression began. While the initial adrenaline rush does provide some immediate relief, the dive had a much longer-lasting impact on my general outlook. It allowed me to think clearly for what felt like the first time in months, and reaffirmed something I had once known about myself, but had forgotten somewhere along the way.“If the numbers are too low today, we may have to abandon the project,” Pete Pattavina, a bat biologist for the federal government, told me as we drove to the site. “It’s hard to justify the continued expense if we only have a few survivors.”

Not everyone thinks the efforts are worthwhile. The National Speleological Society, dismayed by the closing of caves on federal land in what it sees as a misguided effort to prevent the spread of white-nose syndrome, thinks the war has been lost, that the government efforts are putting bats at greater risk and that, in any event, the disease is going to run its course. This may be what happened in Europe, where bats appear have developed resistance to it.

I don’t agree. While targeted cures like the one being tested in Black Diamond would likely be impractical for most wild caves, they could potentially slow the leading edges of the disease. Kelly Lutsch, a first-year graduate student of Dr. Cornelison, has been surveying concrete culverts along Interstates 75 and 95 through Georgia’s coastal plains. She believes that infected bats using the culverts could be carrying the pathogen south into cave-rich zones near the Florida panhandle. If so, spraying the culverts with B23 might be warranted. One Georgia cave near the Florida border hosts a robust colony of 90,000 southeastern myotis bats.

At the Black Diamond Tunnel, the results of the spraying were encouraging. After an hour, the team slowly paddled back to share its results: 178 bats, up by 26 from the last count.

Dr. Cornelison cautioned against interpreting this as a success for B23, since other factors could affect the count. Still, he declared himself “ecstatic” that the number was higher, not lower, and plans to test B23 again in the tunnel.

“I don’t think we will ever know the full ecological effect” of white-nose syndrome, Mr. Pattavina said. “We only realize the value of biodiversity when catastrophe happens.”

But for the moment, for one tiny group of survivors in a Georgia tunnel, there is a glimmer of hope amid the catastrophe.—Hollywooddood

For my husband, who is Italian, it’s the smell of a new book. Whenever he walks into a bookstore, before he picks out the book he will eventually buy, he will leaf through several, and fan its pages through his thumb as he inhales the slight breeze this action creates. I watch him sometimes as he closes his eyes and smiles. “What are you doing?” I asked, half alarmed, the first time I saw him do this. “Remembering my childhood in Italy.”

—Cristina

When I was 18 I traveled by myself to London. There was a big-city smell that stuck in my mind; not sure exactly what it was, but probably diesel fumes mixing with the rain. It doesn’t sound romantic, but once in a while I pick up that smell and it immediately reminds me of that fun trip.

—Iconic Icon

In the spring of 1967 my brother came to visit me on the Lower East Side. He was home from his time in the First Marine Battalion in Vietnam. I planned to surprise him with a visit to an Italian grocery and deli that smelled exactly like the store we went to as children in the coal mining town we grew up in. There was the smell of herbs and spices, dried fish, aged cheeses, olive oil, and there were cookies and breads, tamarind syrup for we we called Italian soda, all the smells of our first-generation Tuscan and Piemontese family. As we walked down the stairs to the shop I walked ahead of him and opened the door. All the smells of childhood flooded the air around us. As I turned toward him to celebrate, to my great surprise he stopped, then sat down on the stairs and wept. All I could say was, “I am so sorry, so sorry.” We sat there and cried together.

—Italo-American

Grew up in Southern California’s San Fernando Valley (“the” Valley) but now live just a mountain range over, in the San Gabriel Valley. The smell of mowed grass, orange blossoms, the smell you smell before it rains (more and more rare, it seems). The smell of coffee brewing (which is rare now, given that no one uses a percolator anymore). All of those take me home.

—rmsMarriage can provide a bounty of emotional, practical and financial support. But finding the right mate is no substitute for having friends and other interests.

Image Credit Vivienne Flesher

Harris Wofford, a former senator from Pennsylvania, did not imagine that he would fall in love again and remarry after his wife died. But his life became a story of two great loves.

Image Credit Tim Lahan

Josh Max has advice for when things don’t work out as planned.The documentary presents Presley’s relationship to African-American music as one of affinity and appreciation, not exploitation. “Elvis and Elvis’s music pointed to black culture and said, ‘This is filled with the force of life,’” Mr. Springsteen comments. “If you want to be an American, this is something you need to pay attention to.” The excerpt chosen from “King Creole,” the 1958 Presley film set in New Orleans, shows Presley listening to and then joining African-American street vendors’ cries, acknowledging their influence.

Photo

“He did not invent rock ’n’ roll per se,” Mr. Petty bluntly notes, citing Little Richard and Joe Turner. “What he did was different” — a fusion of all Presley had absorbed. He was not a copyist. The film and boxed set include enough of Presley’s sources to demonstrate how thoroughly he personalized songs like Arthur Crudup’s “That’s All Right” and Bill Monroe’s “Blue Moon of Kentucky”: the two sides, drawn from (black) blues and (white) bluegrass, of his first single for Sun Records. In retrospect, it was a perfect, archetypal mission statement of how he would defy categories.

He wiggled his legs, hips and shoulders, too — onstage and then on television — inciting screams among young women and a moral panic in the older generation. (Musicians in the documentary note that his moves also directed his band.) In a precipitous rise, Presley had the whole country watching and listening. Yet the more popular he got, the more backlash he faced. The condescending Steve Allen had him sing “Hound Dog” to a hound dog, trying (and failing) to humiliate him. Ed Sullivan only showed him from the waist up. It was too late; teenagers were listening.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Then he was drafted and sent overseas, his pompadour clipped. He had signed a management contract with the documentary’s villain: Colonel Tom Parker, who was only an honorary colonel and not an American citizen (he was Dutch), which resulted in Presley never touring internationally. When Presley came back from the army, the Colonel envisioned a conventionally grown-up career for him: pop singing (a TV special with Frank Sinatra), movies, merchandise. The rock revolutionary was supposed to fall into line as an entertainer.

Sadly, he did. There was no other career map at the time, and the Colonel did not encourage artistic exploration. Parker also had a financial interest in Hill and Range Music, the only publisher he allowed to supply Presley with (often mediocre) songs. Through the eventful mid-1960s — the British Invasion, Bob Dylan’s “wild mercury sound,” the Summer of Love — Presley was contractually bound to make movies with lame songs and diminishing returns. One of the documentary’s most bitterly telling finds is an audio interview with a defeated-sounding Presley, where he says that while he’d like to make “artistic” films, “if what you’re doing is doing O.K., you’re better off sticking with it.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Somehow, in 1968 he was able to accept a TV offer — performing to a real (studio) audience, singing in the moment — and he grabbed it, for the 1968 special that could have started his rock comeback. His next album, “From Elvis in Memphis,” set aside Hill and Range and included a real hit, “Suspicious Minds.” He had found a contemporary producer. But there was no follow-through.

Instead, there were Las Vegas residencies and arena oldies tours: sequined jump suits, capes, nostalgia. The Vegas shows had gospel singers and a mini-orchestra; he sang “American Trilogy,” merging Civil War anthems of North and South, fusing cultural touchstones. He had his charisma; he had his voice. But he was being presented as an icon of the past. And the uppers and downers were in his blood.

“Anything that he ever had was prescribed,” Priscilla Presley says.

Isolated and eccentric, he set up his final recording sessions at home in Graceland in 1976, cramming musicians into the Jungle Room; a bitter song about infidelity, “Hurt,” became a hit. But the immediate profit was in touring, the grind that wore him out.

The documentary seizes on moments — rehearsals, outtakes — when Presley’s grit and fervor blasted away corniness and shtick. It shows him touching down in gospel music at his bleakest times and, near the end, strains to present him as a spiritual figure. Its finale is from that 1968 TV special: his wrenching performance of “If I Can Dream,” longing for equality and redemption during a year of social turmoil. It shows Presley’s passion and control, his visceral drama, his mastery. But it can’t explain all that he left undone.In those years, other nearby villas were sold and demolished, and the cityscape around us drastically changed. High-rises replaced gardens, two or three to a single plot of land. Our house was sought after — not for its architectural value, but because developers saw it as sitting on prime land along the Nile. Second to buying it out ourselves, which we couldn’t afford, placing it in the hands of a buyer who would preserve it was the best we could do, and that task became a mission for my mother, pitting her against her family in a standoff that lasted 30 years.

In my early 20s, as the country was beginning to reform economically and I was starting to write, I moved downstairs, inhabiting my grandmother’s floor, and my brother and I took on the cause of protecting the house ourselves. We searched widely for possible patrons who might make our home their own or turn it into a cultural center, a library or a museum. The interest that came, when it did, was always from abroad. Egyptian businessmen and patrons of culture seemed intent on investing in new developments, suburbs and multimillion-dollar modern homes, but not the center of the historic city, not the heritage already there.

For 30 years the garden bell rang with real estate agents promising “respectable” buyers. Every deal fell through, and it seemed like the house might stay in this limbo forever. I wrote the house into my novel in 2014: It was the only true-to-life character in the book, and the only thing in my life, and the neighborhood, that seemed unchanged through the revolution of 2011, as our hopes for real change after Mubarak’s fall first rose only soon to be shattered. Ours was the last of family homes still inhabited by its original owners, and everyone remarked how it was the one thing that they could depend on always being there.

And yet, when I wrote it into fiction, I conjured the moment where we might, indeed, pack it up.

On April 1, the day that President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s re-election was confirmed, we handed the house to its new owners, who had circled it for two years, admiring it. My mother had at last found her buyer, a woman whom she felt would be the next best custodian to the house and its legacy. We walked through its every room together on that last day, and once the handover papers were signed in the garden, I returned inside alone to close all the doors, windows and shutters. I then led myself out of the main door, locking it behind me.

Those final moments walking out, as well as the months that preceded — as we sifted through nearly 80 years of a family history, packing and throwing out and giving things away — felt like a closing, the end of an era, both for my family and for modern Egypt, independent since 1922. The house now has foreign owners, and the country — perhaps at its most conservative and repressive — is a far cry from what I ever expected it to become. The latest elections came and went, for me, unacknowledged, too farcical to consider. What might have been a turning point, a political opening, became an end.

My mother’s new apartment overlooks her old garden; from her balcony, I see what used to be mine. The new owners haven’t moved in yet, but their groundsman and his family occupy the basement of our old house, and spend their days sitting on the plastic garden chairs we left behind. When the sun is setting, shutters left open offer a glimpse into my brother’s childhood bedroom; I forgot to roll them down, and the room’s white muslin curtains still hang. I feel shut out of our home, my lifelong prism into the city, and out of the future of this country.When Kamasi Washington released “The Epic” in 2015, the country was being scarred on what felt like a daily basis by images of black people being killed at the hands of police. Mr. Washington’s triple album was a bursting, grandiose statement that, though recorded years earlier, seemed to speak directly to the needs of the moment: His scorching tenor saxophone and orchestral backing represented both the enormity of fury and the magnitude of a healer’s ambition. This week Mr. Washington announced a double-disc follow-up titled “Heaven and Earth.” Its first two singles bear a lot of the previous release’s markings: tons of horns, voices and strings; lengthy tunes, often in minor keys. But while “The Epic” delivered music of spiritual regeneration and self-affirmation, this new thing is a call to arms. On “Fists of Fury,” over a familiar Washington rhythm of Latin-tinged funk, the voices of Patrice Quinn and Dwight Trible declare, “We will no longer ask for justice. Instead, we will take our retribution.” GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOI also use Twitter and Reddit for trending stories. And there are certain aggregator sites that people swear by. I’ve been using Hvper recently, thanks to a recommendation from my editor. And I still sometimes web surf like an old, using an RSS reader (Feedly).

Which one is the most important?

For breaking news, probably Dataminr. It’s a handy tool. For trending news, what we hope to do is put together patterns that others may not have, or to put a new spin on a story that’s already out there.

Photo

I also use Twitter to follow the news, which sometimes helps me find patterns. (I can’t use Tweetdeck, and I’m always impressed that people are able to, by the way.)

We also have a pretty active Slack culture on my team, and we get a lot of ideas (like one by my teammate Maya Salam on showering) just from talking about dumb things with one another, saying whether we prefer rice, bread or potatoes, that kind of thing.

Beyond your job, what tech product do you love using in your daily life?

I listen to music near constantly when not at work, so a lot of the technology I use regularly has to do with that.

I have a couple of Bose Bluetooth speakers. The Bose SoundLink Mini is one of my favorite things. I got mine years ago, and it still works. The sound quality is strong, and it’s easy to connect to and to carry around. If I need to play music a little louder, I have a Bose SoundTouch system that works O.K.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech? Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

I use Sennheiser headphones when I want to listen to music closely, and those little Sony over-ear headphones (the ones that came with Discmen) for listening to music on the go.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There’s a story with those Sennheiser headphones. They were sent to me in the mail and were in a box on my coffee table for a couple of months. I thought they belonged to my roommate (someone had opened the outer layer of the box), but he told me they weren’t his. So I called my parents and some of my best friends to ask if they had gotten me these kind of expensive headphones. No one had.

I couldn’t figure out where they had come from and was a little paranoid that someone was spying on me. A year later, I came home and my downstairs neighbor was taking out his trash and wearing those same Sennheisers. Then I thought for a second.

“Hey, Evan,” I said. “Did you actually have to order those twice because one package went missing?” He confirmed — I had stolen his headphones. He was very nice about it, and because he had gotten them replaced, he has let me keep them so far.

Photo

I also gave in and started using a Tile, which is a Bluetooth tracker, to find my keys. It has made it so I never lose my keys.

What could be better?

The SoundTouch system can be hard to connect to, and it sometimes shuts off inexplicably. The over-ear headphones get blown out kind of easily, but you can order replacements on Amazon and they are super cheap.

There is now so much tech out there — tweets, Facebook posts, phone notifications and more — to distract us. What’s your advice for readers who struggle to concentrate on their work?

I deleted Facebook from my phone last year, so that’s gone. And I sign up for very few notifications.

I don’t have any magic tricks or anything, though, and I get distracted pretty easily. When I really want to concentrate on something, I try to leave my phone in another room. And when I need to write something on deadline, I minimize Slack and put my stolen headphones on.There are, as with most products, downsides. Because the speakers aren’t in your ear, the sound has never been loud enough for me to drown out noisy passengers on an airplane the way sound through earbuds can. (This could also be a problem for those who want to use SleepPhones to tune out a vigorously snoring partner.) And charging the wireless Bluetooth version through its USB port is inelegant: You have to open the fabric headband to get at the wiring.

But that said, this little device causes no ear pain and is as light and as small as a sock, so there’s barely any added weight or space in your luggage. Also, while SleepPhones come with an app that includes soothing sounds, you don’t need it for the headphones to work. That’s a relief: A number of sleep-related products have apps that are awkward to use and instruction booklets that put you to sleep faster than the devices themselves.

Yet while sleeping away from home can be challenging, when it comes to managing jet lag, things get even tricker.

A handful of new apps purport to help by adjusting your circadian rhythms. Chronoshift says it uses the travel details you input to create the ideal sleep-wake schedule for the days before your particular trip (free). Uplift aims to fight jet lag through a personalized regimen that involves activating certain acupressure points ($9.99 a year).

The Illumy Sleep and Wake Mask by Glo to Sleep ($149) uses an app and colored, pulsing light panels to help encourage sleep (a slow, red pulse to simulate a setting sun) or wakefulness (faster, blue pulsing for a gradually brightening morning sky). The mask is controlled through a smartphone app (for instance, you can adjust the duration of the simulated sunset and the time you want to be awakened). And it’s thick enough to block out light, though this also makes it a bit heavy and stiff — indeed, this side sleeper couldn’t wear it.

I did, however, find the slightly weighty mask with its pulsing red light somewhat comforting to begin to doze off in on my back at the end of the day. But then, I was tired at the end of the day — so perhaps it simply felt good to lie down? The company says its regimen of sunset and blue sky exposure is like the system used to help astronauts in space keep their body clocks in sync.

The Mayo Clinic recently offered some sound advice on its website, explaining that in addition to modifying your schedule before you depart, you should stick to your destination’s schedule as soon as you leave home and once you arrive, stay well hydrated by drinking liquids on the flight (note: go easy on the alcohol and caffeine), and, if you’re traveling fewer than eight time zones away from home, use bright light to get your body on the new schedule, like morning light if you have traveled east, and evening light if you have traveled west.Mr. Zuckerberg even said several times that he was open to new regulations aimed at his company, without committing to any particular approach.

The difference was clear, said Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, who has seen both Facebook and Microsoft up close. He questioned Mr. Zuckerberg in Congress, and in the 1990s, as Connecticut’s attorney general, he helped lead the states’ antitrust assault on Microsoft.

“Facebook has already taken very much to heart the clear lessons of Microsoft, which is to engage fully and aggressively in dialogue with federal powers,” he said by phone. “Microsoft basically refused to have any real conversations with D.O.J. or the states before we filed suit. Essentially, it stonewalled negotiations before there was a judgment by the courts.”

Asked if the example of Microsoft had guided any of Facebook’s strategy in dealing with federal powers, a Facebook spokeswoman said, “As Mark told Congress, we made mistakes and we’re taking action to make sure that they don’t happen again.

“Everything we’re doing has been guided by the understanding that we need to do better,” the spokeswoman, Vanessa Chan, added.

By March 1998, when Mr. Gates appeared in Congress, Microsoft seemed all but invincible, its market dominance and ambitions at their peak. It had made forays into online commerce, media and advertising, and executives in one industry after another anxiously awaited the company’s next move.

Bankers raised the specter of a new online rival: The First National Bank of Redmond they called it, referring to Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, Wash. Rupert Murdoch declared that the company he feared most was Microsoft. Microsoft had its own online magazine, Slate, as well as newsroom and programming studios, and it joined forces with NBC to help start MSNBC.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The first internet boom was also in full swing, and Microsoft’s Windows software — the operating system on 90 percent of the world’s personal computers — controlled that gateway to the future with its browser, Internet Explorer.

But there was an insurgent in Microsoft’s world, the Silicon Valley start-up Netscape, creator of the first commercially successful internet browser. The browser had the potential to be the on ramp to the internet, undermining Windows. Microsoft portrayed Internet Explorer as a mere feature of its operating system. The software giant was intent on winning the “browser war” with Netscape, using every weapon it had to squelch the upstart.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The federal government and several states investigated Microsoft’s behavior. Years of tangles with competition regulators in Europe followed, along with a string of private antitrust lawsuits.

After it lost the federal antitrust case in America, Microsoft, with little choice, sued for peace, spending billions of dollars in settlements and fines. It submitted to monitors who would file regular reports on the company’s compliance with its settlements. Several years later, Mr. Gates gave up day-to-day control of the company and became the country’s leading philanthropist.

“The view was that government was irrelevant and we can do anything we want,” said David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School, who has studied Microsoft for years. “There was little respect for government, and that was the culture inside Microsoft at the time.”

Today, Facebook finds itself squarely in the public spotlight, but confronting a different set of policy challenges.

The concern about Microsoft was economic. Consumers might pay somewhat higher prices, but mainly they would suffer because future innovations would be thwarted.

Photo

Facebook is under attack because of privacy concerns, its data-handling practices and its vulnerability to be used by others to spread lies, hatred and political propaganda. The main worry is that the social network is being manipulated to shape human behavior. And Facebook’s data harvesting and the potential impact are far more personal than anything Microsoft did.

Tom Rubin, a former senior lawyer at Microsoft who is now a lecturer at Stanford University, sees many parallels between the government scrutiny of Microsoft and of Facebook, which he discussed with a class on tech policy at the school this past week.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“They both involve an allegation that a digital gatekeeper, with insufficient internal controls, drove for dominance by harming the ecosystem in which it operates,” said Mr. Rubin, who was an assistant United States attorney before joining Microsoft.

But the stakes now, he said, are higher than in the days when the public was still figuring out how to get onto the internet. “Competition in the marketplace for browsers pales in comparison to protecting personal privacy and a functioning democracy,” Mr. Rubin said. “It’s hard to conceive of a higher priority for legislators and regulators than that.”

One risk for Facebook could come from an emerging group of antitrust experts who advocate expanding the definition of consumer welfare beyond pricing and innovation, to include the impact on workers, small retailers and privacy. The German antitrust authorities are pursuing a case against Facebook alleging that its market dominance essentially forces users to accept a service that violates their privacy.

But that approach, most experts say, is a stretch, particularly in the United States.

“The idea is that they’re big, so antitrust should be used to address the problem,” said Andrew I. Gavil, a law professor at Howard University. “But if you’re looking for a privacy remedy, antitrust is not the right tool.”

An alternative threat is much stricter privacy regulation, following the European lead. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect next month, is far more restrictive than data collection and trading practices in America. It requires companies to collect and store only the minimum amount of user data needed to provide a specific, stated service.

In the United States, that would mean stronger laws and more resources for privacy and data-protection enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission and states.

“That is arguably a much more effective solution to this kind of problem — get the privacy regime right,” said William Kovacic, an antitrust expert at the George Washington University Law School and a former chairman of the F.T.C.

But like the antitrust concerns, any major overhaul of privacy law in Washington appears unlikely anytime soon.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, the smart move for Facebook, said A. Douglas Melamed, who was a senior antitrust official in the Justice Department during the Microsoft case, would be to depart from the old Microsoft playbook of resistance and embrace new, tougher rules on privacy and data-handling practices — and help guide them.

“That would move the conversation away from ‘Are these bad guys?’ to ‘How can we work together to solve these problems?’” Mr. Melamed, a professor at Stanford Law School, said. “And if Facebook really does that, Mark Zuckerberg is likely to get answers he can live with and that actually might be helpful.”

What Facebook wants to avoid, said Charles Fitzgerald, a former Microsoft strategist who is now an angel investor in tech start-ups, is what happened to Microsoft: The double whammy of government and legal entanglements and a stock price in the dumps had consequences for Microsoft’s ability to hold on to talent.

Facebook, he said, could see the same phenomenon if its growth slows and employees tire of oversight and constant attacks on the company’s reputation.

“The combination of a flat or declining stock price and having to spend lots of time on miserable legal issues instead of building product made a lot of people rethink how they wanted to spend their days,” Mr. Fitzgerald said. “And Facebook employees may have a harder time gazing in an ethical mirror.”Brennan ran. The man followed briefly, walking out of his house and stepping off his porch, according to home security camera footage reviewed by the authorities. He fired a single shot with a 12-gauge shotgun, but Brennan was not hit. The teenager kept running. A few minutes later he encountered deputies — the woman at the home had called the authorities — and told his story.

Photo

“It’s disgusting, it’s disturbing and it’s unacceptable on every level,” Sheriff Michael Bouchard of Oakland County said. On Friday, the man, Jeffery Zeigler, 53, was charged with assault with intent to murder and possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony, the authorities said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The security footage suggested that Mr. Zeigler was “not terribly weapons-competent,” Sheriff Bouchard added. “He was slower to discharge the weapon and as a result, allowed this young man, thankfully, to get farther away.”

The episode involving Brennan, who is black, called to mind instances in which black people have been killed by armed civilians or the police in recent years, like Stephon Clark, 22, who was fatally shot last month by Sacramento police officers, setting off widespread protests. Brennan’s story is similar to that of Renisha McBride, 19, who approached a stranger’s home in a Detroit suburb and was shot and killed in 2013.

Brennan’s mother, Lisa Wright, said she considered Rochester Hills, a Detroit suburb, a safe community but was only half-surprised that her son was threatened. “As a black person, I know it’s a possibility,” she said.

Ms. Wright was mindful of what has happened to other black teenagers, like Trayvon Martin, the unarmed 17-year-old in Florida who was killed while wearing a hooded sweatshirt by a neighborhood watch volunteer. She said she had already had the talk with her son about all of the extra things he might have to do to keep himself safe: Don’t wear hoodies. Be open and approachable. Take your hands out of your pockets. She added that in the security footage she had seen, her son appeared to be doing everything right on Thursday morning.

“I just remember a huge shotgun being pointed and aimed at my son,” she said. “My son was running away.”

Mr. Zeigler, a retired firefighter, told a District Court judge on Friday that he was in bed on Thursday morning when his wife began “screaming and crying,” The Associated Press reported. “There’s a lot more to the story than what’s being told,” he added, “and I believe that will come out in court.”The reports released Friday indicate that Mr. Peterson tried to secure a perimeter around the school instead of rushing into the building. He resigned after being placed under internal investigation for his actions, and the authorities are investigating whether other deputies also failed to go into the building when they should have.

But though Mr. Peterson reported by radio that shots were coming from “inside” the school, it was not clear that other officers knew the location of the gunman. “I did not know which building this was occurring,” Deputy William Hanks, who arrived later than the initial backup officers, said in his report. “I took a cover position behind my patrol car in order to quickly assess the situation and see if I could determine where on the school grounds this was happening because I did not hear any shots being fired,” he said.

“Within approximately thirty seconds I could see several Coral Springs police officers and a Broward Sheriff’s Office deputy running across the parking lot. Figuring that they knew which building to go to, I immediately ran to catch up to them,” Deputy Hanks reported.

In the new reports, nine law enforcement officers described a horrifying, bloody scene inside the building, where 17 people were killed and 17 others wounded in a rampage that lasted less than six minutes.

“I entered building 12 and immediately detected the odor of gun powder and observed several people lying in the hallway in pools of blood,” one deputy wrote.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But none of the three deputies who arrived early and heard the gunshots made it into the freshman building. Detective Goolsby, who wrote that he arrived less than a minute after Mr. Peterson put out the call for help, some time later tried to enter from the west side but ran into law enforcement officers who had already gone in from the east.

“To mitigate a crossfire situation, I exited the building and continued to hold cover to the south while the other deputies and officers worked to clear the building and treat the injured,” he wrote.

The new police accounts echo audio recordings of dispatched paramedics, which were released Thursday by the Coral Springs-Parkland Fire Department. They make clear that emergency medical workers realized almost immediately that they faced mass casualties.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“This is going to be a big event,” a commander said on the radio, urging that the department contact all local hospitals. “We may be sending patients in all directions.”

For a long stretch of time, neither police nor paramedics knew the suspect’s whereabouts. Confused by surveillance video being watched on a 20-minute delay, they feared they were exposing themselves to more gunfire while trying to rescue victims, not knowing that the gunman was long gone.

For many emergency workers, reaching the school itself became a problem: “It’s a zoo,” an exasperated paramedic said, according to the recordings.

Even before they stepped into the building, several deputies recognized one of the victims lying dead outside the door. The victim’s name was blacked out of the reports. One of the deputies, Gennaro Volpe, also recognized an unidentified wounded male, according to his report.

Deputy Volpe helped paramedics transport the person to the hospital, leaning over the seat to hold on to the victim and speak to him, “but he did not respond back,” the deputy wrote. “During my conversation I only gave him words of encouragement that he was going to survive.”

Deputy Volpe was so bloodied upon his return to campus that a colleague helped him wipe down his arms with paper towels, he wrote. The deputy’s uniform, patrol rifle and Fitbit exercise watch, all soiled by blood, were photographed as evidence.Photo

FRANKFORT, Ky. — With the chants of hundreds of teachers ringing in their ears, Kentucky lawmakers voted on Friday to override the Republican governor’s veto of a two-year state budget that increases public education spending with the help of a more than $480 million tax increase.

The votes came as thousands of teachers rallied at the Capitol, forcing more than 30 school districts to close as the state continued the chorus of teacher protests across the country.

The two-year state operating budget includes record new spending for public education, fueled by a 50-cent increase in the cigarette tax and a 6 percent sales tax on some services, including home and auto repairs. But Gov. Matt Bevin vetoed the budget and revenue bills, calling the latter “sloppy” and “non-transparent.” He said it would not raise enough money to cover the new spending.

The veto put Republican lawmakers in a tough position by asking them to vote a second time on a tax increase in an election year. But 57 House Republicans, later joined by just enough Senate Republicans, voted to override.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We have to have this revenue to fund our schools,” said Representative Regina Huff, a Republican and middle school special education teacher.On Wednesday, when Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois, questioned Facebook’s tracking of logged-off users, Mr. Zuckerberg was quick to point out that Google and “the rest of the industry” employed similar tactics. It was one of the few times Google’s data practices were mentioned in the two days of hearings.

Mr. Zuckerberg did not get a chance to say much more about Facebook’s industry peers this week. Over two days of hearings, Google was referenced 11 times by lawmakers. Twitter was mentioned 10 times and Amazon once. Apple was mentioned three times, mostly in passing.

Google employees said they had not received explicit orders from management to keep a low profile because most already understood the risk. One employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because workers were not allowed to speak publicly on the issue, said there was an understanding inside Google that the company was the obvious next target.

In a statement, Aaron Stein, a Google spokesman, said the company was “completely focused on protecting our users’ data” and “will take action” if it found evidence of “deceptive behavior or misuse of personal data.”

Google has been criticized — even fined — for its privacy practices over the years. It paid a $17 million fine to settle a case when it bypassed privacy settings in Apple’s Safari browser to track users and show them advertisements in 2011 and 2012. It also got dinged for scooping up people’s passwords, email and other personal information during its Street View mapping project.

Privacy advocates also criticized a Google social network, called Buzz, in 2010 for automatically including users’ email contact. Google eventually settled the matter with the Federal Trade Commission and agreed to strengthen an existing privacy program.

Google is staying on the sidelines in other ways. Four days before Mr. Zuckerberg was set to testify, Facebook surprised many in Washington when it endorsed the Honest Ads Act, a Senate bill that would require more transparency and stricter rules for political ads on the internet. Facebook’s endorsement was a reversal from its previous opposition, said a spokeswoman for one of the bill’s co-sponsors, Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia.“Amadeus,” a 1984 adaptation of Peter Shaffer’s stage play, presented Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart as a genius who undermined authority with his art. Again, Oscars for best director and best picture were among its many honors.

Still, Mr. Forman, by then a United States citizen, said one of his greatest pleasures from the film — which was shot in the Czech Republic — was the chance to return in triumph to his homeland.

“I’ve always done everything in my life to win,” Mr. Forman said of himself in a 1994 biography, which was entitled “Turnaround: A Memoir,” and was written with Jan Novak.

Mr. Forman was caught up in the turmoil of German occupation not many years after his birth, in Caslav, on Feb. 18, 1932. Both his mother, born Anna Suabova, and the man he believed to be his father, a teacher named Rudolf Forman, had been separately seized by the Germans and killed in death camps.

For years, Mr. Forman vaguely told interviewers that he believed himself to be half-Jewish, though both parents attended a Protestant church. It was Mr. Novak, in researching “Turnaround,” who ended the mystery.

After the 1964 release of his first feature film, “Black Peter” — about the misadventures of a teenager beginning his work life — Mr. Forman was contacted by a woman who had been with his mother in Auschwitz, Mr. Novak learned and eventually reported. The woman explained that Mr. Forman was actually the son of a Jewish architect with whom Mr. Forman’s mother had an affair. In time, Mr. Forman found his biological father, who survived the war and was living in Peru.

Raised by foster parents, Mr. Forman attended film school in Prague, and first made his mark with his work on a film and theater presentation at the 1958 Brussels World Exhibition. An early feature, “The Loves of a Blonde,” won attention on the international festival circuit in 1965. Another, “The Firemen’s Ball,” two years later, rubbed Czech officials the wrong way with its spoof of the firefighting bureaucracy, though Mr. Forman was already turning his attention to opportunities abroad.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When the Soviets invaded in August of 1968, Mr. Forman was in Paris negotiating to make a Hollywood film. His first American feature, a youth comedy called “Taking Off,” was released by Universal Pictures in 1971. It did so poorly, Mr. Forman later said, that he wound up owing the studio $500.

Photo

Through the early 1970s, Mr. Forman — a hearty bon vivant without means for the good life — went through a period of self-described depression. For much of that time, he holed up in New York’s Chelsea Hotel, sleeping through the days and communicating with émigré friends.

By then, he had been married twice, first to an actress, Jana Brejchova, then to another performer, Vera Kresadlova, who had remained in Czechoslovakia with their two sons, Petr and Matej.

In addition to Petr and Matej, he is survived by Martina Formanova, his third wife; and his twin sons, James and Andrew, with Ms. Formanova.

In his memoir, Mr. Forman said the producers of “Cuckoo’s Nest,” Michael Douglas and Saul Zaentz, sought him out because “I seemed to be in their price range.” In fact, they had made a perfect match between filmmaker and material, in this case a cult novel by Ken Kesey.

Jack Nicholson was the movie’s star. But Mr. Forman — who liked to coax star performances out of lesser-known actors — did exactly that with Louise Fletcher, who won an Oscar for her portrayal of the dictatorial Nurse Ratched.

“Hair” and “Ragtime,” which came next, left less impression, but kept Mr. Forman on the list of directors whom executives were willing to trust with their more sophisticated projects. In 1978, meanwhile, Mr. Forman joined Frantisek Daniel, another Czech, as co-director of the film program at Columbia University’s school of the arts.

It was for Mr. Zaentz that Mr. Forman next struck gold, with “Amadeus.” The film won eight Oscars, and Mr. Forman later wrote, left him with a bittersweet, and ultimately correct, sense that his career had peaked.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Valmont,” based on an 18th-century novel by Pierre Ambroise François Choderlos de Laclos, was overshadowed in 1989 by the previous year’s release of “Dangerous Liaisons,” a film by the director Stephen Frears, which used the same underlying material.

Mr. Forman next made a series of films each of which pushed Hollywood out of its comfort zone.

“The People vs. Larry Flynt” pressed the limits of tolerance for an antihero with its sympathetic portrait of the Hustler magazine publisher Larry Flynt. Released by Columbia Pictures in 1996, it was a box-office bust, with domestic ticket sales of only about $20 million.

In 1999, “Man on the Moon,” Mr. Forman’s complex portrait of the comic Andy Kaufman and his alter-ego Tony Clifton, did only a little better for Universal Pictures. Yet the film left a mark on Mr. Forman’s personal life. Shortly before its release, he married Martina Zborilova, who had worked with him earlier as a production assistant. He became the father of twin sons, whom the couple named Andrew, for Mr. Kaufman, and James, for Jim Carrey, the movie’s star.

Mr. Forman’s next film, “Goya’s Ghosts,” for Samuel Goldwyn Films, was an intricate examination of persecution in Spain in the era of religious persecution and Napoleonic conquest. The film found a minuscule audience when it was released on American screens in 2007.

But it appeared to play out themes from Mr. Forman’s life, as its heroine, an artist’s model, was imprisoned and tortured because of what were claimed to be her hidden Jewish habits and roots.

In an interview with a writer for The Star Tribune of Minneapolis, Mr. Forman talked of Goya’s vacillation between unfettered expression and a desire to please in terms that recalled a tension between his own artistic urges and the lure of success.

“Torn between protest and preservation,” Mr. Forman said of Goya, “he is the most courageous coward.”The couple met in 2015, the same year Mr. Kenworthy came out in ESPN the Magazine. Mr. Kenworthy had seen Mr. Wilkas’s movie “Gayby” and messaged him on Instagram. “He was, like, the first gay person that I ever followed,” Mr. Kenworthy said, “because I was always very in the closet and scared that even following a bunch of hot guys would let everyone know that I was gay.”

Mr. Kenworthy divides his time between his home state, Colorado; New York (where Mr. Wilkas has an apartment); and Los Angeles. He and Mr. Wilkas just got a rescue dog, a Great Pyrenees and Korean Jindo mix named Beemo, after a character in the cartoon series “Adventure Time.” “She’s confident and cute and she doesn’t give an F,” Mr. Kenworthy said.

As the car lurched through Eighth Avenue traffic, he spun his head around and shouted, “Look, there’s Adam on the side of that building!” He had spotted a screen showing the figure skater Adam Rippon, Pyeongchang’s other gay breakout star. The two Olympians had met at the opening ceremony, where they bonded over “RuPaul’s Drag Race” and became “fast friends,” Mr. Kenworthy said.

At Nordstrom, Mr. Kenworthy and Mr. Wilkas were greeted with white wine and photographers. Upstairs, they browsed windbreakers and talked to Stefano Celsi, the salesman who had dressed Mr. Kenworthy that morning. “I’m obsessed with this jacket,” Mr. Kenworthy told him, flipping through a Dior rack. “It’s honestly the sickest thing ever.”

Partygoers included Ice-T and Coco Austin, but Mr. Kenworthy was more excited about another celebrity guest. “He’s obsessed with Mark Ruffalo,” Mr. Wilkas said.CAPE TOWN — To cut themselves free of the gender norms fed to them since birth, young South Africans aren’t using sharp edges but rather soft fabrics and turns of phrase. Their fashion and styling choices, as well as the words they use to describe their own bodies, challenge essentialism and the notion that any of our outward characteristics are fixed.

These young South Africans, most visible in urban centers like Cape Town, are playful in the ways they present themselves to the world. They eschew European designer labels manufactured for consumerism in favor of local designers, many of whom have caught the spirit of the moment.

That Cape Town, known as the “Mother City,” has become a front in the war on Western gender roles is somewhat fitting. It’s where the Dutch and, later, the British began their colonization of South Africa in earnest.The films of Ms. Martel’s so-called Salta Trilogy — “La Ciénaga,” which established her reputation when it was shown at the 2000 Berlin Film Festival; and “The Holy Girl” and “The Headless Woman,” which had their premieres in competition at Cannes — are dryly comic and, at times, horrifying domestic dramas. Their stories develop as if in a hothouse, from a compost of recurring riffs and seemingly unrelated microincidents.

Set mainly at a medical convention held in a dilapidated family-owned hotel, “The Holy Girl” (2004) details a teenager’s self-appointed mission to redeem the middle-aged doctor who rubbed up against her in a crowd. “The Headless Woman” (2009) concerns a well-off matron’s addled response to an automobile accident in which she may or may not have hit something or someone.

Ms. Martel avoids establishing shots and, at times cutting away from the action, favors abrupt transitions. Her skewed framing and use of focus can be unsettling, something she has slyly attributed to her myopia. Her most formally radical film, “The Headless Woman,” is deliberately disorienting, putting the viewer in the position of its discombobulated protagonist.

Following the Salta films, Ms. Martel decided to switch gears. Her next project was an adaptation of Héctor Germán Oesterheld’s graphic novel “El Eternauta” (The Eternal), a science-fiction fantasy critical of Argentine authoritarianism by a writer who was apparently murdered by the regime during the “dirty war” of the mid-1970s and early 1980s. As someone who grew up in those years, Ms. Martell described the period as a more sinister version of her films: “Things happened with no explanation, especially for a kid,” she said, citing mysterious cars, bloodstains and even corpses in the street.

Photo

After two years developing a script, without securing financing and the necessary rights, Ms. Martel abandoned “El Eternauta.” It was then that she discovered Antonio Di Benedetto’s 1956 novel, “Zama,” which sat unread on her shelf for five years before she brought it with her on a trip along the Paraguay River, where much of the book is set. Asked if she saw a film in it, she replied in English: “Immediately!”

If Ms. Martel’s earlier work challenged reality, “Zama” — a costume drama set in the late 18th century made for $3.5 million, a modest budget though more than double that of “The Headless Woman” — is a movie in which the director challenged herself. She spent four years writing the script and raising money. (Eight nations helped produce the movie; among the many co-producers are Pedro and Agustín Almodóvar, Gael García Bernal and Danny Glover.) The shoot, which lasted a bit more than two months, was arduous, plagued by bad weather; postproduction was delayed by illness. (Ms. Martel has said she was treated for cancer and is reportedly in remission.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Martel’s first digitally shot film, her first set outside Salta, her first period film and her first adaptation, “Zama” is also her first centered on a man, although, as she points out, the frustrated Don Diego de Zama, a South American-born functionary of imperial Spain posted in a remote Paraguayan backwater, resembles many of her female characters. Played by the Mexican actor Daniel Giménez Cacho in a state of wounded dignity, Zama is a confused provincial, frustrated, self-deluded and clinging to a precarious sense of cultural superiority.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

As the Kafkaesque drama of a man unable to get a transfer, “Zama” shares the dislocation and torpor characteristic of the Salta Trilogy. But disconcertingly beautiful and at times otherworldly, the movie’s spacey final movement recalls Werner Herzog adventures like “Aguirre, the Wrath of God” and “Fitzcarraldo.” Ms. Martel does not take this as a compliment. “His films bother me,” she said, citing what she sees as their “irresponsible treatment of animals and indigenous people.”

The veteran Argentine film critic and festival director Eduardo Antin, who writes under the name Quintin, noted that however faithful to the Di Benedetto novel the film is, Ms. Martel made the material “consistent with her political interests” by bringing “the background to the foreground.” Di Benedetto focused on Zama and his would-be European milieu and largely ignored the colony’s enslaved people and indigenous inhabitants. Martel includes Africans and Indians, most often women, in nearly every frame. Zama’s story is also theirs. “Such a change requires great will and precise thinking,” Mr. Antin wrote in an email. It also serves to set up the movie’s horrifying “Heart of Darkness” ending.

Ms. Martel hopes to return to Salta, where she has been working on a documentary about Javier Chocobar, an indigenous activist who was killed in a land dispute in 2008. “The history of our country is broken,” she said, referring to Argentine identification with Europe. “It’s a conflict for every white man” — and crucial to an understanding of the existential antihero Zama.A representative for Marvel Entertainment said that no one was available to discuss the question for this article, and DC Comics did not return a request for comment. But some film experts see an identity crisis. Outside of the government and the monuments, it’s hard for Hollywood to imagine what Washington looks like. And worse (at least for D.C. enthusiasts): Whatever it looks like may not be exciting enough for these movies.

“Although it’s a distinct region — not every city has trucks selling half-smokes — I think that Washington isn’t part of what a lot of people’s sense of their country is about,” said Mr. Prelinger, who became familiar with the city’s iconic sausage dish after living in the district for nearly two decades. He has since moved to California. “D.C. is dull.”

Matt Fraction, a comic book writer recognized for his work on Marvel’s Iron Man, Hawkeye and other characters, said he found it was a location better served in news clips behind television anchors instead of as an accelerant to a spectacular fight scene.

“Washington is an idea as much as anything else,” he said in an interview. “Washington is about history and abstract notions.”

Kelly Sue DeConnick, who has written independent comics and developed story lines for Captain Marvel, points to the mid-20th-century roots of the modern comic book, when the medium’s writers and artists worked in New York. Though movies aren’t always faithful to their source material, the city loomed large in the initial stories. It was where the biggest comic publishers were based and where most of their writers were living.

“That was the center of both the Marvel and DC universe,” Ms. DeConnick said. “People were telling stories of their lives, of their families, and what was important to them.”

“Only Washington, D.C.,” she added, “thinks Washington, D.C., is the center of the universe.”

Photo

It’s also not an ideal place for dynamic visuals, said Corey Creekmur, a film professor and comics scholar at the University of Iowa.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“New York is famously vertical, and Washington isn’t,” he said, pointing to scenes of Superman flying over Metropolis, the fictional version of New York City, and the Avengers plummeting into Midtown. “It’s not the space associated with superheroes in that regard.”

There are also logistics to consider. “It’s hard to build tall buildings in the swamp, things for Spider-Man to swing off of,” Mr. Fraction said. Tom Holland, the current Spider-Man, had to bounce off a helicopter to swing into the Washington Monument for a dramatic rescue in last year’s “Spider-Man: Homecoming.” (Perhaps that’s why he returned to New York City for the film’s final confrontation.)

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“There’s the power of looking up on Fifth Avenue and seeing something streak over your head,” he said, “being enclosed on all sides by urban reality, and seeing what we’re capable of streak by in the sky.”

While the district allows filming and is open to projects, its fees can mount quickly for large productions, and the city’s federal spaces come with heavy caveats. On the National Mall alone, there’s a delicate balance between stairs, permitted equipment and flags: You can film the Washington Monument outside the circle of flags around the base, but you cannot film the Lincoln Memorial above its white steps, and all of the Korean and Vietnam War memorials are open — except that only a hand-held camera is permitted.

“A lot of it has to do with the scope of special effects, pyrotechnics, big explosions — anything like that is going to be really sensitive to our federal core,” said Herbert Niles, who heads the film division of the district’s Office of Cable Television, Film, Music and Entertainment. He pointed to “Captain America: The Winter Soldier,” for which more filming took place in Ohio than in Washington.

“Ohio was able to give them a freeway and close it down for like three days,” he said, adding that the district is working to make logistics easier for filming. “That’s just not practical here.”

The government, and by default Washington, has also increasingly played an antagonistic role in superhero movies, Mr. Creekmur said, as some writers contemplated how individuals with extraordinary abilities would be regulated in a country increasingly focused on maintaining borders and security. Like Batman clashing with the police in Gotham City, there’s often an inherent conflict between the superheroes’ vision of justice and the government’s.

“Do we play along with the government, or do we work outside the government?” he said of the plotlines that drove the splintering factions in “Captain America: Civil War” (2016). “And I think of that as a post-9/11 narrative.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With the relentless cycle of political news and clashes between Hollywood and the current administration, Washington probably won’t get the spotlight in superhero films anytime soon.

Besides, fictional realms based in reality like Black Panther’s Wakanda have become much more intriguing to moviegoers.

“Hollywood is picking up on a widespread alienation from Washington and a widespread disengagement,” Mr. Prelinger, the U.C. Santa Cruz professor, said. “In a canny way, it tries to present an opposing view.”

Besides, the city’s reputation for political intrigue and elaborate bureaucratic dealings is best saved for acclaimed television shows like “House of Cards” on Netflix and “Scandal” on ABC, Mr. Fraction said, where the dark hallways and complex dialogue are integral to the plot. Such political reality isn’t suited for superhero stories.

“What people respond to is story and character, and politics are for politics,” he said. “It feels like wearing football padding to a baseball game.”The fight between Mr. Cuomo and Ms. Nixon has emerged as an early flash point in the battle to define the future of the Democratic Party in the age of President Trump: a contest between an accomplished and pragmatic governor who controls the classic machinery of Democratic politics, and an upstart challenger with little track record but white-hot rhetoric of unfiltered liberalism to rally the base.

Ms. Nixon counts legalizing marijuana, increasing taxes on multimillionaires, giving driver’s licenses to those here illegally, and making New York a “sanctuary state” among her early proposals.

The political maneuvers around the Working Families Party echoed a strategy used in 2014, when Mr. Cuomo was first seeking re-election, but encountered a primary challenge from Zephyr Teachout. The Working Families Party strongly considered Ms. Teachout before reluctantly backing Mr. Cuomo.

This time around, with Working Families leaders hinting of a Nixon endorsement, Mr. Cuomo’s emissaries struck first. Some of the party’s top members were summoned to a meeting with labor leaders on Friday at the Manhattan headquarters of the United Federation of Teachers.

Michael Mulgrew, president of the teachers’ union, said he urged the advocacy groups on Friday to have the Working Families Party remain neutral until after the Democratic primary.

If the group endorses Ms. Nixon and she loses the Democratic primary to Mr. Cuomo, she could remain on the ballot through November competing for votes, potentially to the benefit of the Republican nominee.

“My only concern is some reckless behavior that will have an unintended consequence of us ending up with a Republican governor,” Mr. Mulgrew said. “When these elections are over, we will judge any decision we have to make off your behavior if you caused bad things to happen — even though it was not your intent you are responsible for them.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He declined to comment on whether Mr. Cuomo had asked him to defund community groups backing Ms. Nixon, saying he has “requests on all sides.”

“I’m not going to divulge personal conversations,” he said.

But Bill Lipton, the state director of the Working Families Party, said that he had attended a meeting earlier this week in which the governor had said, “If unions or anyone give money to any of these groups, they can lose my number.”

Photo

Mr. Lipton added that the groups in question — Citizen Action, New York Communities for Change and Make the Road Action — had been critical to efforts to raise minimum wage and criminal justice reform, among others.

“W.F.P. has always fought for the rights of unions and for all working families, and that will never change,” he said. “Our friends in labor are in a tight spot and we respect their decision.”

Some labor leaders disputed Mr. Lipton’s account of the governor’s comment, while Mr. Mulgrew called Mr. Lipton “misguided and delusional,” likening him to a temperamental child.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The governor, a second-term Democrat facing re-election in the fall, has been aggressive in fending off Ms. Nixon’s unexpectedly vigorous primary challenge, which was announced in mid-March, and has since garnered endorsements from a handful of liberal groups.

The most recent nod came early Friday, when Make the Road Action — a grass-roots immigrant rights group that receives ample funding from labor — said it would back Ms. Nixon because of “her strong progressive platform and her commitment to passing and implementing the full protections and supports that our communities need and deserve.”

The governor’s campaign said that no member of Mr. Cuomo’s administration was at the meeting on Friday, and characterized it as an internal dispute “between its founding labor unions and their organizing groups.”

“The governor stands with organized labor and will follow their lead,” said Abbey Fashouer, a campaign spokeswoman.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to two people in the meeting, the governor’s funding threats went unspoken but still loomed large.

“You have the largest labor unions in the room who also have been our biggest funders arguing Cynthia should not get the W.F.P. line, which is a pretty forceful argument coming from your biggest funders,” said one participant, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private meeting and for fear of angering Mr. Cuomo.

Among the labor leaders in attendance were leaders or representatives from Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union; the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union; Communications Workers of America District 1; and the United Federation of Teachers, which collectively provide hundreds of thousands of dollars to the community groups.

Héctor Figueroa, president of Local 32BJ, and Dennis Trainor, vice president of C.W.A. District 1, confirmed their unions’ withdrawal from the Working Families Party, saying in a joint statement that they “fundamentally believe that endorsing Governor Cuomo is the most effective way to put the interest of working families first.”

“The latest developments show that the current leadership of the W.F.P. disagrees with that approach, and we have been unable to convince them otherwise,” they said, adding, “We are not attending tomorrow’s state committee meeting and will be pulling out of the New York State Working Families Party.”

The pressure in labor ranks comes as the W.F.P. is expected to meet in Albany on Saturday to consider endorsing Ms. Nixon, an educational advocate and actress who is making her first run for public office.

“This shows Cuomo will do absolutely anything to win except become a progressive,” said Rebecca Katz, a top adviser to Ms. Nixon.

On Thursday afternoon, Mr. Cuomo had appeared at a rally with a variety of labor leaders to present himself as their champion, and they as his ardent supporters.

“It is the union family,” Mr. Cuomo said. “When one of us is in trouble, we’re all in trouble. It’s solidarity. We stand together.”There are very rational explanations to account for the cloud that suddenly hangs over the league’s overwhelming preseason favorites heading into the start of the 2018 playoffs.

Stephen Curry, the two-time M.V.P. guard, played in only one of Golden State’s final 17 games after suffering a knee sprain just as he’d recovered from a sprained ankle. Curry’s absence, combined with a nagging flurry of injuries around him, rendered the Warriors’ last dozen or so games meaningless; catching Houston in the race for the West’s No. 1 overall seed was, realistically, out of reach. Those factors inevitably combined to chip away at the Warriors’ intensity, discipline and focus and, by season’s end, dropped them from their customary top-five slot in defensive efficiency all the way down to No. 9.

Golden State’s hope is that a return to high-stakes basketball, after grinding through a seemingly interminable regular season to get there, will usher this team back to its usual standards and thus back to its happy place. But a measure of gloom, for all the rationalizations, has been hard for the Warriors to shake as Saturday’s Game 1 against the pesky San Antonio Spurs — sans Curry — draws near.

For the past few years, Golden State seemed to be the one powerhouse impervious to the seminal claim of Pat Riley, the legendary coach and executive, that winning or misery were the only state-of-mind options for the N.B.A. elite. It was just two short years ago that the Warriors defied conventional wisdom and relentlessly chased a record 73 wins in the regular season, finding great enjoyment in their quest amid the incessant chatter of naysayers who insisted that the extra gas guzzled to get there would lead to a fatal fuel shortage in the postseason.

This, however, is Year 4 of Golden State’s run as the N.B.A.’s modern-day version of the Beatles. Kerr remembers how mentally draining it was just to drag through three seasons like this as a player, specifically as a teammate to Michael Jordan before Jordan’s second retirement from the Chicago Bulls. He has, for months, been warning anyone who would listen about how hard it would be to keep this group consistently plugged in — even with a shot to win the first back-to-back titles in the Warriors’ evolution.

Kerr was right. Bliss is not a given, even with a roster like this.

How joyful can the Warriors really be, for that matter, when the prime supplier of their let-it-fly frolic — Curry — is out of the lineup?

The only real surprise here, according to the former Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin, is that the Warriors dodged such a malaise for as long as they did.

Photo

“It’s very predictable,” said Griffin, who has been working as an analyst for NBA TV and Sirius XM Radio as he awaits his eventual return to front-office work after his own tension-filled stint in charge of the Cavaliers.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I was amazed that they found a way to remain the joy engine they were for the previous three years of the run. But when you have the shortest turnaround in league history and hear all off-season that you can’t be beaten, you’re going to have to battle complacency.

“They have been together longer than any other group and have been grinding longer mentally than everyone other than Cleveland. It all compounds further when you endure injuries and turmoil.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

None of this, of course, is exclusive to the Warriors. Griffin’s old team practically bathes in torment, perhaps because LeBron James, after spending four years in Miami, seems to have adopted the Riley way as his own.

Over in Houston, meanwhile, the Rockets general manager Daryl Morey inspired a lengthy story this week in The Houston Chronicle about his inability to stomach watching games in person, even though he assembled the Rockets squad that just won a franchise-record 65 games and has been picked in some corners to unseat Golden State as the Western Conference champion.

In the wake of the Chronicle story, I asked Morey why it’s so hard for even the best teams to have fun. It is sports, after all.

“I’m not sure how to explain it well,” Morey said. “The only analogy I can think of is how people feel when they are close to something they have worked for and wanted for a very long time. It is stressful. Add in that the odds are long every year, and you get pain as the dominant feeling.”

No one, mind you, is ever going to feel sorry for a juggernaut like the Warriors, after two championships in the past three seasons and given the talent Myers has assembled. That’s especially true when San Antonio has only had the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard in uniform for nine games all season and when the two biggest threats to the Warriors besides Houston — Oklahoma City and Utah — are on the Rockets’ side of the playoff bracket. Golden State may not have Curry back until Round 2, and it faces uncertainty about the reliability of its bench, but it will only have to face one of those three troublesome teams to get back to a fourth successive N.B.A. finals.

Not that the Warriors can dare to assume anything. They haven’t played well enough in the season’s second half, and certainly haven’t been healthy enough, to avoid being questioned, psychoanalyzed and doubted like never before in this four-season stretch. And just imagine what happens if Leonard makes an unexpected comeback in this series.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So for his own reassurance, Myers turns to Kerr.

“Steve’s probably the best person in the world to try to navigate a team through what we’ve experienced, because he’s actually lived it as a player,” Myers said. “To be honest, I’m always asking him what we should expect.

“But the reason sports generates so much passion is because we don’t know what’s going to happen. It’s not scripted. Nobody can spoil the movie for you because nobody knows how the movie is going to end.”

Even if you ask the director.

“All I got from Steve at the start of the season was kind of a preview,” Myers said. “I asked him what this movie was going to look like, and he said, ‘Well, I can tell you it’s a drama with a lot of twists and turns.’ I’ve kind of leaned on that, and now here we are.

“I get to watch the movie now. It’s about to start.”Increasingly, though, Torres may be forcing the Yankees’ hand. He had two hits and a walk on Friday night, raising his average to .387 in eight games.

At the moment, the Yankees could use help at either third base or second. Miguel Andujar, who is playing third and batting .156, and Wade (.094) have struggled to find their footing.

Andujar, who showed signs of emerging on Friday with a double and triple, is filling in for Brandon Drury, who is on the disabled list awaiting the results of tests for migraines that left him with blurred vision last week. But Wade was supposed to be a strong presence for the Yankees as a utility player. They envisioned him playing second base on days the team faced right-handed pitchers or being a late-game defensive replacement and pinch-runner. As teams increasingly seek roster flexibility, the Yankees placed extra value on Wade’s athleticism and versatility.

He performed well during spring training, solidified a roster spot early and became confident he would quickly put last season’s tepid debut — when he batted .155 in 30 sporadic appearances — behind him.

But so far, Wade has just three hits in 32 at-bats. He was replaced in the lineup Friday night by Ronald Torreyes, who had three hits to raise his average to .429. Wade entered in the eighth inning as a defensive replacement and grounded out in his only plate appearance.

Photo

“I know he knows deep down — and we know — that he belongs at this level and he’s more than capable of contributing at this level,” the assistant hitting coach P.J. Pilittere said. “I just think when you get off to a slow start, it starts to mount and it can feel like you’re in a really big hole.”

Wade said his biggest problem at the plate was his lack of strength. He had flulike symptoms during the season-opening series in Toronto, and left a game last week against Baltimore with a fever and dizziness. He sat out the next two games, then had a day off on Monday.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wade returned Tuesday against Boston, but he was 0 for 11 in the series with six strikeouts — one of them for the final out on Thursday against Red Sox closer Craig Kimbrel.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Wade said he had lost seven or eight pounds.

“I feel all right,” said Wade, who remained congested on Friday. “I just feel weak. You need strength to play this game. My bat speed is not there, and I’m just trying to get over it.”

Wade said the throwing error he made on Thursday — bouncing an ambitious throw home past catcher Gary Sanchez — was not a case of a player pressing to make a play. “I just made a bad throw,” he said.

Pilittere, who has worked with Wade since the end of the 2015 season, said he had made adjustments in his swing during spring training in an effort to be quicker to the ball. Still, Wade has had trouble getting to inside pitches.

“The way I see it is he’s trying to cover every single pitch a guy throws, and that’s what happens when you’re not feeling great or comfortable or confident,” Pilittere said. “It’s so fickle; that conviction and that confidence is such a crazy thing. You get that back and you get going, you can deal with the results whether they’re good or bad.”

When Wade will return to the lineup is not certain. The Yankees are scheduled to face left-handers in their next six games — against Detroit, Miami and Toronto — and Wade has just five plate appearances — all hitless — against lefties.

Asked if Wade’s struggles added urgency to call up Torres, Boone said: “It’s the big leagues. There’s always urgency.”

But he added that the decision would be driven mostly by how Torres performed.

“We want him to come here when we feel like he’s in a good place and ready to contribute for the long haul,” Boone said. “I would say Gleyber plays more into those kinds of decisions, more so than necessarily a short-term, knee-jerk need.”

INSIDE PITCH

Aaron Hicks, who came off the disabled list on Thursday, hit two home runs in Friday’s win over the Tigers — one of which was inside the park. Hicks, who also walked twice, drove in three runs. … C. C. Sabathia (hip) is expected to return from the disabled list on Tuesday to pitch against the Miami Marlins.Generally it’s assumed these viruses originate on the planet and are swept upward, but some researchers theorize that viruses actually may originate in the atmosphere. (There is a small group of researchers who believe viruses may even have come here from outer space, an idea known as panspermia.)

Whatever the case, viruses are the most abundant entities on the planet by far. While Dr. Suttle’s team found hundreds of millions of viruses in a square meter, they counted tens of millions of bacteria in the same space.

Mostly thought of as infectious agents, viruses are much more than that. It’s hard to overstate the central role that viruses play in the world: They’re essential to everything from our immune system to our gut microbiome, to the ecosystems on land and sea, to climate regulation and the evolution of all species. Viruses contain a vast diverse array of unknown genes — and spread them to other species.

Last year, three experts called for a new initiative to better understand viral ecology, especially as the planet changes. “Viruses modulate the function and evolution of all living things,” wrote Matthew B. Sullivan of Ohio State, Joshua Weitz of Georgia Tech, and Steven W. Wilhelm of the University of Tennessee. “But to what extent remains a mystery.”

Photo

Do viruses even fit the definition of something alive? While they are top predators of the microbial world, they lack the ability to reproduce and so must take over the cell of a host — called an infection — and use its machinery to replicate. The virus injects its own DNA into the host; sometimes that new genes are useful to the host and become part of its genome.

Researchers recently identified an ancient virus that inserted its DNA into the genomes of four-limbed animals that were human ancestors. That snippet of genetic code, called ARC, is part of the nervous system of modern humans and plays a role in human consciousness — nerve communication, memory formation and higher-order thinking. Between 40 percent and 80 percent of the human genome may be linked to ancient viral invasions.

Viruses and their prey are also big players in the world’s ecosystems. Much research now is aimed at factoring their processes into our understanding of how the planet works.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“If you could weigh all the living material in the oceans, 95 percent of it is stuff is you can’t see, and they are responsible for supplying half the oxygen on the planet,” Dr. Suttle said.

In laboratory experiments, he has filtered viruses out of seawater but left their prey, bacteria. When that happens, plankton in the water stop growing. That’s because when preying viruses infect and take out one species of microbe — they are very specific predators — they liberate nutrients in them, such as nitrogen, that feed other species of bacteria. In the same way, an elk killed by a wolf becomes food for ravens, coyotes and other species. As plankton grow, they take in carbon dioxide and create oxygen.

One study estimated that viruses in the ocean cause a trillion trillion infections every second, destroying some 20 percent of all bacterial cells in the sea daily.

Viruses help keep ecosystems in balance by changing the composition of microbial communities. As toxic algae blooms spread in the ocean, for example, they are brought to heel by a virus that attacks the algae and causes it to explode and die, ending the outbreak in as little as a day.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

While some viruses and other organisms have evolved together and have achieved a kind of balance, an invasive virus can cause rapid, widespread changes and even lead to extinction.

West Nile virus has changed the composition of bird communities in much of the United States, killing crows and favoring ravens, some researchers say. Multiple extinctions of birds in Hawaii are predicted as the mosquito-borne avipoxvirus spreads into mountain forests where it was once too cold for mosquitoes to live.

When species disappear, the changes can ripple through an ecosystem. A textbook example is a viral disease called rinderpest.

Photo

The Italian army brought a few cattle into North Africa, and in 1887 the virus took off across the continent, killing a broad range of cloven-hoofed animals from Eritrea to South Africa — in some cases wiping out 95 percent of the herds.

“It infected antelope, it infected wildebeest and other large grazers across the whole ecosystem,” said Peter Daszak, the president of Ecohealth Alliance, which is working on a global project to catalog viruses likely to pass from animals to humans.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The impact was not just on the animals. But because they are primary grazers and they died off in huge numbers, vegetation was impacted, and it allowed trees to grow where they would have been grazed away,” he said.

“The large acacia trees on the plains of Africa are all the same age and were seedlings when rinderpest first came in and the wildlife died,” Dr. Daszak said. In other places, far less grazing created a hospitable habitat for the tsetse fly, which carries the parasites that cause sleeping sickness.

“These kinds of ecological changes can last for centuries or even millennia,” Dr. Daszak said.

Combined with drought, large numbers of people died from starvation as rinderpest spread. An explorer in 1891 estimated two-thirds of the Masai people, who depended on cattle, were killed.

“Almost instantaneously, rinderpest swept away the wealth of tropical Africa,” wrote John Reader in his book “Africa: A Biography of a Continent.”

With intensive vaccinations, rinderpest was completely wiped out, not only in Africa but globally in 2011.

The beneficial effects of viruses are much less known, especially among plants. “There are huge questions in wild systems about what viruses are doing there,” said Marilyn Roossinck, who studies viral ecology in plants at Pennsylvania State University. “We have never found deleterious effects from a virus in the wild.”

A grass found in the high-temperature soils of Yellowstone’s geothermal areas, for example, needs a fungus to grow in the extreme environment. In turn, the fungus needs a virus.

Tiny spots of virus on the plant that yields quinoa is also important for the plant’s survival. “Little spots of virus confer drought tolerance but don’t cause disease,” she said. “It changes the whole plant physiology.”

“Viruses aren’t our enemies,” Dr. Suttle said. “Certain nasty viruses can make you sick, but it’s important to recognize that viruses and other microbes out there are absolutely integral for the ecosystem.”He had recurring roles on several of them, notably as Dr. Elias Huer, Buck Rogers’s boss, on the NBC science fiction show “Buck Rogers in the 25th Century” beginning in 1979. He also had extended parts on the daytime drama “General Hospital” and the prime-time series “Dynasty.”

His longest role was Elliot Carson, whom he played in more than 400 episodes of “Peyton Place,” television’s first prime time soap opera. Based on a film adaptation of Grace Metalious’s best-selling novel, it aired on ABC as many as three times a week.

Carson was introduced partway through the first season, arriving in the town of Peyton Place after serving nearly two decades in prison for a murder he did not commit. He was the biological father of Allison, played by Mia Farrow, and eventually married Constance, played by one of the show’s biggest stars, Dorothy Malone, who died in January.

Photo

Carson, while working at the local newspaper, struggled to clear his name but harbored deep resentment over his imprisonment, which Mr. O’Connor allowed to bubble up at times.

“Elliot had a subtext of anger that was there at the root, and could begin to surface at any time,” Mr. O’Connor said. “He really had no in-between. His experience of the time he spent in the penitentiary, and his survival in the penitentiary, I think gave him a different sense of being.”

Timothy Joseph O’Connor was born in Chicago on June 3, 1927, and grew up on the South Side. He served stateside in the Navy during World War II, then studied acting at the Goodman Theater in Chicago and performed in summer stock productions before departing for New York in the early 1950s.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. O’Connor appeared in Off-Broadway productions of “Hamlet,” “Romeo and Juliet” and “Macbeth” and as a replacement as John Proctor in Arthur Miller’s “The Crucible.” He also had roles in two short-lived Broadway shows, “First Love” and “General Seeger,” in the early 1960s.

During those years, he and his wife lived in a house on a small island in Glen Wild Lake in Essex County, N.J. They gave up the house after Mr. O’Connor tired of commuting to Los Angeles for television work and moved west.

He also acted in several films, including the Leslie Nielsen comedy “The Naked Gun 2½: The Smell of Fear.”

Mr. O’Connor’s first two marriages ended in divorce. He married Sheila MacLurg, who survives him, in 1979. In addition to her and his stepson Garth, he is survived by two other stepsons, Anthony and Jonas Kant; a son from an earlier marriage, Timothy; and five step-grandchildren.

Mr. O’Connor said he would immerse himself in scripts until he knew them “backwards.” He recalled that as a young man in Chicago, “I’d be on the train, looking out the window, and I’d be talking the lines.”

“Often the conductor would come up and be standing there looking at me, wondering what’s the matter with me,” he said.Photo

Among the many new statistics created by the baseball maven Bill James is the similarity score, which compares players across eras. The most similar player to the Mets’ Yoenis Cespedes? Gus Zernial of the early 1950s Philadelphia Athletics.

If similarity scores could be applied to television shows, there’s no doubt which current series would score as most similar to the classic 1950s cop show “Dragnet.” Detective Harry Bosch doesn’t actually say “This is the city: Los Angeles, California,” but “Bosch” — whose fourth season went up Friday on Amazon Prime — is the spiritual heir to that granddaddy of laconic L.A. procedurals.

It’s part of a tradition that carries down through “Adam-12,” “Police Woman,” “Quincy, M.E.,” “The Shield” and “Southland,” and it wears its nostalgia proudly. Neither the character nor the show makes apologies for being old school. “Bosch” isn’t the best or most original series, but it’s honest and reliable, like Bosch. It plays fair with the viewer, and among fans of its genre, it has a rabid following.

Developed for television by Eric Overmyer from novels by Michael Connelly, the show accommodates the modern serial drama’s requirements for psychology and back story. Bosch’s daughter and ex-wife are significant characters, and the unsolved murder of his mother (with its echoes of the Black Dahlia case) continues to haunt him in Season 4. (A fifth season has already been ordered.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the soul of the series is procedural crime-solving, and that’s more than ever the case in the new season, which focuses on the murder of an African-American lawyer who was about to go to court with a brutality case against the Los Angeles Police Department.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Bosch and his team spend their time doing phone dumps, poring through financial records, searching homes and offices and then searching them again, and endlessly, fruitlessly tailing suspects through the Southern California streets and strip malls. They do it all on camera, and they complain about it. A lot.The Bathroom

Somewhere between a Manhattan subway station and a colonial lodge, the small but appealing bathroom was lined with white rectangular tile and wood-slat blinds over the windows. The sizable shower was big enough to host an editorial meeting, but a tub would have been more conducive to scribbling and reading. The hotel-brand shampoo and shower gel are made with Thai white charcoal, a substance said to “emit negative ions that increase your sense of well-being, ” according to the overwrought text in the room’s guest services guide.

Image The rooftop garden at Bangkok Publishing Residence. Credit Bangkok Publishing Residence

Amenities

Crowded rooftop bars fill this teeming, tall city.

The hotel bucks the trend with a private and lushly planted rooftop garden, complete with fruit trees, a small library lounge and a whirlpool tub. You can grab a banana (from the source), a best-seller (Charles Dickens, Stephen King, Agatha Christie) and plunge into cool, bubbly waters as you plunge into fictional worlds.

Image The lobby where breakfast is served at Bangkok Publishing Residence. Credit Bangkok Publishing Residence

Dining

“One cannot think well, love well, sleep well, if one has not dined well,” as Virginia Woolf wrote in “A Room of One’s Own.” Alas, it seems that Bangkok Publishing Residence missed that week of book club: The hotel has no restaurant, and the (free) minibar offers just some small packets of candies, nuts and sliced fruits, along with water and juice. The writer’s most vital nourishment and inspiration — alcohol — is also absent. Bangkok Publishing Residence does have a kitchen, however, and a copious breakfast of eggs, meats and fruits, staves off total hunger.Wood-roasted rabbit sliders. Chesapeake Bay oysters. Osetra caviar. This is not your typical bar food.

Black Rabbit, which opened in November in downtown Nashville, is the latest brainchild of the local chef Trey Cioccia. He and his business partner Robert Compton fell in love with an 1890s brick building near Printers Alley, the hub that buzzed with night life many decades ago. They wanted to recreate that early-20th-century ambience by featuring handcrafted cocktails, small plates to share and live music. While a visit may feel like stepping back in time, the food and drinks are some of the most innovative in Music City today.

“Back then, Printer’s Alley was the place,” said Mr. Cioccia of the one-block-long street. He wanted the bar “to be a cool little social place for adults where you can have a conversation, do business, maybe play a game in front of the fire.”

What’s notable — other than the fantastic cocktails, original brick walls and wood floors — is the quality of the food. Mr. Cioccia made a name for himself nearby at the Farm House restaurant, where he specializes in Southern fare, working closely with local farmers and ranchers to procure the best ingredients.Insults since Mr. Trump became president are highlighted in yellow; the most recent updates are slightly darker. (This list covers tweets since Mr. Trump declared his candidacy.)I saw, for example, a hint of the money being spent. Officials have been vague on the precise cost of the deployment, but the resources before me were stunning: pricey Bushnell binoculars, hotel rooms, rental vehicles. Texas has had troops on the border since 2014 as part of a state mobilization, and the cost was roughly $1 million a month. This new, federally financed deployment will run far higher.

It all started last Saturday, when Marc Lacey, The Times’s National editor, asked me to request an embed with the troops on the border in Texas. On Monday, the Guard sent me an email back stating that I had been selected, along with the Times photographer Lynsey Addario. We would have five hours, starting at noon Tuesday, the first of several media embeds of Texas ground forces planned during Mr. Trump’s deployment.

But first, I had to sign my life away. The Guard gave us a five-page form. By signing it, I acknowledged that I had been advised by the Guard that, “in pursuing the successful accomplishment of its mission,” the state’s military forces could not “guarantee my personal safety or the safety of my equipment.”

On Tuesday at noon, Weslaco was hit with a lightning storm. Part of the armory where we and a few other media outlets gathered had no power. Soldiers were walking around dark halls using the lights from their phones. Our departure at noon was pushed to 1:45 p.m.

Before we got on the highway, we were told we could not reveal our locations, other than to say we were in Starr County. And we could not photograph the full faces of the troops — to protect their identity and safety. Military leaders worried that smugglers would target them for speaking out.

On the one hand, there was an element of organizational paranoia at play. But the border — not the towns and cities where people live, but the physical line on the Rio Grande — can be a dangerous place. In 2011, drug smugglers trying to protect a raft loaded with marijuana threw rocks and fired up to six gunshots at officers on the border near the places where we traveled (the agents answered those six gunshots with a barrage of about 300).

I thought about that incident as I stood next to a soldier overlooking the river.

He said nothing to me as he stared through binoculars. He was in his 20s. He wore a wedding ring. He was Latino. I would guess he lived not too far away from where he stood at that moment. This young man was a visual representative of America and vulnerable to those six gunshots in a way that I was not. So much of this debate has been filled with generalities that I appreciated the chance to put a specific human face on the issue. When I think about it now, I picture that silent, focused young man, his M-4 rifle and his silver wedding band.

There was a moment at the first observation post when Ms. Addario — who has risked her life covering war zones around the world and was captured and held in Libya for six days in 2011 — wanted to stand on a Humvee to get a better shot. She was told not to. It was too risky. At the second observation post, Ms. Addario persisted, and ended up climbing a Humvee. A soldier who served as the media coordinator assured a captain that she had, indeed, signed a waiver, and they let her do it. She came down safely, without a scratch.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mission — that little one at least — accomplished.“Stage: ‘Fool for Love,’ Sam Shepard Western,” by Frank Rich, published May 27, 1983.

Image Credit Weichia Huang

What No One Could Have Predicted

Lawrence K. Altman, M.D. joined The New York Times science news staff in 1969, and is believed to be the first licensed physician to work as a daily newspaper reporter.

New York and the rest of the world, including The New York Times, were ill-prepared for the arrival and spread of a new disease (later named AIDS) when the first cases were recognized among gay men in 1981. For three years, while fear tore through the gay community, the world’s most sophisticated laboratories could not identify the cause. Experts debated various candidates (among them: toxins, drugs, sperm in the bowel) until the discovery of the retrovirus H.I.V. Even after epidemiologists documented that the virus spread only through sexual contact, childbirth or injections of contaminated drugs and blood, disbelievers shunned public restrooms and restaurants for fear that it could be passed through food and flatware. Many hospital workers avoided AIDS patients and left trays by the door where occupants were too weak to pick them up. Some doctors refused to treat AIDS patients.

At the time, medicine was celebrating the eradication of a naturally occurring disease (smallpox) from the world for the first time and installing the first artificial hearts in humans. Earlier, I had written about the discoveries of the Ebola and Lassa fever viruses and the Legionnaire’s disease bacterium, as well as the ways in which health workers stopped outbreaks of these infections. Few thought — and certainly no one I know went on record to predict — that AIDS would become one of the worst pandemics in history, infecting an estimated 76 million people and killing 35 million of them.

At Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan, where, in the late 1970s, I was an attending physician in addition to working as a reporter at The Times, I saw a small number of young patients with unusual infections. Others had enlarged lymph nodes throughout their body. Many had been injection drug users. These cases baffled the medical staff.

My plans to write about the mysterious ailment before my first article about AIDS appeared on July 3, 1981 were thwarted by assigned coverage of the attempted assassinations of President Reagan and Pope John Paul II and by two broken elbows, souvenirs of an accident in Italy. My initial article focused on 41 cases of a rare cancer, Kaposi’s sarcoma, in homosexual men (The Times did not allow people to be described as “gay” at that time) who also had seriously abnormal immune systems. But whether these immune issues were the cause of, or resulted from, their ailment was unknown. Many in the gay community ridiculed the article as a needless scare. Scientists who went on to become international leaders in battling AIDS considered this collection of cases to be an oddity, until a broader picture emerged in the advancing months and years. In 1985, I traveled through Africa to report that in many sub-Saharan countries, AIDS infected nearly as many women as men through heterosexual intercourse. I went on to write several hundred articles about scientific discoveries of the virus, its uncanny ability to trick the immune system and the development of drugs that now make AIDS a chronic disease. Despite these and other advances, it is still transmitted in this country and the world.

“Rare Cancer Seen in 41 Homosexuals,” by Lawrence K. Altman, published July 3, 1981.Marking stairs and cabinet doors with bright-colored tape can also help accentuate edges. “Bold colors and textured markings and walls help people identify where they are,” Mr. Magnusson said.

Many people will have to tackle small home improvement projects like these if they start to lose their vision, he said.

Photo

The number of Americans diagnosed with blindness or low vision, which is defined as having an uncorrectable vision loss that interferes with daily activities, is steadily growing. There were more than 3.3 million people over 40 who were blind or had low vision in 2004, a figure expected to double by 2030 because more people will be diagnosed with diabetes and other chronic diseases, and the nation’s population is rapidly aging, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Other practical household changes include using solid colors for floors or kitchen countertops instead of patterned tiles or designs to make it easier to find things that have dropped.

“You take for granted how easy it is to clean something up” when you have your vision, said Gerald Hayes, who became legally blind about nine years ago due to complications from glaucoma.

Mr. Hayes, 74, said he liked to keep clear paths in the living room of his one-bedroom apartment in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, to avoid tripping. “I know exactly how many steps it takes from my front door to the living room chair, but I certainly don’t need things in my way,” he said.

Photo

Paula Dertouzos, who lost sight in both eyes as a teenager from congenital glaucoma, agreed, saying she kept her apartment at Selis Manor “open and airy.” Ms. Dertouzos bought a smaller couch and chairs for her living room, which are pushed up against the wall and window. She also got rid of her coffee table after “killing her legs” one too many times.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I call it creative modification,” said Ms. Dertouzos, 68. “If you want to be independent, you need a home that’s functional.”

Ms. Dertouzos said she especially liked some of the new technological upgrades that were included in the overhaul at her building. A talking thermostat has made adjusting the temperature much simpler and a new intercom system has made it easier to contact the front desk.

Although she hasn’t ordered any goods using the Amazon Echo she received for Christmas, Ms. Dertouzos said she used the smart speaker to check the weather, play music and participate in what has turned into one of her favorite activities, a daily quiz game.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Ruthie Aybar, who lost most of her sight because of a retinal degenerative disease, lives with three of her four children in a Downtown Brooklyn apartment. She said one of the most important changes she made involved the lighting in her home.

“I had track lighting but they’re really not good,” she said. She bought new lamps and installed LED light bulbs. Some of the lamps bend, so she can point them where she needs light, and blinds or shades that adjust easily help keep out the glare, she added.

She’d like more sunlight, though, after living in a unit that faced an indoor courtyard for 12 years. “Your light source makes a huge difference,” she said.

In the city, individuals who have been diagnosed with low vision or blindness can contact local nonprofit organizations like Helen Keller, Lighthouse Guild or Visions/Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired, to help them adapt to a new living environment. National organizations include the American Foundation for the Blind and the National Federation of the Blind.

Many of these agencies have occupational therapists and staff members who teach classes and make house calls to help determine what needs to be altered and what adaptive products might be needed to help people with impaired vision remain in their homes.

Ms. Aybar, 42, said she recently started using a cellphone app developed by Microsoft called Seeing AI, an intelligent camera app that can verbally describe what is viewed through the phone.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It doesn’t work correctly all the time,” she said, “but the fact that I have a tool on my phone is simply amazing.”Anne Wilkes Tucker was granted special access to the Library of Congress’ photographic archives of over 14 million pictures and has curated an exhibit featuring more than 440 images at the Annenberg Space for Photography in Los Angeles. Ms. Tucker, the curator emerita of Houston’s Museum of Fine Arts, chose a wide array of mostly rare and never before exhibited images that highlight the collection’s breadth and depth for the show “Not an Ostrich: And Other Images From America’s Library,” which opens April 21. Ms. Tucker spoke with James Estrin, and their conversation has been edited for clarity and brevity.

Q: How did this show come to be?

A: The idea of the show was to represent the Library of Congress collection. By the time I got invited to be the curator, the Annenberg Center had already decided that the show would not be original prints, but would be images on a screen. And they wanted me to pick at least 500 photographs that were previously uncataloged. So all of this was totally new to me. My whole life, I was thinking linearly, on walls or in books.

So, for a year and a half, for a week to two weeks every month, I went and sat in the Library of Congress.