Administration and congressional officials said the hawkish Mr. Bolton is not expected to defer to the defense secretary; already, neoconservative members of the Republican foreign policy establishment have started to air concerns that Mr. Mattis is ceding strategic territory to Iran and Russia in Syria.

Mr. Mattis is widely viewed by global leaders as the strongest and perhaps most credible voice on foreign policy in an administration that has been rocked by firings and resignations among senior presidential advisers. The recent exits of both General McMaster and Rex W. Tillerson as secretary of state has focused more attention on Mr. Mattis’s role in the cabinet.

On Tuesday, Mr. Mattis and Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, briefed lawmakers on Capitol Hill about the Syria airstrikes in closed-door meetings.

“We’ve got to put a check on this president, on any president, when it comes to Congress’s constitutional responsibility to wage war,” Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, said in an interview on Tuesday. She called last week’s Syria’s strikes “illegal.”

As he pressed his case last week, before the allied strikes with Britain and France, Mr. Mattis lost the battle over getting congressional authorization. But he won the larger war.

Mr. Mattis prevailed in limiting the strikes to three targets that did not risk endangering Russian troops scattered at military installations around Syria. Nor did the 105 missiles hit Syrian military units believed to be responsible for carrying out an April 7 suspected chemical weapons attack on Douma, near Damascus.

In the end, the narrowly targeted strikes belied Mr. Trump’s description Friday night of a larger coordinated response that could take days or weeks.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The combined American, British and French response to these atrocities will integrate all instruments of our national power — military, economic and diplomatic,” Mr. Trump said in an address to the nation as the strikes were underway. “We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.”

But there have been no additional strikes since then, and the Pentagon said no more are being planned. “This is a one-time shot,” Mr. Mattis said on Friday, calling the airstrikes “a very strong message to dissuade” President Bashar al-Assad of Syria from using chemical weapons against his own people.

Mr. Trump’s drumbeat of threats last week of a sharp response to the suspected gas attacks all but guaranteed that the United States military would strike Syria, according to two Defense Department officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Even so, Mr. Mattis pushed to get congressional authorization, according to people with knowledge of the internal debate. In several White House meetings last week, he underscored the importance of linking military operations to public support — a view Mr. Mattis has long held.

Col. Patrick S. Ryder of the Air Force, a spokesman for General Dunford, on Tuesday declined to discuss the internal debate between the Pentagon and the White House over the strikes’ reach before they were launched.

It marked the second public divergence of views between Mr. Trump and Mr. Mattis over Syria in the past two weeks.

Just days before the suspected chemical attack, the president said he was ready for the estimated 2,000 American troops currently in Syria to leave the battlefield, where they have been fighting alongside Kurdish allies against the Islamic State. Mr. Mattis and other aides quickly talked him out an immediate withdrawal.

Pentagon officials said there was also worry that congressional opposition to American military engagements that still rely on authorizations approved after the 2001 terrorist attacks could grow without getting Capitol Hill onboard before striking at Mr. Assad’s chemical weapons program.

Mr. Trump did not necessarily want to hit Syria hard enough to bring Russia into the war, administration officials said. But he did want to appear aggressive in his response.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“He just wants the big show,” said Derek Chollet, an assistant secretary of defense in the Obama administration. “So Mattis was probably pushing on an open door.”

Mr. Mattis is particularly concerned about overextending the American military in Syria. He does not want the United States to veer from its stated policy of focusing only on the fight in Syria against the Islamic State — and avoid delving into the country’s seven-year civil war.

Russian forces and Iranian militias have helped Mr. Assad remain in power against Syrian opposition fighters who accuse him of a brutal siege against the country.

“The strike was really just enough to cover the president politically, but not enough to spark a war with the Russians,” said Jon Soltz, a two-tour veteran of the Iraq war who is chairman of the liberal veterans group VoteVets. “It was clear the military had tight constraints on the operation, and that everybody in the military seemed to know that except the president.”

Mr. Mattis publicly disputed suggestions on Tuesday that the limited strikes amounted to little more than a public relations punch at Mr. Assad.

“The French, the United Kingdom, the United States, allies, all NATO allies, we worked together to maintain the prohibition on the use of chemical weapons,” Mr. Mattis said at the Pentagon. “We did what we believe was right under international law, under our nation’s laws.

“And I hope that this time, the Assad regime got the message,” Mr. Mattis said.Photo

Barbara Bush, wife of the 41st president and mother of the 43rd, died on Tuesday at the age of 92, prompting an outpouring of tributes and remembrances.

In a statement, President Trump said that “as a wife, mother, grandmother, military spouse and former first lady, Mrs. Bush was an advocate of the American family.”

On both sides of the aisle, lawmakers joined him in emphasizing Mrs. Bush’s support for literacy programs. Through the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy and other outlets, it was one of her most treasured causes.

“Through her own work to promote literacy as a value in every American home, countless families now have the knowledge and skills they need to thrive in all aspects of their lives,” President Jimmy Carter said in a statement.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mrs. Bush is survived by her husband, her brother, five children, 17 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren, many of whom shared tributes of their own.It was unclear what caused the problem, which lasted from the early morning hours until a little after 5 p.m. David Kautter, the acting I.R.S. commissioner, who happened to be testifying before Congress on an unrelated issue during the failure, told lawmakers that “a number of I.R.S. systems were unavailable” and that the agency was working to fix the problem. He later apologized for the situation.

The I.R.S. said that the problem was most likely related to a hardware issue and was not the result of a cyberattack. Congressional aides who were monitoring the situation on Tuesday said that they expected the I.R.S. to have to reboot its entire computer system.

Lawmakers and former government officials blamed an antiquated computer system that has deteriorated as a result of budget cuts for the tech malfunction. Since 2010, the agency’s total budget has fallen from about $14 billion to $11.5 billion, and its staff has shrunk by 20,000, to nearly 76,000. The tax code has only grown more complex during that period and the population of the United States has increased, along with the number of people who file electronically.

A top I.R.S. official warned Congress in October that a “catastrophic” system failure was just a matter of time.

“The I.R.S. needs to upgrade its I.T. infrastructure, not only to help ensure reliable and modern taxpayer services, but also to mitigate risks to the system,” Jeffrey Tribiano, the I.R.S. deputy commissioner for operations support, told the House Ways and Means oversight subcommittee. “We are concerned that the potential for a catastrophic system failure is increasing as our infrastructure continues to age.”

At the congressional hearing, Mr. Kautter lamented the fact that much of the I.R.S.’s computing hardware is obsolete and that a significant portion of its software needs updating. He said that the agency faced more than two million attempted cyberattacks per day and that it desperately needed more resources to upgrade its systems and to bolster its defenses.

John Koskinen, the former I.R.S. commissioner who left the agency last year, said that the agency’s computer system had deteriorated after years of neglect and that it likely crashed as a result of increased strain ahead of the filing deadline. Last year, five million taxpayers filed on Tax Day.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I kept telling Congress, if funding continues to be constrained, it’s not a matter of if, it’s a matter of when the system fails,” said Mr. Koskinen, who filed his taxes over the weekend. “You really are rolling the dice when you operate that way.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The I.R.S. initially urged taxpayers to try to complete their filings ahead of the deadline, despite the malfunction, prompting some confusion about how to go about doing so.

Among those who did not have to worry about filing late was President Trump, who requested a six-month extension to file his returns because of their complexity, according to the White House. The I.R.S. said it was expecting about 15 million people to request six-month extensions.

The crash was reminiscent of the problems that plagued the Affordable Care Act’s online health insurance exchange under President Barack Obama. It came on a day when Mr. Trump and his top advisers were trumpeting the tax cut passed by Congress late last year.

“President Trump was able to fix a broken tax system,” Mr. Mnuchin said during the New Hampshire event on Tuesday afternoon.

The malfunction comes as Republican lawmakers have been mulling legislation to restructure the I.R.S., which will face additional strain as it tries to issue new guidance and regulations to clarify lingering questions about the new tax law.

The issue of overhauling the I.R.S. has been a challenging one for Republicans, who have long criticized the agency for unfairly targeting conservatives. Some lawmakers, such as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, have vowed to “abolish” the agency.

In recent months, though, Republicans have reversed course. Leaders of the Ways and Means Committee have introduced a bill to “modernize” the agency, moving it away from outdated technologies and refocusing its mission on customer service.

“Our goal is to redesign, refocus and rein in the I.R.S.,” Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the Republican chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said on Tuesday. “Redesign the I.R.S. by insisting they bring back to Congress a comprehensive restructuring of the organization to focus on customer service.”

Democrats seized on the computer failure on Tuesday as evidence that Republicans, who pushed the tax overhaul through Congress and have starved the agency of funding over the years, had been negligent.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s clear from today’s events that the I.R.S. needs adequate funding to protect and operate its I.T. systems,” said Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. “What you’re seeing today is not just the responsibility of the I.R.S., but of the years of Republican Congress neglect, too.”That cheerful message on Tuesday was undercut by a systemwide crash of the Internal Revenue Service computers, which prevented taxpayers and preparers from filing returns online.

Many people file for more time to prepare their returns; I.R.S. officials said they expected as many as 15 million to do so this year. But the president’s decision to seek an extension broke with years of tradition established by his predecessors and once again underscored the fact that Mr. Trump’s tax returns remain a state secret.

Previous presidents have routinely filed their tax returns on time and released them publicly while running for office and once they assumed the presidency, in part to show how much they earned and how much they donated to charity.

President Barack Obama’s returns showed that he earned millions of dollars as he entered the White House in 2009, almost all of it from royalties related to Mr. Obama’s books, “Dreams From My Father” and “The Audacity of Hope.” Sales of those books made him a multimillionaire.

But Mr. Obama’s returns, which were posted on the White House website each year in April, revealed that his income plummeted after that as sales of the books began to slow. In 2012, Mr. Obama made $608,000, with most of his income coming from his presidential salary of $400,000 a year.

That year, Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, gave $150,000 of their income, or about 25 percent, to charity.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Richard M. Nixon was the first modern president to make his tax returns public. He did so under pressure, after being accused of having improperly taken a huge tax deduction — eliminated by Congress — for donating his presidential papers.

In 1973, Jack White, a reporter for The Providence Journal-Bulletin broke the news that Mr. Nixon had paid just $878.03 in 1971 even though he had income of more than $400,000. The article led to Nixon’s famous quotation: “People have got to know whether or not their president is a crook. Well, I am not a crook.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Not long after, the I.R.S. announced it would audit the president’s returns, and Nixon released five years’ worth of tax documents. Presidents have largely done so ever since.

Until Mr. Trump.

His tax returns have long been a source of speculation and criticism. Mr. Trump has said in the past that, as a businessman, he fought to pay as little tax as possible so that the government would not waste his money.

But he has insisted that he was advised not to reveal his tax returns as long as they were subject to a continuing I.R.S. audit, a claim that critics have derided as little more than a convenient excuse.

All presidential tax returns are automatically audited, making it increasingly unlikely that Mr. Trump will willingly release his returns while in office.

Although portions of Mr. Trump’s returns have leaked in the past, they remain one of the most closely guarded secrets in Washington. Last year, the departing commissioner of the I.R.S., John A. Koskinen, said that the agency was building a new vault to protect hard copies of the returns.

Given the president’s longstanding refusals, there was little expectation that Mr. Trump would make his 2017 tax returns public. But the decision to seek a six-month extension came as something of a surprise.

Mr. Trump filed last year for a similar extension of his 2016 taxes as he and his accountants faced the task of preparing a tax return for the first time as president.

But the president’s tax experts had more than a year to get ready for his 2017 tax returns. White House officials did not explain why Mr. Trump’s accountants would need an additional six months.The declaration comes as Mr. Trump has been in discussions with South Korea about peace talks with North Korea and as the president hosts Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan at Mar-a-Lago, where they are expected to discuss trade, among other issues.

When Mr. Trump withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership last year, he proposed a bilateral trade deal with Japan in its place. But Japan’s deputy prime minister, Taro Aso, ruled out that possibility in March, saying that such a negotiation would lead to unnecessary pain for Japan.

Instead, Japan forged ahead with a deal among the accord’s 11 remaining members, which they reached last month. Japan maintains that this agreement is still fragile, and that negotiating another pact with the United States could put its success at risk.

Japan has said it would be willing to enter a one-on-one deal only if it would serve as a bridge to the United States’ re-entering the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Other countries have also been cool to the idea of giving any ground to the United States after they spent months reworking the deal after Mr. Trump withdrew.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But the stem-winding deliberations about the pact have added another dose of confusion to Mr. Trump’s trade policy as anxiety grows that the Trump administration is on the verge of starting a global trade war.

In recent weeks, Mr. Trump unveiled sweeping tariffs on global imports of steel and aluminum, only to announce generous exceptions for several American allies. He also announced stiff tariffs on up to $150 billion worth of Chinese imports, before his economic advisers suggested that this might have been a negotiating tactic.

After striking a new bilateral trade agreement with South Korea last month, Mr. Trump suggested that he might hold out for a better deal down the road.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Mr. Trump regularly muses about ending the North American Free Trade Agreement, even as his advisers say publicly that negotiations with Canada and Mexico are proceeding in a positive direction.

The mixed signals have put the president’s economic advisers in an awkward position and raised the hopes of many Republicans in Congress who have been optimistic that he would seek ways to ease trade tensions. Farmers and business groups have been fearful that retaliation from other countries on trade will stall the recent strength in the economy.

“This whole trade thing has exploded,” Larry Kudlow, the director of the White House’s National Economic Council, said last week, explaining that he was pulling together a team to begin renegotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

While rejoining the pact would please some Republicans, it would have been a significant breach of a campaign promise and an embrace of a policy that the president has described as a “rape of our country.” For that reason, many of Mr. Trump’s closest aides have been quietly playing down the prospects of re-entry.

On Tuesday morning, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that Mr. Trump made a “big announcement” this year when he said he would consider rejoining the trade pact. However, he cautioned that the United States would only do so if it could cut a much better deal.

Asked on CNBC about the chances of the United States rejoining the pact, Mr. Mnuchin demurred.

“I’m not going to handicap it,” he said.Later, a long line of opponents portrayed the bill as a threat to neighborhoods and low-income residents and at one point began chanting: “827, what do we say? Kill the bill, kill the bill.”

Despite the disagreement, there was a broad consensus — among senators on the raised dais, among the constituents and lobbyists in the room — that housing costs remain a central issue.

Photo

“This issue isn’t going away,” Mr. Wiener said.

The public reaction to the bill seemed to underscore that. Ever since Mr. Wiener introduced S.B. 827 on Jan. 3 — the first day of the legislative session — it has dominated the state’s conversation about housing. The bill came up in political debates and candidate interviews, and cities across the state had votes on whether or not they supported it.

Mr. Wiener added amendments to reduce the bill’s height limits and strengthen protections for lower-income residents who might be displaced by demolition of older, more affordable buildings. But that did little to move the most entrenched opponents, and introducing it in an election year made it tough for lawmakers to support something so polarizing.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Some of the fiercest opposition came from local governments arguing that the bill would strip them of land-use decisions. The bill was also opposed by groups concerned about gentrification in neighborhoods already pummeled by rising rents.

“This bill will exacerbate an already perilous situation for tenants throughout the state,” said Damien Goodmon, director of Housing Is a Human Right, a division of the AIDS Healthcare Foundation in Los Angeles.

More than anything else, the bill showed the political challenges of building housing in places where people already live — something California will almost certainly will have to do to make progress on this problem.

But there seems to be little consensus on how to go about that. Mr. Wiener’s bill split a number of constituencies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Wiener pitched his bill as a way to combat climate change by fostering neighborhoods that allow more people to commute to work without car — a goal that almost every conservation group supports. But the California chapter of the Sierra Club opposed the bill, while other groups, like the Natural Resources Defense Council, stood in favor of it.

Even with the committee action, the idea of state intervention in what has historically been a local problem is unlikely to go away. Mr. Wiener vowed to bring back the bill. So this may be remembered as the start of a long negotiation over how to make cities less hostile to new construction.

In an interview earlier this year, Gavin Newsom, a former San Francisco mayor now running for governor, said that California was in “code red” for housing affordability and that he liked the “spirit” of Mr. Wiener’s bill, but he would not support it as written. “I told him point blank, ‘I would not sign this bill, but I love what you are doing. How can I help?’”His statements, which came as he welcomed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to his oceanfront estate here, were fresh evidence of a diplomatic thaw underway on the Korean Peninsula, and made a once-unthinkable encounter between him and Mr. Kim far more likely.

The president did not specify who in his administration was talking to North Korea, nor did he give any hint of the sites under consideration — adding to the aura of mystery that has enveloped this potential meeting. The Washington Post first reported Mr. Pompeo’s trip, which took place over Easter.

But his comments could raise other thorny issues. A peace treaty with North Korea would greatly increase pressure to ease economic sanctions on the North and to withdraw American troops from the Korean Peninsula. It would also complicate the already tangled diplomacy in East Asia.

In his meeting with Mr. Abe, however, Mr. Trump projected optimism. He described North Korea in language worlds away from the speech he gave in November in Seoul, when he called it cruel and barbaric, “the results of a tragic experiment in a laboratory of history.”

“I really believe there’s a lot of good will,” Mr. Trump said. “They do respect us. We are respectful of them.”

He even suggested that the North and the South might announce some kind of deal before he met Mr. Kim.

On Tuesday, a South Korean newspaper, Munhwa Ilbo, reported that the two countries were negotiating an announcement “to ease military tensions and end a military confrontation,” as part of the summit meeting planned between Mr. Kim and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That could involve pulling troops out of the Demilitarized Zone, making it a genuinely “Demilitarized Zone.” A South Korean government official later played down the report, saying it was too soon to tell what a joint statement by Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim would contain, other than broad and “abstract” statements about the need for North Korea to “denuclearize.”

But analysts said South Korea was aiming for a comprehensive deal, in which the North agreed to give up its weapons in return for a security guarantee, including a peace treaty. Mr. Trump’s comments suggested he backed that effort.

“They do have my blessing to discuss the end of the war,” he said. “People don’t realize that the Korean War has not ended. It’s going on right now. And they are discussing an end to war. Subject to a deal, they have my blessing.”

While Mr. Abe lavished praise on Mr. Trump for the sanctions campaign, which he said had brought North Korea to the table, he did not repeat the president’s words about an end to the Korean War.

“Donald,” he said, “you’ve demonstrated your unwavering determination in addressing the challenge of North Korea.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Abe said only that he hoped that the talks with Mr. Kim would force the North to address the threats posed by its nuclear and missile programs, as well as its abduction of Japanese citizens — a politically resonant issue in Japan that Mr. Trump promised to raise with Mr. Kim.

“Abe put on a surprisingly brave face,” said Michael J. Green, a senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who advised President George W. Bush on North Korea. “The president of the United States just endorsed a peace treaty with North Korea, a declared nuclear weapons state, and they offered nothing in return.”

China, which is a signer to the 1953 armistice, has long favored a peace treaty. But Japan, which did not sign it, is suspicious of one — as are some foreign policy experts in the United States, who point out that the North has yet to take any tangible steps to give up its nuclear arsenal.

The idea of a peace treaty is not new. The United States and North Korea discussed it in the 1990s and again in 2005. But it has never gone anywhere, largely because North Korea has reneged on pledges to give up its nuclear program.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most scholars and officials agree that North and South Korea cannot themselves announce an end to the Korean War. It has to involve the United States and China as well, since both were signers to the armistice.

In welcoming Mr. Abe to his estate, Mar-a-Lago, for two days of meetings, Mr. Trump clearly hoped to change the subject from tampered documents, confiscated legal files and other symbols of the political storm clouds that hover over both leaders back home.

After days of ominous reports about his personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and unflattering descriptions in a new book by James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director he ousted, Mr. Trump appeared to savor the prospect of discussing trade and the nuclear threat from North Korea with Mr. Abe, whom he described in Twitter as a “truly fine gentleman.”

The stakes are even higher for Mr. Abe, whose political survival is in doubt after two domestic scandals have sapped his approval ratings and raised questions about whether he will be forced to resign.

Mr. Abe has invested heavily in his relationship with Mr. Trump, whom he first visited at Trump Tower even before he was sworn in. Preserving that relationship, in the face of fresh challenges in trade and from North Korea, could affect Mr. Abe’s standing in Japan.

The White House sought to put a good face on the meeting, describing Japan as a great ally of the United States and Mr. Abe as a friend of Mr. Trump. But officials acknowledged there would be differences over trade, with Mr. Trump pushing for a trade deal between the two countries and Mr. Abe stung by Mr. Trump’s decision not to exempt Japan, like other American allies, from sweeping tariffs on steel exports.

“We have certain disagreements with respect to some of the trading issues,” Larry Kudlow, Mr. Trump’s chief economic adviser, told reporters before the meeting. “We’ll iron those out, hopefully.”

Mr. Kudlow said he expected Mr. Abe to petition Mr. Trump to grant Japan an exemption, but declined to predict how he would respond. He also tamped down expectations about the United States rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Asian trade pact, now anchored by Japan, which Mr. Trump pulled out of during his first week in office.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We are in the pre-preliminary stages of any discussions,” he said. “It’s more of a thought than a policy.”

Having met six times — including once before at Mar-a-Lago — and spoken by phone 20 times, Mr. Trump and Mr. Abe were likely to talk about the issues dogging them at home, officials said. But American officials said they did not believe that would dominate their discussions.

“It’s all part and parcel of the relationship,” said Matthew Pottinger, the senior director for Asia at the National Security Council. “Sometimes they talk about the respective politics in each other’s countries. They enjoy talking about it.”Photo

A former counterterrorism agent at the F.B.I. who gave classified documents to the news media in an effort to reveal how the bureau treated minority communities pleaded guilty on Tuesday to the unauthorized disclosure and retention of national defense information.

It is the most recent prosecution in a growing series of leak cases being pursued by the Justice Department, which has significantly increased its focus on such investigations since President Trump took office. However, the actions of the agent, Terry J. Albury, largely predate Mr. Trump’s presidency.

As a field agent in the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Minneapolis office, Mr. Albury provided a reporter with two documents between February 2016 and Jan. 31, 2017, according to the charges against him. The first document, dated Aug. 17, 2011, described how the bureau evaluated confidential sources; the second, which was undated, concerned “threats posed by certain individuals from a particular Middle Eastern country.” Mr. Albury also possessed, without authorization, “a document relating to the use of an online platform for recruitment by a specific terrorist group.”

“Mr. Albury was entrusted by the F.B.I. with a security clearance, which included a responsibility to protect classified national defense information,” Bill Priestap, assistant director of the bureau’s Counterintelligence Division, said in a statement on Tuesday. “Instead, he knowingly disclosed that material to someone not authorized to receive it.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Albury, 39, faces up to 10 years in prison on each of the two charges, but under his plea agreement, he could receive less than five years. Judge Wilhelmina M. Wright of the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota will decide his sentence.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In his plea, Mr. Albury acknowledged that the facts outlined by the government were accurate and that he had acted with the knowledge that he was breaking the law. His lawyers, JaneAnne Murray and Joshua Dratel, said in a statement that he viewed his disclosures as “an act of conscience” in the face of racism at the F.B.I.As the wife of the 41st president and the mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush, Mrs. Bush was only the second woman in American history to have a son of hers follow his father to the White House. (Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams, was the first.)

Another son, Jeb, the governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007, was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.

During that campaign, he was repeatedly derided in personal terms by the eventual nominee and now president, Donald J. Trump, prompting Mrs. Bush, who was never shy about expressing her views, to lash back, suggesting in television interviews that Mr. Trump was a misogynist and a hatemonger.

Photo

“He’s said terrible things about women, terrible things about the military,” Mrs. Bush told CNN. “I don’t understand why people are for him.”

Dedicated to her family and largely indifferent to glamour, Mrs. Bush played down her role in her husband’s political success. But she was a shrewd and valuable ally, becoming a sought-after speaker in at least four national campaigns: in 1980, when Mr. Bush was chosen to be Ronald Reagan’s running mate; in 1984, when the two ran for re-election; in 1988, when Mr. Bush campaigned for president; and in 1992, when he sought re-election.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She stepped into another presidential campaign in 2000, that of her son George, then the governor of Texas. She appeared at fund-raisers and met voters in New Hampshire and other states on his behalf as he rolled to the Republican presidential nomination.

She was clearly a political asset. A 1999 poll found that 63 percent of Americans had a favorable opinion of her and that only 3 percent had an unfavorable one.

Outspoken and Combative

While first lady, from January 1989 to January 1993, Mrs. Bush generally refused to talk publicly about contentious issues, particularly when her opinion was said to differ from her husband’s.

“I’m not against it or for it,” she said of the Equal Rights Amendment in 1989. “I’m not talking about it. I want equal rights for women, men, everybody.”

There were rumors that she favored abortion rights, but she made it clear that she supported her husband and would not say whether she was comfortable with his anti-abortion stand.

She was vocal, however, in championing causes of her choosing. Literacy was one, and so was civil rights; she had been an early supporter of the movement.

Photo

And she could be combative in news interviews, sometimes yanking off her glasses and tartly chastising reporters when she thought they were being overly aggressive.

Her candor occasionally got her into trouble. In 2005, while visiting victims of Hurricane Katrina at the Houston Astrodome, where they were being temporarily housed, she remarked that many of them “were underprivileged anyway” and that their Astrodome stay — though the living conditions there were dire — was “working very well for them.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The comments, coming at a time when her son’s administration was being roundly criticized over its response to the storm, were widely heard as insensitive and condescending.

Two years earlier, shortly before President George W. Bush ordered the invasion of Iraq, she said in a television interview that she had not been watching coverage of the prelude to war. “Why should we hear about body bags and deaths, and how many, what day it’s going to happen?” she asked. “Why would I waste my beautiful mind on something like that?”

She was similarly outspoken in 2013 when she was asked, on the “Today” show, if she thought her son Jeb should run for president in 2016. “I really don’t,” she replied, adding, “There are other people out there that are very qualified, and we’ve had enough Bushes.”

She later changed her mind. In an email to potential supporters in March 2015, she acknowledged, “When the idea of Jeb running for president first came up, I was hesitant.” But she said she was starting a “Run Jeb Run Fund” because “Jeb is our best chance of taking back the White House in 2016.”

She went on to campaign for him in New Hampshire, but he finished fourth in the Republican primary there in February and suspended his campaign a few days later.

Mrs. Bush enjoyed a favorable public image throughout her years as first lady. In one respect she benefited from comparisons with her predecessor, Nancy Reagan, whom many perceived, rightly or wrongly, as remote, icy and overly style-conscious.

Photo

By contrast, Mrs. Bush was regarded as unpretentious, a woman who could wear fake pearls, enjoy takeout tacos, walk the dog in her bathrobe and make fun of herself. Perhaps adding to her appeal, she conformed to the popular view of an old-fashioned grandmother, with her white hair and matronly figure; though she was almost a year younger than her husband, many thought she looked much older.

“What not everyone always understood is that Barbara revealed as much as she wanted to but seldom more,” Donnie Radcliffe wrote in a 1989 biography, “Simply Barbara Bush: A Portrait of America’s Candid First Lady.” “She came into the White House with a dexterity at manipulating her image, and she wasn’t above playing off her own outspoken style against Nancy Reagan’s reluctance and often inability to express herself.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“A less popular political wife,” Ms. Radcliffe added, “might have seemed calculating.”

Part of Mrs. Bush’s popularity stemmed from her penchant for self-deprecation. Soon after moving into the White House, she said, “My mail tells me a lot of fat, white-haired, wrinkled ladies are tickled pink.”

She would do anything asked of her to help the Bush administration, she said, but she drew a line: “I won’t dye my hair, change my wardrobe or lose weight.” Even so, as first lady she was known to wear designer clothes and have her hair styled.

For all her joking about herself, she also confessed that she had felt like crying after Jane Pauley told her on the “Today” show, “Mrs. Bush, people say George is a man of the ’80s and you’re a woman of the ’40s.”

An Invisible Influence

Mrs. Bush often insisted that she stayed out of her husband’s concerns. But few who knew her believed that she would ever hesitate to tell Mr. Bush her views.

“You have to have influence,” she said in 1992. “When you’ve been married 47 years, if you don’t have any influence, then I really think you’re in deep trouble.”

The substance of that influence remained largely invisible to the public eye, however, making her one of the few first ladies of her era to escape serious criticism. When Mrs. Reagan raised more than $1 million in tax-deductible contributions in 1981 to redecorate the White House living quarters, there was a public outcry. When the Bushes’ friends raised almost $200,000 to spruce up the vice-presidential house the same year, there was hardly a stir.

Photo

“I got away with murder,” Mrs. Bush said shortly before her husband’s inauguration.

One glaring exception came in 1984. Speaking of Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro of New York, the Democratic nominee for vice president, Mrs. Bush characterized her as something that “rhymes with rich.” She later apologized, but even then she parried with her critics, saying she did not mean any offense by calling Ms. Ferraro “a witch.”

She was born Barbara Pierce on June 8, 1925, at a maternity hospital in New York City run by the Salvation Army principally for unwed mothers. The family obstetrician practiced there one month a year, and that month happened to be June. She was the third child of the former Pauline Robinson and Marvin Pierce. Her father was in the publishing business and eventually became president of the McCall publishing company. Her mother, the daughter of an Ohio Supreme Court justice, was active in civic affairs in Rye, N.Y., the New York City suburb where the family lived.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One of Mrs. Bush’s distant relatives was Franklin Pierce, the 14th president of the United States.

Barbara was brought up in considerable affluence. She attended the public Milton School and the private Rye Country Day School and, along with her contemporaries, suffered through dancing classes, which she never forgot. “I was 5 feet 8 inches at the age of 12, and it certainly bothered the boys,” she recalled.

Her final two years of high school were spent at Ashley Hall, a boarding school in Charleston, S.C. A classmate once described it as a place where “being bad meant taking off your hat and gloves when you got out of sight of the school.”

Long Romance Begins

She met George Bush in 1941 at a Christmas dance at the Round Hill Country Club in Greenwich, Conn. George had grown up in Greenwich, a son of Prescott S. Bush, a Wall Street executive and a future United States senator from Connecticut, and the former Dorothy Walker. At the time, he was a senior at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. They began corresponding.

After graduating in 1942, Mr. Bush enlisted in the Navy and trained as a pilot. The next year, he was assigned to a torpedo squadron in the Pacific and piloted a Grumman Avenger. On one combat mission, in 1944, he was shot down and rescued by a submarine. Barbara did not hear from him for a month.

After enrolling at Smith College but before entering the freshman class, she shocked her mother by spending the summer working in a nuts-and-bolts factory.

She and Mr. Bush, on leave from the Navy, married in Rye on Jan. 6, 1945; the bride, not yet 20, had dropped out of Smith at the beginning of her sophomore year. “The truth is, I just wasn’t interested,” she said in interviews. “I was just interested in George.”

Photo

They honeymooned in Sea Island, Ga., and spent nine months at military bases in Michigan, Maine and Virginia before Mr. Bush was discharged and entered Yale. In New Haven, where the couple moved, their first son, George, was born in 1946.

After Mr. Bush’s graduation, in 1948, the family left for Texas, where Mr. Bush, with the help of a family friend, had taken a job as an equipment clerk in the oil industry. For a time, in Odessa, Tex., the family lived in one half of a house; the other half was used as a brothel. Within a year they were sent to California. A daughter, Pauline (known as Robin), was born there in 1949 but died of leukemia before her fourth birthday.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The California sojourn was brief; the Bushes soon returned to Texas — first to Midland, where they bought a house in a neighborhood known as Easter Egg Row because the houses were all painted in pastel colors, and later to Houston. By the time the Bushes reached the White House, they had moved 26 times.

In Texas, four more children were born: Jeb (John Ellis) in 1953, Neil Mallon in 1955, Marvin Pierce in 1956 and Dorothy Walker in 1959. Only George and Jeb went into politics; Neil and Marvin became businessmen, and Dorothy Bush Koch became a philanthropist.

Mrs. Bush’s children survive her, as do her husband; her brother, Scott Pierce; 17 grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.

Every summer, while Mr. Bush was engaged in oil deals and raising investment money, Mrs. Bush and the children drove to the Bush family compound in Kennebunkport, Me.

On her first trip there, Mrs. Bush discovered that the hotel where she had made reservations along the way would not accommodate two black family employees who were accompanying her and the children. The employees said they would find another place. But Mrs. Bush refused to split up the group and found other accommodations. On becoming first lady, she insisted that her press secretary be black — a first for that position.

The family moved to Washington in 1966, when Mr. Bush, after an unsuccessful run for the Senate in 1964, was elected to the House of Representatives from Texas’ Seventh Congressional District, which includes parts of Houston. He served two terms and mounted a failed second campaign for the Senate.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Breaking News Emails Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Later, as compensation for giving up his safe seat in the House to make the Senate run, he was named ambassador to the United Nations by President Richard M. Nixon. He assumed the post in 1971, and the Bushes moved into the ambassadorial suite of the Waldorf Towers in New York.

Lifelong Volunteer

The family returned to Washington in 1973 when Mr. Bush was appointed chairman of the Republican National Committee, a position he occupied during the Watergate crisis. In 1974, President Gerald R. Ford sent him to the People’s Republic of China to lead the United States Liaison Office in Beijing.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Watergate was a terrible experience,” Mrs. Bush told Ms. Radcliffe in 1984. “So to go off to China and learn a whole new culture was beautiful.”

She particularly liked having her husband to herself; their children had not accompanied them. The two cycled around Beijing, studied Chinese and learned tai chi.

In “Barbara Bush: A Memoir,” published in 1994, Mrs. Bush acknowledged that she suffered from depression in 1976 after she and her husband had returned from his two-year China posting and he was named director of the Central Intelligence Agency, a post he held for 11 months.

She had discussed her depression at a news conference in 1989, saying she believed that the women’s movement had contributed to her illness. “I believe it made me feel inadequate,” she said. “I’m not quite sure how. You were made to feel demeaned a little bit.”

Mrs. Bush published another memoir, “Reflections: Life After the White House,” in 2004.

A lifelong volunteer for charitable causes, Mrs. Bush raised money for the United Negro College Fund while in New Haven, started a thrift shop in Midland and volunteered in nursing homes and hospitals in Houston, Washington and New York. Her son Neil’s dyslexia led to her interest in fighting illiteracy.

In her eight years as the wife of the vice president, she attended more than 500 events related to literacy, and after she became first lady she started the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. The profits from her book “C. Fred’s Story: A Dog’s Life” (1984), a wry look at Washington life as seen by her dog, and from a follow-up based on another family dog, “Millie’s Book: As Dictated to Barbara Bush” (1990), went to literacy causes.

Mrs. Bush hoped her contributions to those causes would form a large part of her legacy.

“I want to be known as a wife, a mother, a grandmother,” she wrote in 1988. “That’s what I am. And I’d like to be known as someone who really cared about people and worked very, very hard to make America more literate.”Minnesota is a key political battleground this year, with several competitive House seats and two Senate elections because of the resignation of Al Franken after a sexual-misconduct scandal last year. Mr. Campbell said that he was still likely to support Republican candidates, but that he was frustrated by the party’s shift toward protectionism and support for increased government spending.

“I blame Republicans for that,” Mr. Campbell said. “A very significant portion of Republicans in Congress are not really conservative when it comes to spending.”

Photo

The re-emergence of trade as a central political issue has scrambled traditional partisan alignments in ways that carry risks for both parties. Mr. Trump won the presidency partly by tapping into voters’ concerns about the impact of globalization on jobs and wages, particularly in the industrial Midwest.

But free trade still receives strong support among business groups, which have historically backed Republican candidates, and among big-dollar conservative political donors such as the Koch network. As recently as 2015, three-quarters of House Republicans voted for a measure meant to open trade even further — so-called “fast track” negotiating authority for President Barack Obama.

Reflecting those tensions, congressional Republican leaders have criticized Mr. Trump’s tariffs as potentially harmful to businesses and consumers while also praising the president’s broader goals on trade.

Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, opened a hearing on the effects of tariffs on the economy last week by saying the measures “curtail economic growth, discourage new investment, delay new hiring, and put American workers at a huge disadvantage to foreign competitors.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But he added, “I remain committed to working with President Trump and the White House on strong, enforceable trade policies that will target bad actors and encourage economic growth here at home.”

Democrats face their own challenges on the issue. As Republicans have shifted away from supporting free-trade agreements, Democrats have embraced them: In the Times poll, 73 percent of Democrats said they thought free-trade agreements helped the United States, compared with 51 percent of Republicans. But union members, long a key source of mobilization and support for Democrats, retain the party’s longtime skepticism of free trade.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s not an ideal issue for either party,” said Robert J. Blendon, who directs the Harvard Opinion Research Program at the Harvard School of Public Health. “It makes the issue slightly more complex because their voters’ views don’t correspond to their interest groups.”

For Republicans, Mr. Trump’s trade battles pose an additional risk of undermining the party’s core economic message. Republicans have tried to emphasize the tax law they passed in December, which cut taxes on businesses and most households. But trade has largely pushed the tax law from the headlines, and support for the law, which rose early in the year, now seems to be ebbing.

“You’re starting to certainly complicate the message,” said Jon Cohen, chief research officer for SurveyMonkey.

The trade fight has also roiled financial markets, which had risen steadily during Mr. Trump’s first year in office. If that volatility continues, it could erode consumers’ confidence in the economic recovery. There are hints that could already be happening: The University of Michigan’s measure of consumer sentiment dipped slightly in April, with many respondents citing trade as a source of concern. SurveyMonkey’s consumer confidence index also ticked down in April, with the largest declines coming among higher-earning households, which are much more likely to own stocks.

“It’s possible the war of words over trade, tariffs and sanctions, and the financial market turmoil we had has led to some setback in consumer confidence,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank.

Losing Confidence? SurveyMonkey’s consumer confidence index, which combines five questions on Americans’ financial and economic outlook, ticked down in April after holding steady earlier in the year. 80 60 40 Total Republican Democrats 2017 April July Oct. 2018 April Consumer confidence index

Consumer confidence remains high over all, however, and there is little evidence that the tariffs have hurt the economy so far. Retail sales rose in March, according to data released by the Commerce Department on Monday, and the job market continues to make steady progress. Economists say an outright trade war could derail the economy, but the tariffs announced so far fall well short of that.

Ethan Brackenbury, a cost estimator for the federal Department of Energy in southeastern Washington State, said that he didn’t like the idea of a trade war, and that he hadn’t noticed any gain from the tax cut in his paycheck. But the economy seems strong in his area, he said, and he views any declines in the stock market as an opportunity to buy, not a signal to sell.

“I’m certainly not worried, nor am I excited,” Mr. Brackenbury said. “I don’t see long lines of unemployment or those kinds of things. Everyone seems to be gainfully employed.”Photo

WASHINGTON — The United States military intends to transfer an American citizen who has been detained in Iraq for more than seven months to the custody of another country in several days, the Justice Department told a judge on Tuesday.

But the man, whose name has not been made public, does not want to go to that country and intends to fight the proposed transfer in court, according to his lead lawyer, Jonathan Hafetz of the American Civil Liberties Union.

“The Trump administration has been detaining this American citizen unlawfully for more than seven months, and forcibly rendering him to another country would be an unconscionable violation of his constitutional rights,” Mr. Hafetz said in a statement.

The government redacted the name of the country that would take custody of the man in its new court filing. But officials have said the Trump administration was asking Saudi Arabia to take him off American hands. He could also be transferred to Iraqi custody.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Transferring the man would render moot several important and unresolved legal questions raised by his case. They include whether the Obama and Trump administrations’ claim that Congress’s authorization to fight Al Qaeda covers the Islamic State, and whether the judge overseeing the man’s lawsuit, Tanya S. Chutkan of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, had legitimate authority to order the government to give him at least 72 hours’ notice before any transfer.Photo

WASHINGTON — Attorney General Jeff Sessions proposed new regulations on Tuesday that could severely limit the amount of highly addictive opioid pain medication that drug companies can produce and force them to account for scores of illegitimate prescriptions across the country.

The regulations would change how the Drug Enforcement Administration sets production quotas for drug companies. Those companies would have to work with states, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other federal and state agencies to justify the number of pills they send to medical providers.

“Under this proposed new rule, if D.E.A. believes that a company’s opioids are being diverted for misuse, then they will reduce the amount of opioids that company can make,” Mr. Sessions said at an appearance in Raleigh, N.C., according to prepared remarks.

The proposal allowed Mr. Sessions to put pressure on the powerful pharmaceutical industry without punishing it for the opioid crisis, which in 2016 contributed to more than 42,000 deaths in the United States, according to the C.D.C. While the change allows the drug agency to more actively track where pharmaceutical companies send their products, a 2016 law hamstrings the ability of the agency, which is part of the Department of Justice, to stop shipments.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“No one’s trying to revise the law that limited D.O.J.’s and D.E.A.’s ability to go after drug distributors,” said Regina LaBelle, a former chief of staff at the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy. “Essentially, people have looked at the quota system as being part of the problem for many years. And this announcement and new rule would appear to be trying to address that issue.”“I really think that you should have disclosed your relationship with Cohen when you talked about him on this show,” Mr. Dershowitz said. “You could have said that you had asked him for advice or whatever.”

Fox News issued a statement on Tuesday saying Mr. Hannity had the network’s full support. Here’s a look at the many times Mr. Hannity discussed Mr. Cohen on the program since the April 9 raid.

‘Cohen was never part of the Trump administration’

Hours after the news broke, Mr. Hannity opened his show by mentioning it. He immediately connected the action by federal prosecutors in New York to Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation into possible links between the Trump campaign and Russian officials.

“Mueller’s witch-hunt investigation is now a runaway train that is clearly careening off the tracks,” he said.

The raid on Mr. Cohen’s office, court records show, was part of a monthslong investigation. It was overseen by the United States attorney for the Southern District. However Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Stephen Ryan, said on April 9 that the search was carried out on a referral by Mr. Mueller’s office.

Without mentioning his own connection to Mr. Cohen, Mr. Hannity then told viewers that “Cohen was never part of the Trump administration or the Trump campaign.”

Mr. Hannity went on to compare Mr. Mueller’s investigation and the raid on Mr. Cohen to an F.B.I. investigation in 2015 and 2016 that focused on Hillary Clinton’s handling of her email.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“You think Hillary Clinton’s attorneys had their offices raided during this email investigation?” he asked.

He raised the issue again later that evening, referring to it as “the double standard aspect” in a conversation with the Fox News reporter Sara Carter.

Michael D. Cohen longtime personal lawyer to negotiated payments to cover up an affair for acted as informal legal counsel to Donald J. Trump President Elliott Broidy Republican donor Sean Hannity Fox News host

‘Russia collusion has now become Stormy Daniels payment by his own lawyer’

In a monologue that night, Mr. Hannity repeated his view that the raid on Mr. Cohen amounted to overreach by the F.B.I. and Mr. Mueller in particular.

At several points, he alluded to the $130,000 payment Mr. Cohen has acknowledged making to Stephanie Clifford, a pornographic film star better known as Stormy Daniels, who has said she had an affair with Mr. Trump while he was married.

“The F.B.I. is more than capable of tracing a Russia collusion investigation somehow to a porn star and the door of Donald Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen,” he said.

Later that night, Mr. Hannity discussed the raid with Mr. Dershowitz. He opened their conversation by referring to what he saw as the expanding scope of Mr. Mueller’s investigation.

“‘Russia collusion’ has now become ‘Stormy Daniels payment by his own lawyer,’” Mr. Hannity said.

At no time did he disclose that his own name might be in Mr. Cohen’s files as a client.

‘Mueller has now basically backdoored his way into every single Trump business deal’

The following evening, “Hannity” again opened with the host decrying “Robert Mueller’s never-ending partisan witch hunt.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His focus widened somewhat to include the impact the raid might have on Mr. Trump.

Both in the early part of his show and in a subsequent conversation with Mr. Dershowitz, he mentioned Mr. Cohen’s role in the Trump Organization and his connection to Mr. Trump’s business operations.

“Mueller has now basically backdoored his way into every single Trump business deal, at least since Michael Cohen has worked with Donald Trump,” he said during his opening segment.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In his discussion with Mr. Dershowitz, Mr. Hannity then asked whether the F.B.I. had violated Mr. Cohen’s constitutional rights or Mr. Trump’s lawyer-client privilege.

“Doesn’t that backdoor Mueller, even though it’s the Southern District of New York, right into every business deal, right into every private agreement that the president has ever made?” Mr. Hannity asked.

He did not disclose any legal relationship with Mr. Cohen.

‘The destroy Trump media has become totally unhinged’

As Mr. Hannity continued to discuss Mr. Cohen, the media’s coverage of the raid, which he viewed as obsessive, was a frequent target.

On April 10, he spent several minutes discussing what he saw as a media conspiracy theory that Mr. Trump might order military action in Syria to distract from the raid.

“The destroy Trump media has become totally unhinged over the raid of President Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen,” he said, “with some of them going so far as to question if Donald Trump can take action in Syria as a distraction like the movie ‘Wag the Dog.’”

The movie, released in 1997 and directed by Barry Levinson, is about a Hollywood producer and a Washington consultant who decide to start a fictional war to distract voters from a presidential scandal.

Photo

Mr. Hannity then discussed the media’s reporting on Syria and Mr. Cohen with Dan Bongino, a former United States Secret Service agent, and the radio host Rick Ungar.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

‘These tactics are not American’

Two days after the raid, on April 11, Mr. Hannity shifted his focus to Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, who supervises Mr. Mueller’s investigation.

In his third conversation with Mr. Dershowitz, he referenced Mr. Dershowitz’s comments in the previous evenings that the raid violated Mr. Cohen’s constitutional rights.

He then asked if Mr. Dershowitz thought it was “the attorney general’s job to now step in and fire Rod Rosenstein?”

Later, he played a clip of former House Speaker Newt Gingrich comparing the F.B.I.’s raid on Mr. Cohen to the German Gestapo and communist Russia.

“These tactics are not American,” Mr. Hannity said. “That’s the point.”

‘A perfectly legitimate business move’

On April 12, Mr. Hannity spent most of his show discussing James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who released a memoir describing his relationship with Mr. Trump this week.

But he diverged briefly to discuss a report that a former Federal Election Commission chairman, Bradley Smith, did not think Mr. Cohen should be charged over his payment to Ms. Clifford.

“Smith is arguing that Cohen’s payment is a perfectly legitimate business move,” Mr. Hannity said, “and that any attempt to connect it to an in-kind contribution is an extreme stretch. It doesn’t fit.”

Then Mr. Hannity turned back to other news.

‘It was such a minor relationship’

It was not until he had a week of programs under his belt, after his name emerged in court, that Mr. Hannity described his relationship with Mr. Cohen.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He did so in response to the objections of Mr. Dershowitz, who had spent a week discussing the case with him, apparently unaware of the connection.

Earlier in the broadcast, Mr. Hannity had acknowledged the attention the revelation by Mr. Cohen’s legal team was getting, calling the media coverage “absolutely insane.” He introduced a 46-second montage of cable news hosts and commentators saying his name repeatedly.

At the end of the show, in response to Mr. Dershowitz, Mr. Hannity repeated assertions he had made earlier in the day, saying: “Michael Cohen never represented me in any legal matter. I never retained his services. I never received an invoice. I never paid Michael Cohen for legal fees. I did have occasional brief conversations with Michael Cohen — he’s a great attorney — about legal questions I had or I was looking for input and perspective.”

The host described the relationship as “minimal” in response to Mr. Dershowitz’s initial objection.

“But, you know, it’s a complex situation when you are speaking to millions of people,” Mr. Dershowitz later commented.

“Professor,” Mr. Hannity interrupted, “it was such a minor relationship in terms of it had to do with real estate and nothing political.”In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Rubio said that since his presidential campaign ended in March 2016, he has spent a lot of time contemplating what Mr. Trump got right and what he misjudged. And while Mr. Rubio insisted he had no plans to run for president again — “It’s so far-off in the future, I don’t know where my mind will be” — he said he believed that the conservative movement’s tenets need to evolve beyond sterile economic arguments of low taxes and high economic growth.

“I think the challenge is how the policies that come from those principles, by necessity, have to look different in the 21st century than they did in 1980 or 1985,” Mr. Rubio said. “America is not an economy. It’s a country,” he added, channeling some of Mr. Trump’s populism. “And we have a bigger job than just to increase G.D.P.”

Mr. Needham said he agreed with that diagnosis.

“Any fair-minded observer of the last several years would say conservatives have work to do in order to assure our principles remain relevant,” Mr. Needham said in an interview. “There was truth in candidate Trump’s declaration that this is the Republican Party, not the Conservative Party. Our challenge as conservatives is to build a movement that inspires a majority coalition of Americans.”

But beyond their shared views on the party’s need to have a better 20-year plan, the two have taken very distinct approaches to leadership. Mr. Needham has been a leading practitioner of the uncompromising, scorched-earth style of political combat that was a trademark of Tea Party-inspired politicians and activists. He frequently clashed with the Republican leadership in Congress and challenged it to drive a harder bargain on issues like defunding the Affordable Care Act, which led to a two-week government shutdown in 2013 that most Republicans came to see as ill advised.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Rubio, who professed to be one of those shutdown-wary Republicans even though he voted against several bills that would have kept the government open, has been more accommodating in his dealings as a senator. He has worked with Democrats like Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, on immigration reform. And he remains close to his party’s Senate leaders. His bid for president had the backing of some of the Republican Party’s most establishment-friendly — and anti-Trump — donors.

Mr. Needham and Mr. Rubio have often had very different things to say about Mr. Trump. Given his anti-establishment sensibilities, Mr. Needham has largely lauded the president’s agenda of low taxes and a hard-line posture toward China. He has praised Mr. Trump for helping the Republican Party forge a stronger bond with Americans who feel socially and economically disconnected and who are eager to shine a light on the corruption and cronyism they believe is rampant in Washington.

Mr. Rubio, who has been running for office more or less since he was a West Miami city commissioner in his 20s, clashed bitterly and personally with Mr. Trump during the 2016 campaign. He denounced Mr. Trump as someone who operated from the same playbook as “third-world strongmen” who ruled Latin America. He said Mr. Trump had preyed on vulnerable students by selling them worthless degrees from Trump University. In one of the more memorable but desperate moments of Mr. Rubio’s campaign, he also ridiculed Mr. Trump’s tendency to misspell things on Twitter and suggested he once wet his pants at a debate.

Lately, however, Mr. Rubio has done what many other Republicans have done and tried to work with the president on the parts of his agenda that they do not find objectionable. He won concessions from the White House to make the child tax credit more generous in last year’s tax overhaul.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The senator has also been generally supportive of the president’s efforts to punish China for what they say is its disadvantaging of American products and causing of job losses with unfair trade practices.

Mr. Needham and Mr. Rubio both agree there is a need now to work with the president as much as possible while also looking beyond him to plan for what the party and the country look like once he is gone.

“As someone who’s lived his career in the movement, the challenge is preserving the principles that Reagan fought for while also being able to refresh that pool of ideas to keep pace with our times,” Mr. Needham said. “That’s a bigger effort than any one president or any one person.”

Mr. Rubio’s chief of staff position has been vacant since January, when he fired the previous occupant of the job after allegations of inappropriate conduct surfaced.Tyler Q. Houlton, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said the ruling would undercut “efforts to remove aliens convicted of certain violent crimes, including sexual assault, kidnapping and burglary, from the United States.”

“By preventing the federal government from removing known criminal aliens,” he said, “it allows our nation to be a safe haven for criminals and makes us more vulnerable as a result.”

The case, Sessions v. Dimaya, No. 15-1498, was first argued in January 2017 before an eight-member court left short-handed by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. The justices deadlocked 4 to 4, and the case was reargued in October after Justice Gorsuch joined the court.

The case concerned James Dimaya, a native of the Philippines who became a lawful permanent resident in 1992, when he was 13. In 2007 and 2009, he was convicted of residential burglary.

The government sought to deport him on the theory that he had committed an “aggravated felony,” which the immigration law defined to include any offense “that, by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense.”

In 2015, in Johnson v. United States, the Supreme Court ruled that a similar criminal law was unconstitutionally vague. Justice Elena Kagan, writing for the majority in Tuesday’s case, said the reasoning in the Johnson case also doomed the challenged provision of the immigration law.

She quoted at length from Justice Scalia’s majority opinion in Johnson, which said courts could not tell which crimes Congress had meant to punish.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We can as well repeat here what we asked in Johnson,” Justice Kagan wrote, paraphrasing Justice Scalia. “How does one go about divining the conduct entailed in a crime’s ordinary case? Statistical analyses? Surveys? Experts? Google? Gut instinct?”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

She added that lower courts had been unable to apply the immigration law consistently.

“Does car burglary qualify as a violent felony?” she asked. “Some courts say yes, another says no. What of statutory rape? Once again, the circuits part ways. How about evading arrest? The decisions point in different directions. Residential trespass? The same is true.”

Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor joined all of Justice Kagan’s opinion, and Justice Gorsuch most of it.

When the Johnson case was before the Supreme Court, the government warned that a ruling striking down the law at issue there would make the immigration law “equally susceptible” to constitutional attack.

Both laws, the government said then, required courts to identify features of a hypothetical typical offense and then to judge the risk of violence arising from them.

But when Mr. Dimaya’s case reached the Supreme Court, the government said there were significant differences between the two laws, focusing on minor variations in their wording. In dissent, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., joined by Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr., made a similar point.

Justice Kagan responded that some of Chief Justice Roberts’s analysis was “slicing the baloney mighty thin.”

The government also argued that the two laws should be treated differently because one concerned crimes and the other immigration, which is a civil matter.

In its brief, the government said civil laws are almost never so vague as to violate the Constitution. “Although the court has on occasion tested civil provisions for vagueness,” the brief said, “it has struck down those provisions under the due process clause because they were so unintelligible as to effectively supply no standard at all.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Justice Kagan disagreed. “This court’s precedent forecloses that argument,” she wrote, “because we long ago held that the most exacting vagueness standard should apply in removal cases.”

A 1951 Supreme Court decision, Jordan v. De George, indicated that both criminal and immigration laws should be tested against the same constitutional standard for vagueness “in view of the grave nature of deportation.”

Near the end of her opinion, Justice Kagan again quoted Justice Scalia. “Insanity,” he wrote in a 2011 dissent, “is doing the same thing over and over again, but expecting different results.”

Justice Kagan said it was time to heed that advice. “We abandoned that lunatic practice in Johnson,” she wrote, “and see no reason to start it again.”According to several officials, the White House did not inform Ms. Haley that it had changed course on sanctions, leaving her to hang out alone.

“It damages her credibility going forward and once again makes everyone, friend and foe alike, wonder that when the United States says something, approves something, calls for something, opposes something, is it for real?” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Should we wait to see what Trump does the next day?”

The clash was reminiscent of various occasions when Mr. Trump has directly undercut subordinates, as when Mr. Tillerson broached the idea of negotiations with North Korea and the president scolded him on Twitter not to waste his time. Many in Washington and at the United Nations were riveted by the sharp exchange on Tuesday between the White House and its senior international diplomat.

“She got ahead of the curve,” Larry Kudlow, the president’s national economics adviser, told reporters at a briefing in Florida before Mr. Trump welcomed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to his Mar-a-Lago estate. “She’s done a great job. She’s a very effective ambassador, but there might have been some momentary confusion about that.”

Ms. Haley took umbrage. A few hours later, she spoke with Dana Perino of Fox News, who quoted her response on air: “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

Mr. Kudlow then called Ms. Haley to apologize. “She was certainly not confused,” Mr. Kudlow told The New York Times by telephone. “I was wrong to say that — totally wrong.”

He added: “As it turns out, she was basically following what she thought was policy. The policy was changed and she wasn’t told about it, so she was in a box.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The argument that Ms. Haley had merely gotten out ahead of a decision was undercut by the fact that the White House itself had sent out word to surrogates on Saturday — the day before her remarks — letting them know that it had already decided to take punitive action against Moscow.

“We also intend to impose specific additional sanctions against Russia to respond to Moscow’s ongoing support for the Assad regime, which has enabled the regime’s atrocities against the Syrian people,” said a document distributed by the Republican National Committee that was titled “White House talking points.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

And yet an administration official said there was a quick recognition on Sunday that Ms. Haley had gone too far in her remarks on “Face the Nation” on CBS.

This official said that the State Department called an aide to Ms. Haley shortly after she appeared on the show, to suggest she issue a correction. Ms. Haley’s aide replied that her office was considering a correction, but none was ever released. Instead, the White House was left to say the next day that no sanctions had been approved.

Such conflicts leave foreign governments in a bind as they try to interpret American moves.

“Coordinated messaging by our government on matters as serious as these is very important, so it is best that an episode such as this one not be repeated,” said John Negroponte, a former ambassador to the United Nations. He added that he was confident that Ms. Haley “has absolutely no interest in undercutting, contradicting or getting out in front of the White House.”

Beyond the immediate disconnect, though, is a deeper strain between Mr. Trump and Ms. Haley, according to administration officials and other insiders. Ms. Haley has been perhaps the most hawkish voice on Russia on a team headed by a president who has emphasized his fervent desire for friendship with President Vladimir V. Putin.

At times, that serves the president’s interests because she can say what he will not. But at other times, he has grown exasperated by her outspokenness.

At one point recently, he saw Ms. Haley on television sharply criticizing Russia over its intervention in Ukraine. “Who wrote that for her?” Mr. Trump yelled angrily at the screen, according to people briefed on the moment. “Who wrote that for her?”

A former governor of South Carolina, Ms. Haley has assumed a more prominent role than most of her predecessors, at times eclipsing the secretary of state. And along the way, Mr. Trump has grown suspicious of her ambition, convinced that she had been angling for Mr. Tillerson’s position and increasingly wondering whether she wants his own job.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Republicans close to the White House whisper about the prospect of an alliance between Ms. Haley and Vice President Mike Pence, possibly to run as a ticket in 2020.

Aides to both scoff at such suggestions, but the slightest hint of such a pairing would be likely to enrage Mr. Trump, who has made it clear that he plans to run for re-election. The talk was exacerbated in recent days when Mr. Pence named Jon Lerner, Ms. Haley’s deputy, as his new national security adviser, while allowing him to keep his job at the United Nations.

That plan collapsed within 48 hours when Mr. Trump grew angry at reports that Mr. Lerner had made anti-Trump ads for the Club of Growth, an economic conservative advocacy group, during Republican primaries in 2016. Mr. Lerner stepped down from the job in Mr. Pence’s office.

Ms. Haley draws strong feelings on both sides of the aisle. In Republican circles, she is a favorite of neoconservatives and national security hawks like Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, but viewed skeptically by the more isolationist wing that sees Mr. Trump as a champion. Among Democrats, she has respect from those who see her as a voice of reason and scorn from others who see her as overly combative.

“Nikki Haley is a neocon in her view,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California. “Basically, she’s a parrot for the McCain-Lindsey Graham worldview of ‘Let’s go bomb Iran, let’s go fight another cold war with Russia, let’s go use force around the world.’”

Mr. Connolly, on the other hand, described her as an important counterpoint to Mr. Trump. “She’s been a little island of some sanity in this otherwise dysfunctional, irrational, volatile White House when it comes to foreign policy,” he said. “She’s now getting the Tillerson treatment. And so perhaps this island will be swallowed up by rising sea levels.”WASHINGTON — President Trump took office promising to enact an “extreme vetting” immigration system with a travel ban that he said would keep terrorists from exploiting the visa system and getting into the United States.

But a report released on Tuesday by the Cato Institute concluded that the United States already had a robust vetting system that had largely been successful because of a series of intelligence and security reforms implemented after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

The report found that just 13 of 531 people convicted of or killed in carrying out terrorism-related crimes since Sept. 11 had entered the United States despite the security screening improvements. That compares with 52 people in the 15 years before the 2001 homeland security reforms, the report found.

Only one of those 13 participated in a deadly attack in the United States, the report found — a rate of one for every 379 million visa or status approvals from 2002 through 2016.“Is there anything we can do to give Congress a signal that it should act more affirmatively in this area?” Justice Sotomayor asked.

But Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said that “it would be very strange for us to tell Congress it ought to do something in any particular area.”

Both he and Justice Elena Kagan said the fact that Congress has so far chosen not to act was itself a telling indication that it was satisfied with the current system.

The chief justice added that the marketplace may already be addressing the problem.

“The bigger e-commerce companies find themselves with a physical presence in all 50 states,” he said, “so they’re already covered.”

The tenor of the argument was a surprise, as three members of the Supreme Court had indicated that they may be ready to reconsider the Quill decision. Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch have written about their uneasiness with the ruling and the constitutional justifications for it.

Justice Gorsuch seemed prepared on Tuesday to reconsider the Quill decision. “Why should this court favor a particular business model?” he asked.

In a 2015 concurring opinion, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy seemed to call for a fresh challenge to the decision.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It is unwise to delay any longer a reconsideration of the court’s holding in Quill,” he wrote. “A case questionable even when decided, Quill now harms states to a degree far greater than could have been anticipated earlier.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

South Dakota responded to Justice Kennedy’s invitation by enacting a law that required all merchants to collect a 4.5 percent sales tax if they had more than $100,000 in annual sales or more than 200 individual transactions in the state. State officials sued three large online retailers — Wayfair, Overstock.com and Newegg — for violating the law.

“The South Dakota law is obviously a test case,” Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said on Tuesday. “It was devised to present the most reasonable incarnation of this scheme.”

“But do you have any doubt,” Justice Alito asked a lawyer for the federal government, “that states that are tottering on the edge of insolvency and municipalities, which may be in even worse position, have a strong incentive to grab everything they possibly can?”

The lawyer, Malcolm L. Stewart, who argued in support of South Dakota, did not disagree.

“Many states would adopt regimes that are less hospitable to retailers” if the court allowed them to require the collection of taxes, he said, “unless they were stopped from doing that by Congress.”

Justice Alito suggested that a decision from the Supreme Court could short-circuit a more nuanced legislative consideration of the issue. “As things stand now,” he said, “it seems that both the states and internet retailers have an incentive to ask for a congressional solution to this problem.”

Lower courts ruled for the online retailers in the South Dakota case, citing the Quill decision.

In recent weeks, President Trump has criticized Amazon for its tax and shipping practices. Amazon, which is not involved in the case before the Supreme Court, collects sales taxes for goods that it sells directly but not for merchandise sold by third parties. Critics said Mr. Trump’s critique was motivated by his displeasure with reporting from The Washington Post, which is owned by Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos.

At Tuesday’s argument, Marty J. Jackley, South Dakota’s attorney general, argued that the Quill decision did not make sense in the digital era. He said that the major practical problem it had identified — that it would be burdensome for out-of-state retailers to calculate and collect taxes for thousands of state and local jurisdictions — had been solved by modern software.

But that assertion was hotly disputed by George S. Isaacson, a lawyer for the three internet retailers, who said a ruling against his clients would impose burdens on small online merchants. A national solution, he said, should come from Congress rather than the Supreme Court.

Some justices complained that they lacked fundamental information about how hard it is to collect the taxes and how much money is at stake. The two sides, Justice Stephen G. Breyer said, were of little help. Estimates of how much it would cost internet businesses to comply with the tax laws of what were said to be 12,000 state and local jurisdictions varied from $12 to $250,000.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said there could be a market solution, too. “If we did overrule Quill,” she said, “entrepreneurs would produce software that would meet the market need.”We don’t know.

“We don’t understand the value to us of the new data economy nor the risks it entails,” said Leonard Nakamura, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia who has studied the economic impact of data. “We just let it rip and now are trying to catch up.” Unfortunately, we have only rudimentary tools to measure the good and the bad.

As the data-driven economy continues evolving at breakneck speed, catching up may be beyond our reach; we will build the guardrails by trial and error. The risk is that policy will be driven mostly by fear.

What is the problem with Facebook? Clearly Moscow’s use of the platform to spread fake news and warp the 2016 elections is one problem. Allowing data from tens of millions of users to flow, without their knowledge, to a political consultancy working for Donald Trump is another.

But the raw business models of the colossi of the data economy are creepy in and of themselves. Start with the sheer scale of personal data scooped up by Facebook, often without users’ knowledge. The platform not only harvests the data you share with the platform, but also collects information about you from the files of other Facebook users you know. It buys data about your offline lives from data brokers — including sensitive stuff like your income and the credit cards you own. And testifying in the House, Mr. Zuckerberg admitted that Facebook sucks up information about people who are not even on Facebook, so it can aim ads at them.

Mr. Zuckerberg noted that this data is what makes Facebook valuable for its advertisers and its users, enabling the network to offer them only relevant ads. But it also gives it inordinate power over people’s lives. It wouldn’t be impossible, for instance, to use Facebook’s sophisticated models to send a deluge of ads for weight-loss pills to overweight teenagers with a fragile self-image. We know that Facebook can determine, and manipulate, its users’ emotional states.

Photo

Data can also be deployed for virtual redlining. And what about price discrimination? Amazon and others have already experimented with mining our data to charge “personalized” prices for a given item — the maximum price each of us is willing to pay — a practice that can leave many consumers worse off.

But policy cannot be determined only by the potential creepiness of what corporate America might do with our data. Maybe perfect price discrimination will never take off because consumers don’t like it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Indeed, it is unclear to what extent consumers are repelled by any of this. Though surveys repeatedly find that Americans are concerned about their privacy, they rarely take action to stop cookies and other tools deployed to gather their data — leading scholars to coin the term “privacy paradox.” As Sinan Aral of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has noted, “Lots of the things that depend on ads we want as public goods.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Critically, to regulate the data-enabled world, we must first figure out what we stand to lose if the data goes uncollected. For instance, research found that privacy rules introduced by the European Union in the 1990s reduced the effectiveness of online advertising. What, then, is the social cost?

Mr. Nakamura and two colleagues at the Bureau of Economic Analysis calculated how much of the nation’s gross domestic product came from the “free” digital economy powered by advertising that drives Facebook’s and Google’s business. From 1995 to 2005, they found, it added 0.07 percentage points to the economy’s annual growth rate. From 2005 to 2015, it added 0.11 percentage points.

But this must understate the data economy’s contribution to our well-being. Facebook is an immensely valuable mode of communication and interaction for two billion people around the world. The company has published in-house research suggesting that people who do lots of sharing on the social network are happier and healthier.

Facebook’s advertising tools — the ones that use your data to figure out whether you should see an ad from the small shop in Connecticut that sells organic yarn — provide mom-and-pop operations with cost-effective marketing opportunities once reserved for large corporations.

More broadly, Mr. Nakamura points out, the online economy powered by data collection and advertising is improving welfare in a way not properly captured in standard measures of economic output. This includes reams of “free” music and the potential benefits from the artificial intelligence that will be trained using personal data. The consumer surplus — the benefit that we get from a good or service above and beyond the price we pay for it — is bigger than it ever was. And it will grow further.

And yet if this sounds like an argument against touching the data-driven digital economy with even the slightest regulation, it is not. Worries that Facebook and some of its brethren may have become large enough to squelch innovation are legitimate. So are suspicions that it plays fast and loose with consumer data.

Regulations to curb the power of the digital behemoths — say, barring them from buying up rising companies like Instagram and WhatsApp that might threaten their dominance in the future — make sense. So do policies that ensure responsible stewardship of the data they gather.

”I don’t think the right policy position is to totally eliminate the business model, but instead to introduce some restraint,” said Terrell McSweeny, the lone Democrat on the Federal Trade Commission. “The idea is to give people more control over the uses of their data and ensure companies are responsible for what is happening to it.”

Summoning Mr. Zuckerberg to testify suggests that Congress is no longer happy doing nothing. Hopefully, it can do better than simply overreact to its fears.Photo

WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court announced on Tuesday that it would not decide whether federal prosecutors can force Microsoft to turn over digital data stored outside the United States. The move followed arguments in the case in February and the enactment of a new federal law that both sides said made the case moot.

“No live dispute remains between the parties,” the court said in a brief, unsigned opinion.

The case, United States v. Microsoft, No. 17-2, had seemed poised to be one of the most important of the current term. It posed the question of whether a 1986 law, enacted before the dawn of the big-data era, applied to digital information stored outside the nation’s borders.

When the case was argued, several justices said Congress rather than the court should act to define the limits of privacy in the digital age.

“If Congress takes a look at this, realizing that much time and innovation has occurred since 1986, it can write a statute that takes account of various interests,” Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said. “If Congress wants to regulate in this brave new world, it should do it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Congress did. On March 23, it enacted the Cloud Act — more formally, the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act. The new law, unlike the one from 1986, clearly applied to data held overseas.“I suspect if you keep poking at the economic expansion, it could turn around and bite you,” Mr. Obstfeld said.

“There can be no doubt about it, the big elephant in the room continues to be trade policy,” said Torsten Slok, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Companies are already paying higher prices for materials such as steel and soybeans and are beginning to feel uncertain about how to plan for the future, Mr. Slok said. “This is hanging as a big dark cloud over the spring meetings this year,” he said.

Mr. Trump’s “America First” approach to economic policy has sometimes brought him into conflict with international organizations, which he has criticized as ineffectual. The I.M.F. cautioned Tuesday that the multilateral, rules-based trading system of the World Trade Organization was “in danger of being torn apart.”

Another risk is Mr. Trump’s tax cut which, along with other budget changes, is expected to boost the United States economy by 1.2 percent by 2020, according to the I.M.F. There is concern the tax cuts could cause the economy to overheat, spurring inflation, which in turn could prompt the Federal Reserve and other central banks to raise interest rates. That could derail future growth and cause financial problems in fast-growing, but risky, emerging markets.

In the short run, the I.M.F. expects the tax cuts to help lift economic activity. It forecasts the United States economy to grow by 2.9 percent in 2018 and 2.7 percent in 2019 — up from 2.3 percent in 2017 and faster than the fund’s previous projections.

Speaking at a rally in Hialeah, Fla., on Monday, Mr. Trump cheered the effects of the tax cut and the strength of the economy. “This could be one of the greatest booms ever,” the president said. “Congratulations, enjoy your money.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Outside the United States, global growth is roaring along, lifted by surging exports to China and strong consumption in India. Prices of commodities are going up after two years of declines, and that is good news for countries, like Brazil and Russia, that are big exporters of oil, gas, metal and agricultural products.

As it did in earlier reports, the I.M.F. emphasized that the prolonged period of economic growth would eventually end and that policymakers needed to act now prepare for the next downturn. The fund urged governments to make tough adjustments to increase their economic productivity now, while growth remained strong.

“The present good times will not last for long, but sound policies can extend the current upswing,” Mr. Obstfeld said.Mr. Smith said over the weekend that the first move needed to come from the American companies that often find themselves acting as the “first responders” when cyberattacks hit their customers. “This has become a much bigger problem, and I think what we have learned in the past few years is that we need to work together in much bigger ways,” Mr. Smith said in an interview. “We need to approach this in a principled way, and if we expect to get governments to do that, we have to start with some principles ourselves.”

Microsoft played a central role in trying to extinguish the WannaCry attack last year that struck the British health care system and companies around the world. The Trump administration, along with several other Western governments, later blamed that attack on North Korea. Last summer the NotPetya attack struck Ukraine, crippling systems throughout the country. Iran is suspected in a recent attack on a Saudi petrochemical plant.

Yet not all governments are likely to embrace the “Cybersecurity Tech Accord” in part because the principles it espouses can run headlong into their own, usually secret efforts to develop cyberweapons.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

When Russia’s intelligence agencies obtained some of the National Security Agency’s secrets about its own cyberweapons, it appeared to do so by manipulating a virus protection program sold by Kaspersky, a Russian firm. The company said it knew nothing about the intrusion into its products, but American officials do not believe the denials and have banned Kaspersky products from United States government systems. Kaspersky is not a signer to the new accord.

Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who leaked documents about surveillance programs, revealed pictures suggesting that American officials intercepted some hardware that came out of Cisco Systems, a major manufacturer of the routers and switches that make up the spine of the internet, apparently so the equipment directed traffic back to American intelligence agencies. There is no evidence that Cisco cooperated, but the publication of the photos led some foreign customers to believe that American equipment had been broadly compromised by the N.S.A.

Cisco is one of the firms that has signed the accord. Mark Chandler, Cisco’s general counsel, said the company believed that “we need to say we will not be part of any effort that will undermine the security of the web, or undermine those who depend on it — our customers.” Among the other signatories were Dell, Juniper Networks, the two parts of the recently-split Hewlett-Packard, Symantec and FireEye. Two foreign firms, Telephonica of Spain and Nokia of Finland, also signed. There are no Chinese or Russian companies on the list of initial signatories.

The new technology accord vows that the 31 signers “will protect against tampering with and exploitation of technology products and services during their development, design, distribution and use.” Among the companies that signed are Oracle, Symantec, FireEye and HP, along with the Finnish company Nokia and the Spanish company Telefónica.

Microsoft officials said they briefed the Trump administration on the new accord and heard no objections. But that may not mean much: Mr. Trump’s homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, who oversaw cybersecurity policy, was dismissed last week after John R. Bolton took over as national security adviser.

The cybersecurity coordinator at the White House, Rob Joyce, is widely rumored to be considering leaving his post and returning to the National Security Agency, where he ran the most elite of the cyberforces that attack foreign networks. If Mr. Joyce departs, the White House will have lost its two most senior, and most knowledgeable, cybersecurity policymakers in the span of a few weeks.Michael D. Cohen, Donald J. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer, has served as a reliable attack dog against real or perceived threats to the now president.

F.B.I. agents who raided Mr. Cohen’s office, home and hotel room last week were seeking, in part, documents related to payments made to two women who claim they had affairs with Mr. Trump, Karen McDougal and Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic film star known as Stormy Daniels.Another White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe internal deliberations, said Mr. Trump had decided not to go forward with the sanctions. Mr. Trump concluded that they were unnecessary because Moscow’s response to the airstrike was mainly bluster, the official said.

Russia analysts said the whipsaw policy shift once again highlighted an administration struggling to find a coherent and consistent voice in dealing with Russia, which in the past four years has annexed Crimea, intervened in eastern Ukraine, sought to influence the American election in 2016, allegedly poisoned a former Russian spy living in Britain and propped up the murderous government of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria.

Mr. Trump has mostly spoken hopefully of his efforts to forge a friendship with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, including congratulating him on a re-election widely denounced as a sham and even suggesting a White House meeting. At the same time, the Trump administration has imposed two rounds of sanctions against Russia in the last month, expelled 60 of Moscow’s diplomats and closed a consulate in retaliation for the poisoning attack in Britain.

“Trump seems to think that if he accepts what his advisers recommend on even days of the month and rejects their recommendations on odd days, the result will be a strategy,” said Stephen Sestanovich, a scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations and Columbia University who served as ambassador to former Soviet states in the 1990s.

“By and large, other governments don’t know whether to laugh or cry at all this,” Mr. Sestanovich said. “But in Russia, laughter is getting the upper hand.”

Mr. Trump was annoyed with Ms. Haley for getting out in front of the policy, the administration official said, and the president’s decision to reject sanctions left her hanging in public with her credibility on the line.

Ms. Haley has been one of the strongest critics in the administration of Russia’s behavior around the world, often speaking far more harshly than Mr. Trump would, but she has rarely been reined in publicly this way. She made no comment on Monday.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Administration officials said new sanctions could still be imposed at some point if Russia takes further action justifying them.

But absent such a scenario, the officials could not explain how Mr. Trump would make Russia pay a “big price” for enabling Syria’s use of chemical weapons, as he promised to do last week after a suspected gas attack killed more than 40 people and sickened scores more outside Damascus on April 7.

The strike against Syria that Mr. Trump announced late Friday in Washington was limited to a single night and to three targets linked to chemical weapons facilities. It sought to punish President Bashar al-Assad of Syria for the suspected gas attack but avoid provoking Russia into a response.

Russian forces stationed in Syria have helped Mr. Assad gain the upper hand in the country’s seven-year civil war.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Russia responded harshly to the news of sanctions before learning that Mr. Trump had canceled them. “The sanctions drive against Russia is becoming an obsession,” Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, told reporters at his daily briefing in Moscow. “We’re convinced that any economist can see open attempts to squeeze Russian companies out of global markets.”

Critics said the president’s decision not to follow through on Ms. Haley’s announcement would sap American authority around the world.

“I am outraged that President Trump pulled back sanctions on Russia for its support of the Assad regime,” said Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the senior Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “This sends a message to governments around the world that they can support brutal, criminal behavior without serious consequences.

“President Trump is out of step with the American people, American values — and as this situation has made clear, his own administration,” Mr. Engel said.

The about-face on sanctions came a day after ABC News broadcast an interview with James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director fired by Mr. Trump last year, in which he said he thought “it’s possible” that the president had been compromised by Russia. A protester waiting for Mr. Trump in Florida on Monday held a large banner that read, “Russian stooge.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump has heatedly and repeatedly denied any collusion with Russia during his 2016 campaign, calling such suggestions a “hoax” perpetrated by Democratic sore losers desperate to explain an election defeat.

Russia did not respond militarily to the Friday strike, but American officials noted a sharp spike in Russian online activity around the time it was launched.

A snapshot on Friday night recorded a 2,000 percent increase in citing the hashtag #isupportsyria on Russian troll networks, according to a senior official at the Department of Homeland Security who was not authorized to discuss the issue by name and spoke on condition of anonymity. Additionally, the official said, the known Russian hashtag #SyriaStrikes had a 4,443 percent increase in activity while another, #Damsucs, saw a 2,800 percent jump.

In hitting the Barzah Research and Development Center, a chemical weapons research lab in greater Damascus, and two storage facilities and bunkers near Homs, Pentagon officials insisted that they dealt a critical blow to Mr. Assad’s weapons program. But Friday night’s strike, delivered via 105 missiles, was not quite double the 59 missiles used last year when Mr. Trump ordered the military to strike a Syrian airfield from which planes engaged in another chemical weapons attack took off.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis pushed hard to limit the strikes to proven weapons facilities in the hopes that a more limited strike would not prompt retaliation from Russia.

The lab at Barzah, in Damascus, was on the receiving end of the biggest barrage — some 76 missiles, a combination of Tomahawk cruise missiles and Joint air-to-surface missiles. The rest of the bombs — 29, fired by American, French and British warplanes — struck and destroyed the Him Shinshar chemical weapons storage facility near Homs, and the Him Shinshar chemical weapons bunker facility around five miles away.

Syria tried to hit back, but by the time its air defense system was deployed, the American warplanes were on their way home and the war ships had completed their mission, military officials said. They disputed Syrian claims to have shot down dozens of American missiles.

“We assess that over 40 surface-to-air missiles were employed by the Syrian regime,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff at the Pentagon, told reporters on Saturday. “Most of these launches occurred after the last impact of our strike was over.”

He called the Syrian retaliatory missiles “largely ineffective” and said they “clearly increased risk to their own people based on their indiscriminate response — when you shoot iron into the sky without guidance, it will inevitably fall to earth.”His statements, which came as he welcomed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to his oceanfront estate here, were fresh evidence of a diplomatic thaw underway on the Korean Peninsula, and made a once-unthinkable encounter between him and Mr. Kim far more likely.

The president did not specify who in his administration was talking to North Korea, nor did he give any hint of the sites under consideration — adding to the aura of mystery that has enveloped this potential meeting. The Washington Post first reported Mr. Pompeo’s trip, which took place over Easter.

But his comments could raise other thorny issues. A peace treaty with North Korea would greatly increase pressure to ease economic sanctions on the North and to withdraw American troops from the Korean Peninsula. It would also complicate the already tangled diplomacy in East Asia.

In his meeting with Mr. Abe, however, Mr. Trump projected optimism. He described North Korea in language worlds away from the speech he gave in November in Seoul, when he called it cruel and barbaric, “the results of a tragic experiment in a laboratory of history.”

“I really believe there’s a lot of good will,” Mr. Trump said. “They do respect us. We are respectful of them.”

He even suggested that the North and the South might announce some kind of deal before he met Mr. Kim.

On Tuesday, a South Korean newspaper, Munhwa Ilbo, reported that the two countries were negotiating an announcement “to ease military tensions and end a military confrontation,” as part of the summit meeting planned between Mr. Kim and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That could involve pulling troops out of the Demilitarized Zone, making it a genuinely “Demilitarized Zone.” A South Korean government official later played down the report, saying it was too soon to tell what a joint statement by Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim would contain, other than broad and “abstract” statements about the need for North Korea to “denuclearize.”

But analysts said South Korea was aiming for a comprehensive deal, in which the North agreed to give up its weapons in return for a security guarantee, including a peace treaty. Mr. Trump’s comments suggested he backed that effort.

“They do have my blessing to discuss the end of the war,” he said. “People don’t realize that the Korean War has not ended. It’s going on right now. And they are discussing an end to war. Subject to a deal, they have my blessing.”

While Mr. Abe lavished praise on Mr. Trump for the sanctions campaign, which he said had brought North Korea to the table, he did not repeat the president’s words about an end to the Korean War.

“Donald,” he said, “you’ve demonstrated your unwavering determination in addressing the challenge of North Korea.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Abe said only that he hoped that the talks with Mr. Kim would force the North to address the threats posed by its nuclear and missile programs, as well as its abduction of Japanese citizens — a politically resonant issue in Japan that Mr. Trump promised to raise with Mr. Kim.

“Abe put on a surprisingly brave face,” said Michael J. Green, a senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who advised President George W. Bush on North Korea. “The president of the United States just endorsed a peace treaty with North Korea, a declared nuclear weapons state, and they offered nothing in return.”

China, which is a signer to the 1953 armistice, has long favored a peace treaty. But Japan, which did not sign it, is suspicious of one — as are some foreign policy experts in the United States, who point out that the North has yet to take any tangible steps to give up its nuclear arsenal.

The idea of a peace treaty is not new. The United States and North Korea discussed it in the 1990s and again in 2005. But it has never gone anywhere, largely because North Korea has reneged on pledges to give up its nuclear program.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most scholars and officials agree that North and South Korea cannot themselves announce an end to the Korean War. It has to involve the United States and China as well, since both were signers to the armistice.

In welcoming Mr. Abe to his estate, Mar-a-Lago, for two days of meetings, Mr. Trump clearly hoped to change the subject from tampered documents, confiscated legal files and other symbols of the political storm clouds that hover over both leaders back home.

After days of ominous reports about his personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and unflattering descriptions in a new book by James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director he ousted, Mr. Trump appeared to savor the prospect of discussing trade and the nuclear threat from North Korea with Mr. Abe, whom he described in Twitter as a “truly fine gentleman.”

The stakes are even higher for Mr. Abe, whose political survival is in doubt after two domestic scandals have sapped his approval ratings and raised questions about whether he will be forced to resign.

Mr. Abe has invested heavily in his relationship with Mr. Trump, whom he first visited at Trump Tower even before he was sworn in. Preserving that relationship, in the face of fresh challenges in trade and from North Korea, could affect Mr. Abe’s standing in Japan.

The White House sought to put a good face on the meeting, describing Japan as a great ally of the United States and Mr. Abe as a friend of Mr. Trump. But officials acknowledged there would be differences over trade, with Mr. Trump pushing for a trade deal between the two countries and Mr. Abe stung by Mr. Trump’s decision not to exempt Japan, like other American allies, from sweeping tariffs on steel exports.

“We have certain disagreements with respect to some of the trading issues,” Larry Kudlow, Mr. Trump’s chief economic adviser, told reporters before the meeting. “We’ll iron those out, hopefully.”

Mr. Kudlow said he expected Mr. Abe to petition Mr. Trump to grant Japan an exemption, but declined to predict how he would respond. He also tamped down expectations about the United States rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the Asian trade pact, now anchored by Japan, which Mr. Trump pulled out of during his first week in office.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We are in the pre-preliminary stages of any discussions,” he said. “It’s more of a thought than a policy.”

Having met six times — including once before at Mar-a-Lago — and spoken by phone 20 times, Mr. Trump and Mr. Abe were likely to talk about the issues dogging them at home, officials said. But American officials said they did not believe that would dominate their discussions.

“It’s all part and parcel of the relationship,” said Matthew Pottinger, the senior director for Asia at the National Security Council. “Sometimes they talk about the respective politics in each other’s countries. They enjoy talking about it.”President Clinton would later agree to the deal, but Congress often delayed the oil shipments and refused to immediately lift sanctions, and the light-water reactors were never built.

2000

North and South Korea Hold Talks

Photo

Kim Il-sung’s son and successor, Kim Jong-il, and the then president of South Korea, Kim Dae-jung, met in Pyongyang in 2000, the first such summit meeting between the leaders of the two Koreas since a war divided the peninsula 50 years earlier.

The talks ushered in an unprecedented rapprochement and various joint projects including a factory park in the North Korean town of Kaesong. But the credibility of Kim Dae-jung’s so-called Sunshine Policy was damaged after an investigation revealed that the South Korean government had funneled $450 million to the North shortly before the talks.

Madeleine Albright Visits the North

Photo

Kim Jong-il invited President Clinton to North Korea in 2000. Madeleine K. Albright, the secretary of state, went instead. She traveled to Pyongyang in an effort to expand the Agreed Framework to include ballistic missiles, which North Korea was developing and selling abroad.

Clinton administration officials said a deal was close, but nothing was concluded by the time President George W. Bush took office in 2001.

2002 - 2006

A Nuclear Bomb Test

Photo

The Agreed Framework collapsed in 2002 after the United States confronted North Korea over its secret program to enrich uranium using equipment from Pakistan. The United States stopped oil shipments to North Korea and Pyongyang restarted its nuclear weapons program.

The so-called Six-Party Talks continued fitfully between representatives of North and South Korea, China, Russia, Japan and the United States. The North said in 2005 that it would give up nuclear weapons and its existing nuclear programs in return for security guarantees. North Korea carried out its first nuclear test in 2006.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

2007 - 2011

Six-Party Talks Collapse

Photo

In 2007, Kim Jong-il and South Korea’s president at the time, Roh Moo-hyun, held the second summit meeting between the two sides. The meeting produced an agreement aimed at expanding inter-Korean ties and easing military tensions along the disputed maritime border on the west coast of the Korean Peninsula. But the deal came at the end of Mr. Roh’s five-year administration and his conservative successor quickly scrapped it.

The Six-Party Talks eventually collapsed in 2009, largely over the question of allowing international inspectors into North Korean sites.

That same year, Mr. Clinton traveled to North Korea and met with Kim Jong-il to secure the release of two American journalists, Euna Lee and Laura Ling.

Kim Jong-il died in 2011 and his youngest son, Kim Jong-un took over control of North Korea.

2012

President Obama Pursues ‘Strategic Patience’

Photo

The Obama administration pursued a strategy of escalating sanctions it described as strategic patience, although meetings between diplomats from the two sides continued.

An agreement appeared to be reached on Feb. 29, 2012, under which the North would allow the return of weapons inspectors, and halt its long-range missile and nuclear weapons programs in return for American food aid.

However, the deal died soon after when North Korea launched a rocket to put a satellite in orbit, which the United States considered part of its efforts to develop long-range ballistic missiles.

2016 - 2017

Trump Signals Willingness to Talk

Photo

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he would be willing to hold direct negotiations with Mr. Kim as part of efforts to halt North Korea’s nuclear program.

He later pushed back against criticism over his willingness to speak with the North Korean leader.

“Who the hell cares? I’ll speak to anybody. Who knows?” Mr. Trump said. “There’s a 10 percent or a 20 percent chance that I can talk him out of those damn nukes because who the hell wants him to have nukes? And there’s a chance — I’m only gonna make a good deal for us.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the death of Otto F. Warmbier, a University of Virginia honors student who spent 17 months in North Korean captivity, Mr. Trump condemned the “brutal regime” in North Korea.

Stronger Missiles and More Powerful Nukes

Photo

During the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency, North Korea tested ballistic missiles with increasingly longer ranges that put the United States within reach. The North also carried out its sixth and most powerful nuclear detonation, which the regime claimed was a hydrogen device.

Mr. Trump threatened to assail North Korea with “fire and fury” if the country endangered the United States. Undeterred, North Korea announced it was considering a strike against Guam, where the United States maintains a critical air base, that would create “an enveloping fire” around the Pacific island.

Trump and Kim’s War of Words

Photo

In his inaugural speech to the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Trump vowed to “totally destroy” North Korea if it threatened the United States or its allies. “If the righteous many don’t confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph,” he said.

“Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself,” he said of Mr. Kim in September, having debuted the nickname on Twitter earlier that month. Mr. Kim later called Mr. Trump “a dotard.”

Mr. Trump’s United Nations speech came just days after North Korea fired a ballistic missile over Japan.

2018

An Olympic Overture

Photo

Two days into 2018, Mr. Trump said American and international sanctions on North Korea prompted talks between North and South Korea — a prospect raised during a speech made by Mr. Kim on New Year’s Day.

Mr. Kim boasted of having a button on his desk from which he could order a strike against the mainland United States. Mr. Trump responded on Twitter that he possessed a “much bigger & more powerful” nuclear button.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Later that month, during his inaugural State of the Union speech, Mr. Trump vowed he would not repeat “the mistakes of past administrations that got us into this dangerous position.”

North Korea agreed to send a delegation to South Korea for the Winter Olympics last month. The move helped ease tensions between the two sides. Kim Yo-jong, Mr. Kim’s sister, went to Pyeongchang, South Korea, for the opening ceremony.

Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and a senior White House adviser, traveled to South Korea to attend the closing ceremony. Her appearance came after a failed attempt by South Korean officials to coordinate a meeting between Kim Yo-jong and Vice President Mike Pence at the outset of the Games.

Two top South Korean officials, Chung Eui-yong, national security adviser, and Suh Hoon, the director of National Intelligence Service, traveled to North Korea this week to meet with Mr. Kim and set the groundwork for the overture to Mr. Trump.It was unclear what caused the problem, which lasted from the early morning hours until a little after 5 p.m. David Kautter, the acting I.R.S. commissioner, who happened to be testifying before Congress on an unrelated issue during the failure, told lawmakers that “a number of I.R.S. systems were unavailable” and that the agency was working to fix the problem. He later apologized for the situation.

The I.R.S. said that the problem was most likely related to a hardware issue and was not the result of a cyberattack. Congressional aides who were monitoring the situation on Tuesday said that they expected the I.R.S. to have to reboot its entire computer system.

Lawmakers and former government officials blamed an antiquated computer system that has deteriorated as a result of budget cuts for the tech malfunction. Since 2010, the agency’s total budget has fallen from about $14 billion to $11.5 billion, and its staff has shrunk by 20,000, to nearly 76,000. The tax code has only grown more complex during that period and the population of the United States has increased, along with the number of people who file electronically.

A top I.R.S. official warned Congress in October that a “catastrophic” system failure was just a matter of time.

“The I.R.S. needs to upgrade its I.T. infrastructure, not only to help ensure reliable and modern taxpayer services, but also to mitigate risks to the system,” Jeffrey Tribiano, the I.R.S. deputy commissioner for operations support, told the House Ways and Means oversight subcommittee. “We are concerned that the potential for a catastrophic system failure is increasing as our infrastructure continues to age.”

At the congressional hearing, Mr. Kautter lamented the fact that much of the I.R.S.’s computing hardware is obsolete and that a significant portion of its software needs updating. He said that the agency faced more than two million attempted cyberattacks per day and that it desperately needed more resources to upgrade its systems and to bolster its defenses.

John Koskinen, the former I.R.S. commissioner who left the agency last year, said that the agency’s computer system had deteriorated after years of neglect and that it likely crashed as a result of increased strain ahead of the filing deadline. Last year, five million taxpayers filed on Tax Day.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I kept telling Congress, if funding continues to be constrained, it’s not a matter of if, it’s a matter of when the system fails,” said Mr. Koskinen, who filed his taxes over the weekend. “You really are rolling the dice when you operate that way.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The I.R.S. initially urged taxpayers to try to complete their filings ahead of the deadline, despite the malfunction, prompting some confusion about how to go about doing so.

Among those who did not have to worry about filing late was President Trump, who requested a six-month extension to file his returns because of their complexity, according to the White House. The I.R.S. said it was expecting about 15 million people to request six-month extensions.

The crash was reminiscent of the problems that plagued the Affordable Care Act’s online health insurance exchange under President Barack Obama. It came on a day when Mr. Trump and his top advisers were trumpeting the tax cut passed by Congress late last year.

“President Trump was able to fix a broken tax system,” Mr. Mnuchin said during the New Hampshire event on Tuesday afternoon.

The malfunction comes as Republican lawmakers have been mulling legislation to restructure the I.R.S., which will face additional strain as it tries to issue new guidance and regulations to clarify lingering questions about the new tax law.

The issue of overhauling the I.R.S. has been a challenging one for Republicans, who have long criticized the agency for unfairly targeting conservatives. Some lawmakers, such as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, have vowed to “abolish” the agency.

In recent months, though, Republicans have reversed course. Leaders of the Ways and Means Committee have introduced a bill to “modernize” the agency, moving it away from outdated technologies and refocusing its mission on customer service.

“Our goal is to redesign, refocus and rein in the I.R.S.,” Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the Republican chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said on Tuesday. “Redesign the I.R.S. by insisting they bring back to Congress a comprehensive restructuring of the organization to focus on customer service.”

Democrats seized on the computer failure on Tuesday as evidence that Republicans, who pushed the tax overhaul through Congress and have starved the agency of funding over the years, had been negligent.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s clear from today’s events that the I.R.S. needs adequate funding to protect and operate its I.T. systems,” said Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. “What you’re seeing today is not just the responsibility of the I.R.S., but of the years of Republican Congress neglect, too.”President Trump went to West Virginia this month to talk about tax cuts, but he got a bit distracted. He talked about China, the North American Free Trade Agreement, border security, “sanctuary cities” and states he won in 2016. Eventually he turned to his prepared comments on taxes.

“This was going to be my remarks,” he said, holding up a sheet of paper. “It would have taken about two minutes, but” — and here he threw the paper over his shoulder — “to hell with it. That would have been a little boring. A little boring. Right. Now I’m reading off the first paragraph, I said, ‘This is boring.’”

If Mr. Trump has lost some interest in the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul that he signed into law last year — even though the White House keeps scheduling events to promote it, including one in Florida on Monday — well, the country is right there with him. A brief flurry of activity is planned this week by supporters and opponents of the new law, to coincide with Tuesday’s filing deadline for 2017 income taxes. But otherwise, by all sorts of metrics, Americans aren’t talking very much about a law that Republicans had hoped to make a centerpiece of their midterm election message.

Consider one of Mr. Trump’s preferred yardsticks: cable news coverage. Throughout the fall, as Republicans rushed their tax bill through Congress in two breakneck months, CNN, Fox News and MSNBC routinely devoted 10 percent of their daily coverage to tax issues, according to data from the Gdelt Project. Interest spiked as Mr. Trump signed the bill in late December, and then it fell precipitously:Soon after the explosion, a woman near the window was partially sucked out, Mr. Kraidelman said.

“The top half of her torso was out the window,” he said. “There was a lot of blood because she was hit by some of the shrapnel coming off the engine after it exploded.”

Mr. Kraidelman said passengers and flight attendants struggled “to drag her back into the aircraft.” When they did, she was unconscious and seriously injured, and flight attendants and passengers tried to revive her. Upon seeing the scene, one flight attendant began to cry, Mr. Tranchin said.

“They were doing CPR on her and using the defibrillator while we were landing,” Mr. Kraidelman said. “They were working on her while everyone else had their oxygen mask on.”



Mr. Tranchin said that one of the passengers helping had at one point placed his lower back up against the opening in the plane, in an apparent effort to help with the compression. The man did this for the next 20 minutes, Mr. Tranchin said, adding that the man later told him that the pressure at his back had been extreme.

In the meantime, passengers wept and screamed for roughly 10 or 15 minutes, oxygen masks strapped to their faces, Mr. Kraidelman said.

Mr. Tranchin said he spent those precious minutes texting goodbyes to people important in his life.

“It’s a wild experience,” he said. “It’s not a couple minutes of freaking out and frantically saying goodbye; it’s 25 minutes of sustained fear that this was the end.”

“What do you say to your pregnant wife and your parents in your final moments?” he added. “That’s what I was trying to figure out.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Tranchin said he wanted his wife to tell his son how important it is to follow his dreams; he wanted to tell her to find love again.

About two minutes before the plane landed, passengers got cellphone reception, so he called his wife and told her they were about to make an emergency landing.



As the craft descended, “it was shaking, it was vibrating, it was tilting to one side,” Mr. Kraidelman said.

Mr. Tranchin said passengers were repeatedly told to “brace for impact.”

“At that point,” he said, “I thought I had a better than 50-50 chance of surviving.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“You can see the ground, we’re level,” he continued. “It’s crash landing, but it’s doable.”

That the landing ended up being smooth was “nothing short of extraordinary,” Mr. Tranchin said.

Mr. Sumwalt said there were two pilots on the plane. He noted that pilots are trained often, and having listened to the air-traffic control communications from Tuesday, he said the pair seemed to have done “an excellent job.”

“As a fellow airline pilot,” he said, “my hat’s certainly off to them.”

While federal transportation officials did not release the name of the woman who died, on Tuesday night, an official with the New Mexico Broadcasters Association, the mayor of Albuquerque and a spokesman for Wells Fargo identified the woman who died as Jennifer Riordan, of Albuquerque.

Photo

Colleagues and friends said she was a community relations leader with Wells Fargo. They also said she was a wife and mother of two who had been a scholarship winner at the University of New Mexico and had served on a school board.

“Today, Albuquerque lost a thoughtful leader who has long been part of the fabric of our community,” the mayor, Tim Keller, said. “Her leadership and philanthropic efforts made this a better place every day and she will be terribly missed.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Gary C. Kelly, the chief executive of Southwest Airlines, said in a video posted to YouTube,“This is a sad day, and on behalf of the entire Southwest family I want to extend my deepest sympathies for the family and the loved ones of our deceased customer.”

The flight, which was on its way from New York’s La Guardia Airport to Dallas Love Field, was a Boeing 737 with 144 passengers and five Southwest employees on board, the officials said.

The crew initially reported that they had an engine fire, Mr. Sumwalt said. They later clarified that there was no fire, but said that the plane was operating with a single engine — and that parts of it were missing.

Mr. Sumwalt said an engine cowling was later discovered in Bernville, Pa., about 70 miles northwest of Philadelphia.

Once the plane was on the ground, investigators discovered that a fan blade was missing from the plane’s operating engine. It appeared to have been separated at what Mr. Sumwalt called “the hub.”

“Our preliminary examination of this was that there’s evidence of metal fatigue where the blade separated,” he said.

Mr. Sumwalt said he had spoken with Mr. Kelly, who said Southwest Airlines will begin “enhanced inspection procedures” on their entire fleet.

A similar episode occurred in August 2016 when a Southwest Airlines flight headed to Orlando, Fla., made an emergency landing in Pensacola, Fla., because of engine failure, according to The Associated Press. Although some photos had made it appear as though the engine had blown apart, the airline later said there had been no explosion. That episode also involved a Boeing 737.

Mr. Sumwalt said he had spoken with Mr. Kelly, who he said told him that Southwest Airlines would begin “enhanced inspection procedures” on their entire fleet.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We are taking this event very seriously,” Mr. Sumwalt said. “This should not happen.”Huawei is a global telecommunications equipment powerhouse, with $93 billion in revenue last year. It has spent millions trying to pry its way into the United States but found few takers — save for smaller, rural telecom companies that receive federal subsidies and would likely be barred from working with it by the F.C.C. rule.

Huawei’s troubles in the United States have been mounting since 2012, when a congressional report warned that its gear could be used to spy on Americans or to destabilize American telecom networks. The company spent $1.2 million on lobbying that year. Last year, it spent $60,000.

Major American carriers such as Verizon and AT&T have since shunned Huawei. The Commerce and Treasury Departments have subpoenaed it over possible violations of American sanctions on Iran and North Korea. And bills are before Congress to stop government agencies and contractors from buying Huawei products.

In January, researchers discovered security flaws in the microprocessors inside nearly all of the world’s computers. A Senate committee wrote to Huawei’s founder to ask what the company knew about the vulnerabilities, and how it had been affected by them. Huawei decided not to respond.

Then, last week, Huawei laid off five American employees, including William B. Plummer, the executive who was the face of its Sisyphean efforts to win over Washington.

The company has said repeatedly that its products pose no security risk and that it complies with the law everywhere it operates. Still, the layoffs appear to be an acknowledgment by Huawei that it has failed to clear the political cloud around it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Some things cannot change their course according to our wishes,” Eric Xu, Huawei’s deputy chairman, said at the company’s annual meeting with analysts on Tuesday in its home city, Shenzhen. “With some things, when you let them go, you actually feel more at ease.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech? The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Plummer, who was Huawei’s vice president of external affairs, had been with the company for almost eight years. He was the most senior member of Huawei’s American policy team who was not a Chinese citizen.

It is not clear whether he will be replaced. The company’s policy operations in the United States are led by a relatively recent arrival, Zhang Ruijun, who took the post nine months ago after working for the company in Mexico and Russia.

A Huawei spokesman said in a statement that any layoffs simply reflected an effort to better align resources with “business strategy and objectives.”

“Any changes to staffing size or structure are simply a reflection of standard business organization,” he said.

In the United States, Huawei customers that would be affected by the F.C.C.’s proposed rule — small cellular carriers, largely in rural areas — may soon need to find new equipment suppliers.

These carriers love Huawei gear, said Carri Bennet, general counsel for the Rural Wireless Association, an industry group for American telecom companies with fewer than 100,000 subscribers.

The association’s members have even elected a Huawei executive, William Levy, to their board.

Ms. Bennet said that rather than blacklisting specific manufacturers, Washington should be creating a system for testing telecom gear for security vulnerabilities.

“These companies who are reliant on this support, they don’t have the funds to overhaul their whole network,” she said. “Public safety, getting 911 services, broadband — it all just starts falling apart.”The search for her killers posed a test for Malta, its political parties and institutions, and for the European Union, of which the country is a member. It is a test the family claims the country is failing. Three men the police call career criminals were arrested in December and charged with planting and detonating the bomb. But questions about who was behind them and why they wanted Ms. Caruana Galizia dead remain unanswered.

“The brutal assassination of Daphne Caruana Galizia was aimed at instilling fear in everyone,” a European Parliament delegation to Malta said in a report released in January, “especially those involved in investigating and prosecuting cases of money laundering and corruption.”

Photo

After her death, 45 journalists from 18 news organizations agreed to work together to pursue leads from her work on corruption and international money-laundering networks, as well as look into the circumstances surrounding her death. Forbidden Stories, an investigative nonprofit in Paris devoted to completing the work of jailed and murdered journalists, coordinated the collaboration, in which The New York Times took part.

Today, the once-barren field where the burning wreck of Ms. Caruana Galizia’s car came to rest has sprouted green and lush, dotted with yellow and red spring wildflowers. The men charged with the killing — the brothers George and Alfred Degiorgio, and Vincent Muscat, no relation to the prime minister, who shares the surname — have pleaded not guilty but have otherwise refused to talk, and they remain in custody.

But the police say the three men were tipped off to their imminent arrest, according to evidence gathered in the investigation. Among the allegations the victim’s family passed to investigators is that Mr. Cardona, the economy minister, and two of the suspects in the killing were regulars at the same out-of-the-way bar.

In a written response, Mr. Cardona said that the bar, Ferdinand’s, “welcomes patrons from all walks of life, including other politicians.” He added, “I do not, however, recall having any discussions with any of these individuals, and have definitely never had any meetings with them.”

Photo

Mr. Cardona said that he had not been interviewed in connection with the case. The police have chosen to work their way up from the evidence at the crime scene rather than look for motives in the journalist’s reporting. A person with knowledge of the investigation who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter confirmed that the police were not actively looking into whether the crime had been motivated by Ms. Caruana Galizia’s reporting on politicians. They still have a dozen investigators working on the case — half of them full time — while other authorities are combing financial and communications records to try to find links to the killers.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Caruana Galizia’s family says that the police are content to let the three suspects in custody take the fall without investigating deeper and potentially uncovering wrongdoing by the governing party. They fear that with time, the urgency to uncover why she was killed, and who was behind the attack, has already begun to recede. Six months after her death, neither the bomb maker nor the person or people who wanted her dead have been found.

“There is now a sense of impunity, a culture of impunity,” said Simon Busuttil, the former leader of the opposition Nationalist Party. “So everyone thinks they can get away with murder,” he added, “perhaps even literally.”

Underscoring the point, a Russian woman identified as one of Ms. Caruana Galizia’s sources has applied for political asylum in Greece, where she fled in fear for her life after the assassination, and she is fighting extradition.

Photo

In her years as a muckraking journalist, Ms. Caruana Galizia angered countless people on this island, not to mention an Iranian-born banker, drug-trafficking syndicates and the president of Azerbaijan. Ms. Caruana Galizia was no stranger to threats. In 1995, someone slit her dog’s throat and laid its body on her doorstep. In 2006, unidentified perpetrators stacked five large tires filled with bottles of gasoline against the back of her home and set them ablaze.

In an interview she gave to a researcher from the Council of Europe shortly before her death, Ms. Caruana Galizia, 53, described “a climate of fear” in Malta, a country where people were afraid of the consequences of speaking out.

“There have been periods where literally I would feel like, ‘Oh my God, I’m going to get a stomach ulcer,’” she said. “That churning, churning nerves all the time. Because you’re living under it constantly, you know?”

Ms. Caruana Galizia dedicated herself to uncovering what she saw as a web of corruption in the country, on her blog, Running Commentary, where her reporting veered from tabloid to investigative to partisan and back again — sometimes in a single article. Hated by many but read by all, her post about Mr. Cardona had 547,146 page views; Malta has 460,000 people.

Photo

But she also reported on how Prime Minister Joseph Muscat’s chief of staff and energy minister had used the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca to set up shell companies there shortly after the Labor Party came to power in 2013, which they have acknowledged was true. She said that a third company that had been set up belonged to Mr. Muscat’s wife, Michelle, which the couple vehemently denied. The Muscats demanded a formal inquiry to clear their name, and it is still underway.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jeffrey Pullicino Orlando, a former lawmaker who switched from the Nationalist Party to the Labor Party and who was a regular subject of Ms. Caruana Galizia’s blog, shared a view expressed by many here: that Ms. Caruana Galizia engaged in loosely sourced personal attacks rather than in sober, careful journalism.

“It’s not exactly what’s called a journalistic gem,” he said. “Most of it is mainly insults and denigrating any opponent to her clique.”

Mr. Orlando also pointed out that Labor, which won elections called after her disclosures about the offshore accounts, had nothing to gain from her death, as it would bring only renewed criticism and attention. “No one in the political sector of Malta had any interest in her death,” he said.

Photo

After the murder, foreign law-enforcement experts arrived to help with the investigation. A team from the Netherlands assisted with forensics at the crime scene. The F.B.I. sent a team to analyze cellphone data. Europol, the European Union law-enforcement agency, had people on the ground working with its Maltese counterparts out of a command center set up at Police Headquarters.

Significant evidence was gathered from cellphones used to coordinate the bombing, and from surveillance videos linking the three suspects to the killing. But little progress has been made in discovering who was behind them.

The inquiry has been hampered by the family’s distrust of the police, which means that investigators have not had the chance to examine her laptop, which might contain clues to who might have betrayed her, or had an interest in silencing her.

“Daphne would never have handed over her laptop,” Corinne Vella, Ms. Caruana Galizia’s sister, said in a statement on Monday. “She always said, ‘If anything happens, if the police ever come to the house, I will throw my laptop into a well,’ and she meant it.”

She added: “It was about protecting her sources. She knew that whatever information the police got hold of would go straight to the same people in government she was investigating.”The search for her killers posed a test for Malta, its political parties and institutions, and for the European Union, of which the country is a member. It is a test the family claims the country is failing. Three men the police call career criminals were arrested in December and charged with planting and detonating the bomb. But questions about who was behind them and why they wanted Ms. Caruana Galizia dead remain unanswered.

“The brutal assassination of Daphne Caruana Galizia was aimed at instilling fear in everyone,” a European Parliament delegation to Malta said in a report released in January, “especially those involved in investigating and prosecuting cases of money laundering and corruption.”

Photo

After her death, 45 journalists from 18 news organizations agreed to work together to pursue leads from her work on corruption and international money-laundering networks, as well as look into the circumstances surrounding her death. Forbidden Stories, an investigative nonprofit in Paris devoted to completing the work of jailed and murdered journalists, coordinated the collaboration, in which The New York Times took part.

Today, the once-barren field where the burning wreck of Ms. Caruana Galizia’s car came to rest has sprouted green and lush, dotted with yellow and red spring wildflowers. The men charged with the killing — the brothers George and Alfred Degiorgio, and Vincent Muscat, no relation to the prime minister, who shares the surname — have pleaded not guilty but have otherwise refused to talk, and they remain in custody.

But the police say the three men were tipped off to their imminent arrest, according to evidence gathered in the investigation. Among the allegations the victim’s family passed to investigators is that Mr. Cardona, the economy minister, and two of the suspects in the killing were regulars at the same out-of-the-way bar.

In a written response, Mr. Cardona said that the bar, Ferdinand’s, “welcomes patrons from all walks of life, including other politicians.” He added, “I do not, however, recall having any discussions with any of these individuals, and have definitely never had any meetings with them.”

Photo

Mr. Cardona said that he had not been interviewed in connection with the case. The police have chosen to work their way up from the evidence at the crime scene rather than look for motives in the journalist’s reporting. A person with knowledge of the investigation who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter confirmed that the police were not actively looking into whether the crime had been motivated by Ms. Caruana Galizia’s reporting on politicians. They still have a dozen investigators working on the case — half of them full time — while other authorities are combing financial and communications records to try to find links to the killers.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Caruana Galizia’s family says that the police are content to let the three suspects in custody take the fall without investigating deeper and potentially uncovering wrongdoing by the governing party. They fear that with time, the urgency to uncover why she was killed, and who was behind the attack, has already begun to recede. Six months after her death, neither the bomb maker nor the person or people who wanted her dead have been found.

“There is now a sense of impunity, a culture of impunity,” said Simon Busuttil, the former leader of the opposition Nationalist Party. “So everyone thinks they can get away with murder,” he added, “perhaps even literally.”

Underscoring the point, a Russian woman identified as one of Ms. Caruana Galizia’s sources has applied for political asylum in Greece, where she fled in fear for her life after the assassination, and she is fighting extradition.

Photo

In her years as a muckraking journalist, Ms. Caruana Galizia angered countless people on this island, not to mention an Iranian-born banker, drug-trafficking syndicates and the president of Azerbaijan. Ms. Caruana Galizia was no stranger to threats. In 1995, someone slit her dog’s throat and laid its body on her doorstep. In 2006, unidentified perpetrators stacked five large tires filled with bottles of gasoline against the back of her home and set them ablaze.

In an interview she gave to a researcher from the Council of Europe shortly before her death, Ms. Caruana Galizia, 53, described “a climate of fear” in Malta, a country where people were afraid of the consequences of speaking out.

“There have been periods where literally I would feel like, ‘Oh my God, I’m going to get a stomach ulcer,’” she said. “That churning, churning nerves all the time. Because you’re living under it constantly, you know?”

Ms. Caruana Galizia dedicated herself to uncovering what she saw as a web of corruption in the country, on her blog, Running Commentary, where her reporting veered from tabloid to investigative to partisan and back again — sometimes in a single article. Hated by many but read by all, her post about Mr. Cardona had 547,146 page views; Malta has 460,000 people.

Photo

But she also reported on how Prime Minister Joseph Muscat’s chief of staff and energy minister had used the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca to set up shell companies there shortly after the Labor Party came to power in 2013, which they have acknowledged was true. She said that a third company that had been set up belonged to Mr. Muscat’s wife, Michelle, which the couple vehemently denied. The Muscats demanded a formal inquiry to clear their name, and it is still underway.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jeffrey Pullicino Orlando, a former lawmaker who switched from the Nationalist Party to the Labor Party and who was a regular subject of Ms. Caruana Galizia’s blog, shared a view expressed by many here: that Ms. Caruana Galizia engaged in loosely sourced personal attacks rather than in sober, careful journalism.

“It’s not exactly what’s called a journalistic gem,” he said. “Most of it is mainly insults and denigrating any opponent to her clique.”

Mr. Orlando also pointed out that Labor, which won elections called after her disclosures about the offshore accounts, had nothing to gain from her death, as it would bring only renewed criticism and attention. “No one in the political sector of Malta had any interest in her death,” he said.

Photo

After the murder, foreign law-enforcement experts arrived to help with the investigation. A team from the Netherlands assisted with forensics at the crime scene. The F.B.I. sent a team to analyze cellphone data. Europol, the European Union law-enforcement agency, had people on the ground working with its Maltese counterparts out of a command center set up at Police Headquarters.

Significant evidence was gathered from cellphones used to coordinate the bombing, and from surveillance videos linking the three suspects to the killing. But little progress has been made in discovering who was behind them.

The inquiry has been hampered by the family’s distrust of the police, which means that investigators have not had the chance to examine her laptop, which might contain clues to who might have betrayed her, or had an interest in silencing her.

“Daphne would never have handed over her laptop,” Corinne Vella, Ms. Caruana Galizia’s sister, said in a statement on Monday. “She always said, ‘If anything happens, if the police ever come to the house, I will throw my laptop into a well,’ and she meant it.”

She added: “It was about protecting her sources. She knew that whatever information the police got hold of would go straight to the same people in government she was investigating.”For many Israelis the undignified backdrop was just the latest indication that the country’s leadership had forfeited any semblance of stateliness for partisanship and politics, and a sign of the country’s many divisions.

“It’s supposed to be about Israel and our story and not who takes credit for it,” said Micah Goodman, a popular Israeli philosopher of Jewish thought. “Instead of a moment that transcends tribalism and politics it became somehow very political. This is how you ruin the birthday party.”

Photo

Others, however, view the ruckus as part of the usual maelstrom and the informal, freewheeling spirit that is quintessentially Israeli.

“This is very typical for Israel — something that epitomizes Israeli culture,” said Avi Shilon, an Israeli historian who teaches at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and N.Y.U. Tel Aviv.

“When you think of Israeli achievements it starts from the balagan in Israeli society,” he said, using a Hebrew term for mess or chaos, borrowed from Russian. “Everyone wants to take it to their own direction. Sometimes this helps you to invent new methods.”

“The problem,” he added, “is of course if you want to be a serious state — and we are already 70 years old — you can expect to maintain some tradition.”

Israel declared independence on May 14, 1948, but the holiday, like all national holidays here, will be observed according to the Hebrew calendar.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Palestinians generally mark what they call the Nakba, or the catastrophe, of 1948, when hundreds of thousands of them became refugees, on May 15, the day after Israel’s declaration of independence according to the Gregorian calendar. But some Arab citizens of Israel, who make up more than 20 percent of the population, are planning to hold a Nakba march on Thursday.

The ceremony promises to be a spectacle of almost Olympic proportions. On stage, three live orchestras and 1,600 people will render the digitally augmented story of Israel from Mount Sinai to the so-called start-up nation, while 300 drones are on standby to create illuminated symbols in the sky.

Photo

The main organizer of the event is Miri Regev, Israel’s minister for culture and sport, an often provocative, populist politician — the newspaper Haaretz has called her “Trump in high heels” — and a fierce loyalist of Mr. Netanyahu.

One day last week, she strode across the stage during a tour of the site at Jerusalem’s Mount Herzl, flanked by reporters and television cameras. A former brigadier general in the Israeli military, she told the chief engineer that she wanted “zero casualties” in this event. In 2012, an Israeli Army officer was killed during a rehearsal for the ceremony’s flag parade when a lighting rig fell on her.

On the way out Ms. Regev instructed an aide to check on the number of portable toilets and quantity of toilet paper, so there wouldn’t be problems like in the past. “Write that down!” she said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“This will be a breathtaking display, the likes of which we have never seen before in Israel,” she told reporters.

But many people apportion much of the blame for the brouhaha on her campaign to have her patron, Mr. Netanyahu, lead the ceremony instead of Mr. Edelstein, whom Ms. Regev views as a potential rival within Likud.

Mr. Edelstein said he would boycott the ceremony if Mr. Netanyahu gave the keynote speech. Carmi Gillon, a former chief of Israel’s Shin Bet internal security agency, called on Israelis to switch off their televisions while Mr. Netanyahu spoke. Netanyahu supporters said Mr. Gillon should be the last person to preach about prime ministers, since Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated on his watch.

Last week, the two sides announced a compromise that was to have ended the feud.

The prime minister’s office said that Mr. Netanyahu would light one of 12 torches, representing the 12 tribes of Israel, in the name of all the governments of Israel and, like the other torch lighters, make brief remarks relating to Israel’s Declaration of Independence.

Photo

Mr. Edelstein said in a video statement that the Parliament, “which represents all the state’s citizens, will lead the ceremony. To my regret the arguments that arose have clouded the public atmosphere and I am sorry for that.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But that was not the end of the blunders and mishaps.

The idea of inviting world leaders was quietly dropped after it appeared that few would respond positively, and the organizers belatedly realized that a large foreign presence would snarl traffic and disrupt the festivities for ordinary Israelis.

Yet President Juan Orlando Hernández of Honduras somehow made it to the prestigious list of torch lighters, the first foreign leader given that honor.

Honduras was one of nine countries to vote against a United Nations resolution condemning the Trump administration’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, and its congress passed a measure last week urging the government to move its embassy to Jerusalem. The formal reason given for the honor was that Mr. Hernández is the only graduate of an Israeli government leadership development course to have become president.

Still, the choice baffled many Israelis, not least because Honduras abstained from the 1947 United Nations vote for the partition of Palestine, paving the way for Israel’s creation. Last week, after Israeli critics noted Mr. Hernández won his second term in a disputed election and raised questions about his country’s corruption and human rights record, he canceled.

Israel often tries to include an Arab citizen as a torch lighter, though many would not want to be associated with the celebration. This year, the spiritual leader of the small but loyal Druze community will light a torch.

Some Israelis raised questions about another torch lighter, the Israeli actor Ze’ev Revach, who has been accused of sexual harassment. The case against him was closed for lack of evidence.

Mayim Bialik, the American actress and neuroscientist who stars in “The Big Bang Theory,” was chosen to represent the Jewish diaspora but was invited only recently. She could not change her filming schedule and so isn’t going.

Ms. Regev said the lessons had been learned for next year.Starbucks said on Tuesday that it would close its more than 8,000 stores in the United States for one day to conduct anti-bias training after two African-American men were arrested at one of its stores last week, prompting outrage.

Starbucks will close the stores May 29 to offer the training to 175,000 employees.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we need to take to fix it,” Kevin R. Johnson, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement announcing the training.

The two men were arrested after asking to use the restroom at a Starbucks in Philadelphia. An employee refused the request because the men had not bought anything, according to officials. The men sat down and were asked to leave, and an employee eventually called the police.

The ensuing scene was recorded in a video that has been viewed more than 10 million times on Twitter. In it, police officers appear to handcuff both men, as a third man, Andrew Yaffe, confronts them.Photo

Starbucks said on Tuesday that it would close its more than 8,000 stores in the United States for one day to conduct anti-bias training after two African-American men were arrested at one of its stores last week, prompting outrage.

Starbucks will close the stores May 29 to offer the training to 175,000 employees.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we need to take to fix it,” Kevin R. Johnson, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement announcing the training.

The two men were arrested after asking to use the restroom at a Starbucks in Philadelphia. An employee refused the request because the men had not bought anything, according to officials. The men sat down and were asked to leave, and an employee eventually called the police.

The ensuing scene was recorded in a video that has been viewed more than 10 million times on Twitter. In it, police officers appear to handcuff both men, as a third man, Andrew Yaffe, confronts them.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“But what did they do? What did they do? Someone tell me what they did,” Mr. Yaffe asks.

The arrests prompted a hashtag on social media, #BoycottStarbucks, and protests at the store, in Philadelphia’s Center City. Videos posted online show protesters chanting and holding up signs.

Photo

Two days after the episode, Starbucks apologized, and Mr. Johnson called the situation a “reprehensible outcome.”“We need a sovereignty stronger than our own,” he said.

The French president also sought to remind those like himself, just 40 years old, who had no memories of World War II and few of the Cold War, that the European Union was intended to play a vital role in encouraging peace and stability.

Photo

“I am part of a generation that is suffering the luxury of forgetting the experiences of our ancestors,” he said. “I don’t want to belong to a generation of sleepwalkers that has forgotten its own past,” referring to a famous German trilogy of novels by Hermann Broch set before World War I. “I want to belong to a generation that has decided forcefully to defend its democracy.”

In a clear reference to Hungary and to Poland, Mr. Macron said: “In the face of authoritarianism, the response is not authoritarian democracy but the authority of democracy.”

Both countries have moved to consolidate party authority by tightening control over state media and the courts, and both countries have vowed to protect one another from substantive efforts to punish these efforts by the European Union.

“Macron is the candidate of those who still believe in Europe,” said Christian Lequesne, a professor of European politics at the Paris Institute of Political Studies, or Sciences Po. “But his whole strategy is based on a new image at home, of a president able to reform this unreformable country, which will give him more leverage on the European level.”

For now, the jury is out, but Mr. Macron is trying to influence a conversation on Europe’s future that seems especially necessary as Britain prepares to leave the bloc and the United States appears to be disengaging. He is calling on his fellow leaders to engage in a public debate on these issues a year before elections for a new European Parliament.

It is vital, he said, “to have a democratic, critical debate on what Europe is about.” He has suggested deeper European integration, especially for those countries that use the euro, including an enhanced European budget.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But there is considerable resistance from other member states toward creating either a more tightly integrated Europe or a multitiered one that treats certain countries differently. And nationalism in Europe is on the rise, and not just in Central Europe, under pressure from migration, terrorism and globalization.

Photo

As Mr. Macron spoke, the European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm, was working with Poland to soften its planned overhaul of the judiciary and so avoid being punished with a reduction in the funds the country receives from the future European budget, which is being debated now.

Poland’s government has been sharply criticized for trying to exercise too much political control over the judiciary and limit its independence.

As Europe contemplates what to do after Brexit, the commission had good news on Tuesday for Albania and Macedonia, urging the beginning of formal accession talks to join the European Union.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Currently only Serbia and Montenegro are in such talks, with membership not likely until at least 2025 or beyond. But this announcement was a significant sign of progress for Albania, and would represent the first start of accession talks in nearly five years.

The commission notes, however, that “continued concrete and tangible results” to assure an independent judiciary “will be decisive for Albania’s further progress.”

Edi Rama, Albania’s prime minister, called it “a new chapter in our history of long efforts, struggles, defeats and results for the last three decades to reach our European dream.”

In a telephone interview from the capital, Tirana, Mr. Rama said that the process of joining now is “meticulous and difficult,” given Europe’s internal problems. But for the Western Balkans, “countries that have had not a very generous history, the European path is the only instrument to modernize and build credible states and institutions.”

Macedonia’s talks on accession to both the European Union and to NATO have been held up for years by Greece, which is still trying to force the country, a former Yugoslav republic now formally known as the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, to take a different name. Talks on the matter have been proceeding slowly but are said to be making new progress.On a segment called “Who’s Carl This Time?” Mr. Sagal, prodded by the ad-libs of a rotating panel of three “slightly famous” humorists, asked callers to identify the person-in-the-news Mr. Kasell was impersonating. Many Kasell portrayals were highly dubious, but for anyone paying a modicum of attention to the news, the answers were fairly obvious.

On “Bluff the Listener,” callers were asked to distinguish real news stories from those invented by the show’s madcap writers. (Has the Pentagon developed human cannonball technology? Did Keith Richards fall out of a palm tree? Did the president have sex with an intern in the Oval Office?)

On “Not My Job,” guest celebrities were badgered about topics they presumably knew nothing about. Salman Rushdie was asked to explain the history of Pez Candy, and Madeleine Albright, the former secretary of state, was interrogated about Hugh Hefner and Playboy magazine.

On “Fill in the Blank,” questions were posed to guest panelists:

“Legislators should be banned from voting when they are: What?

“Drunk,” Roxanne Roberts, the Washington Post style writer and a frequent panelist, replied correctly.

Mr. Kasell, who read the news-related clues and kept track of points won by the panelists and call-in contestants, selected the winners and rewarded them with his own custom-made voice-mail or answering machine recordings, usable on personal devices. Over 16 years on the show, he awarded more than 2,200 such recordings. Some may be heard online at npr.org.

Photo

The greetings included “Jennifer and I eloped,” “I feel cheap,” “Would you like to hear our jingle?” “I can’t reach them either,” “Thanks for your contribution” and “Trapped in the basement.”

One, called “Get a Life,” went:

“Hello. You’ve reached the voice mail of Amy, Michael and Helen. And, yes, all you NPR listeners, this is Carl Kasell. Now, surely you’re not calling just to hear the dulcet tones of my voice. But if you are, get a life! Otherwise leave a message for the Salvadores.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Wait, wait … don’t tell me till you hear the beep. Imagine a professional of my caliber making voice-mail messages as a game show prize. You never hear of a big shot like Bob Edwards asked to stoop so low. Oh, well. I guess it’s not such a bad gig, all things considered. You still there? Uh, have a nice day.”

The show, which spun off record albums and audiobooks, was recorded before live audiences, usually in Chicago, and broadcast over hundreds of NPR stations. The production often traveled to other cities for sold-out performances as well.

Mr. Kasell, who retired in 2009 as the “Morning Edition” newscaster after 30 years, continued for another five years on “Wait Wait … Don’t Tell Me!”

Mr. Kasell’s retirement, at age 80, was announced in 2014. On his last show, ending 56 years in radio, there were taped tributes from Stephen Colbert, Tom Hanks, Katie Couric and President Barack Obama. More than 1,800 people packed the Warner Theatre in Washington for his finale.

“The crowd, as they say, went wild,” Ms. Roberts wrote in The Post. “We are talking public radio fans, so that meant standing ovations and loud applause, not underwear tossed onstage. At the end of the taping, they politely mobbed Carl like he was Springsteen or the pope, thrusting items both cute (a Carl plush doll) and mildly creepy (a Carl face pillow) at him for autographs. I’m pretty sure I saw a guy in the second row with Carl’s name tattooed across his heart.”

Succeeded by the television journalist Bill Kurtis, Mr. Kasell was named Scorekeeper Emeritus.

“Carl has always been the heart of this show,” Mr. Sagal told The New York Times. During its early rocky years, he said, “we needed him because he was NPR in the same way that Walter Cronkite was TV news.” Later, he added, “we found out that Carl is very hysterically funny.”

Carl Ray Kasell was born in Goldsboro, N.C., on April 2, 1934, the oldest of four children of Eddie Kasell and the former Lela Mitchell. From childhood, Carl was fascinated with radio.

In a memoir, “Wait Wait … I’m Not Done Yet” (2014), he recalled hiding behind a floor-model radio and broadcasting make-believe programs.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“My grandmother had a Victrola with the big 78 r.p.m. records, and I would play disc jockey, talking in between songs,” he wrote. “I’d tell jokes, give the time and temperature, make up commercials, just like the guy on the radio did. I fell in love with radio.”

Photo

Carl and his siblings, Grace, Mary and Jack, attended local public schools. At Goldsboro High School, a young dramatics teacher, Andy Griffith, the future actor and comedian, befriended Carl and urged him to pursue a theatrical career. But the lure of radio was stronger. He worked part time for a local radio station and graduated in 1952.

At the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Mr. Kasell majored in English. He and Charles Kuralt, a fellow student who found fame as a CBS News correspondent, helped start a campus radio station, WUNC. A few credits short of graduation in 1956, Mr. Kasell was drafted by the Army and served for two years. He was posted to Verona, Italy, where he met his first wife.

Mr. Kasell married Clara de Zorzi in 1958. They had a son, Joseph. His wife died in 1997. In 2003 he married Mary Ann Foster, a Washington psychotherapist, who had a son, Brian Foster, by a previous marriage. In addition to Ms. Foster, his son and stepson, he is survived by a sister, Mary Groce; and four grandchildren.

Mr. Kasell was an announcer and disc jockey for WGBR-AM in Goldsboro from 1958 to 1965. He then became a morning anchor and later the news director of WAVA-FM, a pioneering all-news station in Arlington, Va., where he hired Katie Couric, then a University of Virginia student, as a summer intern, starting her broadcasting career.

Mr. Kasell joined NPR in Washington in 1975 as a part-time weekend news announcer for “All Things Considered.” After WAVA switched to rock music, he quit the station in 1977 and became a full-time announcer for “All Things Considered,” NPR’s blend of news, analysis and features.

In 1979 he joined NPR’s new “Morning Edition,” the network’s flagship weekday news program, and along with Bob Edwards, the principal anchor, became a familiar voice to Americans, delivering overnight and breaking news and features on science, arts, business, sports and politics.

He shared a George Foster Peabody Award given to “Morning Edition” in 1999 and was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2010.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Kasell, who lived in Washington for many years, learned he had Alzheimer’s disease in 2012, but continued to appear on the quiz show for two years. He moved to assisted living at Rebecca House in Potomac, Md., in 2017.

Once, taking questions from the quiz show audience, he was asked how early he got up to do “Morning Edition.”

“1:05 a.m.,” he said with a straight face.

After an awkward silence, someone asked, “Why not 1 a.m.?”

“Because,” he said, “I like to sleep in.”As the wife of the 41st president and the mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush, Mrs. Bush was only the second woman in American history to have a son of hers follow his father to the White House. (Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams, was the first.)

Another son, Jeb, the governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007, was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.

During that campaign, he was repeatedly derided in personal terms by the eventual nominee and now president, Donald J. Trump, prompting Mrs. Bush, who was never shy about expressing her views, to lash back, suggesting in television interviews that Mr. Trump was a misogynist and a hatemonger.

Photo

“He’s said terrible things about women, terrible things about the military,” Mrs. Bush told CNN. “I don’t understand why people are for him.”

Dedicated to her family and largely indifferent to glamour, Mrs. Bush played down her role in her husband’s political success. But she was a shrewd and valuable ally, becoming a sought-after speaker in at least four national campaigns: in 1980, when Mr. Bush was chosen to be Ronald Reagan’s running mate; in 1984, when the two ran for re-election; in 1988, when Mr. Bush campaigned for president; and in 1992, when he sought re-election.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She stepped into another presidential campaign in 2000, that of her son George, then the governor of Texas. She appeared at fund-raisers and met voters in New Hampshire and other states on his behalf as he rolled to the Republican presidential nomination.

She was clearly a political asset. A 1999 poll found that 63 percent of Americans had a favorable opinion of her and that only 3 percent had an unfavorable one.

Outspoken and Combative

While first lady, from January 1989 to January 1993, Mrs. Bush generally refused to talk publicly about contentious issues, particularly when her opinion was said to differ from her husband’s.

“I’m not against it or for it,” she said of the Equal Rights Amendment in 1989. “I’m not talking about it. I want equal rights for women, men, everybody.”

There were rumors that she favored abortion rights, but she made it clear that she supported her husband and would not say whether she was comfortable with his anti-abortion stand.

She was vocal, however, in championing causes of her choosing. Literacy was one, and so was civil rights; she had been an early supporter of the movement.

Photo

And she could be combative in news interviews, sometimes yanking off her glasses and tartly chastising reporters when she thought they were being overly aggressive.

Her candor occasionally got her into trouble. In 2005, while visiting victims of Hurricane Katrina at the Houston Astrodome, where they were being temporarily housed, she remarked that many of them “were underprivileged anyway” and that their Astrodome stay — though the living conditions there were dire — was “working very well for them.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The comments, coming at a time when her son’s administration was being roundly criticized over its response to the storm, were widely heard as insensitive and condescending.

Two years earlier, shortly before President George W. Bush ordered the invasion of Iraq, she said in a television interview that she had not been watching coverage of the prelude to war. “Why should we hear about body bags and deaths, and how many, what day it’s going to happen?” she asked. “Why would I waste my beautiful mind on something like that?”

She was similarly outspoken in 2013 when she was asked, on the “Today” show, if she thought her son Jeb should run for president in 2016. “I really don’t,” she replied, adding, “There are other people out there that are very qualified, and we’ve had enough Bushes.”

She later changed her mind. In an email to potential supporters in March 2015, she acknowledged, “When the idea of Jeb running for president first came up, I was hesitant.” But she said she was starting a “Run Jeb Run Fund” because “Jeb is our best chance of taking back the White House in 2016.”

She went on to campaign for him in New Hampshire, but he finished fourth in the Republican primary there in February and suspended his campaign a few days later.

Mrs. Bush enjoyed a favorable public image throughout her years as first lady. In one respect she benefited from comparisons with her predecessor, Nancy Reagan, whom many perceived, rightly or wrongly, as remote, icy and overly style-conscious.

Photo

By contrast, Mrs. Bush was regarded as unpretentious, a woman who could wear fake pearls, enjoy takeout tacos, walk the dog in her bathrobe and make fun of herself. Perhaps adding to her appeal, she conformed to the popular view of an old-fashioned grandmother, with her white hair and matronly figure; though she was almost a year younger than her husband, many thought she looked much older.

“What not everyone always understood is that Barbara revealed as much as she wanted to but seldom more,” Donnie Radcliffe wrote in a 1989 biography, “Simply Barbara Bush: A Portrait of America’s Candid First Lady.” “She came into the White House with a dexterity at manipulating her image, and she wasn’t above playing off her own outspoken style against Nancy Reagan’s reluctance and often inability to express herself.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“A less popular political wife,” Ms. Radcliffe added, “might have seemed calculating.”

Part of Mrs. Bush’s popularity stemmed from her penchant for self-deprecation. Soon after moving into the White House, she said, “My mail tells me a lot of fat, white-haired, wrinkled ladies are tickled pink.”

She would do anything asked of her to help the Bush administration, she said, but she drew a line: “I won’t dye my hair, change my wardrobe or lose weight.” Even so, as first lady she was known to wear designer clothes and have her hair styled.

For all her joking about herself, she also confessed that she had felt like crying after Jane Pauley told her on the “Today” show, “Mrs. Bush, people say George is a man of the ’80s and you’re a woman of the ’40s.”

An Invisible Influence

Mrs. Bush often insisted that she stayed out of her husband’s concerns. But few who knew her believed that she would ever hesitate to tell Mr. Bush her views.

“You have to have influence,” she said in 1992. “When you’ve been married 47 years, if you don’t have any influence, then I really think you’re in deep trouble.”

The substance of that influence remained largely invisible to the public eye, however, making her one of the few first ladies of her era to escape serious criticism. When Mrs. Reagan raised more than $1 million in tax-deductible contributions in 1981 to redecorate the White House living quarters, there was a public outcry. When the Bushes’ friends raised almost $200,000 to spruce up the vice-presidential house the same year, there was hardly a stir.

Photo

“I got away with murder,” Mrs. Bush said shortly before her husband’s inauguration.

One glaring exception came in 1984. Speaking of Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro of New York, the Democratic nominee for vice president, Mrs. Bush characterized her as something that “rhymes with rich.” She later apologized, but even then she parried with her critics, saying she did not mean any offense by calling Ms. Ferraro “a witch.”

She was born Barbara Pierce on June 8, 1925, at a maternity hospital in New York City run by the Salvation Army principally for unwed mothers. The family obstetrician practiced there one month a year, and that month happened to be June. She was the third child of the former Pauline Robinson and Marvin Pierce. Her father was in the publishing business and eventually became president of the McCall publishing company. Her mother, the daughter of an Ohio Supreme Court justice, was active in civic affairs in Rye, N.Y., the New York City suburb where the family lived.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One of Mrs. Bush’s distant relatives was Franklin Pierce, the 14th president of the United States.

Barbara was brought up in considerable affluence. She attended the public Milton School and the private Rye Country Day School and, along with her contemporaries, suffered through dancing classes, which she never forgot. “I was 5 feet 8 inches at the age of 12, and it certainly bothered the boys,” she recalled.

Her final two years of high school were spent at Ashley Hall, a boarding school in Charleston, S.C. A classmate once described it as a place where “being bad meant taking off your hat and gloves when you got out of sight of the school.”

Long Romance Begins

She met George Bush in 1941 at a Christmas dance at the Round Hill Country Club in Greenwich, Conn. George had grown up in Greenwich, a son of Prescott S. Bush, a Wall Street executive and a future United States senator from Connecticut, and the former Dorothy Walker. At the time, he was a senior at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass. They began corresponding.

After graduating in 1942, Mr. Bush enlisted in the Navy and trained as a pilot. The next year, he was assigned to a torpedo squadron in the Pacific and piloted a Grumman Avenger. On one combat mission, in 1944, he was shot down and rescued by a submarine. Barbara did not hear from him for a month.

After enrolling at Smith College but before entering the freshman class, she shocked her mother by spending the summer working in a nuts-and-bolts factory.

She and Mr. Bush, on leave from the Navy, married in Rye on Jan. 6, 1945; the bride, not yet 20, had dropped out of Smith at the beginning of her sophomore year. “The truth is, I just wasn’t interested,” she said in interviews. “I was just interested in George.”

Photo

They honeymooned in Sea Island, Ga., and spent nine months at military bases in Michigan, Maine and Virginia before Mr. Bush was discharged and entered Yale. In New Haven, where the couple moved, their first son, George, was born in 1946.

After Mr. Bush’s graduation, in 1948, the family left for Texas, where Mr. Bush, with the help of a family friend, had taken a job as an equipment clerk in the oil industry. For a time, in Odessa, Tex., the family lived in one half of a house; the other half was used as a brothel. Within a year they were sent to California. A daughter, Pauline (known as Robin), was born there in 1949 but died of leukemia before her fourth birthday.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The California sojourn was brief; the Bushes soon returned to Texas — first to Midland, where they bought a house in a neighborhood known as Easter Egg Row because the houses were all painted in pastel colors, and later to Houston. By the time the Bushes reached the White House, they had moved 26 times.

In Texas, four more children were born: Jeb (John Ellis) in 1953, Neil Mallon in 1955, Marvin Pierce in 1956 and Dorothy Walker in 1959. Only George and Jeb went into politics; Neil and Marvin became businessmen, and Dorothy Bush Koch became a philanthropist.

Mrs. Bush’s children survive her, as do her husband; her brother, Scott Pierce; 17 grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.

Every summer, while Mr. Bush was engaged in oil deals and raising investment money, Mrs. Bush and the children drove to the Bush family compound in Kennebunkport, Me.

On her first trip there, Mrs. Bush discovered that the hotel where she had made reservations along the way would not accommodate two black family employees who were accompanying her and the children. The employees said they would find another place. But Mrs. Bush refused to split up the group and found other accommodations. On becoming first lady, she insisted that her press secretary be black — a first for that position.

The family moved to Washington in 1966, when Mr. Bush, after an unsuccessful run for the Senate in 1964, was elected to the House of Representatives from Texas’ Seventh Congressional District, which includes parts of Houston. He served two terms and mounted a failed second campaign for the Senate.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Breaking News Emails Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Later, as compensation for giving up his safe seat in the House to make the Senate run, he was named ambassador to the United Nations by President Richard M. Nixon. He assumed the post in 1971, and the Bushes moved into the ambassadorial suite of the Waldorf Towers in New York.

Lifelong Volunteer

The family returned to Washington in 1973 when Mr. Bush was appointed chairman of the Republican National Committee, a position he occupied during the Watergate crisis. In 1974, President Gerald R. Ford sent him to the People’s Republic of China to lead the United States Liaison Office in Beijing.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Watergate was a terrible experience,” Mrs. Bush told Ms. Radcliffe in 1984. “So to go off to China and learn a whole new culture was beautiful.”

She particularly liked having her husband to herself; their children had not accompanied them. The two cycled around Beijing, studied Chinese and learned tai chi.

In “Barbara Bush: A Memoir,” published in 1994, Mrs. Bush acknowledged that she suffered from depression in 1976 after she and her husband had returned from his two-year China posting and he was named director of the Central Intelligence Agency, a post he held for 11 months.

She had discussed her depression at a news conference in 1989, saying she believed that the women’s movement had contributed to her illness. “I believe it made me feel inadequate,” she said. “I’m not quite sure how. You were made to feel demeaned a little bit.”

Mrs. Bush published another memoir, “Reflections: Life After the White House,” in 2004.

A lifelong volunteer for charitable causes, Mrs. Bush raised money for the United Negro College Fund while in New Haven, started a thrift shop in Midland and volunteered in nursing homes and hospitals in Houston, Washington and New York. Her son Neil’s dyslexia led to her interest in fighting illiteracy.

In her eight years as the wife of the vice president, she attended more than 500 events related to literacy, and after she became first lady she started the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. The profits from her book “C. Fred’s Story: A Dog’s Life” (1984), a wry look at Washington life as seen by her dog, and from a follow-up based on another family dog, “Millie’s Book: As Dictated to Barbara Bush” (1990), went to literacy causes.

Mrs. Bush hoped her contributions to those causes would form a large part of her legacy.

“I want to be known as a wife, a mother, a grandmother,” she wrote in 1988. “That’s what I am. And I’d like to be known as someone who really cared about people and worked very, very hard to make America more literate.”2 U.S.

Black Harvard Student Is Punched by the Police During ArrestMr. Trump’s chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, had said that “she got ahead of the curve” on the sanctions, meant to punish Russia for enabling the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons, and that there “might have been some momentary confusion.” Mr. Kudlow later said that he had apologized to her.

_____

Photo

3. Barbara Bush, the widely admired former first lady, has died at 92.

Known for her straight talk and self-deprecating humor, Mrs. Bush championed literacy as the wife of the 41st president, George Bush, and showed fierce loyalty as the mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush.

“I want to be known as a wife, a mother, a grandmother,” she wrote in 1988. “That’s what I am. And I’d like to be known as someone who really cared about people and worked very, very hard to make America more literate.” Here’s our full obituary.

_____

Photo

4. Starbucks said it would close more than 8,000 of its U.S. stores on May 29 to conduct racial-bias training for nearly 175,000 employees.

The move comes amid an outcry prompted by the arrests of two African-American men at a Starbucks location in Philadelphia last week. They were asked to leave because they hadn’t bought anything — and then an employee called the police. Above, a protest at the location.

Starbucks said the employee was no longer with the company.

_____

Photo

5. An engine on a Southwest Airlines flight from New York to Dallas exploded midair, killing one person.

The blast sent shrapnel and debris into the body of the aircraft, officials said. Another person was taken to the hospital in critical condition; seven others had minor injuries.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The plane made an emergency landing at Philadelphia International Airport. Check back for updates on this developing story.

_____

Photo

6. We went inside Baghdad’s counterterrorism court, where the authorities are trying thousands of people captured from areas that the Islamic State used to control. Above, people fled fighting around Mosul last year.

We watched as a 42-year-old housewife was condemned to death by hanging, in a trial that lasted all of 10 minutes. Thousands accused of supporting ISIS face a similar fate.

Human rights groups say the perfunctory trials are sweeping up bystanders and relatives as well as fighters, in a process more concerned with retribution than justice.

_____

Photo

7. Daphne Caruana Galizia was the most famous — and most controversial — journalist in the tiny country of Malta when she was killed by a car bomb in October. Above, a memorial.

After her death, 18 news organizations around the world agreed to work together to pursue her leads on corruption and international money-laundering, and to investigate her killing. The Times was one of those outlets.

Three men have been charged with planting and detonating the bomb. But we found that key questions about who gave the order — and the motive — remain unanswered.

_____

Photo

8. San Francisco lives with the certainty that the Big One will come.

Yet it’s also in the middle of a building boom. The city now has the tallest office building west of the Mississippi: the Salesforce Tower.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The tower and the high-rises around it are a bold symbol of the new San Francisco — and a potentially grave danger for a city that sits on unstable, earthquake-prone ground. And the city’s building code does not protect residents from earthquakes nearly as much as you might think.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

_____

Photo

9. In La Paz, Bolivia, our 52 Places Traveler, Jada Yuan, found that despite gender inequality, women took a front seat in the markets, restaurants and other attractions that she visited.

(Jada is going to all of the places on our “52 Places to Travel” list this year. It’s a whirlwind.)

Elsewhere in the Andes, the cookbook author Madhur Jaffrey went to Peru to learn about the humble — but exalted — potato in the land of its birth. And she came back with recipes, including this cheesy potato soup and Andean herb and chile sauce.

_____

Photo

10. Finally, the Pulitzer Prize judges startled a lot of people with their music award this year. They unanimously chose Kendrick Lamar, above, for his album “DAMN.”

It was the first time the award had gone to any genre besides classical or, more recently, jazz — or to any recording that reached No. 1 on the pop chart. Our classical music editor, Zachary Woolfe, and chief pop music critic, Jon Pareles, discussed the choice.

And on the late-night shows, Conan O’Brien took a break from Washington news to riff on the coming wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.

“Meghan Markle’s nephew is creating a strain of marijuana called the Markle Sparkle,” he noted. “The marijuana is so strong it renders you as useless as a member of the royal family.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Have a great night.

_____

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Mr. Macron’s defense of the liberal order at the European Parliament came as he faces unrest over labor reforms at home, and amid growing challenges to the E.U. from nationalist leaders in Hungary, Poland and beyond.

But, our correspondent writes, the jury is out on whether his ambitious plans for the Continent will succeed at a time when Britain is preparing to leave the bloc and the United States is disengaging.

_____

Photo

• Seeking to defuse an embarrassing controversy, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, above, apologized to Caribbean immigrants who have lived in Britain legally for decades but faced mistreatment and deportation because they couldn’t document their status.

The government’s new vow to assist members of the so-called Windrush generation, who migrated legally before 1973, reversed a policy that critics say had helped fuel anti-immigrant sentiment since the Brexit referendum in 2016.

Separately, British environmental scientists are preparing a monthslong decontamination process in Salisbury, England, where a Russian former spy and his daughter were poisoned. The crime scenes have already become popular tourist stops.

_____

Photo

• Daphne Caruana Galizia was the most famous — and most controversial — journalist in Malta when she was killed by a car bomb in October. Above, a memorial.

Her murder shined a spotlight on Malta’s role as a haven for corruption and international money laundering.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Now, the search for her killers is posing a test for the E.U. as fears of a cover-up grow because of the powerful interests involved.

_____

Photo

• Who will get the first look at materials seized last week from President Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen? No one, it seems.

A federal judge didn’t agree to let Mr. Trump’s team review the 10 boxes of documents and roughly a dozen electronic devices before prosecutors can. But she didn’t say prosecutors would get the first look either. Discussions will continue. Above, Mr. Cohen leaving court on Monday.

_____

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

Photo

• Tesla’s stock price tumbled on news that the electric carmaker would halt production of its Model 3 compact car for several days to “improve automation.” Tesla shares have dropped 20 percent since March 12.

• Cambridge Analytica, the embattled political data firm behind the Trump and Brexit campaigns, sought to develop its own virtual currency, a move that pushed it into murky ethical and legal waters.

• Starbucks said it would close more than 8,000 of its stores in the U.S. on May 29 to conduct racial-bias training for nearly 175,000 employees.

• Beijing sought to ease its trade dispute with Washington, offering to make it easier for foreign automakers and aerospace companies to own factories in China.

• It’s called micromerch. Not-quite celebrities and social media stars are churning out namesake products — T-shirts, coloring books, tissue boxes — made for a dedicated few.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

• Iraq is increasing prosecutions of thousands of people accused of supporting the Islamic State, handing death sentences to workers, wives and fighters. But rights groups say the process is more concerned with retribution than justice. Above, suspected Islamic State fighters detained in Qaraqosh, Iraq, in June. [The New York Times]

• In the U.S., the parents of two children killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School sued Alex Jones, the right-wing conspiracy theorist, for defamation, for calling the mass shooting a “giant hoax.” [The New York Times]

• Barbara Bush, the wife of the 41st U.S. president and the mother of the 43rd, has died at the age of 92. [The New York Times]

• “Wrong then and wrong now.” Prime Minister Theresa May said she deeply regretted Britain’s role in criminalizing same-sex relations in its former colonies. The laws are still used in 37 of the 53 nations once under British rule. [BBC]

• Scientists accidentally created a mutant enzyme that breaks down plastic drinks bottles, a breakthrough that could help rid the earth of plastic pollution. [The Guardian]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

Photo

• Here’s how to survive the crowded, medieval-style Palio di Siena horse race in Siena, Italy.

• Reading aloud to children may help them deal with emotions.

• Recipe of the day: This lemon-ginger tart is a dessert you can easily bake on a weeknight.

Noteworthy

Photo

• “Power to the People.” An exhibit in Frankfurt’s Schirn Kunsthalle explores protest in art at a moment of turbulence. “Its achievement is that it takes a step back and shows how art can reflect our political world,” our reporter writes.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• In memoriam: Karen Dawisha, 68, an American scholar who traced the roots of modern Russian corruption to Vladimir Putin’s circle of friends in the 1990s and found the blueprint for “kleptocracy” in the state they plotted out.

• And our team explains San Francisco’s giant seismic gamble. The city knows the Big One will come, but we found that its building code doesn’t protect against earthquakes as much as you might think.

Back Story

Photo

Some days, you wish the news would just stop.

That was the case for the BBC on this day in 1930, when its 8:45 evening bulletin was surprisingly brief: “Good evening. Today is Good Friday. There is no news,” the radio announcer said. That update was followed by 15 minutes of piano music.

There was some major world news that day, including a typhoon in the Philippines and an attempted raid on an armory by Indian revolutionaries demanding independence from Britain, but it happened too late for the BBC.

And what made the front page of The Times on April 18? In addition to stories about Prohibition violations, there was one about gas masks for horses that were doing well in military testing.

The next day’s front page reported on a plane crash in Jersey City, a deadly church fire in Romania, the weather forecast for Easter Sunday and a study that found that only 700 words were needed for the vast majority of telephone conversations.

These days, it can seem as if the amount of news is limited only by the time you have available to consume it. But if you need a break, here’s some classical piano.

Jennifer Jett contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)

Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Composition: To create compelling video, compose the elements in a scene or sequence deliberately. Use your phone’s LCD the way a fine-art painter might arrange forms, colors, lines and textures on canvas. (For more on composition, visit Kyle Cassidy’s article on Videomaker.com, which offers a wonderful introduction to composition and compositional devices, like the rule of thirds, as well as valuable tips, such as focusing on people’s eyes in your video.)

Photo

Lighting: Light not only defines your subjects but also sets the mood or evokes emotion. Experiment with light and be aware of where your main light source is. For instance, noon sunlight on a cloudless day creates unflattering shadows on your subject’s face, while an overcast or cloudy day produces a softer, more pleasant-looking light. And remember what the legendary film director Martin Scorsese once noted: “Light is at the core of who we are and how we understand ourselves.”

Point of view: Ask yourself “Where am I pointing my camera lens and from what angle?” Consider point of view figuratively, as well: “How will the video’s point of view help me tell the story?” Some videos are like selfies and use a very subjective point of view to connect viewers to the story. For other videos you might want a more detached, less personal point of view. And when shooting small children or babies, get right down on the floor to shoot.

A video can resonate for reasons other than exquisite technique. The subject might be funny, or the story simply thrilling, sad, or even chaotic. Sometimes, a powerful video, though technically flawed, still draws us in by other means. Two film sequences come to my mind that illustrate this point.

The first, the apology scene from “The Blair Witch Project,” presents a visually awkward composition, in which the subject’s face is dramatically cropped. Also, the lighting and audio are lousy. Yet, the monologue, a horror-film soliloquy of sorts, conveys intensity, mystery and a baroque quality. You can almost feel the presence of a dark force outside the visual frame.

In the second sequence, the “I just wanna go the distance” sequence from the movie “Rocky” (2:00 in the video clip), the video subtly elevates an ordinary moment of doubt. It’s an exceptionally quiet moment, where Sylvester Stallone, as Rocky, lays down next to Talia Shire, as Adrian, telling her he can’t beat the champ. For nearly two minutes, the camera slowly pans in as the fighter utters his thoughts. What transfixes us is primarily the audio, since there’s little action. Yet it’s visual, too. I can’t help thinking of it as an updated version of the intensity and pathos you see in the ancient Greek sculpture, “Dying Gaul.”

So, good video obviously operates on a very visual level, but it can be driven in nonvisual ways, too. Keep your eyes open for such opportunities.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Start with the right settings

Before taking video on your phone, set it up properly. One important setting is video resolution, which refers to how large your movie will be. Two common resolutions are 1080 HD and 4K, which is the larger of the two.

Next, check the frame rate, which sets how many individual frames per second (fps) your video records. Common settings are 30 fps, 60 fps, and less commonly, 24 fps. The higher the number, the smoother-looking video you’ll produce. Most video is shot at 30 fps or 29.97 fps (in the United States), although 60 fps will show smoother, less jittery video when depicting action. But some videographers, like Mr. Nachtrieb, prefer filming in 24 fps, which mimics the frame rate used in cinema films.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Smarter Living Newsletter A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Each of these two settings affects some visual or audio component of your project. They also can determine the final file size of the video. For instance, a five-second video shot at 4K-resolution will be roughly four times the size of the same segment shot in 1080 HD resolution. “When it comes to resolution,” says Mr. Nachtrieb, “it’s always going to be a compromise between your storage capacity on your phone and the quality resolution you want. I try to shoot 4K whenever possible.”

An Easy, but Important Tip: Clean Your Lens Mr. Nachtrieb recalls how he and a friend were shooting the same subject one day, but his friend’s lens was dirty, which produced blurry video. “Make sure your lens is clear. If it’s not, carefully clean it with a microfiber cloth.”

Photo

How to improve your video quality

Shooting video on a phone isn’t the most intuitive experience. That’s because phones were designed as multipurpose devices, which also means they lack some important features, like a handgrip or optical zoom, which gets you closer to your subject without degrading image quality. (Instead, phones mostly use digital zoom, which often degrades image quality. So, avoid zooming in digitally. Instead, “zoom with your feet” or simply walk closer to your subject, if you can.) Here are several tips for getting better results.

1. Orientation: Be sure to orient your phone horizontally. “When I’m watching the news and there’s footage from a bystander that’s in portrait mode,” says Mr. Nachtrieb, “that’s an immediate signal that it’s an amateur video.” He says that while Instagram and Snapchat seem to be “aiding and abetting” users to create more portrait- or vertically-oriented footage, it’s best to avoid it.

2 Avoid Back Lighting: “Avoid having a window or light source behind your subject, since he or she will look silhouetted,” says Mr. Nachtrieb. Instead, have the light source more to the side of you or behind you.

3. Use both hands: “Always have two hands on the phone,” says Mr. Nachtrieb. “It may seem rudimentary, but it makes a big difference. Phone lenses generally have optical image stabilization built in, so they’re pretty stable already. But using two hands produces even steadier footage.” It also avoids what he calls the Jell-O effect. “If you’re moving the camera around too quickly, it can have a wavy quality to it.” Using two hands lessens the chance of creating this effect.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

4. Lock Focus and Exposure: Mr. Nachtrieb suggests tapping on your phone’s LCD (on the point you want to focus on) which will lock focus on Google Android devices, or holding your finger in place, which locks focus on the Apple iPhone.“In low light, your phone’s camera will hunt for focus.” That makes it look less professional. Most phones let you also lock or manually adjust the exposure, too.

5. Improve Your Audio, Too: Most video pros say good quality audio is essential for powerful video. The good news is that the microphones on smartphones have improved in recent years. What’s more is that audio accessories, such as Bluetooth microphones, can make the audio in your video projects sound outstanding (which we’ll get to in a moment).

Here are two audio tricks: Borrow a second phone, start recording audio, and place the phone in your subject’s pocket. “Then, shoot video on your phone from far away,” says Mr. Nachtrieb. “You can always sync up the audio tracks later in video editing.” And when interviewing subjects, don’t interrupt their replies, says Mr. Nachtrieb.

6. Try Slow Mo and Time Lapse Effects: Many smartphones come with some powerful video features, including modes that appear to slow down or speed up time, which are more commonly known as slow motion and time lapse. The former captures video at an accelerated frame rate; When played back at normal speed, action in the video appears much slower than real time. With time lapse, a lower frame rate is used. When it’s played back at normal speed, action moves much faster than in real time. Both can produce compelling video.

Add accessories, or step up to a stand-alone camera

If you’re not happy with the hardware features on your phone, there are accessories to expand its capability and, in some cases, the quality of your video, particularly if you’re interested in Vlogging.

Here are a few products to consider, courtesy of our colleagues at Wirecutter, The New York Times Company’s product review site:

Accessory kit lenses:

Wirecutter testers like the Moment Wide-angle lens, $100. The lens attaches over a phone’s camera lens to give you a wider shot without drastically degrading image quality.

■ USB Mics: The Shure MV5, $99, is a great microphone for use with a smartphone.

■ Tripod: The Joby GorillaPod 1K Kit, $35, keeps your phone steady when shooting in low light or time-lapse.

A stand-alone camera can really improve your video. When you’re ready to shoot with something other than your phone, here are some models that earned top ratings from Wirecutter:

Interchangeable-Lens Cameras:

The Sony a5100 is the best entry-level mirrorless camera, $500, and the Canon EOS Rebel T5i is the best entry-level DSLR. Mirrorless cameras blend portability with powerful picture-taking sensors, while DSLRs are unmatched when it comes to photo quality — but are larger, bulkier, and more expensive. Both types allow you to switch lenses depending on what — or where — you’re taking photos.

■ Advanced Bridge Point-and-Shoot: For something between a mirrorless and a portable point and shoot, check out the Sony RX100 Mark IV, $900.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

■ Waterproof-and-Rugged Camera: Want something that can travel with you and take a few bumps and drops? Try the Olympus TG-5, $420.In retrospect, 2017 was an extraordinary time for investors. The American stock market rose steadily, and it never declined sharply, not even once. It was easy to make money in stocks, and to do so with relatively little skill or worry.

That’s not what it has been like so far this year. Stocks have been bouncing up and down, and while they haven’t really fallen that much by historical standards, the nine-year-old bull market stumbled in February and hasn’t entirely recovered. Bonds, which are typically a source of stability when stocks fall, lost ground, too, though not as much as stocks.

Still, even for people with diversified portfolios and a long-term outlook, 2018 has been a trying time. This may be a good moment to get some perspective.

We’ve chosen nine articles with reporting and analysis on where the markets have been and some clues on where they may be heading. As always in these quarterly reports, the selection provides an introduction to investing. And we hope that at least some of these articles will entertain you as well.SAN FRANCISCO — Sailors arriving in San Francisco in the 19th century used two giant redwood trees perched on a hill to help guide their ships into the bay. The redwoods were felled for their lumber at around the time of the gold rush, but San Francisco now has a new beacon: Salesforce Tower, the tallest office building in the West.

Clustered around the 1,070-foot tower are a collection of high rises built on the soft soil and sand on the edge of the bay. They represent a bold symbol of a new San Francisco, but also a potential danger for a city that sits precariously on unstable, earthquake-prone ground.

San Francisco lives with the certainty that the Big One will come. But the city is also putting up taller and taller buildings clustered closer and closer together because of the state’s severe housing shortage. Now those competing pressures have prompted an anxious rethinking of building regulations. Experts are sending this message: The building code does not protect cities from earthquakes nearly as much as you might think.

It’s been over a century — Wednesday marks the 112th anniversary — since the last devastating earthquake and subsequent inferno razed San Francisco. Witnesses on the morning of April 18, 1906, described the city’s streets as rising and falling like a ribbon carried by the wind.

The violent shaking ignited a fire that lasted three days, destroying 500 city blocks and 28,000 buildings.

Half of the population of around 400,000 was made homeless. Many were forced to flee the city.

1906 aerial photograph by George R. Lawrence/Library of Congress San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 SAN FRANCISCO 2018 SAN FRANCISCO 2018 San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Diagram by The New York Times Millennium Tower 2009: 645 feet 340 Fremont 2016: 440 feet Salesforce Tower 2018: 1,070 feet 555 California St. 1969: 779 feet Transamerica Pyramid 1971: 853 feet Market St. San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Millennium Tower 2009: 645 feet Salesforce Tower 2018: 1,070 feet 555 California St. 1969: 779 feet Market St. SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Millennium Tower 2009 Salesforce Tower 2018 555 California St. 1969 Market St. SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Millennium Tower 2009: 645 feet 340 Fremont 2016: 440 feet Salesforce Tower 2018: 1,070 feet 555 California St. 1969: 779 feet Transamerica Pyramid 1971: 853 feet Market St. San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Diagram by The New York Times



An airship captured the devastation in San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake and fire. With the city leveled, Los Angeles quickly grew to capture San Francisco’s place as the premier city of the West. After decades of public hostility toward skyscrapers, the city has been advocating a more dense and more vertical downtown. San Francisco now has 160 buildings taller than 240 feet and a dozen more are planned or under construction.

California has strict building requirements to protect schools and hospitals from a major earthquake. But not skyscrapers. A five-story building has the same strength requirements as a 50-story building.

Yet skyscrapers cast a much broader shadow of risk across a city and their collapse or impairment could cause a cascade of consequences.

How safe are San Francisco’s skyscrapers? Even the engineers who design them can’t provide exact answers. Earthquakes are too unpredictable. And too few major cities have been tested by major temblors.

“The profession does the best job we can to model and predict, but there are a number of uncertainties,” said Ron Hamburger, one of the country’s leading structural engineers. “We don’t have as many records, particularly for large magnitude earthquakes, as we would like.”

Previous earthquakes have revealed flaws with some skyscrapers. A widely used welding technique was found to rupture during the 1994 Northridge earthquake in Los Angeles. (Many buildings in San Francisco and Los Angeles have not been retrofitted.)

California has made significant strides in earthquake preparedness over the past century. Freeway overpasses, bridges and some municipal buildings have been strengthened. Many Californians live in single-family wood frame homes, which have been found to hold up relatively well during earthquakes.

But until recently, high-rise buildings were not a focus of San Francisco’s seismic safety.

Newer high rises across California, which are typically built around a concrete core, are designed using computer modeling.

This raises concerns among experts such as Thomas H. Heaton, the director of the Earthquake Engineering Research Laboratory at the California Institute of Technology and perhaps the most prominent skeptic of building high rises in earthquake zones.

“It’s kind of like getting in a new airplane that’s only been designed on paper but nobody has ever flown in it,” he said.

Last September, San Francisco’s former mayor, Edwin M. Lee, responding to a scandal about a skyscraper that was sinking and leaning, ordered city officials to strengthen building codes for high rises and requested an independent study on their safety.

Known as the Tall Buildings Study, it will for the first time create a detailed database of the more than 160 high rises, classified by building type. Ayse Hortacsu, the structural engineer who is leading the study, has deployed Stanford graduate students to pore over blueprints and records at the San Francisco Department of Building Inspection.

“It would have been great to do this before this building boom in San Francisco,” Ms. Hortacsu said. “But we are going to seize the moment and make the best out of it.”

For years the city restricted building height to 500 feet in most neighborhoods. The objection to high rises was largely cultural and aesthetic — critics deplored “Manhattanization” and said high rises were not in keeping with the ethos of the city.

But by 2004, city officials had put in motion a plan to redevelop a neighborhood of warehouses and vacant lots that today are the heart of downtown.

The city pushed for the construction of a tall, iconic building — the future Salesforce Tower, which can be seen in the right half of this photograph, shimmering over its neighbors.

San Francisco, once a low-rise city, is in the middle of a building boom and now home to the tallest office building west of the Mississippi. Jim Wilson/The New York Times

“We saw that as a symbol of the new San Francisco and we wanted the building to be at least 1,000 feet in height,” said Dean Macris, a key figure in conceiving the new high-rise San Francisco who led the planning board under four mayors.

Now retired, Mr. Macris said the issue of seismic safety of high rises was “never a factor” in the redevelopment plans of the South of Market area, or SoMa, as it’s known.

What shifted the debate on seismic safety was the sinking and tilting of the 58-floor Millennium Tower.

When it was completed in 2009, the building won numerous awards for ingenuity from engineering associations, including Outstanding Structural Engineering Project of the Year by the San Francisco office of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

Millennium Tower has sunk almost a foot and a half and is leaning 14 inches toward neighboring high rises. Jim Wilson/The New York Times

The developer and city officials knew of the building’s flaws for years, but kept them confidential until 2016, when news leaked to the public. The latest measurements, taken in December, show that the building has sunk a foot and a half and is leaning 14 inches toward neighboring high rises. It is across the street from Salesforce Tower and right next to a transit hub for buses, trains and eventually high speed rail that is being touted as the Grand Central of the West.

With the Millennium Tower, San Francisco got a foretaste of what it means to have a structurally compromised skyscraper. If the city is hit by a severe earthquake, experts fear there could be many more.

The area around Millennium Tower is considered among the most hazardous for earthquakes. The United States Geological Survey rates the ground there — layers of mud and clay — as having a very high risk of acting like quicksand during an earthquake, a process known as liquefaction.

TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO Bay Bridge VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate VERY HIGH San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO Bay Bridge RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay 19th Ave. MISSION DISTRICT SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Sources: California Geological Survey; United States Geological Survey; The City and County of San Francisco. TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO Bay Bridge VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT Market Street Buildings taller than 240 ft. RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Buildings taller than 240 ft. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Buildings taller than 240 ft. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT Buildings taller than 240 ft. SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay 19th Ave. MISSION DISTRICT SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate VERY HIGH San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO Bay Bridge Buildings taller than 240 ft. RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Sources: California Geological Survey; United States Geological Survey; The City and County of San Francisco.

At least 100 buildings taller than 240 feet were built in areas that have a “very high” chance of liquefaction.

In light of the problems with the Millennium Tower, there are now increasing calls in California for a reassessment of earthquake risks, much of it focused on strengthening the building code.

Right now the code says a structure must be engineered to have a 90 percent chance of avoiding total collapse. But many experts believe that is not enough.

“Ten percent of buildings will collapse,” said Lucy Jones, the former leader of natural hazards research at the United States Geological Survey who is leading a campaign to make building codes in California stronger. “I don’t understand why that’s acceptable.”

The code also does not specify that a building be fit for occupancy after an earthquake. Many buildings might not collapse completely, but they could be damaged beyond repair. The interior walls, the plumbing, elevators — all could be wrecked or damaged.

“When I tell people what the current building code gives them most people are shocked,” Dr. Jones said. “Enough buildings will be so badly damaged that people are going to find it too hard to live in L.A. or San Francisco.”

In January a Southern California assemblyman, Adrin Nazarian, introduced a bill in the State Legislature that would require the building code to make new buildings strong enough for “functional recovery” after an earthquake. The bill passed its first hurdle, a committee hearing, last week.

Driving the push to change the code is the notion that California has so much more to lose than it did in 1906.

San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake. Associated Press

The billions of dollars of infrastructure, headquarters of global industries and the denser, more vertical downtown make San Francisco a much more interconnected and vulnerable place.

The goal of the code, say proponents of a stronger one, should be the survival of cities — strengthening water systems, electrical grids and cellular networks — not just individual buildings.

“We’ve been sitting on our hands for decades about this problem,” said Keith Porter, a seismic engineer at the University of Colorado, who is hoping to spur greater public participation in a debate.

Dr. Porter’s research offers warnings on the economic consequences of a major earthquake in the San Francisco Bay Area. He has calculated that one out of every four buildings in the Bay Area might not be usable after a magnitude 7 earthquake, which although severe is not the worst the area could experience.

The map below shows areas where strong ground shaking is expected during an earthquake. At least 100 so-called soft-story buildings that require mandatory retrofitting are noncompliant — and most are in the area of anticipated strong shaking.

TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO Bay Bridge FINANCIAL DISTRICT Market Street Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO Bay Bridge RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Golden Gate Bridge San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO SOUTH OF MARKET San Francisco Bay Golden Gate Park 19th Ave. MISSION DISTRICT SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Sources: California Geological Survey; United States Geological Survey; Department of Building Inspection. Note: Soft-story noncompliant building data is updated as of April 12, 2018.

Dr. Porter calculates, hypothetically, that if buildings were built to a stronger standard, only 6 percent of buildings would be unusable.

Some structural engineers, however, say our modern crop of high rises are strong enough.

Ron Klemencic, the chief executive of Magnusson Klemencic Associates, the company that did the structural engineering for Salesforce Tower, says he agrees that water and sewage systems need higher strength requirements, but not high rises. “Buildings falling on top of other buildings — that’s not going to happen,” Mr. Klemencic said.

How much would stronger buildings cost to build?

At a time when the average price of a home in San Francisco is above $1.2 million, even a marginal increase in price tag is bound to meet resistance.

“We are already facing the concern of extremely high cost of housing and displacement,” said Brian Strong, the director of the office of resilience in San Francisco’s city government. In recent years the city has been focused on other seismic dangers, including older, low-rise apartment buildings with inadequate ground floor structures that could collapse, known as soft stories.

Charles Richter, the earthquake pioneer who invented the scale used to measure their power, had strong opinions about skyscrapers. Don’t build them in California, he said.

In the years since Mr. Richter’s death in 1985, construction materials have become stronger and engineering more precise.

Yet Hiroo Kanamori, an emeritus professor of seismology at the California Institute of Technology who developed the earthquake magnitude scale that replaced Dr. Richter’s, says the vast power and mysteries of earthquakes should continue to instill a deep humility.

In recent decades scientists have recorded violent ground motions that were previously thought impossible. A soon-to-be-published paper by Caltech engineers showed that an earthquake with a similar intensity of the one that struck Chichi, Taiwan in 1999 would bring down or render unusable numerous steel frame high rises in Los Angeles.

“People say, ‘Don’t worry about it, it’s an outlier,’” Dr. Kanamori said. “This is the problem with earthquakes. By nature of the process there are a lot of unpredictable elements.SAN FRANCISCO — Sailors arriving in San Francisco in the 19th century used two giant redwood trees perched on a hill to help guide their ships into the bay. The redwoods were felled for their lumber at around the time of the gold rush, but San Francisco now has a new beacon: Salesforce Tower, the tallest office building in the West.

Clustered around the 1,070-foot tower are a collection of high rises built on the soft soil and sand on the edge of the bay. They represent a bold symbol of a new San Francisco, but also a potential danger for a city that sits precariously on unstable, earthquake-prone ground.

San Francisco lives with the certainty that the Big One will come. But the city is also putting up taller and taller buildings clustered closer and closer together because of the state’s severe housing shortage. Now those competing pressures have prompted an anxious rethinking of building regulations. Experts are sending this message: The building code does not protect cities from earthquakes nearly as much as you might think.

It’s been over a century — Wednesday marks the 112th anniversary — since the last devastating earthquake and subsequent inferno razed San Francisco. Witnesses on the morning of April 18, 1906, described the city’s streets as rising and falling like a ribbon carried by the wind.

The violent shaking ignited a fire that lasted three days, destroying 500 city blocks and 28,000 buildings.

Half of the population of around 400,000 was made homeless. Many were forced to flee the city.

1906 aerial photograph by George R. Lawrence/Library of Congress San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 SAN FRANCISCO 2018 SAN FRANCISCO 2018 San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Diagram by The New York Times Millennium Tower 2009: 645 feet 340 Fremont 2016: 440 feet Salesforce Tower 2018: 1,070 feet 555 California St. 1969: 779 feet Transamerica Pyramid 1971: 853 feet Market St. San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Millennium Tower 2009: 645 feet Salesforce Tower 2018: 1,070 feet 555 California St. 1969: 779 feet Market St. SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Millennium Tower 2009 Salesforce Tower 2018 555 California St. 1969 Market St. SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Millennium Tower 2009: 645 feet 340 Fremont 2016: 440 feet Salesforce Tower 2018: 1,070 feet 555 California St. 1969: 779 feet Transamerica Pyramid 1971: 853 feet Market St. San Francisco Bay SAN FRANCISCO 2018 Diagram by The New York Times



An airship captured the devastation in San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake and fire. With the city leveled, Los Angeles quickly grew to capture San Francisco’s place as the premier city of the West. After decades of public hostility toward skyscrapers, the city has been advocating a more dense and more vertical downtown. San Francisco now has 160 buildings taller than 240 feet and a dozen more are planned or under construction.

California has strict building requirements to protect schools and hospitals from a major earthquake. But not skyscrapers. A five-story building has the same strength requirements as a 50-story building.

Yet skyscrapers cast a much broader shadow of risk across a city and their collapse or impairment could cause a cascade of consequences.

How safe are San Francisco’s skyscrapers? Even the engineers who design them can’t provide exact answers. Earthquakes are too unpredictable. And too few major cities have been tested by major temblors.

“The profession does the best job we can to model and predict, but there are a number of uncertainties,” said Ron Hamburger, one of the country’s leading structural engineers. “We don’t have as many records, particularly for large magnitude earthquakes, as we would like.”

Previous earthquakes have revealed flaws with some skyscrapers. A widely used welding technique was found to rupture during the 1994 Northridge earthquake in Los Angeles. (Many buildings in San Francisco and Los Angeles have not been retrofitted.)

California has made significant strides in earthquake preparedness over the past century. Freeway overpasses, bridges and some municipal buildings have been strengthened. Many Californians live in single-family wood frame homes, which have been found to hold up relatively well during earthquakes.

But until recently, high-rise buildings were not a focus of San Francisco’s seismic safety.

Newer high rises across California, which are typically built around a concrete core, are designed using computer modeling.

This raises concerns among experts such as Thomas H. Heaton, the director of the Earthquake Engineering Research Laboratory at the California Institute of Technology and perhaps the most prominent skeptic of building high rises in earthquake zones.

“It’s kind of like getting in a new airplane that’s only been designed on paper but nobody has ever flown in it,” he said.

Last September, San Francisco’s former mayor, Edwin M. Lee, responding to a scandal about a skyscraper that was sinking and leaning, ordered city officials to strengthen building codes for high rises and requested an independent study on their safety.

Known as the Tall Buildings Study, it will for the first time create a detailed database of the more than 160 high rises, classified by building type. Ayse Hortacsu, the structural engineer who is leading the study, has deployed Stanford graduate students to pore over blueprints and records at the San Francisco Department of Building Inspection.

“It would have been great to do this before this building boom in San Francisco,” Ms. Hortacsu said. “But we are going to seize the moment and make the best out of it.”

For years the city restricted building height to 500 feet in most neighborhoods. The objection to high rises was largely cultural and aesthetic — critics deplored “Manhattanization” and said high rises were not in keeping with the ethos of the city.

But by 2004, city officials had put in motion a plan to redevelop a neighborhood of warehouses and vacant lots that today are the heart of downtown.

The city pushed for the construction of a tall, iconic building — the future Salesforce Tower, which can be seen in the right half of this photograph, shimmering over its neighbors.

San Francisco, once a low-rise city, is in the middle of a building boom and now home to the tallest office building west of the Mississippi. Jim Wilson/The New York Times

“We saw that as a symbol of the new San Francisco and we wanted the building to be at least 1,000 feet in height,” said Dean Macris, a key figure in conceiving the new high-rise San Francisco who led the planning board under four mayors.

Now retired, Mr. Macris said the issue of seismic safety of high rises was “never a factor” in the redevelopment plans of the South of Market area, or SoMa, as it’s known.

What shifted the debate on seismic safety was the sinking and tilting of the 58-floor Millennium Tower.

When it was completed in 2009, the building won numerous awards for ingenuity from engineering associations, including Outstanding Structural Engineering Project of the Year by the San Francisco office of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

Millennium Tower has sunk almost a foot and a half and is leaning 14 inches toward neighboring high rises. Jim Wilson/The New York Times

The developer and city officials knew of the building’s flaws for years, but kept them confidential until 2016, when news leaked to the public. The latest measurements, taken in December, show that the building has sunk a foot and a half and is leaning 14 inches toward neighboring high rises. It is across the street from Salesforce Tower and right next to a transit hub for buses, trains and eventually high speed rail that is being touted as the Grand Central of the West.

With the Millennium Tower, San Francisco got a foretaste of what it means to have a structurally compromised skyscraper. If the city is hit by a severe earthquake, experts fear there could be many more.

The area around Millennium Tower is considered among the most hazardous for earthquakes. The United States Geological Survey rates the ground there — layers of mud and clay — as having a very high risk of acting like quicksand during an earthquake, a process known as liquefaction.

TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO Bay Bridge VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate VERY HIGH San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO Bay Bridge RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay 19th Ave. MISSION DISTRICT SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Sources: California Geological Survey; United States Geological Survey; The City and County of San Francisco. TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO Bay Bridge VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT Market Street Buildings taller than 240 ft. RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Buildings taller than 240 ft. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge VERY HIGH Buildings taller than 240 ft. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake VERY HIGH FINANCIAL DISTRICT Buildings taller than 240 ft. SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay 19th Ave. MISSION DISTRICT SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Likelihood that ground will liquefy in an earthquake Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate VERY HIGH San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO Bay Bridge Buildings taller than 240 ft. RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Sources: California Geological Survey; United States Geological Survey; The City and County of San Francisco.

At least 100 buildings taller than 240 feet were built in areas that have a “very high” chance of liquefaction.

In light of the problems with the Millennium Tower, there are now increasing calls in California for a reassessment of earthquake risks, much of it focused on strengthening the building code.

Right now the code says a structure must be engineered to have a 90 percent chance of avoiding total collapse. But many experts believe that is not enough.

“Ten percent of buildings will collapse,” said Lucy Jones, the former leader of natural hazards research at the United States Geological Survey who is leading a campaign to make building codes in California stronger. “I don’t understand why that’s acceptable.”

The code also does not specify that a building be fit for occupancy after an earthquake. Many buildings might not collapse completely, but they could be damaged beyond repair. The interior walls, the plumbing, elevators — all could be wrecked or damaged.

“When I tell people what the current building code gives them most people are shocked,” Dr. Jones said. “Enough buildings will be so badly damaged that people are going to find it too hard to live in L.A. or San Francisco.”

In January a Southern California assemblyman, Adrin Nazarian, introduced a bill in the State Legislature that would require the building code to make new buildings strong enough for “functional recovery” after an earthquake. The bill passed its first hurdle, a committee hearing, last week.

Driving the push to change the code is the notion that California has so much more to lose than it did in 1906.

San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake. Associated Press

The billions of dollars of infrastructure, headquarters of global industries and the denser, more vertical downtown make San Francisco a much more interconnected and vulnerable place.

The goal of the code, say proponents of a stronger one, should be the survival of cities — strengthening water systems, electrical grids and cellular networks — not just individual buildings.

“We’ve been sitting on our hands for decades about this problem,” said Keith Porter, a seismic engineer at the University of Colorado, who is hoping to spur greater public participation in a debate.

Dr. Porter’s research offers warnings on the economic consequences of a major earthquake in the San Francisco Bay Area. He has calculated that one out of every four buildings in the Bay Area might not be usable after a magnitude 7 earthquake, which although severe is not the worst the area could experience.

The map below shows areas where strong ground shaking is expected during an earthquake. At least 100 so-called soft-story buildings that require mandatory retrofitting are noncompliant — and most are in the area of anticipated strong shaking.

TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO Bay Bridge FINANCIAL DISTRICT Market Street Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE TREASURE ISLAND San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. NORTH BEACH PRESIDIO FINANCIAL DISTRICT Bay Bridge Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Market Street RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park Pacific Ocean San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT Twin Peaks 19th Ave. SAN ANDREAS FAULT SAN FRANCISCO HUNTERS POINT 1 MILE Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Golden Gate Bridge Golden Gate San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO Bay Bridge RICHMOND DISTRICT SOUTH OF MARKET Golden Gate Park San Francisco Bay MISSION DISTRICT 19th Ave. Twin Peaks SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Areas expected to experience strong shaking in a large-magnitude earthquake. Older, wood-frame multistory buildings that need to be retrofitted to comply with city regulations. Golden Gate Bridge San Francisco FINANCIAL DISTRICT PRESIDIO SOUTH OF MARKET San Francisco Bay Golden Gate Park 19th Ave. MISSION DISTRICT SAN FRANCISCO 1 MILE Sources: California Geological Survey; United States Geological Survey; Department of Building Inspection. Note: Soft-story noncompliant building data is updated as of April 12, 2018.

Dr. Porter calculates, hypothetically, that if buildings were built to a stronger standard, only 6 percent of buildings would be unusable.

Some structural engineers, however, say our modern crop of high rises are strong enough.

Ron Klemencic, the chief executive of Magnusson Klemencic Associates, the company that did the structural engineering for Salesforce Tower, says he agrees that water and sewage systems need higher strength requirements, but not high rises. “Buildings falling on top of other buildings — that’s not going to happen,” Mr. Klemencic said.

How much would stronger buildings cost to build?

At a time when the average price of a home in San Francisco is above $1.2 million, even a marginal increase in price tag is bound to meet resistance.

“We are already facing the concern of extremely high cost of housing and displacement,” said Brian Strong, the director of the office of resilience in San Francisco’s city government. In recent years the city has been focused on other seismic dangers, including older, low-rise apartment buildings with inadequate ground floor structures that could collapse, known as soft stories.

Charles Richter, the earthquake pioneer who invented the scale used to measure their power, had strong opinions about skyscrapers. Don’t build them in California, he said.

In the years since Mr. Richter’s death in 1985, construction materials have become stronger and engineering more precise.

Yet Hiroo Kanamori, an emeritus professor of seismology at the California Institute of Technology who developed the earthquake magnitude scale that replaced Dr. Richter’s, says the vast power and mysteries of earthquakes should continue to instill a deep humility.

In recent decades scientists have recorded violent ground motions that were previously thought impossible. A soon-to-be-published paper by Caltech engineers showed that an earthquake with a similar intensity of the one that struck Chichi, Taiwan in 1999 would bring down or render unusable numerous steel frame high rises in Los Angeles.

“People say, ‘Don’t worry about it, it’s an outlier,’” Dr. Kanamori said. “This is the problem with earthquakes. By nature of the process there are a lot of unpredictable elements.“These Islamic State criminals committed crimes against humanity and against our people in Iraq, in Mosul and Salahuddin and Anbar, everywhere,” said Gen. Yahya Rasool, the spokesman for the Iraqi joint operations command. “To be loyal to the blood of the victims and to be loyal to the Iraqi people, criminals must receive the death penalty, a punishment that would deter them and those who sympathize with them.”

But critics say the perfunctory trials in special counterterrorism courts are sweeping up bystanders and relatives as well as fighters, and executing most of them in a process more concerned with retribution than justice.

The office for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights warned that flaws in the judicial process would most likely lead to “irreversible miscarriages” of justice.

Photo

Human Rights Watch has criticized Iraq for relying on an overly broad law to quickly achieve the maximum punishment of the most people.

The nation’s counterterrorism law allows the death penalty for anyone “who commits, incites, plans, finances or assists in acts of terrorism.” So Iraqi courts are meting out one-size-fits-all punishment for the perpetrator of crimes against humanity as well for as the wife of an Islamic State fighter who may have had little say in her husband’s career.

“Individual circumstances don’t matter,” said Belkis Wille, the senior researcher for Iraq for Human Rights Watch. “Cooks, medical workers, everyone is given the death penalty.”

The low bar for conviction under the law, she said, also means that the courts are not bothering to investigate some of the worst crimes believed to have been committed by Islamic State members, such as slavery, rape or extrajudicial killings.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Iraq’s Justice Ministry rejects such criticism and praises the integrity of its judges and its standards of due process. “If there is evidence then suspects are prosecuted, and if there is no evidence then they are released,” said Abdul-Sattar al-Birqdar, a judge and Justice Ministry spokesman.

The government has not released statistics about its terrorism detainees, but two people familiar with the court who were not authorized to speak to journalists said that approximately 13,000 people had been detained on suspicion of ties to the Islamic State since 2017, when the vast majority of arrests were made.

Human Rights Watch estimated in December that at least 20,000 people accused of ties to the Islamic State were being held by the Iraqi authorities. Last month, The Associated Press reported that Iraq had detained or imprisoned at least 19,000 people since 2014 on accusations of connections to the Islamic State or other terrorism-related offenses.

Many of these detainees were arrested on the battlefield. Some were detained far from combat, based on information gleaned from informers and prison interrogations.

Photo

Iraqi intelligence officials say that high-value detainees, people accused of involvement in specific terrorist attacks, are held separately from the majority of prisoners, who are suspected of having been low-level cogs in the Islamic State bureaucracy.

Since the summer of 2017, more than 10,000 cases have been referred to the courts, the people familiar with the court said. To date, they said, approximately 2,900 trials have been completed, with a conviction rate of about 98 percent.

They did not say how many had received the death penalty, or how many executions had been carried out.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The government said 11 people were executed on Monday for “terrorism crimes,” fulfilling “the government’s promise to kill those responsible for shedding Iraqi blood,” the Justice Ministry said in a statement.

Among those held apart from the general prison population are approximately 1,350 foreign women and 580 children, the majority of whom surrendered to Iraqi security forces last August during military operations to liberate the town of Tal Afar. The vast majority of these detainees are Turkish, Russian and Central Asian.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Iraq says it is determined to try them if evidence links them to the Islamic State, but some of their home countries, including Saudi Arabia, have requested extradition for some of their citizens. Other countries, like Britain and France, have been reluctant to take their citizens back, officials from both countries said.

In rare cases, individuals have been returned to their home countries, such as a group of four Russian women and 27 children in February, after Iraqi authorities concluded they had been tricked into coming to Islamic State territory. Turkey has been working to repatriate minors whose parents took them to the caliphate, as well as those found innocent of wrongdoing.

For a nation that for more than 15 years has been an incubator for Islamist extremists and has been torn apart by terrorist bombings, Iraqis have little appetite for leniency or concern about mitigating circumstances that in other nations could be grounds for clemency. Foreigners in particular are widely assumed to have been the Islamic State’s most fervent adherents since they moved there to join the caliphate.

Photo

“What concerns me the most in these trials is that the system is fundamentally prejudiced against foreign individuals,” said Ms. Wille, who has observed dozens of terrorism trials. “The presumption is because you are foreign, and you were in ISIS territory, there is no need to provide more evidence.”

The 14 women convicted in one afternoon this month, 12 Turks and two Azerbaijanis ranging from 20 to 44 years old, had lived in Raqqa, the former capital of the group’s territory in Syria. When international airstrikes escalated there and several of their husbands were killed, they moved to Iraq and were among those who surrendered outside Tal Afar.

Gaunt, withdrawn and surrounded by plainclothes security guards, they waited in the florescent-lit hallways of Baghdad’s counterterrorism court for their trials to start. Eleven toddlers who had spent the last eight months in detention with their mothers accompanied them to the court.

When Ms. Hassan was called, she handed her child to another detainee to look after. The other women cooed and hummed to try to placate her curly-haired toddler. Some appeared to whisper prayers.

Their state-appointed lawyer, Ali Sultan, said he had not prepared for the trials. He said he had no access to the evidence against his clients because information related to terrorism investigations is classified.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He added that his pay — $25 regardless of whether the case goes to appeal — hardly encourages much effort. The fee is paid only after the final appeal is exhausted or the client is executed, which, despite the push to expedite trials, can take months if not years.

After Ms. Hassan was sentenced by Judge Ahmed al-Ameri, he swiftly dispensed with the rest of the docket.

Negar Mohammed told him that she was innocent of all Islamic State crimes; he ruled otherwise.

Nazli Ismail told the judge that her husband pushed her family to go to Syria. Three of her children were killed in an airstrike, she said. The only one to survive was her youngest, a 2-year-old boy named Yahya, who was waiting outside in the hallway.

Judge Ameri asked, “Are you innocent or guilty?”

“I’m innocent,” Ms. Ismail replied.

The judge sentenced her to death.

Ms. Ismail accepted her fate with a smile. “This means I will finally go to heaven,” she said.

Mother and child left the courthouse under armed guard. It was unclear what would happen to the child.“These Islamic State criminals committed crimes against humanity and against our people in Iraq, in Mosul and Salahuddin and Anbar, everywhere,” said Gen. Yahya Rasool, the spokesman for the Iraqi joint operations command. “To be loyal to the blood of the victims and to be loyal to the Iraqi people, criminals must receive the death penalty, a punishment that would deter them and those who sympathize with them.”

But critics say the perfunctory trials in special counterterrorism courts are sweeping up bystanders and relatives as well as fighters, and executing most of them in a process more concerned with retribution than justice.

The office for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights warned that flaws in the judicial process would most likely lead to “irreversible miscarriages” of justice.

Photo

Human Rights Watch has criticized Iraq for relying on an overly broad law to quickly achieve the maximum punishment of the most people.

The nation’s counterterrorism law allows the death penalty for anyone “who commits, incites, plans, finances or assists in acts of terrorism.” So Iraqi courts are meting out one-size-fits-all punishment for the perpetrator of crimes against humanity as well for as the wife of an Islamic State fighter who may have had little say in her husband’s career.

“Individual circumstances don’t matter,” said Belkis Wille, the senior researcher for Iraq for Human Rights Watch. “Cooks, medical workers, everyone is given the death penalty.”

The low bar for conviction under the law, she said, also means that the courts are not bothering to investigate some of the worst crimes believed to have been committed by Islamic State members, such as slavery, rape or extrajudicial killings.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Iraq’s Justice Ministry rejects such criticism and praises the integrity of its judges and its standards of due process. “If there is evidence then suspects are prosecuted, and if there is no evidence then they are released,” said Abdul-Sattar al-Birqdar, a judge and Justice Ministry spokesman.

The government has not released statistics about its terrorism detainees, but two people familiar with the court who were not authorized to speak to journalists said that approximately 13,000 people had been detained on suspicion of ties to the Islamic State since 2017, when the vast majority of arrests were made.

Human Rights Watch estimated in December that at least 20,000 people accused of ties to the Islamic State were being held by the Iraqi authorities. Last month, The Associated Press reported that Iraq had detained or imprisoned at least 19,000 people since 2014 on accusations of connections to the Islamic State or other terrorism-related offenses.

Many of these detainees were arrested on the battlefield. Some were detained far from combat, based on information gleaned from informers and prison interrogations.

Photo

Iraqi intelligence officials say that high-value detainees, people accused of involvement in specific terrorist attacks, are held separately from the majority of prisoners, who are suspected of having been low-level cogs in the Islamic State bureaucracy.

Since the summer of 2017, more than 10,000 cases have been referred to the courts, the people familiar with the court said. To date, they said, approximately 2,900 trials have been completed, with a conviction rate of about 98 percent.

They did not say how many had received the death penalty, or how many executions had been carried out.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The government said 11 people were executed on Monday for “terrorism crimes,” fulfilling “the government’s promise to kill those responsible for shedding Iraqi blood,” the Justice Ministry said in a statement.

Among those held apart from the general prison population are approximately 1,350 foreign women and 580 children, the majority of whom surrendered to Iraqi security forces last August during military operations to liberate the town of Tal Afar. The vast majority of these detainees are Turkish, Russian and Central Asian.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Iraq says it is determined to try them if evidence links them to the Islamic State, but some of their home countries, including Saudi Arabia, have requested extradition for some of their citizens. Other countries, like Britain and France, have been reluctant to take their citizens back, officials from both countries said.

In rare cases, individuals have been returned to their home countries, such as a group of four Russian women and 27 children in February, after Iraqi authorities concluded they had been tricked into coming to Islamic State territory. Turkey has been working to repatriate minors whose parents took them to the caliphate, as well as those found innocent of wrongdoing.

For a nation that for more than 15 years has been an incubator for Islamist extremists and has been torn apart by terrorist bombings, Iraqis have little appetite for leniency or concern about mitigating circumstances that in other nations could be grounds for clemency. Foreigners in particular are widely assumed to have been the Islamic State’s most fervent adherents since they moved there to join the caliphate.

Photo

“What concerns me the most in these trials is that the system is fundamentally prejudiced against foreign individuals,” said Ms. Wille, who has observed dozens of terrorism trials. “The presumption is because you are foreign, and you were in ISIS territory, there is no need to provide more evidence.”

The 14 women convicted in one afternoon this month, 12 Turks and two Azerbaijanis ranging from 20 to 44 years old, had lived in Raqqa, the former capital of the group’s territory in Syria. When international airstrikes escalated there and several of their husbands were killed, they moved to Iraq and were among those who surrendered outside Tal Afar.

Gaunt, withdrawn and surrounded by plainclothes security guards, they waited in the florescent-lit hallways of Baghdad’s counterterrorism court for their trials to start. Eleven toddlers who had spent the last eight months in detention with their mothers accompanied them to the court.

When Ms. Hassan was called, she handed her child to another detainee to look after. The other women cooed and hummed to try to placate her curly-haired toddler. Some appeared to whisper prayers.

Their state-appointed lawyer, Ali Sultan, said he had not prepared for the trials. He said he had no access to the evidence against his clients because information related to terrorism investigations is classified.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He added that his pay — $25 regardless of whether the case goes to appeal — hardly encourages much effort. The fee is paid only after the final appeal is exhausted or the client is executed, which, despite the push to expedite trials, can take months if not years.

After Ms. Hassan was sentenced by Judge Ahmed al-Ameri, he swiftly dispensed with the rest of the docket.

Negar Mohammed told him that she was innocent of all Islamic State crimes; he ruled otherwise.

Nazli Ismail told the judge that her husband pushed her family to go to Syria. Three of her children were killed in an airstrike, she said. The only one to survive was her youngest, a 2-year-old boy named Yahya, who was waiting outside in the hallway.

Judge Ameri asked, “Are you innocent or guilty?”

“I’m innocent,” Ms. Ismail replied.

The judge sentenced her to death.

Ms. Ismail accepted her fate with a smile. “This means I will finally go to heaven,” she said.

Mother and child left the courthouse under armed guard. It was unclear what would happen to the child.Times have changed. With Megyn Kelly and Bill O’Reilly gone from Fox News, Mr. Hannity is its undisputed prime-time star, and his “Trump at all costs” brio is the template for a network that has tacked rightward since Election Day.

That Mr. Hannity failed to disclose an entanglement with a prominent Trump consigliere — particularly one at the center of a federal criminal investigation — did not sit well in some corners of the Fox newsroom, especially among reporters who have expressed displeasure with the White House access enjoyed by the channel’s Trump-boosting commentators.

In an official statement, however, the network stood up for its star, saying: “We have reviewed the matter and spoken to Sean and he continues to have our full support.”

Not every Fox News host is so immune.

Bret Baier, the network’s 6 p.m. news anchor, presents himself as a staid newsman compared with the channel’s boisterous crew of partisan pundits.

But after Politico reported on Monday that Mr. Baier played nine holes of golf with Mr. Trump this past weekend at the president’s Virginia club — the kind of chummy socializing that is considered poor form for journalists — the anchor found himself in hot water.

Asked on Tuesday about the golf game, Fox News said that the network’s president of news, Jay Wallace, “addressed the matter” with Mr. Baier.

It is not unusual for anchors to schmooze politicians for access, and Mr. Baier has been jockeying for an interview with Mr. Trump, who has not appeared on his show since October 2016. But several TV journalists and former White House officials said they could not recall another instance of an anchor golfing with a president.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Adding to the unease: the White House often refuses to disclose Mr. Trump’s golf partners, or that he is hitting the links at all, drawing concerns about a lack of transparency.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Fox News has different ethical standards for its news and opinion anchors, and Mr. Hannity, firmly on the opinion side, has a longer leash.

He has offered Mr. Trump advice, parroted his sulfurous attacks on the media, and dined with him at Mar-a-Lago and the White House. Like other cheerleading Fox pundits, including Jesse Watters and Jeanine Pirro, Mr. Hannity has been granted a presidential interview multiple times.

It has been good for business. In early 2016, “Hannity” averaged 1.8 million viewers and was the sixth-most watched show on cable news. This year, he is averaging 3.2 million viewers — and is ranked No. 1. On Monday, his first show since the revelations about Mr. Cohen, Mr. Hannity pulled in 3.7 million viewers, topping his MSNBC rival, Rachel Maddow, and two N.B.A. playoff games.

Those numbers are the envy of the industry, even as rival hosts have increasingly lamented Fox News’s hard-line turn.

In February, the NBC News anchor Chuck Todd wondered aloud if the network’s ethics standards had deteriorated since the 2016 exit of Roger E. Ailes, the network’s late mastermind. “I can’t believe that I’m about to say what I’m about to say,” Mr. Todd said on a Recode podcast. “But Roger Ailes ran a more journalistically honest organization.”

News organizations have dealt with anchors’ ethical lapses in varying ways.

MSNBC suspended the liberal commentator Keith Olbermann in 2010 after it learned that he made campaign donations to Democratic congressional candidates. ABC News backed George Stephanopoulos, its chief news anchor, after he apologized for not having disclosed $75,000 in donations to the Clinton Foundation, saying, “We stand behind him.”

As for Mr. Hannity, an unlikely ombudsman popped up on his show this week. The lawyer Alan Dershowitz, a regular guest, confronted him on the Monday edition of “Hannity,” telling the host that “it would have been much, much better had you disclosed that relationship.”

In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Dershowitz said he had felt compelled to say something because Mr. Hannity had included him in a live discussion of Mr. Cohen’s legal troubles last week. “When you are talking to millions of people every night, you should make a full disclosure,” he said.

But Mr. Dershowitz added that Mr. Hannity did not necessarily deserve to be disciplined.

“The Fox viewers didn’t suffer from his failure to disclose,” he said. “Why? Everybody who watches Hannity knows who he is, and knows what his views are. He wouldn’t have said anything different.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Whether I’ll ever be invited back to Hannity’s show, I don’t know,” Mr. Dershowitz added. “But I had to make my point.”“DAMN.” is surely deserving, yet its victory feels like another sign of the world, and therefore the musical culture, we live in — embodied by the streaming services, through which the biggest artists and albums get more and more, and everyone else gets a smaller piece of the pie. This system is corrosive to music, period — classical, jazz, hip-hop, everything. It’s the reality — and there are certainly a lot of very popular artists who are very meaningful, Mr. Lamar among them — but I don’t like every aspect of it.

PARELES I completely agree with you about the unhealthy overall effects of winner-take-all culture. The word “trending” makes me instinctively recoil; as critics, you and I both want to direct people beyond popularity charts. But choosing “DAMN.” wasn’t a capitulation to mere popularity. The album is a complex, varied, subtle, richly multilayered work, overflowing with ideas and by no means immediately ingratiating. You have to give it genuine attention and thought to get the most out of it, just as with any other Pulitzer-winning composition.

Meanwhile, wasn’t the music Pulitzer, for many decades, largely the captive of a small, insular academic music scene? The Pulitzers refused a special citation for Duke Ellington, who never won the award. They ignored jazz — artistically subtle and sublime, commercially endangered — until Wynton Marsalis finally got a Pulitzer in 1997. They were unconscionably late — looking awfully cliquish to me — even in recognizing Minimalism: Steve Reich got his Pulitzer in 2009, not in 1977 for “Music for 18 Musicians.”

To me, it looks like some of the squawks are complaints about exclusivity being breached. And if you ask me, it should have happened sooner. I hereby nominate, for a retrospective Pulitzer, Public Enemy’s 1988 album “It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back”: an experimental sonic bombshell, a verbal torrent, a mind expander. For that matter, the Pulitzers were late on Kendrick Lamar, too: “To Pimp a Butterfly,” from 2015, has even more musical breadth than “DAMN.” (which has plenty).

Photo

WOOLFE There have been so many missed opportunities. The year after it turned down Ellington — the main Pulitzer board rejected the music jury’s recommendation — it could have given the regular prize to Coltrane’s “A Love Supreme.” How about Joni Mitchell’s “Blue,” which could have won in 1972 — over a decade before the prize finally got around to recognizing a female composer? Philip Glass, never quite beloved in the academic realm, remains Pulitzer-less. And I’ll just leave this right here: Kanye.

You could play these fantasy games forever. It is belated and necessary that the award widen to encompass a fuller picture of what music is. But if that widening further marginalizes noncommercial work — which doesn’t view itself as exclusive but simply as endangered in an economic system that conspires against it — something important will be lost. Responsible eclecticism is what I’d want going forward from Pulitzer juries, for whom the “DAMN.” award will hopefully be freeing in the best sense.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

PARELES What were the pieces from the other two finalists, Ted Hearne and Michael Gilbertson?

WOOLFE Like Mr. Lamar, who’s 30, these guys are strikingly young. Mr. Gilbertson, 30 as well, wrote a string quartet that veers from glassy to robust, and Mr. Hearne, 35, wrote “Sound From the Bench,” a cantata for chamber choir, electric guitars and drums. Like Mr. Lamar’s album, the finalists are politically charged: Mr. Hearne, always socially conscious, here mashes up texts from Supreme Court decisions to suggest the ambiguities of identity and humanity. (A corporation has speech, you say?) And Mr. Gilbertson has said that he adjusted his initial sketches for his quartet after the 2016 election, making them “more introspective and comforting.” Almost as significant as Mr. Lamar’s win, for me, is the trio taken together: a new generation, turning the world around it into music.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

PARELES I’ll have to put them in a playlist. I’m not suggesting that the Pulitzers mirror the Top 10 or the Grammys. (Please, no.) And next year, sure, give the prize to an album that sold 11 copies after a lone college gig somewhere. But I think we’re seeing a shifting perspective on the way contemporary classical and jazz composition often draw on the ideas of hip-hop or world music or pop, as if to elevate them by carrying them into the concert hall.

According to the Pulitzer reporting, “DAMN.” got added to consideration when the jury was looking into a composition with hip-hop influences, and decided to go to the source — where the ideas, in this case, are even stronger, both rawer and smarter. The prize citation praises “DAMN.” for its “vernacular authenticity and rhythmic dynamism,” which to me has a whiff of condescension — there’s all sorts of brainpower and artifice in there, too — but let’s enjoy the win. Regarding noncommercial outreach, Mr. Lamar often collaborates with first-rate, innovative jazz musicians, like Kamasi Washington, who not only are happy to work with him but also benefit — in their own audience growth — from showing up in his album credits.

One thing that also strikes me about giving the award to “DAMN.” is that it quietly sets aside two previous Pulitzer givens: that the winning piece was performed by live musicians in real time and that it was written by a solitary composer. But “DAMN.” has multiple producers, composers and performers (even Rihanna and U2 cameos!) layering tracks in studios. Mr. Lamar is the auteur, fully in charge but not the sole creator. It’s another way of making music that deserves respect.

WOOLFE This year’s Pulitzer actually reinforced that old Romantic illusion of the singular composer. It was given to Mr. Lamar alone — not, as in the Grammys, to the album’s songwriting or producing teams, too.

PARELES Maybe they should change the citation to “Kendrick Lamar and staff” — like the reporting prizes. To me, both the Dylan Nobel and the Lamar Pulitzer — which is not the first hip-hop Pulitzer; Lin-Manuel Miranda got that for drama with “Hamilton” — are signals that the old prize-giving institutions are rethinking the ways in which they used to circumscribe the idea of quality. As long as they’re conscientious, that can make the awards only more significant.“DAMN.” is surely deserving, yet its victory feels like another sign of the world, and therefore the musical culture, we live in — embodied by the streaming services, through which the biggest artists and albums get more and more, and everyone else gets a smaller piece of the pie. This system is corrosive to music, period — classical, jazz, hip-hop, everything. It’s the reality — and there are certainly a lot of very popular artists who are very meaningful, Mr. Lamar among them — but I don’t like every aspect of it.

PARELES I completely agree with you about the unhealthy overall effects of winner-take-all culture. The word “trending” makes me instinctively recoil; as critics, you and I both want to direct people beyond popularity charts. But choosing “DAMN.” wasn’t a capitulation to mere popularity. The album is a complex, varied, subtle, richly multilayered work, overflowing with ideas and by no means immediately ingratiating. You have to give it genuine attention and thought to get the most out of it, just as with any other Pulitzer-winning composition.

Meanwhile, wasn’t the music Pulitzer, for many decades, largely the captive of a small, insular academic music scene? The Pulitzers refused a special citation for Duke Ellington, who never won the award. They ignored jazz — artistically subtle and sublime, commercially endangered — until Wynton Marsalis finally got a Pulitzer in 1997. They were unconscionably late — looking awfully cliquish to me — even in recognizing Minimalism: Steve Reich got his Pulitzer in 2009, not in 1977 for “Music for 18 Musicians.”

To me, it looks like some of the squawks are complaints about exclusivity being breached. And if you ask me, it should have happened sooner. I hereby nominate, for a retrospective Pulitzer, Public Enemy’s 1988 album “It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back”: an experimental sonic bombshell, a verbal torrent, a mind expander. For that matter, the Pulitzers were late on Kendrick Lamar, too: “To Pimp a Butterfly,” from 2015, has even more musical breadth than “DAMN.” (which has plenty).

Photo

WOOLFE There have been so many missed opportunities. The year after it turned down Ellington — the main Pulitzer board rejected the music jury’s recommendation — it could have given the regular prize to Coltrane’s “A Love Supreme.” How about Joni Mitchell’s “Blue,” which could have won in 1972 — over a decade before the prize finally got around to recognizing a female composer? Philip Glass, never quite beloved in the academic realm, remains Pulitzer-less. And I’ll just leave this right here: Kanye.

You could play these fantasy games forever. It is belated and necessary that the award widen to encompass a fuller picture of what music is. But if that widening further marginalizes noncommercial work — which doesn’t view itself as exclusive but simply as endangered in an economic system that conspires against it — something important will be lost. Responsible eclecticism is what I’d want going forward from Pulitzer juries, for whom the “DAMN.” award will hopefully be freeing in the best sense.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

PARELES What were the pieces from the other two finalists, Ted Hearne and Michael Gilbertson?

WOOLFE Like Mr. Lamar, who’s 30, these guys are strikingly young. Mr. Gilbertson, 30 as well, wrote a string quartet that veers from glassy to robust, and Mr. Hearne, 35, wrote “Sound From the Bench,” a cantata for chamber choir, electric guitars and drums. Like Mr. Lamar’s album, the finalists are politically charged: Mr. Hearne, always socially conscious, here mashes up texts from Supreme Court decisions to suggest the ambiguities of identity and humanity. (A corporation has speech, you say?) And Mr. Gilbertson has said that he adjusted his initial sketches for his quartet after the 2016 election, making them “more introspective and comforting.” Almost as significant as Mr. Lamar’s win, for me, is the trio taken together: a new generation, turning the world around it into music.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

PARELES I’ll have to put them in a playlist. I’m not suggesting that the Pulitzers mirror the Top 10 or the Grammys. (Please, no.) And next year, sure, give the prize to an album that sold 11 copies after a lone college gig somewhere. But I think we’re seeing a shifting perspective on the way contemporary classical and jazz composition often draw on the ideas of hip-hop or world music or pop, as if to elevate them by carrying them into the concert hall.

According to the Pulitzer reporting, “DAMN.” got added to consideration when the jury was looking into a composition with hip-hop influences, and decided to go to the source — where the ideas, in this case, are even stronger, both rawer and smarter. The prize citation praises “DAMN.” for its “vernacular authenticity and rhythmic dynamism,” which to me has a whiff of condescension — there’s all sorts of brainpower and artifice in there, too — but let’s enjoy the win. Regarding noncommercial outreach, Mr. Lamar often collaborates with first-rate, innovative jazz musicians, like Kamasi Washington, who not only are happy to work with him but also benefit — in their own audience growth — from showing up in his album credits.

One thing that also strikes me about giving the award to “DAMN.” is that it quietly sets aside two previous Pulitzer givens: that the winning piece was performed by live musicians in real time and that it was written by a solitary composer. But “DAMN.” has multiple producers, composers and performers (even Rihanna and U2 cameos!) layering tracks in studios. Mr. Lamar is the auteur, fully in charge but not the sole creator. It’s another way of making music that deserves respect.

WOOLFE This year’s Pulitzer actually reinforced that old Romantic illusion of the singular composer. It was given to Mr. Lamar alone — not, as in the Grammys, to the album’s songwriting or producing teams, too.

PARELES Maybe they should change the citation to “Kendrick Lamar and staff” — like the reporting prizes. To me, both the Dylan Nobel and the Lamar Pulitzer — which is not the first hip-hop Pulitzer; Lin-Manuel Miranda got that for drama with “Hamilton” — are signals that the old prize-giving institutions are rethinking the ways in which they used to circumscribe the idea of quality. As long as they’re conscientious, that can make the awards only more significant.Ms. McCormick won her Pulitzer one year after becoming the first woman on the editorial board of The Times, writing three columns a week on world affairs. She had insisted that would not be improperly pigeonholed. In her 1936 job acceptance letter to Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The Times, she made clear she wouldn’t “revert to ‘woman’s-point-of-view’ stuff.”

“It gives me immense satisfaction to break a precedent, and even more to know that The Times at last wants me where I have long felt I belong,” she wrote to Mr. Sulzberger.

Her earliest work indicated she had superlative news judgment. In one of her first Times articles, dated June 24, 1921, she attended an address by Victor Emmanuel III, the king of Italy. But a different politician who had attracted little notice from other journalists caught her observant eye.

“More interesting than the speech of the King was the sudden emergence of the new party of the Extreme Right. … Benito Mussolini, founder and leader of the Fascisti, was among the parliamentary debutants; and, in one of the best political speeches I have heard, a little swaggering, but caustic, powerful and telling, he called upon the Socialists to disarm their spirits.”

She would go on to have several interviews with the dictator. Adolf Hitler agreed to meet with her, and she sat with Joseph Stalin for an unprecedented six hours. She interviewed Franklin Delano Roosevelt weeks before his death in 1945.

At first, she traveled along with her husband, who had an import/export business. But as her stature skyrocketed, he quit his job to travel with her, according to "Women of the World: The Great Foreign Correspondents,” a 1988 book by Julia Edwards.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While Ms. McCormick was the first woman to win a Pulitzer for journalism in a major category, a student at Columbia, Minna Lewinson, won the Newspaper History Award for a research paper in 1918, the second year of the Pulitzers. It was the only time the award was given in the category and was shared with a fellow student, Henry Beetle Hough.

Photo

The next female winner wouldn’t come until 1951, when Marguerite Higgins was part of a team that reported on the Korean War.

Women were rarely hired in Ms. McCormick’s era, and those who were typically covered weddings and social events, said Maurine Beasley, a professor at the University of Maryland. It wasn’t until the 1960s, after the Civil Rights Act, that more women had a chance at so-called “hard news” jobs.

Ms. McCormick “considered herself apart from other women journalists of the day,” declining invitations to women-only press events by Eleanor Roosevelt, Ms. Beasley said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“What Anne O’Hare McCormick did was so unusual,” she said. “Women just didn’t have that opportunity, and she didn’t want to associate herself with those who were more limited and were dealing only with women’s news.”

World War II presented more opportunities for women as men went away to fight, said Carolyn Edy, a professor at Appalachian State University who wrote a book about female war correspondents. The United States began accrediting more women as a propaganda effort to “show the friendlier sides of war,” but few had the high-profile assignments Ms. McCormick did.

Ms. McCormick overcame the additional challenges one might expect of a woman working in newsrooms in the 1920s and 1930s. Editors were especially hard on her and nicknamed her “Verbose Annie,” according to Ms. Edwards’ book.

She died at 72 in 1954. She continued working until soon before her death. At 67 she was “covering the guerrilla war in Greece, scrambling up and down mountains with soldiers less than half her age,” Ms. Edwards wrote.

Her Times obituary said she “became the expert the experts looked up to.”

“In whatever part of the shrinking world her dateline put her, the sound, pungent reports of her conversations and observations won universal praise,” the obituary said.Public Service

The New York Times, for reporting led by Jodi Kantor, Megan Twohey, Emily Steel and Michael S. Schmidt; and The New Yorker, for reporting by Ronan Farrow

Investigations by The New York Times and Ronan Farrow, 30, of The New Yorker that revealed allegations of sexual harassment and the subsequent silencing of the victims helped topple powerful men — including in Hollywood, politics and Silicon Valley — and prompted a wave of women to share their experiences with abuse. Reporting on accusations against Bill O’Reilly, the former Fox News host, and Harvey Weinstein, the film mogul, inspired the global #MeToo movement that has opened new conversations about gender and power dynamics in the workplace.

Finalist The Kansas City Star

READ MORE: The coveted award for public service went to reporting on sexual harassment. | The Times won three awards, including for reporting on possible ties between Russia and President Trump’s inner circle.

Breaking News Reporting

Staff of The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

The entire staff at The Press Democrat helped cover the wildfires in October that devastated Santa Rosa and surrounding Sonoma County. “Because we live here and we know, we felt it necessary to be scrupulous,” said Catherine Barnett, the paper’s executive editor. “And we just got out and gave it all we had.” Ms. Barnett said some of the paper’s reporters and photographers were evacuating their families even as they chronicled the fires.

Finalists Staff of The Houston Chronicle | Staff of The New York Times

Investigative Reporting

Staff of The Washington Post

The Washington Post won for its dogged reporting on the Republican Senate candidate Roy S. Moore and how he made unwanted sexual advances toward underage girls when he was in his 30s. The resulting stories helped upend an Alabama special election, which was won by Mr. Moore’s Democratic opponent, Doug Jones.

Finalists Carol Marbin Miller and Audra D.S. Burch of The Miami Herald | Tim Eberly of The Virginian-Pilot, Norfolk, Va.Typhoid is endemic to Pakistan, where poor infrastructure, low vaccination rates and overpopulated city dwellings persist. Doctors in the Sindh province were not surprised by an outbreak in November 2016 — until cases proved unresponsive to ceftriaxone, used to treat multidrug-resistant, or MDR, strains of typhoid.

Only four isolated cases of extensively drug-resistant, or XDR, typhoid had previously been reported worldwide, according to Dr. Elizabeth Klemm, an infectious disease geneticist at the Wellcome Sanger Institute in England.

The outbreak’s origins were clear: Early case mapping revealed large clusters of victims around sewage lines in the city of Hyderabad. Dr. Hasan’s colleagues visited the region and found water sources that could be contaminated by leaking sewage pipes.

Four deaths have been reported so far, according to the National Institute of Health Islamabad. At least one travel-related case has been detected in the United Kingdom.

Genetic sequencing revealed that a common, aggressive MDR typhoid strain called H58 interacted with another bacteria, likely E. coli, and acquired from it an additional DNA molecule, called a plasmid, that coded for resistance to ceftriaxone.

Photo

The findings were disturbingly simple: XDR strains can materialize in one single step, virtually anywhere where the H58 strain and the added plasmid are both present — whether a sewer system or even a single human gut.

“There are multiple worst-case scenarios,” said Dr. Klemm. “One is that this strain spreads to other regions through migration. But the other is that it pops up elsewhere on its own — plasmids with drug resistance are everywhere.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the accumulation of resistance genes in the Sindh strain was hardly an ambush, according to a commentary by vaccine experts at the University of Maryland School of Medicine.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The 1948 discovery of antibiotic treatment for typhoid plunged the infection’s fatality rate from almost one in four to just one in 100, triggering “an epic thrust-and-parry duel” between powerful drugs and “a wily bacterial foe’s stepwise acquisition of resistance to them,” wrote Dr. Myron M. Levine and Dr. Raphael Simon.

Doctors still prescribe an estimated 50 million doses of antibiotics for typhoid globally each year. In Karachi, the capital of Sindh province, antibiotic resistance is increasing by 30 percent each year, according to the W.H.O.; at that rate, all typhoid cases in the city will be resistant to multiple drugs by 2020.

Physicians are treating the Sindh strain with azithromycin and other more expensive treatments that must be administered in hospital settings.

“Once we aren’t able to treat this effectively, we’re going back to the pre-antibiotic era. That would mean a lot of fatalities in our future,” Dr. Klemm said.

To preserve the last line of defense, public health officials have launched a campaign to vaccinate 250,000 children in Hyderabad using a new typhoid conjugate vaccine, Typbar-TCV, recently prequalified by the W.H.O. The vaccine lasts at least five years and can be given to children as young as six months old, according to the W.H.O.

Experts are also reinforcing hygiene habits for prevention: washing hands frequently, boiling drinking water and eating well-cooked foods. In the longer term, modern sanitation infrastructure is needed.

The vaccination campaign has faced local opposition, according to local news reports, amid rumors that the vaccines have been poisoned in a Western effort to harm children. Similar suspicions have persisted since 2011, when a posed hepatitis B campaign helped gather intelligence before the Abbottabad raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Two polio vaccination workers were killed in Pakistan this January.

GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, a public–private global health partnership working to increase access to immunization, has pledged $85 million to ensure that typhoid vaccines reach developing countries.

“It’s a global concern at this point,” said Dr. Eric Mintz, an epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “Everything suggests this strain will survive well and spread easily — and acquiring resistance to azithromycin is only a matter of time.”Typhoid is endemic to Pakistan, where poor infrastructure, low vaccination rates and overpopulated city dwellings persist. Doctors in the Sindh province were not surprised by an outbreak in November 2016 — until cases proved unresponsive to ceftriaxone, used to treat multidrug-resistant, or MDR, strains of typhoid.

Only four isolated cases of extensively drug-resistant, or XDR, typhoid had previously been reported worldwide, according to Dr. Elizabeth Klemm, an infectious disease geneticist at the Wellcome Sanger Institute in England.

The outbreak’s origins were clear: Early case mapping revealed large clusters of victims around sewage lines in the city of Hyderabad. Dr. Hasan’s colleagues visited the region and found water sources that could be contaminated by leaking sewage pipes.

Four deaths have been reported so far, according to the National Institute of Health Islamabad. At least one travel-related case has been detected in the United Kingdom.

Genetic sequencing revealed that a common, aggressive MDR typhoid strain called H58 interacted with another bacteria, likely E. coli, and acquired from it an additional DNA molecule, called a plasmid, that coded for resistance to ceftriaxone.

Photo

The findings were disturbingly simple: XDR strains can materialize in one single step, virtually anywhere where the H58 strain and the added plasmid are both present — whether a sewer system or even a single human gut.

“There are multiple worst-case scenarios,” said Dr. Klemm. “One is that this strain spreads to other regions through migration. But the other is that it pops up elsewhere on its own — plasmids with drug resistance are everywhere.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the accumulation of resistance genes in the Sindh strain was hardly an ambush, according to a commentary by vaccine experts at the University of Maryland School of Medicine.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The 1948 discovery of antibiotic treatment for typhoid plunged the infection’s fatality rate from almost one in four to just one in 100, triggering “an epic thrust-and-parry duel” between powerful drugs and “a wily bacterial foe’s stepwise acquisition of resistance to them,” wrote Dr. Myron M. Levine and Dr. Raphael Simon.

Doctors still prescribe an estimated 50 million doses of antibiotics for typhoid globally each year. In Karachi, the capital of Sindh province, antibiotic resistance is increasing by 30 percent each year, according to the W.H.O.; at that rate, all typhoid cases in the city will be resistant to multiple drugs by 2020.

Physicians are treating the Sindh strain with azithromycin and other more expensive treatments that must be administered in hospital settings.

“Once we aren’t able to treat this effectively, we’re going back to the pre-antibiotic era. That would mean a lot of fatalities in our future,” Dr. Klemm said.

To preserve the last line of defense, public health officials have launched a campaign to vaccinate 250,000 children in Hyderabad using a new typhoid conjugate vaccine, Typbar-TCV, recently prequalified by the W.H.O. The vaccine lasts at least five years and can be given to children as young as six months old, according to the W.H.O.

Experts are also reinforcing hygiene habits for prevention: washing hands frequently, boiling drinking water and eating well-cooked foods. In the longer term, modern sanitation infrastructure is needed.

The vaccination campaign has faced local opposition, according to local news reports, amid rumors that the vaccines have been poisoned in a Western effort to harm children. Similar suspicions have persisted since 2011, when a posed hepatitis B campaign helped gather intelligence before the Abbottabad raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Two polio vaccination workers were killed in Pakistan this January.

GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, a public–private global health partnership working to increase access to immunization, has pledged $85 million to ensure that typhoid vaccines reach developing countries.

“It’s a global concern at this point,” said Dr. Eric Mintz, an epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “Everything suggests this strain will survive well and spread easily — and acquiring resistance to azithromycin is only a matter of time.”Ben Flambert sat wrapped in an apron at a barber shop on Nostrand Avenue in Brooklyn, listening intently as Assemblywoman Rodneyse Bichotte explained why she was leading an effort to get the city to designate the surrounding neighborhood the Little Haiti Business and Cultural District.

Across the street from the barber shop are a Haitian bakery, a Haitian church and a Haitian restaurant, Ms. Bichotte, the first Haitian-American woman elected to office in New York City, explained. People of Haitian descent make up 20 percent of the Caribbean population in Flatbush and the local Haitian parade used to pass directly in front of the barber shop.

“Miami already has a Little Haiti,” Mr. Flambert, 42, a bus driver for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said as he sipped from a miniature bottle of Rhum Barbancourt. “But the Haitian presence out here is real strong. It makes sense.”

Not everyone in the central Brooklyn neighborhood agrees. Last year, an area bounded by Flatbush, Church and Nostrand Avenues was designated the Little Caribbean cultural district, making a separate Haitian district redundant, some local leaders say. Ms. Bichotte says there were plans to name the area Little Haiti dating back more than a decade.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Now, with momentum fueled by anger over recent slights by President Trump, prominent members of the Haitian community in Brooklyn and New York State are hoping the City Council will officially designate Little Haiti in May.By Jasmine Zamprogno

On my 11th birthday, a cyclone hit.

My parents shook me awake before dawn, wished me a happy birthday, and told me I needed to get out of my room in case the old gum tree in the back yard fell to the force of Category 4 winds. I received a digital camera as a gift, but I could not charge it until four days later, when the power was finally restored to our little Cairns suburb. My special birthday dinner was sausages cooked on a gas fire by candlelight.

There is the perception that Australian grit is defined by our nonchalance toward the many deadly animals we peacefully, indeed happily, coexist with.

The truth is that what makes us tough is how we weather the weather.

It takes guts to live in a country where our fire warning system starts at “Moderate” and methodically progresses toward “Catastrophic.” Where, in Far North Queensland, cyclones are so common they are described by locals as “a bit of a light breeze.” Where, to quote Forrest Gump, some days, it just starts to rain — and rains, and rains, and rains until you forget what the sun looked like and what it was like not to be constantly damp.The move comes as Beijing said its economy grew 6.8 percent in the first quarter compared with last year — well ahead of the pace needed to hit its target of 6.5 percent growth for the year.

And the Chinese telecom giant Huawei laid off its top Washington liaison and other American employees — a move that suggests it has accepted that its political battles in the U.S. are unwinnable.

_____

Photo

• In Syria, inspectors were seeking to enter Douma, a suburb of Damascus, where the U.S. and Western allies say President Bashar al-Assad’s forces dropped chemical weapons. Here’s a look at the group that sent the inspectors, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

And Syrian refugees in Turkey who are following the crackdown are reliving the trauma from a distance.

The White House, meanwhile, distanced itself from the U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, on Tuesday, as one of Mr. Trump’s advisers said she had gotten “ahead of the curve” in announcing new sanctions against Russia.

_____

Photo

• Who will get the first look at materials seized last week from President Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen? No one, it seems.

A federal judge didn’t agree to let Mr. Trump’s team review the 10 boxes of documents and roughly a dozen electronic devices before prosecutors can. But she didn’t say prosecutors would get the first look either. Discussions will continue. Above, Mr. Cohen leaving court on Monday.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Separately, we looked at what effect James Comey’s book tour — and his pointed critiques of Mr. Trump — might have on the former F.B.I. director’s image as a principled professional.

_____

Photo

• “Our first mistake will be our last.”

In Pakistan, a new movement is pushing for civil rights for the ethnic Pashtun minority.

Its leaders accuse Pakistan’s military of detaining and even killing Pashtun men without due process. They’ve held large rallies in Peshawar and Karachi.

But news outlets are under heavy pressure not to cover the protests — and many fear a crackdown by the security forces could be imminent.

Business

• Tesla’s stock price tumbled on news that the electric carmaker would halt production of its Model 3 compact car for several days to “improve automation.” Tesla shares have dropped 20 percent since March 12.

• Starbucks said it would close more than 8,000 of its stores in the U.S. on May 29 to conduct racial-bias training for nearly 175,000 employees.

• Japan discovered huge undersea deposits of rare earth minerals that could meet demand for centuries for tech and other industries.

• The Philippine Stock Exchange dropped as much as 2.3 percent, bringing its loss in market value this year to more than $20 billion.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• U.S. stocks were up across the board. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

• In Melbourne, Cardinal George Pell’s lawyers said all sexual abuse charges against the Vatican official should be thrown out, calling the accusers “unreliable.” [ABC]

• The U.S. and Britain issued a joint warning about Russian cyberattacks against government and private targets, including homes and offices. [The New York Times]

• In the U.S., the parents of two children killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School sued Alex Jones, the right-wing conspiracy theorist, for defamation, for calling the mass shooting a “giant hoax.” [The New York Times]

• In Malta, the family of a murdered journalist fears a cover-up because of the powerful interests involved. [The New York Times]

• Britain apologized to Caribbean immigrants who were threatened with loss of jobs and benefits because they couldn’t prove they arrived before 1973. [The New York Times]

• “Wrong then and wrong now.” Prime Minister Theresa May said she deeply regretted Britain’s role in criminalizing same-sex relations in its former colonies. The laws are still used in 37 of the 53 nations once under British rule. [BBC]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• What to pack for a trip to Victoria, British Columbia.

• Reading aloud to children may help them deal with emotions.

• Recipe of the day: Try this version of coconut noodles from a Burmese food writer who says it’s “so easy, the worst cook in the world could make it.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Noteworthy

Photo

• Female empowerment: In India, hundreds of girls, above, are taking free self-defense courses with the New Delhi police, as the country combats sexual assault. (The Times Editorial Board said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on women’s safety is “deeply worrying.”)

• In memoriam. Choi Eun-hee, 92, a South Korean movie star of the 1960s and ’70s who was once kidnapped by North Korea and forced to make films for the state.

• And our team explains San Francisco’s giant seismic gamble. The city knows the Big One will come, but we found that its building code doesn’t protect from earthquakes as much as you might think.

Back Story

Photo

Some days, you wish the news would just stop.

That was the case for the BBC on this day in 1930, when its 8:45 evening bulletin was surprisingly brief: “Good evening. Today is Good Friday. There is no news,” the radio announcer said. That update was followed by 15 minutes of piano music.

There was some major world news that day, including a typhoon in the Philippines and an attempted raid on an armory by Indian revolutionaries demanding independence from Britain, but it happened too late for the BBC.

And what made the front page of The Times on April 18? In addition to stories about Prohibition violations, there was one about gas masks for horses that were doing well in military testing.

The next day’s front page reported on a plane crash in Jersey City, a deadly church fire in Romania, the weather forecast for Easter Sunday and a study that found that only 700 words were needed for the vast majority of telephone conversations.

These days, it can seem as if the amount of news is limited only by the time you have available to consume it. But if you need a break, here’s some classical piano.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jennifer Jett contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.

And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.

Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.“Quite simply, the war on drugs is really a war on people,” Richard Di Natale, the party’s leader, told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. “We need to get real about cannabis use in Australia.”

Photo

What’s the current situation in Australia?

Possession of marijuana for recreational purposes is illegal in Australia. It’s the most widely used illicit drug in the country. According to a report from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, one in 10 Australians have used cannabis in the last 12 months.

In some states, like the Australian Capital Territory, South Australia and the Northern Territory, possession of small amounts of marijuana has been effectively decriminalized, with offenders facing civil penalties like fines and being ordered to undergo counseling.

In other states, like New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, police officers often issue warnings to those facing minor drug charges, with offenders diverted to education programs.

Cultivating, selling or transporting marijuana, however, can incur criminal charges anywhere in the country.

“If somebody is found with small amounts of cannabis for personal use, the primary response for me isn’t a law enforcement response, it’s a public response,” says Professor Steve Allsop of the National Drug Research Institute at Curtin University. “Putting people into the criminal justice system creates harm.”

In 2016, Australia legalized marijuana for medicinal use. But patients say that they face steep challenges trying to obtain the drug, including limited supply, uninformed doctors and high costs.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Worldwide, where is marijuana legal?

Currently, marijuana is only fully legal in a few places: Uruguay and parts of the United States. In Uruguay, which became the first country to legalize marijuana in 2013, it’s even sold in pharmacies.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Australia Letter Newsletter Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But dozens of other countries have relaxed their marijuana laws over the years, legalizing medical marijuana, decriminalizing recreational use or easing the enforcement of possession laws. Argentina, Cambodia, Canada, Spain, the Netherlands, Colombia, Peru and (somewhat surprisingly) North Korea are just some of the countries that don’t criminalize marijuana use.

One notable example is Portugal, where the use of all illicit drugs was decriminalized in 2001 and drug users are mainly sent to treatment programs or fined. Since then, the country’s prevalence of HIV infection, drug-related imprisonment and overdoses have dropped.

Jamaica, a country long associated with marijuana and Rastafarianism, also recently relaxed its laws around marijuana possession in 2015.

So will Australia’s marijuana laws change?

For now, Australia’s government says no.

And being careful and conservative in legalizing marijuana might not be such a bad thing, Professor Allsop said.

“If you legalize a form of drug use — once you’ve done that it’s very hard to go backwards,” he said. “There should be carefully evaluated steps to change rather than a great leap into the unknown.”

It’s unlikely the issue will go away, particularly since legalization has the support of a major political party like the Greens. Professor Allsop, who supports a model like that of Portugal’s, says the push to see drugs as a public health issue seems to be gaining momentum over the long term.

“I think there is an appetite to do that,” he said.When he was 13, Leo Mandella began posting photos of his street wear outfits to his Instagram account, @gullyguyleo, and with his sophisticated color sense, confident poses and baby face, he was a quick hit. His hundreds of posts earned him a follower count comfortably in the six figures, but still he craved more.

“I want to show that I’m more than a kid who wears outfits,” Mr. Mandella, now 15, said in a recent interview. “I’ve always known if this blows up, I can create a brand on the back of it.”

Making clothing of his own would be a natural extension of his brand — Mr. Mandella eventually released a few items under the Gully brand name — but he wanted to make a loud, unexpected splash. His idea: a coloring book, with 25 line illustrations of him wearing high-end street wear, accompanied by a pack of Gully crayons. Released late last year, it sold several hundred copies.

“We wanted to make it exclusive, for the people who were actually passionate about buying,” Mr. Mandella said.In July 1986, DC began publishing the six-part series “Man of Steel,” by the writer and artist John Byrne, which rebooted Superman, at least temporarily, as the sole survivor of Krypton. The theory was that the accumulated history of DC’s heroes had grown too convoluted to follow, which made it difficult for new readers to jump in. Whereas past writers had presented Clark Kent as the disguise and Superman as his true self, Mr. Byrne reversed that, making the hero the means to an end for Clark, Mr. Sanderson said: “He adopted the Superman persona to avoid the perils of publicity and celebrity.” Mr. Byrne also made clear that Clark was born on Earth. “It was no longer the story of the immigrant who comes to America and who is longing for the old country,” Mr. Sanderson said. “This is the immigrant who doesn’t care for the old country.” With this issue, Action becomes a team-up series, showing Superman’s adventures with other DC heroes. This format ends with No. 600, which includes a date with Wonder Woman.

Action Comics No. 601 (April 1988)Ms. DiDonato does sincerity better than anyone since Ms. von Stade. At 49, she can still step on stage and, with modest gestures and mellow sound, persuade you she’s a put-upon girl. She experiences the story with an open face and endearing ingenuousness, a sense of wonder that never turns saccharine. In soft-grained passages, she is often simply lovely.

Yet her voice is not what it was 12 years ago — or even seven, when I heard her sing the role in London. While her basic sound retains its sensual silkiness, her tone has taken on a noticeable beat, and as the line rises, the pitch grows uncertain. Soft high notes waver; loud ones seem to harden in the air.

Photo

Committed as an actress and savvy in her musicality, Ms. DiDonato puts her changing vocal resources to work, adding to your perception of the character as vulnerable. But Massenet’s soaring blooms, his evocation of supernatural transcendence and impulsive youthfulness, are now missing.

Ms. DiDonato is not helped by her Prince Charmant, a part written for what Massenet poetically called a “soprano de sentiment” and sung here (as in London and Barcelona) by the mezzo Alice Coote. Her voice is too blunt to expand over the score’s long lines, and her crucial duets with Cendrillon are not ecstatic climaxes but trouble spots for both singers to negotiate rather than luxuriate in.

Also uneven in intonation, but far more delicious in effect, is a third mezzo, Stephanie Blythe, as the wicked stepmother, the imperious Madame de la Haltière. Her voice enormous and rich, Ms. Blythe wields it with palpable joy and considerable wit. Through sheer force of personality, her Haltière takes on almost shocking humanity without stinting cartoonish glee.

Kathleen Kim, a veteran of super-high soprano roles like Mozart’s Queen of the Night and Strauss’s Zerbinetta, ascends lucidly to the heights as La Fée, Cendrillon’s fairy godmother. The tender bass-baritone Laurent Naori is Pandolfe, who married Madame de la Haltière for her status and has gotten from it far less than nothing.

Photo

Bertrand de Billy leads the orchestra in a sumptuous performance that pivots from a robust start to ethereal accompaniment under Cendrillon’s forlorn opening monologue. Never rushed, his pacing keeps the energy up; never insubstantial in texture, the playing maintains a fizzy lightness.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As father and daughter plan their escape from the city in the third act, the orchestra blossoms in sympathy with the pastoral scene they dream of. Gradually awakening along with Cendrillon at the start of Act IV, the playing, nearly at the end of a long season, is as fresh as it was in the fall.

Not unlike Cesare Lievi’s Magritte-inspired production of Rossini’s “La Cenerentola” at the Met, this “Cendrillon” is boldly stylized; elegant yet winking; straightforward but with an aura of extravagance, particularly in the artfully over-the-top costumes (designed by Mr. Pelly, who took his curtain call on Thursday in a red velvet suit that matched them). Even incidental action, like lifting a selfish stepsister into shoes for the prince’s ball, is pertly, smilingly choreographed by Laura Scozzi.

Appropriately for a work that ends with the characters informing the audience in direct address that the piece is over, Mr. Pelly takes storytelling as his concept. The written word, comically stretched and squeezed, is everywhere in the set, designed by Barbara de Limburg. Cendrillon’s carriage is cutely constructed from the letters of “carosse,” the old French term for a royal coach.

The French text of the opera’s source material, Charles Perrault’s classic telling of the story, is plastered over wall after wall. After wall after wall: As in other stagings by Mr. Pelly, the sugar-high cleverness of his “Cendrillon,” which travels to the Lyric Opera of Chicago next season, can grow a little dizzying. But more often, the production is as lovable as its heroine.She knew who she was, and she saw no need to apologize for it. In the spring of 1990, the administration of Wellesley College — the alma mater, as it happened, of Hillary Rodham Clinton — invited Barbara Bush, then the first lady of the United States, to speak at commencement and receive an honorary degree. Students at the women’s college protested, declaring in a petition that Mrs. Bush had “gained recognition through the achievements of her husband,” and adding that Wellesley “teaches us that we will be rewarded on the basis of our own merit, not on that of a spouse.”

And so a generational battle was joined. As her husband, George H. W. Bush, put it in his private White House diary, Mrs. Bush was being attacked “because she hasn’t made it on her own — she’s where she is because she’s her husband’s wife.” Mr. Bush added: “What’s wrong with the fact that she’s a good mother, a good wife, great volunteer, great leader for literacy and other fine causes? Nothing, but to listen to these elitist kids there is.” To the young women of the last decade of the 20th century, Mrs. Bush, who had dropped out of Smith College to marry, seemed a throwback to a less enlightened time.

Mrs. Bush, who died on Tuesday at age 92, never flinched, appearing at Wellesley and using her commencement address to explore the complexities of life’s choices. There was no single path, she told the graduates; one followed one’s heart and did the best one could. “Maybe we should adjust faster, maybe we should adjust slower,” she said. “But whatever the era, whatever the times, one thing will never change: Fathers and mothers, if you have children — they must come first. You must read to your children, hug your children, and you must love your children. Your success as a family, our success as a society, depends not on what happens in the White House, but on what happens inside your house.”

The loudest applause came when she remarked that perhaps there was someone in the audience who would, like her, one day preside over the White House as the president’s spouse. “And I wish him well,” Mrs. Bush said.She knew who she was, and she saw no need to apologize for it. In the spring of 1990, the administration of Wellesley College — the alma mater, as it happened, of Hillary Rodham Clinton — invited Barbara Bush, then the first lady of the United States, to speak at commencement and receive an honorary degree. Students at the women’s college protested, declaring in a petition that Mrs. Bush had “gained recognition through the achievements of her husband,” and adding that Wellesley “teaches us that we will be rewarded on the basis of our own merit, not on that of a spouse.”

And so a generational battle was joined. As her husband, George H. W. Bush, put it in his private White House diary, Mrs. Bush was being attacked “because she hasn’t made it on her own — she’s where she is because she’s her husband’s wife.” Mr. Bush added: “What’s wrong with the fact that she’s a good mother, a good wife, great volunteer, great leader for literacy and other fine causes? Nothing, but to listen to these elitist kids there is.” To the young women of the last decade of the 20th century, Mrs. Bush, who had dropped out of Smith College to marry, seemed a throwback to a less enlightened time.

Mrs. Bush, who died on Tuesday at age 92, never flinched, appearing at Wellesley and using her commencement address to explore the complexities of life’s choices. There was no single path, she told the graduates; one followed one’s heart and did the best one could. “Maybe we should adjust faster, maybe we should adjust slower,” she said. “But whatever the era, whatever the times, one thing will never change: Fathers and mothers, if you have children — they must come first. You must read to your children, hug your children, and you must love your children. Your success as a family, our success as a society, depends not on what happens in the White House, but on what happens inside your house.”

The loudest applause came when she remarked that perhaps there was someone in the audience who would, like her, one day preside over the White House as the president’s spouse. “And I wish him well,” Mrs. Bush said.There are nearly twice as many registered Democrats in New York State as Republicans. Word, however, hasn’t reached Albany.

In 2011, a small band of elected Democrats broke from their caucus and called themselves “independent,” giving Republicans de facto control of the State Senate and allowing them to kill all manner of needed reforms through a mix of Albany jiu-jitsu, old-fashioned gerrymandering and, until recently, a dash of help from Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

Now, all but one of these ersatz Democrats appear ready to rejoin their party’s fold. New Yorkers this election season will have a chance to turn the Senate over to Democratic hands — the best shot at enacting a backlog of humane, necessary legislation blocked by Senate Republicans for more than half a decade.

Image Shelley Mayer, right, at a campaign event in January. Credit Andrew Seng for The New York Times

First on the agenda should be enacting early voting, to make it easier for millions of working people to cast their ballots. It’s notoriously hard to vote in New York, where party machines have for years successfully depressed turnout to keep incumbents in office. Registering voters automatically would help, and early voting — at least a week in advance — would bring the state into the 21st century.Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India tweets frequently and considers himself a talented orator. Yet he loses his voice when it comes to speaking out about the dangers faced by women and minorities who are frequent targets of the nationalist and communal forces that are part of the base of his Bharatiya Janata Party.

Indians took to the streets during the weekend to protest their government’s callous response to the horrifying rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl in January in which supporters of his political party have been implicated. Mr. Modi, though, has barely spoken about this crime and other cases involving his supporters.

Until last week, he declined to address the attack on the girl, in the northern state of Jammu and Kashmir, by men who wanted to frighten and drive away her nomadic Muslim community, the Bakarwals, from an area that is dominated by Hindus. To read about what happened to the girl, who was held and abused at a Hindu temple, over several days is to plumb the depths of human depravity.

As Mr. Modi remained quiet as public outrage built up for weeks, state lawmakers from his party, which is part of a coalition that governs Jammu and Kashmir, attended a rally in support of a man who had been arrested for the crime and joined in demands by locals that the investigation be taken away from state officials, some of whom are Muslim, and be turned over to federal authorities. After a mob of Hindu lawyers temporarily prevented the authorities from registering charges in court, officials have formally accused eight men, including policemen and a retired government employee.Over the past week, horrified Indians have protested vigorously on social media and in some cities. The disgust and the fury at the complicity of politicians, and the federal government’s silence, grew into a thunderous chorus demanding that the prime minister speak up and fire the ministers backing the Hindu Ekta Manch.

Belatedly reacting to popular outrage, Mr. Modi finally said: “Incidents being discussed since past two days cannot be part of a civilized society. As a country, as a society, we all are ashamed of it.” He promised justice. His vague statement delicately alluded to another case in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, where a lawmaker from Mr. Modi’s party is accused of rape. Mr. Modi stayed away from his party’s involvement in both cases.

Yet instead of uniting India in horror, the incident has deepened religious, political and ethical divides. It has also made clear that there is no automatic political cost to crime or falsehood if it furthers the hegemonic political narrative. The politicians involved were sacked only after a huge public outcry. Government ministers, officials, right-leaning media and right-wing supporters have been perfectly sanguine about using the dead child to polarize society with whataboutery, fake news and wild conspiracy theories.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Modi’s party, Meenakshi Lekhi, attacked opposition protests, suggesting that they were selective and opportunistic. “You see their plan,” she said. “First shout ‘minority minority’, then ‘Dalit Dalit’ and now ‘women women’ and then try to somehow fix blame of state issues on the center.” An influential ex-editor tweeted that Muslim Rohingya refugees were to blame for the crime. A B.J.P. youth activist posted a comment, now deleted, on his Facebook page saying that the rape must have been fun. A pornography site reported a surge in searches for videos using the raped and murdered girl’s name.

The sense of national crisis today is because Indians feel a rising urgency to either counter this ethical collapse or to capitalize on it in the run-up to the next election.

Mr. Modi came to power in 2014, and four years into his term, religious and cultural bigotry stands mainstreamed in Indian society.

Many who voted for Mr. Modi’s economic promises are disappointed by his failure to deliver, and impatient with his deliberate silences around sectarian and sexual violence and hate speech by his party colleagues and ministers. The systematic destruction of democratic institutions is hard to ignore.

The B.J.P. and its Hindu nationalist affiliates are bent on refashioning India into a country that is increasingly hostile to secular, democratic, pluralist and minority Indians. The rape and murder of the little nomad girl has thus taken on a larger meaning, reflecting the struggle for the fundamental character of India.Bret: I’m surprised to find myself writing this, but I think the strike was a waste of perfectly good cruise missiles. We did nearly the exact same thing last year, and it did nothing to stop Bashar al-Assad from slaughtering his own people and using chemical weapons on them. If we really believe, as I do, that the use of chemical weapons cannot be tolerated, then we can’t allow the guy who used them to come away from the strike unscathed and — given that he’s immediately renewed his offensive in the area — emboldened.

The strike really was classic Trump: A show of force mainly for the sake of show, without any strategy behind it. Iran has entrenched itself in Syria alongside Russia, while Israel is quietly preparing for war on its northern front. The administration looks likely to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal next month, but little thought seems to have been given to what comes after. In all, just another reminder that the Trump disaster is global.

Gail: We’ve been looking for a good argument for so long I really wish I could pitch into this one. But my bottom line is that we’d better avoid any serious conflicts as long as Trump is commander in chief. As to the Iran deal, the whole idea of pulling out of it is so traumatizing that I can’t think of any response except crawling under the bed and assuming a fetal position.

Now, let’s be cowards and talk about domestic issues. Can we start with Paul Ryan? You wrote a wonderful column about what a weenie he’s being by bailing out at this crucial moment. But I think we still disagree about his overall career. I see him as a guy who pretended to be all about balanced budgets but was really always just going for the tax cuts and screw the deficit. Same thing with Bush. Same thing with Reagan. Seems to be a pattern.

Bret: I think your complaint is a tad unfair. If Republicans like Ryan had filibuster-proof control of the Senate, they would likely pass entitlement reform and gleefully take an ax to domestic spending to keep the budget balanced. There aren’t any honest deficit hawks anywhere in American politics — they just want to slash the other guy’s priorities to fund their own. Aren’t most Democrats that way, too? I mean, would you let a deficit stand in the way of Medicare-for-all?Still, 70 years of independence is barely a blip on the radar of Jewish history. And the Jews of Israel are highly aware of our role as a small link in a long chain of Jewish history. We are modern Israelis, of course, but our consciousness is one of ancient Jews. In survey after survey, more Israelis choose “Jewish” over “Israeli” as their main identity. And by this they do not refer to a religion (Judaism) but to a nation (the Jewish people).

Thus, when celebrating 70 years of statehood, we Jews must engage in a kind of balancing act. On one hand, we need to appreciate the great achievement of building this Jewish homeland in such a short time in such a hostile environment. On the other hand, we need to grasp the smallness of this achievement in the scheme of Jewish history.

The prophet Jeremiah described the Babylonian exile as a 70-year affair. We consider that short. In the second century BCE, the Hasmonean kingdom, widely viewed as the last period of Jewish political autonomy before the founding of Israel, lasted for about eight decades before it became client of the Romans. This kingdom is still today a source of Jewish pride, but it is also a cautionary tale: Most Israelis plan for a future that extends much further than merely another decade of statehood.

So being the luckiest Jew ever is a blessing and a burden. The more we have, the more obligated we are to guard it and the more afraid we are to lose it. We’re afraid for psychological reasons: Jews thought they were lucky in the past, and it often ended badly for them (remember Germany in the early 20th century). But we are also afraid because of indisputably dangerous circumstances: There are people out there who want to harm us, deny us what we have and destroy us, from Iranian leaders to Palestinian extremists to anti-Semites around the world.

And Israel faces other challenges, some of which are familiar to many countries: economic inequality, populism, homegrown radicalism and illegal immigration. Not even the lucky Jew can ignore these and other challenges that hover like clouds over the future of Jewish sovereignty and success.

Still, Israelis tend to be hopeful. In a survey taken a year ago, 73 percent of Israeli Jews said they were optimistic “about Israel’s future.” They must see something beyond the challenges that makes them so confident. One of them, I believe, is this sense of being lucky, of being born at such a good time.In addition, he tripled the size of his security detail, also at taxpayer expense. He ordered bodyguard coverage 24 hours a day. He insisted on flashing lights and sirens to take him to the airport and to restaurants, a perk customarily reserved for the president and vice president. He rented a room at $50 a night, well below market rates, in a Washington condominium co-owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist with business before Mr. Pruitt’s agency.

He didn’t get everything he and his team wanted: a bulletproof sport utility vehicle, for instance, equipped with special tires designed to keep moving even when hit by gunfire; a $100,000-a-month contract to fly on private jets. But heaven help the E.P.A. staff members bold enough to challenge these demands. The Times reported this month that five agency officials — including Mr. Chmielewski — who objected to Mr. Pruitt’s costly requests and security upgrades were dismissed, reassigned or demoted.

One frequently overlooked truth about Mr. Pruitt amid these complaints is that for all his swagger he has actually accomplished very little in terms of actual policy — a wholly desirable outcome, from our standpoint. While hailed as the administration’s foremost champion of deregulation, he has yet to kill or even roll back any significant regulations that were in place when Mr. Trump came to office. (The Obama administration’s important Clean Power Plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants had already been blocked by the courts.) He has delayed a few rules, but even these delays have been overturned or challenged. Most of his actions are in the proposal stage, and many will not be finalized for years, if ever.

That does not mean Mr. Pruitt has been without baleful influence. He helped spearhead the effort to get Mr. Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement on climate change, a major insult to every other nation on earth, all of which have agreed to limit planet-warming greenhouse gases.

By endless repetition, he has reinforced in the public mind the lie that Republicans have peddled for years and Mr. Trump’s minions peddle now, that environmental rules kill jobs, that limiting carbon dioxide emissions will damage the economy, that the way forward lies not in technology and renewable energy but in digging more coal and punching more holes in the ground in search of oil. And, on the human level, he has been in the forefront of the administration’s shameless effort to delude the nation’s frightened coal miners into thinking coal is coming back, when any comeback is unlikely not because of regulation but because of strong market forces favoring natural gas and renewables.

Should Mr. Pruitt choose to depart — even some Republicans are complaining about his behavior — or by some miracle should Mr. Trump fire him, the administration’s appalling environmental policies are unlikely to change. The recently confirmed deputy administrator, Andrew Wheeler, is a former coal industry lobbyist who shares Mr. Pruitt’s deregulatory zeal and fealty to the fossil fuels industry. Mr. Wheeler was for many years chief of staff for James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican and long the Senate’s most determined denier of the accepted science on global warming.In addition, he tripled the size of his security detail, also at taxpayer expense. He ordered bodyguard coverage 24 hours a day. He insisted on flashing lights and sirens to take him to the airport and to restaurants, a perk customarily reserved for the president and vice president. He rented a room at $50 a night, well below market rates, in a Washington condominium co-owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist with business before Mr. Pruitt’s agency.

He didn’t get everything he and his team wanted: a bulletproof sport utility vehicle, for instance, equipped with special tires designed to keep moving even when hit by gunfire; a $100,000-a-month contract to fly on private jets. But heaven help the E.P.A. staff members bold enough to challenge these demands. The Times reported this month that five agency officials — including Mr. Chmielewski — who objected to Mr. Pruitt’s costly requests and security upgrades were dismissed, reassigned or demoted.

One frequently overlooked truth about Mr. Pruitt amid these complaints is that for all his swagger he has actually accomplished very little in terms of actual policy — a wholly desirable outcome, from our standpoint. While hailed as the administration’s foremost champion of deregulation, he has yet to kill or even roll back any significant regulations that were in place when Mr. Trump came to office. (The Obama administration’s important Clean Power Plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power plants had already been blocked by the courts.) He has delayed a few rules, but even these delays have been overturned or challenged. Most of his actions are in the proposal stage, and many will not be finalized for years, if ever.

That does not mean Mr. Pruitt has been without baleful influence. He helped spearhead the effort to get Mr. Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement on climate change, a major insult to every other nation on earth, all of which have agreed to limit planet-warming greenhouse gases.

By endless repetition, he has reinforced in the public mind the lie that Republicans have peddled for years and Mr. Trump’s minions peddle now, that environmental rules kill jobs, that limiting carbon dioxide emissions will damage the economy, that the way forward lies not in technology and renewable energy but in digging more coal and punching more holes in the ground in search of oil. And, on the human level, he has been in the forefront of the administration’s shameless effort to delude the nation’s frightened coal miners into thinking coal is coming back, when any comeback is unlikely not because of regulation but because of strong market forces favoring natural gas and renewables.

Should Mr. Pruitt choose to depart — even some Republicans are complaining about his behavior — or by some miracle should Mr. Trump fire him, the administration’s appalling environmental policies are unlikely to change. The recently confirmed deputy administrator, Andrew Wheeler, is a former coal industry lobbyist who shares Mr. Pruitt’s deregulatory zeal and fealty to the fossil fuels industry. Mr. Wheeler was for many years chief of staff for James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican and long the Senate’s most determined denier of the accepted science on global warming.I’m attracted to diamonds because they are part of my family: My father is descended from a long line of jewelers, and my brothers now work in jewelry as well. For this film, I wanted to use my father’s voice to tell an animated story using diamonds as a metaphor for mankind through the ages. To me, the place of diamonds in society is as multifaceted as the gemstones themselves, full of paradoxes and intrigue.

Since we discovered them thousands of years ago, mankind has turned diamonds into symbols of authority, power, passion or wealth. But the stone’s commercial exploitation has led to its ever-stricter standardization. We devalue imperfect diamonds, so to stay marketable, the diamond had to become more and more standardized in its appearance. But impurities are what give diamonds their individuality and character.It would have been reasonable to assume Beyoncé would perform the entire show in a glamorous couture number, like the Nefertiti-inspired costume she came onstage in. Respectability is also imagery: Black people are told, when we gain power, and are under the gaze of the public, we must always wear our most formal and elegant attire.

Instead, with millions of people watching in the desert and online, Beyoncé reappeared in blue distressed denim shorts and a hoodie advertising a fake historically black college. Success does not need to have a preferred style; a black person does not have to wear a glamorous gown or a tailored suit to captivate the imagination of the public. Beyoncé shows that talent and discipline are enough.

She follows in the tradition of black performers like Michael Jackson and Tina Turner, but she is unique in imagining blackness as something so big. To Beyoncé, attending a historically black college is more than a niche experience coveted only by students and alumni. Instead, it’s something thematically paramount and worthy of an enormous stadium.

You might think that Beyoncé’s promotion of historically black colleges and their intellectual traditions also might have conflicted with her sexually charged songs like “Partition” and “Drunk in Love.” We’re taught that an intellectual being can never be sexual one. This is especially true for black people who have been hypersexualized in media and daily life. So it wouldn’t have been odd for her to edit her sexuality to fit society’s ideas of what it means to be proud, black and smart.

Not at Coachella. Beyoncé performed her sensuality proudly in those songs making political statement that a person can be both intellectually rigorous and sexually expressive.

We know Beyoncé can sing and move, and that she treats stadiums as if they are her living room. But it wasn’t clear whether, after Clive Davis called her “the first lady of music,” she would adhere to respectability politics, especially on a stage like Coachella, where she may have alienated a large portion of her audience. The easier route would have been cultural ambiguity. But excellence is found in risk, and Beyoncé has proved to be an artist most interested in excellence.

All black people should follow her lead and refuse to shrink blackness. Black people often negotiate how much of ourselves we should show to make others comfortable. Black people often feel the need to edit parts of our culture and upbringing for the sake of appearing respectable — that is, of course, until our music and style are appropriated by the very people we were attempting to not alienate.

Beyoncé’s Coachella performance suggests that, as black people’s power grows, we should intentionally amplify the culture that nurtured us. This anti-respectability politics that Beyoncé brought to the stage is what transformed her performance into a political statement.“It’s like virtual brunch,” said Kelley Joyce, 45, a divorced entrepreneur in Manhattan who tried the eight-week program last fall, using it to analyze, for example, a prospect who was reluctant to schedule weekend dates. “I threw out all my crap to the group, and they were really good about helping me sort out the real issue: ‘He’s not making you a priority.’ They helped me pursue a conversation with him that wasn’t an emotional summit.”

Match.com has also entered the confidence-boosting game with webinars like “The Art of Speaking Your Mind.” Tripp Kramer, 32, whose YouTube channel “Tripp Advice: Dating Advice for Shy Guys,” has over half a million subscribers, runs a three-month Skype-based coaching program, including six one-on-one calls, weekly webinars and unlimited email questions. Blake Jamieson, 33, author of the book “TinderHacks,” offers a Tinder profile “audit” for men who may need help “getting an up-at-bat.”

But What Does It Cost?

The price and scope of these services vary widely. Mr. Jamieson charges $49 to $99 for his audits. Mr. Kramer charges $3,000 for his three-month program. Abundant Love, which recently expanded to three months, is $2,500. Icebrkr, a Boston-based start-up, charges $25 for the first two weeks of texts and $20 a month thereafter. Relationship Hero, which uses a proprietary chat platform, charges a dollar a minute.

Oliver, a 32-year-old software engineer, has spent roughly $200 on Relationship Hero, with coaching sessions that have lasted between three and 46 minutes. (He requested his last name be withheld, because he worried women might have an “uncharitable” opinion of a man who was paying a coach to analyze their conversations and texts. “They might think, ‘What a loser,’” he said.)

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Last fall, Oliver contacted Relationship Hero after an especially bad Tinder date. He told his coach that the woman had seemed normal in her texts, but in person she turned out to be obsessed with status. He asked how to avoid meeting women like this in the future, and if he did end up on another bad date, how to leave early without seeming rude.

“Oh boy. lol,” the coach wrote. “so would you say you are often drawn to women by their looks first? Because you will have to dive a bit deeper … you know what Im sarying?”

At the end of the chat, the coach suggested that Oliver write down his expectations before his next date and then compare them with his postdate notes. “Good advice but also thanks for listening,” Oliver wrote. The coach signed off with a smiley face.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Oliver doesn’t consider his coach’s typos or colloquialisms unprofessional. “It’s just a conversation,” he said. “Not a formal document.” He found the coach clear and helpful. “You just want someone to hear you,” he said. “It’s like a two-minute therapy session.”

Not a Therapy Substitute

Relationship Hero, which has 20 coaches and has raised $620,000 in funding, emphasizes it provides “tactical relationship advice,” not therapy. “We won’t tell you to search your emotions, but give you advice that we think is most proven to get results in the situation,” Mr. Shapira said. Though some coaches are psychologists, the company’s co-founder Lior Gotesman, who is also a lead coach, says he often rejects candidates with graduate degrees, “because they’re not as much in tune with their intuition.”

But neither intuition nor expertise can solve every problem. Hunt Ethridge, another lead coach, says clients frequently want help winning back their exes. “Should that not work out, we’ll help set you up for the next thing,” he said. “We can’t do magic.”

Kristen, 50, a divorced mother who works in the real estate industry in Boston, said she doesn’t have such lofty expectations of her digital coach. (She also asked that her last name not be used.) “It’s an as-needed approach when I connect with someone, and I’m not feeling inspired or creative about how to reach out,” she said. She works with Kevin Murray, 35, the founder of Icebrkr, who has a master’s degree in communication and information studies from Rutgers and wrote his thesis about how people present themselves on internet dating platforms.

Recently, when a Bumble match wrote that he loved steamers and white wine, Mr. Murray suggested she ask the man to describe the perfect setting for this meal. Kirsten did so, and said the man replied, “On a sleek jet at 50,000 miles.”

She was not impressed. “I was like, ‘Ew,’” she said. “That sounds like a horrible place to have steamers. And also, he’s trying to make me think that he’s rich.”

Mr. Murray persuaded her to give Jet Man a chance. “The air between us wasn’t crackling,” she told him after a four-hour first date, which she gave a grade of B-. “But we had a nice time.”

After a few more exchanges with Mr. Murray, Kristen reached a verdict: She would see Jet Man again. “Kevin is my online dating Sherpa,” she said. Up to a point. “He’s constantly reminding me that I can reach out to him on a date,” she said. “But I can carry on a conversation in person.”Alongside tech skills, Access Code teaches students how to work in a corporate culture. They visit tech companies and meet engineers. And they grapple with the ways they might sabotage themselves.

“The work was really challenging, but getting over myself was the hardest part: Do I deserve to be here?” said Charlyn Buchanan, an Access Code graduate who is a software engineer at BuzzFeed. “We learned to identify imposter syndrome and address it: ‘I am worthy of this opportunity.’”

In the kitchens, Ms. Twinamaani’s salary was just over $20,000. As a Blue Apron software engineer, she’ll make at least $85,000 and potentially closer to six figures, Mr. Papas said. The first thing she intends to do is move her sister and their children out of their basement apartment in Elizabeth. “It’s my dream to live in a place where my son can go outside and play on the lawn,” she said.

Access Code is one of several new efforts to diversify the software field. Another organization, the Last Mile, is trying to cut recidivism by teaching coding to inmates at San Quentin prison and helping them find jobs.

One of several boot camp companies that are adding programs to attract a more diverse population is Mr. Ogletree’s General Assembly. Overall, he said, about 40 percent of its students are female, and only 8 percent black and 8 percent Latino. To increase these percentages, it works with Per Scholas, an organization in the Bronx that gives young people free training for jobs in tech support and cybersecurity. Per Scholas now feeds some of its students into General Assembly’s three-month web development course, which they can take free.

General Assembly is also a partner of Opportunity@Work, which runs a national network of communities called TechHire. Its goal is to train low-income students, help them show employers their skills, and build local coalitions.

Boot camps are for adults who want to change jobs. But part of the struggle is getting a wider group to see a tech career as an option from the beginning. Several people I interviewed told me, “You can’t be what you can’t see.”Her new novel, “The Emissary,” translated by Margaret Mitsutani, is a contentedly minor work. It has a recessive, lunar beauty compared to the sunny ambition and inventiveness of its predecessors, including her masterpiece (with the self-explanatory title), “The Bridegroom Was a Dog” (2012), and “Memoirs of a Polar Bear” (2016), which followed three generations of a distinguished literary family of polar bears.

The new book is set in Japan after an unnamed disaster (nuclear fallout is suggested). The country has quarantined itself from the rest of the world. The only wild living things left are spiders and crows. Language has started to vanish, too. The shelf life of words seems to have shortened; they pass out of fashion quickly and aren’t replaced. Men go through menopause. Children are so enfeebled that heartsick pediatricians begin to kill themselves.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Only the elderly remain robust — none more guiltily than Yoshiro, who is raising his great-grandson, the impossibly, almost unbearably sweet Mumei, who grows kinder and more tolerant as his body wastes away. When Mumei’s teeth begin to fall out, he reassures the horrified Yoshiro, “Don’t worry, Great-grandpa, sparrows get along fine without teeth.”

Tawada is a great disciple of Kafka’s; he “predicted reality,” she is fond of saying. And while she shares certain of his preoccupations — with otherness and evoking animal life — hers is a more prosaic mission: She mirrors reality. Although her work is frequently described as strange — which it is, determinedly — there is always a stark social critique at its core. “Memoirs of a Polar Bear” is, after all, an immigrant novel and a stirring defense of the human right to migration. “For polar bears, national identity has always been a foreign concept,” she writes in that novel. “It’s common for them to get pregnant in Greenland, give birth in Canada, then raise the children in the Soviet Union. They possess no nationality, no passport. They never go into exile and cross national borders without a visa.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The Emissary” is as bleak a portrait of contemporary Japan as you could imagine. Tawada takes on the graying of the population and the trauma of the 2011 tsunami and the ensuing radiation leakage at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Hovering above all this, as always, is Tawada’s interest in the issue of translation, but this time the gulf is between what Susan Sontag called the kingdom of the well and the kingdom of the sick.

It’s quite a premise, but remains just that. The book feints at a narrative and at wrestling with the issues it raises — about the temptations and dangers of isolationism, the desire to imagine the lives of others, how the Fukushima tragedy tapped into Japan’s history of radiation poisoning going back to the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

Tawada seems content to evoke mood, to polish her sentences to a high sheen. Her language has never been so arresting. But as Virginia Woolf wrote, novels are composed of paragraphs, not sentences. “The Emissary” is stalled there, at the level of a flickering brilliance that never kindles into more. From a writer with Tawada’s gifts, mere beauty can be a disappointment.My wife’s ultrasound turned up something abnormal in the baby’s heart — an otherwise innocuous feature that correlates with genetic conditions such as Down syndrome. A series of tests confirmed that our son indeed had Down syndrome. We were given the option of abortion, but my wife, Jan, already regarded him as our baby, and a few months later Aaron was born.

The first days after the diagnosis were hard. We thought about our son’s future, and our future. We went through a period of grieving. But we soon came to accept that Aaron would have Down syndrome, and to accept him as a member of our family. By the time Aaron was born, it was a joyous occasion. Today, almost nine years later, Aaron is an affectionate boy with blond hair and a crooked smile. He is passionate about hockey (we’re Canadian after all) and about animals. If he could grow up to be anything, he would probably be a veterinarian.

Many parents make a different choice. In the United States, an estimated 67 percent of fetuses with prenatally diagnosed Down syndrome are aborted. In Canada, the rate could be even higher, though there aren’t any reliable studies on it. This has become a front in the American abortion-rights debate, and bills have been passed in North Dakota, Ohio, Indiana and Louisiana (and introduced in Utah) that make it illegal for a doctor to perform an abortion because of a positive prenatal test for Down syndrome.

My wife and I are pro-choice and oppose placing limits like these on abortion. Nonetheless, I wish more people would include children with Down syndrome in their families. For this to happen, we don’t need new laws; we just need more people to choose to have such children.Sometimes it was for a specific purpose, like the dozens of readers who finally finished writing holiday thank you notes. But often it was to say thanks for ongoing support or for just being there — like the reader who was inspired to write a friend who had faded from her life, or the reader who got the push she needed to send a note of thanks for a friend’s support after a parent’s death.

The overwhelming feeling that people said they came away with was this: Expressing long-overdue gratitude had a meaningful, positive impact for both sender and receiver.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Smarter Living Newsletter A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

So this week, think about something or someone you’re grateful for, and express it. Send that email, or write that letter, then tell me about it on Twitter at @timherrera or at tim@nytimes.com using the subject line “gratitude.” It doesn’t have to be major or life-changing; just something or someone that has had an impact on you.

In a few weeks, we’ll publish some of your most inspiring stories.

Yours in gratitude,

Tim

Best of Smarter Living

It’s the Last Weekend to File Taxes. Here’s Some Advice You’ve waited until the last minute. Here’s some help.

I Downloaded the Information That Facebook Has on Me. Yikes. Using a tool that Facebook offers its users, our columnist found out more than he wanted to know about the social network, the ad industry and himself.

Why You’re Still Not Making Much on Your Bank Account There’s an opening for online banks as traditional ones have been slow to lift deposit rates for savers even as interest rates have risen.

Fighting Over Chores? Spend Some Money, Save the Marriage Maybe family life would be more harmonious if we just outsourced the housework we disliked, research suggests.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dodging Fake Fraud Alerts Many financial institutions offer fraud alerts by text, but if you’re not sure the message is real, call the company directly or check your account online.

How to Navigate the Complicated World of Credit Card Points Credit card points are generally more valuable than points or miles attached to a specific airline or hotel group. The reason? Flexibility.

What We’re Reading

• Too much introspection can kill you.

• 6 yoga poses for those who are deskbound.

• On escaping echo chambers.

• Mentally strong people have formed these 10 habits.

• Teach children creativity, not coding.Dear Sugars,

My husband and I are both 30. We’ve been married five years. Several months ago, we decided to begin the process of becoming homeowners. After meeting with a mortgage broker, who mentioned he’d be checking our credit reports, my husband was distraught. He soon confessed that he’d opened credit card accounts without telling me and he’d racked up $5,000 in debt. This might not seem like much, but my husband is a full-time college student, paying his way with student loans that we’ll have to begin repaying when he graduates next year. I’m employed full time, but I also have student loan debt, and I make just enough to cover our expenses.

My husband feels horrible about having accrued this debt, which we’re now slowly paying off, but I’m still incredibly hurt. To make it worse, he spent every credit card penny on himself — buying music, books, and computer and video games. Before this, I never felt the need to police his behavior, but now I struggle to trust him. Recently, I’ve been noticing strange charges on our bank and credit card statements. When I ask my husband about them, he claims each time that the bank or company has made a mistake and he calls to have the charges reversed, but I’m suspicious. I also found a letter from a bank denying my husband an increase in a credit limit he’d requested — again, without telling me.

We have a peaceful and affectionate relationship, but I fear that his spending addiction needs major treatment. I don’t know that he has our economic well-being in mind or if he’s willing to be my partner in making a good life in the long term. What’s your advice, Sugars?

Spent

Cheryl Strayed: Your husband committed what’s referred to as financial infidelity, Spent. Like sexual infidelity, the healing can’t begin until the partner who committed the betrayal stops doing it. Your husband hasn’t done that. He confessed to his secret debt not because he was ready to change but because he knew it would soon be revealed. He apologized and carried on as before. Now he’s lying to you about what he claims are false charges on your accounts and he has also attempted to get more credit without your knowledge, presumably to accrue more debt, which is how he got into this trouble to begin with. I can’t discern from your letter whether or not your husband has a spending addiction (though it sounds like he might). What’s clear is that he’s still deceiving you about his spending. You’re wise to take this breach as seriously as you’re taking it. His actions have damaged more than your credit rating. They’ve damaged your trust.Between the hassle of flying, jet lag and hauling your luggage around, traveling is challenging enough without worrying about looking fashionable while you do it. But Kate Young, a New York-based stylist who counts actresses Margot Robbie and Michelle Williams among her clients, says that it doesn’t take a lot of effort to look stylish on the road.

“Anyone can look chic while traveling, and there’s no need to spend a lot or pack a lot to do it,” Ms. Young said. She noted that she travels several times a month and rarely checks in a bag. Here are her best tips to traveling light and looking good at the same time.

Pack Clothes In Three Coordinating Colors

When deciding what clothes to pack, choose pieces in three matching colors so you can mix and match each piece to create multiple outfits for different days, or even different occasions. Pick the colors based on where you’re going.

If you’re headed to Paris or another urban destination, for example, any combination of black, white, navy and charcoal is a good bet. For a beach vacation or outdoors excursion, khaki, off-white (or white) and bright hues like orange or yellow always work. Ms. Young likes white linen in particular because it’s cool in warm weather, can be worn during the day and is also nice for evenings out. And when it comes to the actual articles of clothing to take, Ms. Young said that a pair of jeans, a pair of nice pants, a striped button down, a blazer and a comfortable T-shirt are always good options. “Ideally, you should be wearing each piece two or three times on your trip,” she said. “Anything less is a waste of space.”“Although the special envoys have already confirmed a willingness to denuclearize, it will make a difference if the two heads of state will meet and more clearly confirm it and make it a formal statement,” Mr. Im told reporters on Tuesday.

More talks are needed to determine how specific the declaration would be about denuclearization, said Mr. Im, who is in charge of South Korean officials preparing for the summit meeting. But he said the joint statement would be broad and fairly “abstract,” because any substantial deal on the North’s nuclear weapons must be struck between Mr. Kim and President Trump.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Trump has said he plans to meet with Mr. Kim in May or early June to try to persuade him to dismantle his nuclear weapons program. Mr. Moon, whose envoys brought Mr. Trump the message that Mr. Kim wanted to talk, has tried to be a mediator between the American and North Korean leaders, viewing his own meeting with Mr. Kim as laying the groundwork for the more important one to follow.

North Korean and United States officials have also been holding talks in preparation for their leaders’ meeting, during which American officials have said the North reaffirmed a willingness to discuss denuclearization. But it is still unclear what Mr. Kim would seek in return for abandoning nuclear arms, and whether those demands would be acceptable to Washington.

When Mr. Kim met with President Xi Jinping of China late last month, he called for a “phased” and “synchronized” implementation of any denuclearization deal. Under such an approach, which North Korea has sought in past talks about its nuclear programs, the North would dismantle its program in stages, with each met by an incentive like an easing of international sanctions.

Some American hard-liners reject such an approach, saying that the North has no real intention of giving up nuclear weapons and is only seeking relief from sanctions. John R. Bolton made that argument before Mr. Trump chose him last month as national security adviser.

According to South Korean officials and analysts, Mr. Moon hopes for a “comprehensive deal,” in which Mr. Kim commits to dismantling his nuclear arsenal and Mr. Trump reciprocates with security guarantees for the North, including normalized ties and a peace treaty with Washington.

“When our special envoys visited Pyongyang, the mood was not bad, and we understand that the North Koreans and the Americans are both engaged in sincere discussions, so we are optimistic about the inter-Korean summit,” Mr. Im said. “But we could face obstacles any time.”The agonizing conflict in Syria, which has vexed both the Obama and Trump administrations, is growing increasingly complex and dangerous. Now, more than ever, the United States needs to clarify its strategic objectives in Syria and pursue them with ruthless discipline.

Russia and Iran have paid dearly to enable the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad, to dismantle the opposition and will stay in Syria to prop him up. The Islamic State has been dislodged from its “caliphate” but not yet defeated. And the horrific humanitarian plight of the Syrian people endures.

The United States’ policy options, ever bad, are more limited and less effectual than ever. The airstrikes launched last week by the United States, France and Britain sent a necessary, calibrated message to Mr. Assad that the civilized world does not countenance chemical weapons use. But their deterrent effect is likely, again, to be fleeting, not least because the United States — wary of provoking a wider conflict — has twice demonstrated that it will not use regime-threatening force to punish Syria’s use of chemical weapons.

Moreover, the United States has been deliberately ambiguous about whether our current “red line” is the use of chlorine gas alone, to which the United States and its allies have never responded with force. (American officials have said the recent attack in Douma may have involved both chlorine and a far deadlier nerve agent, sarin, stores of which Syria seems to have surreptitiously retained or reconstituted despite a 2013 agreement to eliminate them.) If the United States responds to incidents involving only chlorine, it will be striking Syria more frequently.One recent example of reduced communication with Washington came after the discovery in January of security flaws in the microprocessors inside nearly all of the world’s computers. A Senate committee wrote to Huawei’s founder to ask what the company knew about the vulnerabilities, and how it had been affected by them. Huawei decided not to respond.

“Some things cannot change their course according to our wishes,” Eric Xu, Huawei’s deputy chairman, said at the company’s annual meeting with analysts on Tuesday. “With some things, when you let them go, you actually feel more at ease.”

Huawei’s main Chinese rival, ZTE, also hit a roadblock in Washington this week. The Commerce Department said it would ban the much smaller company from buying American components after it made false statements to the government as part of an investigation into possible violations of American sanctions.

Photo

Yet Huawei’s experience also illustrates how little Washington can do to curb Chinese influence in cutting-edge industries throughout the rest of the world.

At Tuesday’s meeting with analysts, executives at the company, which says it is owned by its employees and not by the Chinese state, emphasized growth opportunities in Europe and Asia. They also described ambitions to further diversify Huawei’s business into helping organizations of all kinds — not merely wireless carriers, but factories, governments and the police — transform themselves through cloud computing and artificial intelligence.

“For Huawei, the major challenge is not how we can serve operators better,” said David Wang, a company president. Instead, he said, “we have to work harder to cope with wider challenges in all industries.”

Huawei’s troubles in the United States have been mounting since 2012, when a congressional report warned that its gear could be used to spy on Americans or to destabilize American telecom networks. The company spent $1.2 million on lobbying that year. Last year, it spent $60,000 on such efforts.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Major American carriers such as Verizon and AT&T have since shunned Huawei. The Commerce and Treasury Departments have subpoenaed it over possible violations of American sanctions on Iran and North Korea. The company’s ambitions to become a major smartphone brand — it is already the world’s third largest, after Samsung and Apple — were curtailed when AT&T abandoned a deal this year to sell its handsets. And a bill is before Congress to stop government agencies and contractors from buying Huawei products.

The company has said repeatedly that its products pose no security risk and that it complies with the law everywhere it operates. Still, the layoffs last week appear to be an acknowledgment by Huawei that it has failed to clear the political cloud around it.

Mr. Plummer, Huawei’s vice president of external affairs, had been with the company for almost eight years. He was the most senior member of Huawei’s American policy team who was not a Chinese citizen.

It is not clear whether he will be replaced. The company’s policy operations in the United States are led by a relatively recent arrival, Zhang Ruijun, who took the post nine months ago after working for the company in Mexico and Russia.

A Huawei spokesman said in a statement that any layoffs simply reflected an effort to better align resources with “business strategy and objectives.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech? The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“Any changes to staffing size or structure are simply a reflection of standard business organization,” he said.

Founded three decades ago, Huawei made $93 billion in revenue last year — not much less than Google’s parent company, Alphabet, and more than its two main rivals in telecom gear, Nokia of Finland and Ericsson of Sweden, combined.

When it comes to the next generation of mobile internet, or 5G, Huawei has invested heavily in technology development.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chinese carriers are likely to deploy such networks more quickly than their American counterparts are, at least in the beginning. But as 5G comes up in the United States, Japan, South Korea and Europe, Nokia and Ericsson will catch up, said Pierre Ferragu, an analyst in New York with New Street Research.

Still, Huawei’s telecom business could be dampened as other countries, particularly allies of the United States, weigh risks to their national security. The chief executive of a leading wireless provider in South Korea told the newspaper The Korea Herald last month that the company was unsure whether to use Huawei’s 5G equipment.

In the United States, Huawei customers that would be affected by the F.C.C.’s proposed rule — small carriers in rural areas — may soon need to find new equipment suppliers.

These carriers love Huawei gear, said Carri Bennet, general counsel for the Rural Wireless Association, an industry group for American telecom companies with fewer than 100,000 subscribers.

“They just love it,” she said. “It works like a charm, the customer service support is awesome,” and the price is attractive, she added.

The association’s members have even elected a Huawei executive, William Levy, to their board.

Ms. Bennet said that rather than blacklisting specific manufacturers, Washington should be creating a system for testing telecom gear for security vulnerabilities.

“These companies who are reliant on this support, they don’t have the funds to overhaul their whole network,” she said. “Public safety, getting 911 services, broadband — it all just starts falling apart.”PRAGUE — When Zbynek Frolik needed new employees to handle surging orders at his cavernous factories in central Bohemia, he fanned advertisements across the Czech Republic. But in a prosperous economy where nearly everyone had work, there were few takers.

Raising wages didn’t help. Nor did offers to subsidize housing.

So he turned to the robots.

“We can’t find enough humans,” said Mr. Frolik, whose company, Linet, makes state-of-the art hospital beds sold in over 100 countries. “We’re trying to replace people with machines wherever we can.”DIANE Here’s a surprise: Kent Jones, the director of the New York Film Festival, will hold the world premiere of his first fictional feature (after the 2015 documentary “Hitchcock/Truffaut”) at Tribeca — practically N.Y.F.F.’s opposite in size and sensibility. Also unexpected: That Mr. Jones, who has said this movie is inspired by family, might go full “Ordinary People” with this character study of a Massachusetts woman (an exceptional Mary Kay Place) grappling with a dying cousin (Deirdre O’Connell) and a drug-addicted adult son (Jake Lacy). But other influences, perhaps including Alain Resnais and the Argentine filmmaker Matías Piñeiro (who has a cameo), eventually become apparent.

Photo

THE FEELING OF BEING WATCHED “A lot of people in my neighborhood have stories about being watched,” Assia Boundaoui says at the beginning of her documentary, “but most of them are afraid to talk out loud about it.” The director investigates the apparent history of surveillance in her hometown, Bridgeview, Ill., a Chicago suburb with a large Muslim community. This riveting film is at once a personal story, a journalistic thriller and an essay on the nature of paranoia.

HOUSE TWO To make this documentary while shielding his footage from prosecutors, the director Michael Epstein was hired by the defense team of Staff Sgt. Frank Wuterich, one of eight Marines charged in a 2005 civilian massacre in Haditha, Iraq. While that arrangement could probably be made clearer in the film, “House Two” is compulsively watchable — a nonfiction whodunit that methodically sifts through evidence to establish the circumstances surrounding the killings in a Haditha home.

Photo

IN THE SOUP Revivals, often handpicked by Martin Scorsese, used to be the highlight of Tribeca. This year’s Retrospectives program consists of just three films (and two, “Scarface” and “Schindler’s List,” aren’t exactly unknown). But fans of 1990s indies won’t want to miss Alexandre Rockwell’s 1992 Sundance winner, restored from what is said to be the only archival print. A self-deluding filmmaker (Steve Buscemi) falls in with an eccentric, lovable crook (Seymour Cassel) who may finally be his ticket to artistic success.

Photo

JELLYFISH Poverty in Britain is not exactly a novel subject, but it’s seldom been portrayed with the vise grip of James Gardner’s feature debut. It’s a harrowing account of the obligations of a teenager (Liv Hill) in the coastal town of Margate, as she raises her siblings, puts up with a mentally ill and chronically irresponsible mother and begins to find an outlet for her frustrations, courtesy of a sympathetic drama teacher (Cyril Nri).

LEMONADE The slow-burn style of the Romanian new wave — Cristian Mungiu, the director of “4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days,” is one of this film’s producers — comes to the United States in an immigration drama that doesn’t reveal its full complexity until its closing moments. The director Ioana Uricaru charts the compromises facing Mara (Malina Manovici), a Romanian nurse applying for her green card.

Photo

LOVE, GILDA The festival’s opening-night feature is yet another biographical documentary about a comedy legend — in this case, Gilda Radner — a mode that’s probably become overworked. (See also “I Am Chris Farley,” “Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead,” and didn’t the festival open with a “Saturday Night Live” documentary in 2015?) But it is good to find so many clips of Ms. Radner, who these days is more nostalgized than watched.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

MARY SHELLEY This English-language feature from the Saudi Arabian-born director Haifaa al-Mansour (“Wadjda”) received rough treatment from critics when it played at the Toronto International Film Festival last fall. As literary biopics go, though, it’s well above average, dramatizing the much-studied parallels between the life of Mary Shelley (Elle Fanning) and her Frankenstein monster. With a scene-stealing Tom Sturridge as Lord Byron.

NICO, 1988 Even the aspect ratio — the squarish frame of Andy Warhol’s Edie Sedgwick films — signals that “Nico, 1988” won’t be a conventional portrait of the final years of the Velvet Underground singer and Warhol superstar. As the title character, the Danish actress Trine Dyrholm does her own singing; the high point is an exhilarating underground concert in still-Communist Prague.

Photo

NIGERIAN PRINCE Email scams are just the beginning in the Nigerian-American filmmaker Faraday Okoro’s first feature, about an American teenager (Antonio J. Bell) who is sent to live with his aunt in Nigeria and can’t resist the lure of his con artist cousin (Chinaza Uche). It would be an overstatement to compare the movie to David Mamet’s “House of Games,” but Mr. Okoro spins a tangled web in which no transaction can be trusted.

Photo

O.G. Jeffrey Wright gives a rich, imposing performance as the former “mayor” of Pendleton Correctional Facility, an Indiana prison he is about to leave after 24 years of incarceration. The director, Madeleine Sackler, who filmed with real prisoners in her cast, actually has two features at the festival. The second, the documentary “prequel” “It’s a Hard Truth Ain’t It?” was also made with Pendleton inmates and grew out of the research for “O.G.”

THE PARTY’S JUST BEGINNING The “Doctor Who” actress and “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” co-star Karen Gillan shows a sure hand with editing that blurs past and present in her feature directing debut, in which she plays a grieving, self-destructive 24-year-old in Inverness, Scotland.

THE PROPOSAL To pose questions about who controls an artist’s legacy, the artist Jill Magid devised a provocation for Federica Zanco, an architectural scholar who insists, with some controversy, on keeping the professional archive of the Mexican architect Luis Barragán in Switzerland. No spoilers if you don’t know how Ms. Magid’s exhibition turned out. She documents her own process in this documentary.

Photo

SLUT IN A GOOD WAY A Quebecois teenage answer to “Frances Ha,” this buoyant comedy follows three friends who takes jobs at a toy store, where one, Charlotte (Marguerite Bouchard), on the rebound after a breakup, develops a reputation. Sophie Lorain’s black-and-white feature has a bit of Aristophanes and a bit of Bollywood.“They hurt,” Lizzy said. “If you ever put Band-Aids on your nipples, those things are stiff. Any time you move around you can just feel it. It’s like an annoying, rubbing feeling, especially in a sensitive area.” She wore the bandages for 45 minutes before she began crying in class. Her best friend took her to the bathroom and Lizzy lifted her shirt to show her the bandages. Then she peeled them off and contacted her mother.

“I got a text from Lizzy saying, ‘This is not a dress code violation and I feel completely attacked,’” said Ms. Knop. She was adamant that if Lizzy had been wearing a see-through or form-fitting shirt without a bra, she wouldn’t have allowed her daughter to leave the house. “The fact is that she wore a long sleeve T-shirt that was not see-through. It wasn’t even flattering,” said Ms. Knop. “So to say she was trying to be a distraction is absolutely absurd.”

“She didn’t even tell me about the Band-Aids until 28 hours later,” she said. “She was so embarrassed.”

In a prepared statement, Braden River High School officials said that the situation “should have been handled differently.” They maintained that Lizzy was in “violation” of the dress code and that their intention was to “assist the student in addressing the situation.”

The incident happened two weeks ago — Lizzy’s initial tweet about the incident went viral — but the backlash is still going strong. On Monday, Lizzy and some of her classmates held a silent protest in support of “the destigmitization of natural bodies.” Despite threats of disciplinary action, about 30 female students opted not to wear bras, and a number of students decorated their backpacks with Band-Aids in the shape of an X. One student wore a shirt that read, “Do my ni**ples offend you?” (The asterisks were hers.)Photo

Since the first Tribeca Film Festival in 2002, its most famous co-founder, Robert De Niro, has played a part in the annual event. This year, he will be onstage interviewing an actor with whom he has frequently shared screen time of late, Bradley Cooper.

But he’s also a movie fan excited about the lineup. In a recent interview, Mr. De Niro, who has been outspoken in his opposition to the current administration (and recently surprised TV viewers by playing the special counsel Robert Mueller on “Saturday Night Live”), shared his picks for movies and events at the festival, along with a few sharply political words.

Photo

‘Scarface’

When: April 19

Brian De Palma’s update of the 1932 gangster film still has a visceral resonance, thanks in part to a towering performance by Al Pacino. The festival is showing a new restoration in one of its largest sites, the Beacon Theater. After the screening, Mr. Pacino will be on hand for a conversation with Mr. De Palma and other stars from the film, Michelle Pfeiffer and Steven Bauer.

Robert De Niro: I worked with De Palma in our younger days on “The Wedding Party.” Then “Greetings” and “Hi, Mom!” Brian always got a kick out of whatever we tried as actors, whether it was improv or other things, he got great joy out of watching us. I remember when Al was thinking about directors for “Scarface,” telling him, “I hope you do it with De Palma.”

Photo

‘Bathtubs Over Broadway’

When: April 21, 23, 26, 28

De Niro: “Bathtubs Over Broadway” is about this comedy writer Steve Young, who used to work for David Letterman. In doing research for the show, he found out about these musicals that were done specifically for products like Colgate or General Motors. They would put on these productions they called industrials and do a whole song and dance, if you will. And they were just for the people who worked for the company. So Steve found some albums from the shows and contacted the people involved, some of them well known in the musical world today. They gladly did industrials because you could earn a good living between Broadway jobs.

Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

‘United Skates’

When: April 19, 20, 21, 25, 29

De Niro: “United Skates” is about these roller skating rinks around the country where African-Americans would go that became regular gathering places for the community. But they’re closing because a big company, something like a Costco or shopping center, will force them out. So these rinks that have a history are having to shut down. This movie looks at the sadness of that trend.

Photo

‘The Fourth Estate’

When: April 28

The festival’s closing-night title is a look at the first episode of the forthcoming Showtime series directed by Liz Garbus, about how journalists at The New York Times covered the first year of Donald J. Trump’s presidency. The film’s subjects will discuss the movie with Ms. Garbus after the screening. (The Times has no financial ties to the project.)The housing authority will contest the record at a hearing next week, Jasmine Blake, a spokeswoman for the agency, said.

Before her ruling from the bench, Justice Edmead questioned Nycha’s ability to carry out the inspections without a court order.

“There is a whole credibility issue if we should leave this to Nycha or a Nycha-selected contractor,” she said.

A spokeswoman for Mayor Bill de Blasio defended the mayor’s role in the lead paint inspections.

“This administration did not start these problems, but we’re the one that’s fixing them,” Olivia Lapeyrolerie, the spokeswoman, said. “We restarted inspections in 2016 and they are now happening every single year.”

During the hearing, Justice Edmead said she believed Nycha’s inspection failures likely constituted an irreparable harm to children, and she questioned the agency’s competency to remediate the harm.

“We can’t redo the past,” said one of Nycha’s attorneys, Nancy Harnett, adding that the Housing Authority began taking corrective measures last year.

Since October 2017, a contractor hired by the agency has inspected almost all of the 8,900 apartments where children younger than 6 reside, in compliance with local law, Nycha lawyers said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The tenants’ lawyers, however, argued that those inspections overlooked apartments with children that are now older than 6, but that were younger when the agency skirted inspection laws from 2013 to 2016.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“If you don’t learn from the past, you are forever condemned to relive mistakes,” Jim Walden, a lawyer for the tenants, said in a rebuttal to Ms. Harnett.

Mr. Walden said that there are “tens of thousands of apartments” that needed to be inspected where children aged out during the four-year period. Lead in paint chips or dust from peeling paint can cause serious health and developmental problems, particularly in young children.

The judge’s support marked another step forward for the city’s 400,000 public-housing residents, who have mobilized effectively in recent months and drawn the attention of politicians to address the city’s crumbling public housing conditions.

Earlier this month, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo declared a state of emergency at Nycha and ordered an independent monitor to oversee repairs after touring housing developments and taking jabs at the agency’s management under Mr. de Blasio’s watch. Last month, Cynthia Nixon, Mr. Cuomo’s rival in the Democratic primary for governor, visited a housing development in Brooklyn and called the conditions there “devastating.”

Under the judge’s order, the independent monitor would oversee the remediation of any lead paint found at Nycha apartments, said Mr. Walden, the tenants’ lawyer. The independent monitor must be chosen unanimously in the next six weeks by the mayor; Corey Johnson, the City Council speaker; and Danny Barber, the president of the Citywide Council of Presidents, the group of tenant leaders that sued the agency.

“We want to thank the residents of public housing for their voices and for crying out for assistance,” Mr. Barber said after the hearing.

On late Monday, Nycha sustained another, unrelated setback, this time from a Manhattan federal judge, regarding a 2013 lawsuit related to mold infestations. The agency had agreed earlier this month to appoint a tenant ombudsman to oversee mold repairs. But the judge, William H. Pauley III, halted the “slapdash” agreement, saying it was “reached in haste.” He ordered the agency and the tenants who brought the suit to confer again and come up with a new plan.

Tuesday’s lead paint decision also came about a month after the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development told the city’s Housing Authority that it would no longer be able to draw federal funds without approval, placing the authority on a so-called “zero threshold.” The city has been negotiating with federal prosecutors for months but has yet to reach a settlement related to the false paperwork the agency filed to the federal government.

“This system is broken and it needs to be fixed,” Mr. Walden said after the hearing.During that quick head movement, Mr. Cooper’s nose seems to disappear — evidence, Mr. Jones said, that the interview with Ms. De La Rosa was conducted in a studio. In reality, the glitch is known as a compression artifact, a distortion that is common in video encoding.

Photo

Mr. Jones suggests it means they are both actors. “When he turns, his nose disappears repeatedly because the green screen isn’t set right,” he said.

A few months later, in June, Mr. Jones was profiled on NBC’s “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly,” which brought up his past comments about Sandy Hook. Ms. Kelly also interviewed Mr. Heslin, who recalled seeing his dead son.

“I held my son with a bullet hole through his head,” Mr. Heslin told her.

But a week later in an Infowars video, Owen Shroyer, who works for the site, argued that it was “not possible” that Mr. Heslin held his dead son because the medical examiner said he showed photographs to the parents to identify their children.

“Will there be a clarification from Heslin or Megyn Kelly?” Mr. Shroyer said. “I wouldn’t hold your breath.”

The next month, Mr. Jones replayed part of that Infowars video on his show. “The stuff I found was they never let them see their bodies,” Mr. Jones said. “That’s kind of what’s weird about this. But maybe they did.”

In a rambling 10-minute response published on Infowars on Tuesday, Mr. Jones said that his lawyers were very confident that these lawsuits were frivolous because his efforts to discuss both sides of the issue were misunderstood and misrepresented by major media outlets.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It is every American’s right to question any big event, especially when it’s seized on to take the basic liberties of Americans,” he said, referring to the Second Amendment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Jones also said that the parents of the murdered children were victims being “roped into this” by Ms. Kelly and the media.

“I’ve been telling the parents for years I believe their children died, and quite frankly, they know that,” he said. “I’m sorry they died, but I didn’t kill them and gun owners in American did not kill your children,” he continued. “I believe Sandy Hook happened.”

Mr. Shroyer did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on Tuesday morning.

Both lawsuits were filed in Travis County District Court in Austin, Tex., where Mr. Jones lives, broadcasts his show and operates Infowars. The parents are seeking at least $1 million in damages.

“The statements were a continuation and elaboration of a yearslong campaign to falsely attack the honesty of the Sandy Hook parents, casting them as participants in a ghastly conspiracy and cover-up,” the parents’ lawsuits said.

The parents are represented by Mark D. Bankston, a Houston lawyer who filed a similar defamation lawsuit this month against Mr. Jones and Infowars after they falsely identified a Massachusetts man as the gunman at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.

Last June, a Florida woman who believes the Sandy Hook shooting was a hoax was sentenced to five months in prison for making death threats against Mr. Pozner in voice mail messages and emails.When asked about the recent spike of pessimism among the fans, Todd Frazier, the team’s veteran third baseman, laughed and then cautioned for patience.

“They shouldn’t panic,” he said. “It’s just two games. I understand it’s the Nationals. But like I said, you sit back and say, these first 16 games, we’re 12-4. I’ll take that any day of the week.”

The Mets are also still sitting atop the National League East — with 146 games to play.

On Monday the issue was a chaotic six-run eighth inning. On Tuesday, it was a failure to hit with runners on base. The Mets went 0 for 9 with runners in scoring position, even after they chased Washington’s starting pitcher, Gio Gonzalez, in the sixth inning. Gonzalez has been nearly perfect at Citi Field, with a 10-1 record and a 1.69 E.R.A. in 15 starts.

He only allowed two runs in five and one-third innings, and that was enough to win. Zack Wheeler (1-1) made his second start for the Mets and kept them in the game, surrendering three runs and seven hits in six innings before being replaced by pinch-hitter, Jose Reyes.

But Reyes struck out with runners on first and third, and looked bad doing it. He is still hitless in 11 at-bats, but Callaway said he felt Reyes would be a good matchup against the left-handed reliever Sammy Solis. Reyes said later he is having difficulty figuring a path to success as a pinch-hitter.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I need to adjust to my new role,” Reyes said. “I’ll figure it out.”

After the Nationals extended their lead to 4-2 in the top of the seventh, the Mets had a tantalizing chance to get even, or at least cut into that lead, in the bottom half of the inning. After one-out singles by Yoenis Cespedes and Wilmer Flores, the Mets had runners at first and third. Now, perhaps, it was their chance for a dramatic comeback.

But Ryan Madson, the veteran relief pitcher, struck out Frazier and Jay Bruce to escape the danger. The Nationals added another run in the top of the eighth to ease the pressure on their bullpen, which did its job in holding the Mets to a lone single over the last two innings.

Part of the reason some Mets fans reacted so adversely to Monday’s loss was the state of the Nationals’ injury-depleted roster: Daniel Murphy (knee), Adam Eaton (ankle) and Anthony Rendon (toe) were out of action.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We’ll get there,” Nationals Manager Dave Martinez said before the game. “These guys, I know they’re progressing. Hopefully, our team will be stocked and ready to go real soon.”

Those are not encouraging words for the Mets. They had enough trouble dealing with Bryce Harper, who had homered in three straight games against the Mets. He went hitless on Tuesday, but knocked in the first run of the game with a sacrifice fly in the third inning, and he walked twice.

The Nationals added two more runs in the fourth inning as Wheeler walked Michael A. Taylor and Wilmer Difo floated a ball into right field, just over the head of Mets second baseman Asdrubal Cabrera, scoring Moises Sierra. Taylor went to third and scored on a single to left by Pedro Severino.

The Nats still had runners at first and second with nobody out, but Gonzalez failed to get down a bunt, and Wheeler got Turner to fly out to left. Next, Wheeler faced Howie Kendrick with Harper on deck. But Wheeler escaped, as Kendrick bounced a ball weakly toward third and Frazier made the unassisted out to avoid the potentially disastrous situation of Harper coming up with the bases loaded.

It was not nearly enough on a night when Gonzalez was typically strong at Citi Field. Even when the Mets had runners on base, Gonzalez often executed the right pitches at critical times to get out of trouble. He stranded a runner at second base in the first inning, and in the third inning the Mets had runners at first and second with one out and first and third with two outs, and could not score.

Their failure to break through then, and again in the seventh against Madson, meant the Mets lost for the second straight day, providing pessimistic fans more opportunity to worry.Once again, Stanton struggled before the home crowd, going hitless in four at-bats. He hit into a first-inning double play that stalled a potential rally, had an infield pop-out with two runners on that did the same in the third capped it with strikeouts in each of his final two at-bats. His whiffs had the sparse and chilly crowd booing with the vociferousness of a much larger gathering.

The loss dropped the Yankees back to .500, at 8-8, and no player has taken more of the brunt of their unexpected mediocrity than Stanton has.

“I understand it,” said Stanton, who is batting .197 with three home runs, 10 R.B.I. and a league-leading 29 strikeouts in his first 16 games as a Yankee. “I just worry about the positive things, even if it’s not very many things. That’s all you can do. If you worry about that, you’re going to keep twirling down.”

Manager Aaron Boone continued to express confidence in Stanton. “He’ll get rolling here and eventually the league will pay for some of his early struggles,” Boone said.

Photo

But he acknowledged that Stanton, who has been hitting third between Judge and Gregorius, might be moving down a slot or two in the batting order when the Toronto Blue Jays come to town for a four-game series this weekend.

“I might flirt with splitting different guys up and stuff, but not moving him down too far,” Boone said. “Because he’s one at-bat away from getting locked back in, and then the last thing you want is him hitting down in the order and getting pitched around. He’s too premier of a player and, in my eyes, an at-bat away from locking it in. So I might juggle the top five or six but as far as moving down significantly, no.”

Still, it’s most likely that no manner of lineup juggling would have helped the Yankees against Garcia, who kept them off-balance with a combination of his low-90s fastball and a cleverly located changeup. The difference from last week’s outing was that Garcia’s teammates staked him to a seven-run lead on Tuesday, including three in the first inning, and the bullpen finished the job.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

With Masahiro Tanaka struggling on yet another unseasonably cold night at Yankee Stadium and the Yankees’ infield botching several routine plays, the Marlins, who had won just four of their first 16 games this season, scored three runs in the first inning, added another in the second, and three more on a home run by J.T. Realmuto in the fifth.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was the second straight poor outing for Tanaka, who allowed six runs in five innings to the Boston Red Sox on the same night Garcia was baffling the Mets, in a game the Yankees eventually won 10-7. After allowing seven runs, six of them earned, in five innings on Tuesday, Tanaka left with an E.R.A. of 6.45 from four starts, outdueled on this night by the Marlins’ young pitcher.

Garcia was by no means perfect, allowing five base runners on walks over the first three innings. But the only thing resembling a hit from a Yankees batter was Sanchez’s hard grounder down the third baseline that was fielded neatly by Brian Anderson to end the first inning. Sanchez also drove Maybin, the center fielder, to the wall on a flyout leading off the fourth inning.

Garcia, who led the Marlins with 68 appearances out of the bullpen in 2017, has a 0.86 E.R.A. in 21 innings this season.

Yankees third baseman Miguel Andujar broke up the no-hitter with a double to the base of the left-field wall with one out in the fifth. Andujar also hit his first major-league home run off reliever Brad Ziegler with two out in the ninth to break up the shutout.

Those were the Yankees’ only offensive highlights of the game, but Boone remained confident that Stanton can turn the team around.

“Obviously he’s frustrated and expects a lot from himself,” Boone said. “Long term he’s too good for it not to start happening. I’m confident that once he gets rolling it’ll be a juggernaut.”

Inside Pitch

Before the game, the Yankees placed reliever Tommy Kahnle on the 10-day disabled list with shoulder tendinitis and recalled right-hander Luis Cessa from Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre. Manager Aaron Boone said Kahnle, who had shown a drop in his fastball velocity recently, acknowledged some shoulder soreness after warming up during Monday night’s game. Kahnle has not appeared in a game since April 12. Cessa relieved Tanaka to start the sixth inning and allowed a run-scoring single in the eighth, but left with an oblique strain and was headed for the disabled list himself.Photo

It was not the fastest home run hit this season, nor was it the farthest. But as the ball left Francisco Lindor’s bat on its way to the stands for a two-run home run during the Cleveland Indians’ win over the Minnesota Twins in Puerto Rico’s Hiram Bithorn Stadium on Tuesday, it most likely would have set a season-high for crowd noise, if only M.L.B.’s Statcast service could track such a statistic.

Born in Caguas, Puerto Rico, Lindor attended high school in the United States, but in his homeland he is still known as Paquito. The fans let him know it on Tuesday, cheering his nickname until he came out for the type of curtain call typically reserved for a moment bigger than a player giving his team a 2-0 lead in the fifth inning of a game in mid-April.

It was a key moment for the Indians in the team’s eventual 6-1 victory, but it was, understandably, a far bigger moment for baseball-obsessed Puerto Rico as the United States territory continues its recovery from the devastating effects of last year’s hurricanes.

“Unreal,” Lindor said in an interview broadcast by Fox after the game. “It’s a dream playing in front of the crowd. Seeing how the crowd got up, it was special.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was the second home run of the year for Lindor, who has not been playing to his usual standards so far this season, and it gave him a spot in the exclusive club of players who have hit a home run in their native land while playing outside of the 50 U.S. states and Canada.Photo

Harold Ryan, the conquering hero, has been missing for eight years — long enough for his wife to give him up for dead and start dating again, but not quite long enough for his 12-year-old son to abandon hope of his triumphant return. In the boy’s mind, the image of his father is larger than life, woven from the mythology of the hunt and the romance of war: so much killing, such a paragon of manhood.

A bit jarring, then, to encounter the real thing at last. In Kurt Vonnegut Jr.’s shaggy but zingingly relevant comedy “Happy Birthday, Wanda June,” now getting a ferociously funny revival from Wheelhouse Theater Company, Harold is a bombastic, bellowing, more than half-feral bully who returns to his family without warning. Like Odysseus of legend, he has a wife named Penelope, though Harold’s Penelope has gotten engaged to the pacifist doctor across the hall.

Vonnegut wrote the play in 1970, as the Vietnam War dragged and raged, and on the face of it, this seems an odd time to bring it back. But as Jason O’Connell proves in a hilarious and explosive performance as Harold, the cult of masculinity that Vonnegut lampooned is still with us, absurd and menacing and terribly, terribly vain.

“Miss me, baby?” Harold asks a bronze lion head hanging on the wall of his apartment. (The set is by Brittany Vasta.) Smitten with his own charm, he tongues the big cat, then stalks around the room. He is riveting to watch — a cocky, heavy-breathing creature with no idea how repellent he is, or how ridiculous.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. O’Connell is best known Off Broadway for playing love interests, including Mr. Darcy, in his partner Kate Hamill’s Jane Austen adaptations. This is quite a departure, and quite a star turn.Photo

More than 2,400 years ago, the Greek playwright Aristophanes wrote “Lysistrata,” an antiwar satire in which a group of women endeavor to stop the Peloponnesian War by withholding sex from their husbands. The story has staying power; modern-day adaptations on the stage (“Lysistrata Jones”) and the screen (Spike Lee’s “Chi-Raq”) have kept the outline while grappling with contemporary gender politics.

In the hip-hop adaptation “ms. estrada,” the Q Brothers Collective (“The Bomb-itty of Errors,” “Othello: The Remix”) aim to do just that, setting the story on a campus oh so sensitive to microaggressions and cultural appropriation. But this lively production, now at the Flea Theater, sets its comic sights on too many targets.

The plot loosely follows the original: Instead of Greece, we have Acropolis University, and instead of war we have the Greek Games, a display of testosterone that has frat brothers compete in beer pong and other boozy amusements. Our heroine is Liz Estrada (Malena Pennycook), an undergraduate who starts a “re-vagina-lution” in which her fellow coeds deny the boys sex until the Games are canceled.

Joining Liz are her roommates Cali (Madeline Mahoney), Marina (Pearl Shin) and Limpita (Caturah Brown), working their tropes as ditsy blonde, vegan hipster and sassy black girl. A male gender-studies student (Jonathon Ryan) and the casually bigoted university dean, along with the girls’ brew-chugging boyfriends, are the well-meaning misogynists confused by the new reality, while the big donor Harry Stefani (pronounced cheekily close to Aristophanes) nefariously seeks to quash Liz’s movement.

Photo

From the show-opening, tongue-in-cheek trigger warning to Liz’s hashtag-branded revolution, “ms. estrada” positions itself as a knowing response to the current moment with a decidedly millennial spin.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But even when the show’s present-day updates are shrewd, its comic ideas are haphazardly flung about. “It’s a show about feminism, there’s a lot to unpack,” one lyric goes, and it’s true — too much, in fact. The show fails to focus its satire.Ms. Carter’s lawyer, Matthew H. Lembke, rejected the new complaint as “full of wild and baseless allegations that seem only meant to distract from the real issue — whether Rudinplay has violated its written contractual promise that it would not alter the characters in Harper Lee’s classic novel, ‘To Kill a Mockingbird’.”

Ms. Carter has taken particular issue with Mr. Sorkin’s depiction of Atticus as a morally ambiguous figure who gradually comes to hold more enlightened views about racial equality; she objected to multiple other elements of the script, but omitted many of those objections in an amended complaint.

Photo

Mr. Rudin, who is co-producing the play with Lincoln Center Theater, has insisted the play is faithful to the novel. His lawsuit states that “the character of Atticus in the draft script remained noble and idealistic, and true to the character as he appeared in ‘To Kill a Mockingbird.’” But the complaint also argues that Mr. Sorkin is a leading writer with a unique voice and “his participation as playwright would hardly be necessary, or appropriate, if the Play were to be a mere transcription of the Novel.”

Mr. Rudin seeks to have the Alabama lawsuit dismissed. He is also asking for the New York court to declare that the play does not violate his agreement with Ms. Lee and that Ms. Carter does not have the authority to act on behalf of Ms. Lee’s estate. He is demanding that the estate award him damages “in no event less than $10 million.”

“The Agreement did not give Ms. Lee approval rights over the script of the Play, much less did it give her a right to purport to edit individual lines of dialogue,” he argued in the lawsuit. “It certainly did not give such rights to Ms. Carter, who is not an author, editor, literary agent or critic, and has no known expertise whatsoever in theater or writing.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Ms. Carter emerged as a polarizing figure in the final years of Ms. Lee’s life, as a debate raged over whether or not Ms. Lee had authorized the publication of her second novel, “Go Set a Watchman,” which she had written in the 1950s and had abandoned. Ms. Carter initially said she stumbled upon the manuscript in a safe deposit box in 2014, but a conflicting account suggested the novel had been discovered years earlier.

In a statement Monday, Ms. Carter said, “As the personal representative of the Estate of Nelle Harper Lee, I must protect the integrity of her beloved American classic, and therefore had no choice but to file a lawsuit against Rudinplay for failing to honor its contract with Ms. Lee. It is my duty and privilege to defend the terms of Ms. Lee’s agreement with Rudinplay, and I am determined to do so.”

But, in his lawsuit, Mr. Rudin questioned Ms. Carter’s status as a representative of Ms. Lee’s will and for the first time accused Ms. Carter of having an ulterior motive in challenging the play: a desire to force the cancellation of the Broadway production because of a separate dispute between Ms. Lee’s estate and the heirs of Gregory Peck, who played Atticus Finch in the movie adaptation, over stage rights.

While a local theater group in Ms. Lee’s hometown Monroeville, Ala., has staged a production based on the novel annually for nearly three decades, there has never been a Broadway adaptation of “Mockingbird,” one of the most beloved novels in American literature. In the lawsuit, Mr. Rudin suggests he already intends to postpone the new production, writing that the legal dispute “has rendered it impossible for the play to premiere as scheduled in December, 2018, and unless this dispute is resolved in the immediate future, the play will be canceled.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In an interview, Mr. Rudin said he was willing to take the unusual step of performing the play in a courtroom so a jury could determine whether or not the production is true to the spirit of the novel. “A play and a book are two different things. A book is meant to be read; a play is meant to be performed,” he said.“As valuable as knowing everything about Drosophila is, it’s not the whole universe,” he said.

Excerpts of a telephone conversation with Dr. Parker are below, edited for clarity and length.



Q. How old were you when rove beetles became your passion?

A: Seven years old was when I started. All of the rest of the world fell away and it was just me and insects. Growing up in the U.K., we don’t really have big, flashy insects, so you end up collecting what you find around you and that’s often quite small beetles that live in dirt and a lot of those are rove beetles.

One of the first things you learn about rove beetles is that they have this amazing evolutionary tendency to become symbiotic inside ant colonies. And when they do this, their behavior and their anatomy change, and they become what we call social parasites. These are intruder organisms that are able to bypass or kind of hijack ant nest mate recognition systems and integrate socially into the organization of ant colonies and they do this to termites as well.

Q. So you stuck with the rove beetles?

A. They’re a fascinating group of organisms for studying how interactions between different species can evolve because they’ve been able to do it so many times during their evolutionary history. They’re able to socially interact with ants and they are able to produce chemicals that can manipulate ant behavior, so they can integrate into the fabric of ant society.

Q: This has happened independently in many lineages of rove beetles. How?

A: There’s clearly something special about these beetles compared to almost all other groups of arthropod and really all other forms of animal life that predisposes them evolutionarily to be able to do this.

This is a fascinating group of organisms and I’ve essentially dedicated my life to studying them. I actually trained as a fruit fly geneticist so I could gain molecular biology and developmental biology expertise, so that I could then apply that to rove beetles.

During the past few years, that’s what I’ve done, applying modern tools of molecular biology and genetics to rove beetles to understand the evolutionary basis for this form of symbiosis that they’ve evolved so, so many times.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Q. Why is this social parasitism such a good way to live?

A. The payoff for being able to become a symbiont inside an ant colony is very big. If you can get your foot in the door of an ant colony, there are no other predators, it’s climatically controlled, it’s full of resources. You can feed on the ant brood and the food that the ants have harvested to your heart’s content. And if you’re really clever, you can trick the ants into feeding you directly, mouth-to-mouth.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They’ve really broken the code of nest mate recognition, and their whole life history adapts to being able to coexist with ants and integrate socially into colonies of ants. The beetle larvae have their own chemical to ensure that they’re, in some cases, fed preferentially over the ants’ own larvae.

Q. Is this one common ancestor that becomes a parasite giving rise to all sorts of descendent species?

A. Imagine an evolutionary tree of these beetles and most of them do not live with ants. They’re free-living predators that live in soil and hunt like other micro-arthropods. Many independent lineages from that kind of free-living ancestral condition have undergone this transition to life inside ant societies.

Dozens to hundreds of independent origins of this form of symbiosis have evolved within this group. It’s this amazing system of convergent evolution, when the same or similar traits evolve in response to similar selection pressures.

So here you have this entire symbiotic life style arising independently multiple times from kind of similar evolutionary starting material.

What’s really amazing is that in many of the symbiotic lineages their anatomy and their behaviors have all evolved in the same direction, too. You get species which all evolved to look like ants. You get species which evolve to look like termites and undergo this body form that enables them to mimic termites. You’d think that it’s so dramatic, how could it evolve at all? But, in fact, it’s evolved multiple times independently. And their social behaviors that they evolved are also convergent.

Q. How are you using the beetles to study this kind of evolution?

A. One way is using a free-living species. What it represents is the kind of evolutionary starting conditions for this kind of symbiosis. And so, we’re looking at its brain and its glandular chemistry and then using that as a reference species to compare with related symbiotic species.

The rove beetles looks like this sort of quirky, obscure phenomenon that no one else works on, but when you scratch the surface of it, you see really it is getting at very deep questions in evolutionary biology.

Q. So the lack of exciting insects in South Wales, where you grew up led you to an extremely exciting insect scientifically?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A. I know, exactly. I used to keep all these different tropical insects in my room and I think I wanted to just live in a rain forest and collect insects when I was seven, eight years old. But there was never anything that came close to these beetles for me and the funny thing is, they’re so tiny, you know, they’re a few millimeters long. But as soon as you put them under the microscopic, they’re absolutely beautiful and intricate and they’ve become increasingly more so the more specialized they get to live in ant societies. And to me, these symbiotic species are just the most beautiful things, so, it’s just a pleasure to work with them.“They are a potential source of human infection,” said Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, the epidemiologist at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia who was the senior author on the study. “The real message is that these things are everywhere.”

The mice appeared to be healthy, and Dr. Lipkin said he presumes that they are carriers of the bacteria but are not affected by them.

Dr. Lipkin said it was not clear whether the mice were getting the antibiotic-resistant bacteria from people — say, by eating food contaminated with the feces of someone taking antibiotics — or whether the bacteria developed resistance after mice ate discarded antibiotics.

It would be nearly impossible to conduct research directly linking a mouse pathogen with a human disease, said Charles Calisher, a professor emeritus at Colorado State University, who was not involved in the new studies.

The source of patients’ infections are rarely investigated, and they are not usually asked about their contact with mice, he said. “These are not simple things to investigate,” Dr. Calisher said.

Peter Daszak, who heads the EcoHealth Alliance, a nonprofit that researches emerging diseases around the world, also described the research as difficult.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

It’s crucial to identify and trace these microbes, he said, to help understand how they are transmitted and how, if necessary, to protect ourselves from the diseases they may carry.

“If we don’t know where they originate, we can’t identify what’s driving them and then we can’t control it,” said Dr. Daszak, who was not involved in the research.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

No one knows, for example, whether antibiotic resistance genes emerged in hospitals, in cities or in rural areas.

This research is particularly important to do in New York, Dr. Daszak said, because the city is a destination for people from all corners of the world.

“New York is a major at-risk place for pathogens,” he said. “We’re certainly on the front line for emerging diseases.”

He said that the new research should not make New Yorkers more fearful of mice. “I’m not worried personally,” said Dr. Daszak, who lives in suburban Rockland County but works in the city. “Luckily, this is a species we’re already trying to control.”

Dr. Lipkin began researching New York City’s natural pathogens after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, when scientists realized they did not have a baseline to compare any changes. His lab has also studied rats on the New York City subway system and found many of the same infectious bacteria.

Although it is impossible to completely get rid of urban mice, Dr. Lipkin said his study suggests that more should be done to control mouse populations and their interactions with people.

Large apartment buildings should fill any gaps in their foundations, and trap and control any rodents found indoors, Dr. Calisher said.

Should everybody get a cat? “Cats have their own viruses,” Dr. Calisher noted.In riveting narratives punctuated by convincing details, his guests spun eyewitness accounts of past lives, contacts with aliens, time travel, crop circles and other ostensibly inexplicable phenomena, most of which were accompanied by a knowing affirmation from the host himself.

He had reason to be credulous. One summer night, he recalled, he and his wife were driving home when a 150-foot-long triangular craft silently hovered over their car before disappearing.

“It really doesn’t matter that much to me if anyone believes me,” Mr. Bell explained later. “Thousands of people seeing the same thing cannot all be wrong.”

Just how much Mr. Bell believed was a matter of conjecture.

He once described his program as “absolute entertainment.” When he was inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame in 2008, his former business partner, Alan Corbeth, said Mr. Bell had thoroughly understood “how to create theater of the mind.”

On one memorable program in 1997, a man who said he had been discharged for medical reasons from Area 51 — the storied Nevada air base that has long stoked rumors of unidentified flying objects — was mysteriously cut off in mid-interview.

“What we’re thinking of as aliens, Art, they’re extra-dimensional beings,” the man started to say, his voice choking. “They’ve infiltrated a lot of aspects of, of the military establishment.”

On another program, Mr. Bell introduced his guest, identified as Alex Collier, by saying he had been “in contact with a human race from the constellation Andromeda, located in our galaxy.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“His experience has been both telepathic and physical,” Mr. Bell added. “His relationship with the Andromedans has been based on trust and friendship. Alex’s free will has never been violated, and his experience must not in any way be associated with abduction.”

In 1998, Mr. Bell received the ignominious Snuffed Candle Award from the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry, a group, co-founded by Carl Sagan and based in Amherst, N.Y., that promotes scientific inquiry and critical thinking. The group cited him “for encouraging credulity, presenting pseudoscience as genuine, and contributing to the public’s lack of understanding of the methods of scientific inquiry.”

Photo

To which Mr. Bell replied: “A mind should not be so open that the brains fall out; however, it should not be so closed that whatever gray matter which does reside may not be reached. On behalf of those with the smallest remaining open aperture, I accept with honor.”

Arthur William Bell III was born on June 17, 1945, in Jacksonville, N.C., while his parents were stationed at Camp Lejeune there. His father, a Marine Corps captain, was descended from one of the original settlers of Stamford, Conn., in the 1640s. His mother, the former Jane Lee Gumaer, was a Marine sergeant.

At 13, Art became a licensed amateur radio operator. He was an Air Force medic during the Vietnam War and later a disc jockey for an English-language station in Okinawa.

There, he was said to have set a record for continuous broadcasting — 116 hours and 15 minutes — to raise money to ferry stranded Vietnamese orphans from Saigon to the United States for adoption by American families. (He also claimed a record of 57 hours of uninterrupted seesawing while broadcasting.)

Mr. Bell enrolled as an engineering major at the University of Maryland but dropped out to return to radio, first as a disc jockey in California and Nevada. Students of numerology were mindful that he began his political talk show in 1984 — and also that he died on a Friday the 13th.

Mr. Bell is survived by his fourth wife, Airyn Ruiz; their children, Asia and Alexander; and three children from his earlier marriages, Vincent Pontius, Lisa Pontius Minei and Arthur Bell IV.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His “Coast to Coast” show was syndicated and broadcast from 1989 to 2003, followed by episodic returns on satellite radio and online with a program called “Midnight in the Desert,” which he canceled in 2015 after he said shots had been fired at his home.

Mr. Bell said he kept a .40-caliber Glock 22 in a desk drawer of his isolated desert home.

“If I had a problem out here,” he told Time magazine in 2012, “well, the police would arrive just in time to draw the chalk outline on my floor.”

While some critics accused him of laying the foundation for right-wing conspiracists on talk radio, Mr. Bell’s politics were not easily pigeonholed. He described himself as a libertarian, but his passion was directed less at politicians or ideology than at debunking scientific doctrine and preaching apocalyptic prophecy.

“He was different, fed up with the government not because of some tax increase or a bad vote but because of what they were hiding,” the journalist Jack Dickey wrote in Time magazine in 2013. “Where others had rage, he had skepticism, and lots of it.”

With the horror novelist Whitley Strieber, Mr. Bell wrote “The Coming Global Superstorm” (1999), in which violent climate disruptions lead to a global deep freeze. The director Roland Emmerich adapted it for the 2004 film “The Day After Tomorrow,” starring Dennis Quaid.

(Writing about the film in The New York Times, Andrew C. Revkin noted, “Most experts on climate change say a switch from slow warming to an instant hemispheric deep freeze like the one posited in the book is impossible.”)

Mr. Bell wrote several other books, including “The Quickening: Today’s Trends, Tomorrow’s World” (1997) and a memoir, “The Art of Talk” (1998).

His spoken words had a much wider reach, however. “His Marlboro-Lights-weathered voice blanketed the continent after dark, reliably chilling his audience,” one reviewer wrote.

Mr. Bell acknowledged that he had a certain hold on his nocturnal audience. As he told The Washington Post in 1998, “There is a difference in what people are willing to consider, daytime versus nighttime. It’s dark, and you don’t know what’s out there.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“And the way things are now,” he added, “there may be something.”The original “Lost in Space,” which ran on CBS from 1965 to 1968, followed the interplanetary adventures of the Robinson family. On that series, Dr. Smith, as played by Jonathan Harris, was a conniving and campy foil who bickered with the family’s robot and spouted alliterative insults.

Matt Sazama and Burk Sharpless, the producers who developed the Netflix reboot, which began streaming last Friday, said that they did not want to copy or caricature what Mr. Harris did with the role.

Mr. Sazama and Mr. Sharpless reconceived the character, changing Dr. Smith’s gender and making her a low-level criminal on Earth, who steals her own sister’s identity — and later a doctor’s title and uniform — so she can reinvent her life in another star system.

Imagining their Dr. Smith as a 21st-century upgrade of the nefarious title character from “The Talented Mr. Ripley,” Mr. Sharpless said this approach was possible only because of Ms. Posey’s blend of comedic and dramatic talents.

“It wasn’t like we had the Dr. Smith you see on screen and then just went out and got Parker,” Mr. Sharpless said. “Parker allowed the Dr. Smith that you’re seeing to exist. She expanded the genre of the show.”

Ms. Posey has been a fan of “Lost in Space” since watching reruns during her childhood in Louisiana, “getting up at 5:30 in the morning to watch the static turn to color when the show came on at 6.”

She described her Dr. Smith as “a chameleon” who “survives by her wits,” which is not too different from how she has come to see herself.

Photo

During the last decade, Ms. Posey said, she has experienced a steep decline in the kinds of acting opportunities that best suit her. “I was like, I need to do something else — I need to express myself in a different way,” she said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“When reality TV showed up, it was like, O.K., that’s it — game over, character actors, bye,” she said. “There are so many big chunks that are gone from the culture. It wouldn’t be that much of a turn to say, you know what? I’m going to become a landscaper.”

Photo

Over the years, Ms. Posey has occasionally dabbled in television, on shows like “The Good Wife” and “Search Party.” She said she also felt left behind by the explosion of serialized genre shows — like “Game of Thrones” and “The Walking Dead” — that she does not believe she would fit into and does not watch. (Even the Netflix sci-fi anthology “Black Mirror,” she said, is off the table: “I hear it’s really good, but I don’t want to watch it alone,” she explained. “I’m scared to.”)

Yet each time she’d speak to a friend or peer who was happily thriving in a genre TV role, she remained hopeful that an appropriate role would come her way.

Photo

Recalling a conversation she had had with Denis O’Hare, who was then playing a malevolent vampire on HBO’s “True Blood,” Ms. Posey said he told her, “It’s like Shakespeare — you get to be really epic in your emotions.”

Much to her satisfaction, “Lost in Space” has allowed Ms. Posey to perform her own Shakespearean pastiches, like a soliloquy addressed to the decapitated head of a robot. And it has let her share scenes with actors like Selma Blair (“Cruel Intentions,” “Legally Blonde”), a guest star who plays Dr. Smith’s wealthy, disapproving sister.

Describing a scene that required her to pass out (under the influence of drugs that Ms. Posey’s character had surreptitiously slipped her), Ms. Blair said: “I decided I was really going to milk it. And Parker was laughing, like, ‘I feel like you’re on an episode of ‘Columbo.’ You really love acting, don’t you?’ Coming from Parker, it wasn’t an insult.”

Ms. Blair said it was a positive development that Ms. Posey had finally made the crossover to serialized television.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“She should be a big-deal, household name,” Ms. Blair said. If TV hadn’t snapped Ms. Posey up already, she said it was because past series “might not be the best fit for people who have a real gravity and an eccentricity.” But now, Ms. Blair said, “They’re making such great shows for people like her, and hopefully one day for people like me.”In the episode’s most maudlin story line, the cause of Farid’s repressed trauma finally comes into focus. Made to flog himself in a public square, as a child, for defacing a poster of the Ayatollah — and then beaten to a pulp by his mentally ill mother, a pious Muslim who believed Farid’s irreverent act had gotten his father killed — he was rescued and taken to America by his uncle, Amir. Decades later, deep in the throes of his own mental illness, he tearfully flogs himself out of guilt over his father’s death and his mother’s decades-old unanswered telephone calls. He won’t listen when his wife and son assure him that he’s not responsible for what happened to his parents. Afraid for herself and their child, Layla takes Navid and leaves.

Farid finds himself at Imam Chuck’s door, the back of his white jacket stained with blood in the shape of angel wings. There’s nothing subtle about the symbolism on “Here and Now,” and that’s not necessarily a bad thing. But not even an actor as talented as Peter Macdissi, who plays Farid and is an executive producer of the show, can pull off material this overwrought.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

If Farid’s bloody search for meaning in Islam is a figurative ascent to heaven, then there’s something hellish about Ramon’s pursuit of the man on fire. Because he’s at the top of a nearby hill when the eruption happens, he has to descend to the foot of Mt. Hood (in a mask so flimsy he’s surely inhaling all types of harmful gases) for his climactic encounter with the flaming figure. When they lock eyes, dozens of wispy humanoid shadows begin to float upward on the ashy ground behind Ramon. Then, the burning man walks away and Ramon strides toward the volcano. It’s a cryptic final shot, made even more ambiguous by the deceptively upbeat but actually quite dark Brian Eno track “Baby’s on Fire,” which plays over the closing credits.

Still, there’s a cathartic mood to this conclusion that mirrors many characters’ journeys from anger to relative peacefulness late in the episode. Duc turns to Carmen, whose intuitive powers begin to heal his nervous stomach, as they embark on a union that could become his first healthy sexual relationship. Kristen and Navid reconcile before he leaves town. Greg seems strangely comforted by his visit with Ike. The imam literally helps to heal Farid’s wounds.

The volcano is cool to look at, but in the end, “It’s Here” feels as weighed down by obvious symbolism and bereft of compelling plot developments as any other hour of “Here and Now.” Ball has heaped new ideologies and spiritual beliefs on the Bayer-Boatwrights and the Shokranis in each episode, to the extent that there’s little room left to advance the arcs of roughly a dozen characters. Many story lines have become redundant, digressive or inconsistent, instead of building suspense or bolstering thematic resonance.

“In Islam, the need to have all the answers is considered a kind of heresy,” Chuck tells Farid at one point in “It’s Here,” and the statement seems to sum up the show’s approach to storytelling. Sadly, what’s good for religious faith isn’t necessarily good for serialized television. Questions whose answers seemed imminent at the beginning of the season — about Ramon’s past, about the role his game plays in the 11:11 phenomenon and about his connection with Farid — remain unresolved after the finale. The Trump-era political overtones of early episodes have since been eclipsed by evergreen interpersonal conflicts. So it is impossible to tell whether the most recent collection of loose ends, like the homeless guy named Henry Bergen who steals Ramon’s bike and Hailey’s insistence that the treehouse fire was real, are cliffhangers or just oversights.

We may never find out. “Here and Now” has yet to be renewed for a second season — and its poor ratings, largely negative reviews and failure to insert itself into the cultural conversation don’t exactly bode well for its future. I can’t say I’ll be crying any tears if the show gets canceled; in my estimation, it’s among the weakest HBO dramas of all time and most of its cast could do much better. But I’m curious about whether anyone feels differently. Make your pro-Season 2 arguments in the comments, won’t you?“My G.P. put me on Zoloft 28 years ago to deal with my husband’s cancer diagnosis,” wrote Carole Wilson, 74, of Alburnett, Iowa. Her husband has since died. “I have cut down from 200 milligrams to 100, but when I go lower I get horrible side effects, like nausea, jumpiness, crying a lot which I never do. I’m nearly 75; at this point I will continue because I cannot go through the withdrawal.”

James Midkiff, 75, of Vienna, W.V., wrote: “I was sole caretaker for my dying wife and was a law enforcement officer and under a great deal of stress.” Mr. Midkiff said he tapered off Lexapro gradually, about a month ago, “but I am having withdrawal symptoms of shaking, panic attacks, flulike symptoms, nausea, fatigue, night sweats, tingling and numbness in the arms and legs. I am determined to get off antidepressant drugs; however it is disheartening to note that other folks are still having withdrawal symptoms after a year.”

Hundreds of others, in their 60s and 70s, told us similar stories about starting a prescription in the wake of terrible loss. The drugs helped ease the emotional turmoil initially, many said.

Their reasons for wanting to stop taking them were rooted in part in the understanding that antidepressants were supposed to be a short-term solution, a bridge over troubled waters. But by the mid-1990s, drug makers had convinced government regulators that when taken long-term, the medications sharply reduced the risk of relapse in people with chronic, recurrent depression.

Thus began the era of indefinite or open-ended prescribing, and not just for the most severe cases of depression. The change in practice roughly coincided with the promotion of the “chemical imbalance” theory of depression: Marketers and some researchers implied that antidepressants corrected deficits in brain levels of serotonin, a neurotransmitter.

In truth, the theory has scant basis. No one knows the underlying biology of depression or any mood disorder. But that shift — along with a change in federal regulations, in 1997, allowing drug makers to advertise directly to consumers — helped undermine the stigma associated with depression and mood disorders generally.

Depression, anxiety and bipolar disorder came out of the closet, if gingerly, and the generation that came of age during this time — people now in their 40s, give or take — did so in a culture that no longer automatically presumed that depression was a character flaw.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The condition had some biological basis, it was felt, and antidepressants became a vastly popular option. Everyone knew someone taking them. Long-term prescription rates surged.

In their responses to us, many readers in this age group were much more likely than older readers to cite specific psychiatric diagnoses: social anxiety, panic disorder, PTSD, as well as depression. And their decisions to taper off were less tied to the presumption that the drugs are short-term bridges; most cited practical concerns like lingering side effects (sexual dysfunction is common, as is weight gain), pregnancy or the passing of postpartum despair.

Photo

“When I became pregnant I chose to stop taking Effexor because I was uncomfortable using it during pregnancy,” wrote Katie Slattery, 39, of Orlando, Fla. “When I stopped cold turkey, I felt extremely unwell and had to go back on and wean off slowly. I would break open my pill capsules and reduce my dose by one milligram at a time every couple of days. It was a lengthier process, but it prevented the dizziness, headache and fogginess I felt when I originally stopped the medication.”

Amy Cannon, 42, of Philadelphia wrote: “I started taking Zoloft after experiencing moderate postpartum depression, and after about a year I felt my symptoms weren’t as severe.” But she had “brain zaps” — electric-shock sensations in her head — and mood swings after trying to quit cold turkey, so she resumed taking the drug.

“Eventually I was able to wean down slowly without severe consequences, but it took six months and was still really unpleasant.” Nonetheless, she said that she was very grateful that the drugs were available when she needed them.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Women taking antidepressants who become pregnant, or are planning to, often prefer not to expose the developing fetus to any prescriptions. The evidence that exposure in utero causes problems for a child is fairly weak.

And untreated depression poses risks indeed, both before birth and after, when the child needs an energetic, vigilant caregiver.

As the stigma associated with mood disorders faded, so too did the social barriers to taking a daily prescription. By 2000, when doctors began prescribing antidepressants to children, prevailing views were vastly different from those of the first Prozac generation.

Nearly 1,000 young people in their 20s or younger responded the The Times’s invitation. They did not come of age during the rise of long-term use — their parents did, and often it was their parents who decided the medications could help them.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many told us they were too young to know what the drugs were at the time, and didn’t learn until much later. As they enter high school and college, their understanding of the prescription culture is far different from that of generations before.

For one thing, many of their friends have been on antidepressants or other psychiatric medications for long periods. “I live in a college house of six girls, two of whom are on antidepressants,” wrote Julian O., 21, of Seattle.

“When brought up in conversation, the medications are discussed with vanity, as if they are veterans trying out the newest medication prescribed to them.”

Emma Dreyfus, 28, of Boston, said the “one mistake her parents had made” was putting her on Paxil at age 10 to treat anxiety. She weaned herself off slowly at age 23.

“I don’t blame them, but I wish we’d all understood the long-term effects.” She said she is starting graduate work in the fall, in social work, to help others facing similar challenges.

Others in this youngest cohort wondered about the effect of the medications on brain development; the drugs cause biological adjustments in the brain, but so do persistent mood problems.

For now, no one has good answers for them. The drugs are a brand new cultural development, historically speaking, and their diffuse biological effects — especially in the developing brain — are largely unknown.

Whatever their ages, all of us are part of Generation Rx — a huge, uncontrolled experiment with little precedent and few guideposts.Maybe it was oxygen deprivation, huffing my way through a mountainous metropolis 12,000 feet above sea level, but on my first walk through La Paz, Bolivia, I’m not sure I saw a single man.

The women, though, were ubiquitous — and gloriously so. Mostly indigenous, of Aymara and Quechua origin, they had an inimitable sartorial flair, in jaunty bowler hats, tiered skirts and colorful cloth satchels that hauled everything from vegetables to babies on their backs. At times, the streets were packed with so many bulbous wool hats — round on top, short of brim — it felt like wading through a river of female Charlie Chaplins.

Lore has it that this distinctive headwear, known as a bombín or sombrero de chola paceña (La Paz hat), is a relic from British railway workers in the 1920s. A shipment came in that was too small for men’s heads, or the wrong color, so the importer added feminine adornments and sold them to women instead.

Bolivia has a majority indigenous population that, before the election of the current (and first indigenous) president, Evo Morales, in 2006, was subject to systematic discrimination. Those hats became a way for cholitas (as indigenous women here are called — a softened version of the term “chola,” which means “pretty lady” but has a derogatory connotation) to find kinship through their shared choice of dress. “I feel pretty in it” and “It’s part of my identity” were some of the answers I got when I asked cholitas about their hats, for which they paid 500 bolivianos (about $7 3) and up — a small fortune.The #MeToo movement inspired women around the world to speak up about issues of gender equality and female equality. Now the tourism industry is focusing on empowerment, with new tours and programs designed specifically for women travelers .

On March 8 — International Women’s Day 2018 — Exodus Travels, a London-based adventure tourism operator, launched a series of all-female departures to locations as diverse as Iran, Myanmar and the French Riviera. The guided tours, which range from eight days to just over two weeks, cost an average of $2,500 and will pair groups of 4 to 16 women with local female guides on high-adrenaline itineraries.

“Travel is a male-dominated profession, so it’s very important to us that we hire female guides, which also helps educate the community in the places that we visit on the importance of females in the workplace,” said Robin Brooks, Exodus Travels’ marketing and public relations manager. “Women are feeling more empowered than ever and we wanted to be a part of that.”

Intrepid Travel, an adventure travel operator focused on small-group itineraries, also chose International Women’s Day this year to respond to the #MeToo movement with its own line of female-only tours. The operator is launching three specialized itineraries for women only — to Morocco, Iran and Jordan — which promise to deliver a “sense of sisterhood” to travelers while they explore sites like the foothills of Azourki, Persepolis and the Dead Sea.“We might just have three fish heads in, but if we find the right table of three that night that will appreciate it, then it’s game on,” Ms. Raben said.

The lack of a standard menu makes the role of expediting especially complex. The executive chef, Dan Barber, writes out each table’s ticket by hand, with a thin Sharpie, on a long strip of paper. As Ms. Raben expedites and helps with plating, she uses colored pens to mark the ticket with the time each course is fired, and the time it leaves the kitchen.

In some cases, Mr. Barber puts a question mark on the ticket — for a dish to be determined spontaneously, later in the evening. This can make it difficult for the expediter to plan ahead.

“We have no idea what could happen next. It’s madness, to be honest, it’s absolute madness,” said Ms. Raben, with clear delight. “My job is to organize that madness, so it all goes out seamlessly.”

Some expediters speak of recurring dreams in which time compresses, and they race against it. The machine jams, or prints out endless streams of paper. They walk into a familiar kitchen, but it’s full of unreadable tickets.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The work of an expediter can be a thrill, but it’s also high-pressure, competitive and comes with major responsibilities. “If one guest is sitting at their table without food, that’s not on the cooks,” Ms. Raben said. “That’s on you.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

If an expediter at Noodle Bar misses a shift, Mr. Kim said the team finds ways to fill in, but it’s a challenge. “There’s this very funny, comical dance that happens between manager and chef because we’re both doing two halves of the job,” he said. “We’re a step behind, we’re just not as on it as we should be.”

In some cases, no expediter may be preferable to a disorganized expediter, unfamiliar with the kitchen and its systems, who relays incorrect notes to servers about table positions, or forgets about an allergy.

“They don’t just lag, they screw things up,” said Erik Ramirez, the chef and owner of Llama Inn, a Peruvian restaurant in Brooklyn. During a busy brunch service years ago, one of his line cooks walked out and the expediter had to fill in and cook while a manager expedited.

“It’s a pretty big hiccup” anytime someone new jumps into the role, he said. “Tables will lag, people will complain about the food taking a long time. It can be rough.”

But in a restaurant they know inside and out, great expediters can peek into the dining room, peer across a full board of tickets, then organize the data in their heads and see directly into the future.

Cecily Kimura, 27, expedites as a sous-chef at Joule in Seattle, where she makes notes on all of her tickets so she always knows what to fire next.Liberty has also played a significant role in the rise of Donald Trump. Falwell was an early supporter of the reality-TV-star candidate, staying loyal through the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape and giving Trump a crucial imprimatur with white evangelical voters, who widely supported him at the polls. “The evangelicals were so great to me,” Trump said in an interview last year. The first commencement speech he gave as president, last spring, was at Liberty. And in August, Falwell stood by Trump following his much-criticized remarks on the violent rally by white supremacists in Charlottesville, declaring on “Fox & Friends” that “President Donald Trump does not have a racist bone in his body.”

Such steadfast allyship has prompted ridicule even from some fellow evangelical Republicans. But it makes more sense in light of an overlooked aspect of Liberty: its extraordinary success as a moneymaking venture. Like Trump, Falwell recognized the money to be made in selling success — in this case, through the booming and lightly regulated realm of online higher education. Falwell’s university has achieved the scale and stature it has because he identified a market opportunity and exploited it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The real driver of growth at Liberty, it turns out, is not the students who attend classes in Lynchburg but the far greater number of students who are paying for credentials and classes that are delivered remotely, as many as 95,000 in a given year. By 2015, Liberty had quietly become the second-largest provider of online education in the United States, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education, its student population surpassed only by that of University of Phoenix, as it tapped into the same hunger for self-advancement that Trump had with his own pricey Trump University seminars. Yet there was a crucial distinction: Trump’s university was a for-profit venture. (This month, a judge finalized a $25 million settlement for fraud claims against the defunct operation.) Liberty, in contrast, is classified as a nonprofit, which means it faces less regulatory scrutiny even as it enjoys greater access to various federal handouts.

By 2017, Liberty students were receiving more than $772 million in total aid from the U.S. Department of Education — nearly $100 million of it in the form of Pell grants and the rest in federal student loans. Among universities nationwide, it ranked sixth in federal aid. Liberty students also received Department of Veterans Affairs benefits, some $42 million in 2016, the most recent year for which figures are available. Although some of that money went to textbooks and nontuition expenses, a vast majority of Liberty’s total revenue that year, which was just above $1 billion, came from taxpayer-funded sources.

And it was no secret which part of the university was generating most of that revenue, said Chris Gaumer, a Liberty graduate and former professor of English there. “When I was there, at faculty meetings the commentary was that online was funding the school, while they were trying to just break even on the residential side,” he said. “It was understood that on the online side, they were making a killing.”

Photo

Jerry Falwell Sr. was raised in Lynchburg by a Christian mother and a nonbelieving father, whose knack for business gained him a small empire of restaurants, bus lines, nightclubs and gas stations and eventually carried him into bootlegging. Falwell cast this dual inheritance in the terms of a clash between God and the Enemy, but it was hard not to see his career as a successful fusing of his parents’ influences, salesmanship wrapped in Christian cloth.

He founded Thomas Road Baptist Church in the former offices of a bottling company in 1956 and soon began broadcasting recordings of his sermons on regional radio and television. In 1971, the same year his “Old Time Gospel Hour” went national, he founded Lynchburg Baptist College, subsidizing it with revenues from the show. “I believe there are thousands of young students who will catch the vision and who will carry what God is doing in Lynchburg to cities all over the continent and around the world,” he declared at the time, according to his 1996 autobiography. At first the college was scattered in rented spaces around town — a vacant high school, a Ramada Inn — but by 1977 it had been renamed Liberty Baptist College and moved up to an initial 2,000-acre swath of land on the mountain.

By 1984, nearly 400 local broadcasters around the nation were carrying “The Old Time Gospel Hour.” The toll-free number flashing on the screen reportedly helped bring in more than $72 million per year in donations. Some $10 million of those funds flowed to the college, which at that point numbered about 4,500 students. Another of Falwell’s enterprises pulled in about $12 million a year — the Moral Majority, an attempt to build a cross-denominational political coalition against the common foes of abortion rights and, as he later put it, “moral permissiveness, family breakdown and general capitulation to evil and to foreign policies such as Marxism-Leninism.”

Liberty University, as it has been named since 1985, grew steadily, drawing families attracted by the “Liberty Way,” which forbade premarital sex, drinking, smoking and cussing. In 1987, it secured tax-exempt status, which Falwell described in his autobiography as an existential necessity: “If a tax exemption could not be granted us,” he wrote, “it would have been impossible to carry out the dream of a 50,000-student Christian university in Lynchburg.”

But another element of the business model — evangelical broadcasting’s aura of rectitude — was about to take a hit. That March, Jim Bakker resigned as head of the televangelist PTL ministry amid revelations of a sexual encounter with a former church secretary, Jessica Hahn, who received a payoff to keep quiet about it; Bakker later served just under five years in prison on a federal fraud conviction related to PTL’s fund-raising. In 1988, the televangelist Jimmy Swaggart declared, “I have sinned,” following reports of his consorting with a prostitute in New Orleans; three years later, the police pulled him over with another prostitute in Southern California.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

No such scandals attached to Falwell, who succeeded Bakker as host of “The PTL Club.” But the bubble had burst. Amid what Falwell later referred to as the “credibility crunch” caused by the televangelist scandals, the college’s finances deteriorated. Within a few years, annual contributions dropped by $25 million; the college’s debt swelled to more than $100 million.

In 1996, the accrediting body overseeing Liberty presented a list of more than 100 “recommendations” for staying accredited, including a demand that it reduce its debt. Falwell went on a 40-day liquids-only fast, praying for deliverance. “I am certain that we will become a world-class university training champions for Christ in every important field of study,” Falwell vowed in his autobiography. “And I am asking God to give me more time to guide and fund that dream.”

One educational novelty that Falwell dabbled in, starting in the mid-’70s, was an early form of distance learning. Liberty would mail lecture videotapes and course packets to paying customers around the country — at first just certificate courses in Bible studies, and by the mid-’80s, accredited courses in other subjects as well. By the time of Liberty’s financial embattlement, other education innovators had taken the idea much further — none more so than a man named John Sperling.

Sperling was an unlikely capitalist entrepreneur. The son of a failed farmer in the Missouri Ozarks, he joined the Merchant Marine, embraced socialism and ended up receiving a Ph.D. in history from the University of Cambridge. He got a job teaching at San Jose State University, where he took over the faculty union and led a big strike in 1968. His humble origins and early socialist leanings had given him a jaundiced view of elite schools, and his experience teaching a course to police officers and teachers as part of a federally funded effort to reduce juvenile delinquency furthered his belief that traditional colleges were leaving out a whole swath of Americans eager for higher education. He decided to start a university of his own — not a nonprofit but a for-profit, and not in California, where he had clashed with skeptical accreditors, but in the laxer regulatory climate of Arizona.

In 1976, Sperling rented space in a boilermakers’ union hall in Phoenix and started offering weekly classes there to eight students — all adults who’d had some college education and were looking to complete their degrees. A decade later, University of Phoenix had 6,000 students. But things really took off three years later, in 1989, when Sperling started offering M.B.A.s online through Prodigy, the early electronic communications service. Sperling took the university’s parent company public in 1994; by 2000, enrollment had reached 100,000.

By the early 2000s, for-profit colleges were booming: Access to the internet was spreading, and the Bush administration was employing a notably light regulatory touch, even as the programs were devouring an ever-greater share of federal student aid. Among the adopters of Sperling’s model was Falwell, who in 2004 began expanding the family’s primitive distance-learning programs into what would become known as Liberty University Online.

In his autobiography, Falwell praised Jerry Jr.’s business instincts, crediting him with saving Liberty from ruin through his management of its debt. “God sent him to me just in time,” he wrote. “He is more responsible, humanly speaking, for the miraculous financial survival of this ministry than any other single person.” When Falwell died in 2007 at age 73, his younger son, Jonathan, took over the pulpit at Thomas Road Baptist, and Jerry Jr. took over the university — an indication of where the heart of the ministry now was.

As the Great Recession hit, laid-off Americans turned to online education to seek a new economic foothold. After years of trying to save Liberty by cutting costs, Falwell Jr. said, he adopted his father’s vision of saving it through increasing revenues. In a recent telephone interview, Falwell described the surge in online enrollment as a kind of revelation. “It took us about 20 years to perfect” the distance-learning model, he said, “but when we did, that was about when everyone started getting high-speed internet in their homes, and we were the only nonprofit poised to serve that huge adult market of people who had not finished college or needed a master’s degree to get a promotion.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Liberty had another advantage over online competitors, he said: its status as a religious-based institution, “that long history of Liberty being a leader among Christian universities,” the “faith-based mission” that “makes us so unique and puts us in a class by ourselves.”

The River Ridge Mall spreads out on the flat ground below Liberty’s campus, among motels and fast-food restaurants. Like much commercial real estate in Lynchburg, it is majority-owned by Liberty University. In 2013, the mall lost one of its anchor tenants, Sears, which occupied a 112,000-square-foot space behind gray, nearly windowless walls. The retailer was replaced by Liberty University Online. When it first arrived inside the mall, the L.U.O. operation numbered 675 employees; it grew so large that in 2015 L.U.O. began moving its operation into a former Nationwide Insurance building several miles away.

At the front lines are the “admissions representatives,” some 300 phone recruiters working two shifts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., deploying call lists that Liberty gets from websites where people register and search for information about online higher education, like BestCollegesOnline.com. There is such a race to get to customers before University of Phoenix and other rivals that the prospective students sometimes marvel at how little time has elapsed — just a handful of minutes — between their providing their information on a website and the call coming from Liberty. Liberty’s tax filings show that in 2016, the university paid Google $16.8 million for “admissions leads generation.” In other words, advertising Liberty to those searching online for degree options.

The recruiters work under intense pressure, according to several former L.U.O. employees I spoke with. They get no more than 45 seconds between calls, and sometimes managers override even that short break. There are no formal quotas — a federal regulation that went into effect in 2011 forbids them. But as one former employee put it, the “highly motivated goal” is for each recruiter to sign up eight new students a day. Multiplied across 300 cubicles, that is 2,400 per day. Of those, only a small fraction end up paying and starting courses, but that is still an extraordinary haul for any kind of education business.

Every day, according to the former employee, managers send out a report showing the previous day’s tallies. Recruiters who signed up four or fewer new students get their names in red, visible for all to see, and are sometimes subject to a disciplinary conversation. Monthly tallies are also scored as green, yellow or red. Top performers are in the running for a small raise from the base salary, which is about $30,000. “It was that carrot and stick,” the former employee told me.

A separate division of about 60 people focuses on courting members of the military, who have access to even greater federal tuition assistance, and then advising them on campus. A former employee in that division said that given the smaller crew, the work there was if anything even more intense than in the main branch: More than 30,000 L.U.O. students are from the military or military families.

Photo

Two recruiters told me they were instructed to quote L.U.O.’s cost on a per-credit basis, rather than per-course, which makes it sound more affordable. Undergraduate courses for part-time students are $455 per credit, or $1,365 for a typical course; master’s courses are typically about $600 per credit. They are instructed not to press prospective applicants too hard on their academic qualifications. Applicants have to submit past transcripts, but any grade point average above 0.5 — equivalent to a D-minus — would suffice, said the former employee in the nonmilitary division. Recruiters, he told me, “would say, ‘Congratulations, you’ve been accepted.’ They’d make it seem competitive.”

The two recruiters also said they were told not to mention Liberty’s Christian orientation until people agree to apply, when this fact is made clear in the user agreement they sign online. It also becomes clear at the moment that the recruiters sign up students for their first classes, typically an orientation class and three required Bible-studies classes. Students often can’t transfer credits for these courses to other colleges, which deters many from dropping out: Leaving L.U.O. without signing up for more courses would mean wasting the money spent on the first four.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Falwell and other top Liberty officials pushed back on some of these points in my interview with them, insisting, for instance, that the minimum G.P.A. for applicants is 2.0 and that recruiters are assessed according to “the same H.R. evaluation form that’s standard across the university.” But Ron Kennedy, the executive vice president for online enrollment management, acknowledged that the recruiters working under pressure to meet their targets might say otherwise. “It’s a call center,” he said.

In 2010, undercover investigators from the Government Accountability Office scrutinized 15 for-profit colleges, finding that every one of them had misled applicants and that four had encouraged them to lie on their federal student-aid forms. The Obama administration seized on the findings as it began a yearslong clampdown on for-profit education, which by 2013 was gobbling up a fifth of all federal student aid, more than $25 billion, despite enrolling only 10 percent of students — and also producing about a third of all federal student-loan defaults.

Liberty, too, was hugely reliant on federal money, in the form of Pell grants, Department of Veterans Affairs benefits and federally subsidized loans. By 2010, it had more than 50,000 students enrolled and was pulling in more than $420 million annually. But because Liberty was technically not for-profit, it was spared many of the administration’s new regulations, including its requirement that a certain threshold of graduates be able to attain “gainful employment,” which was designed to hit for-profit colleges much harder. It was also spared from the pre-existing rule that for-profit colleges could get no more than 90 percent of their revenue from federal sources.

If anything, Liberty benefited from the crackdown. The Obama administration’s actions helped put out of business large for-profit chains like Corinthian and ITT Technical Institute, clearing formidable competition from the field. Though there were other nonprofit institutions with online offerings — Arizona State, Southern New Hampshire and Western Governors, as well as premium players like Stanford and Duke — none were operating at Liberty’s scale. The university now touts itself on its website as “the largest private nonprofit university in the nation.” In a sense, said Ben Miller, who served as a senior policy adviser in Obama’s Department of Education, the crackdown on for-profits offered Liberty a “marketing advantage.”

Falwell was candid about the benefits of the nonprofit status. “It insulated us from the attack on the for-profits,” he told me. And it put him on the same footing with other, more established universities. “There’s no way that an Obama federal government that probably doesn’t care much for schools like Liberty can treat us different than Harvard or Yale or Indiana Wesleyan or the University of Maryland.”

Liberty’s ability to distance itself from for-profit colleges was especially notable given that, by several key metrics, it resembled them more closely than the private nonprofits it was grouped with. The rate of Liberty graduates who default on their loans within three years of graduating is 9.9 percent, several points higher than the average for nonprofit colleges, though still below that for for-profit colleges. Most striking, though, is how little the university spends on actual instruction. It does not report separate figures for spending on the online school and the traditional college. But according to its most recent figures, from 2016, the university reports spending only $2,609 on instruction per full-time equivalent student across both categories. That is a fraction of what traditional private universities spend (Notre Dame’s equivalent figure is $27,391) but also well behind even University of Phoenix, which spends more than $4,000 per student in many states. It is also behind other hybrid online-traditional nonprofit religious colleges like Ohio Christian University, which spends about $4,500. In 2013, according to an audited financial statement I obtained, Liberty received $749 million in tuition and fees but spent only $260 million on instruction, academic support and student services.

By 2016, Liberty’s net assets had crossed the $1.6 billion mark, up more than tenfold from a decade earlier. Thanks to its low spending on instruction, its net income was an astonishing $215 million on nearly $1 billion in revenue, according to its tax filing — making it one of the most lucrative nonprofits in the country, based simply on the difference between its operating revenue and expenses, in a league with some of the largest nonprofit hospital systems.

Falwell, whose Liberty salary is nearly $1 million, does not apologize for those margins. Liberty, he said, is simply being shrewd about keeping costs down, while plowing revenue back into the university. He noted proudly that Liberty’s net assets are now $2.5 billion, up from just $150 million in 2007, when he took over. He said he was surprised more universities weren’t following Liberty’s example of increasing online enrollment by keeping instructional spending and tuition low. And he freely acknowledged that the online revenues were going to buttress the residential campus. From Falwell’s perspective, there was nothing wrong with the university’s benefiting so much from the online program. “As long as we’re keeping the quality up, we don’t think it’s a disservice to anyone,” he said. “All that is, is ensuring the future of the university.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Students at Liberty often quote a favorite line of Falwell Sr.’s: “If it’s Christian, it ought to be better.” Even those who have misgivings about the university’s conservative culture are quick to defend the education they’ve received on campus. Yet despite its ambitions to become the “evangelical Notre Dame” that Falwell envisioned, Liberty is still ranked well behind that university and other religious-based institutions like Brigham Young and Pepperdine; U.S. News and World Report clumps Liberty in the lowest quartile of institutions in its “national universities” category. Some of its programs have strong reputations, among them nursing, engineering and flight school. But the college is limited in its ability to compete for premier faculty, not only because its politics are out of step with the greater academic community, but also because none of its programs, with the exception of its law school, offer tenure.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In his autobiography, Falwell made virtually no distinction between these students on the Lynchburg campus and those receiving their instruction remotely. All of them, in his telling, were being prepared for the same goal, to be “Champions for Christ,” as the Liberty motto had it. But many students on campus, at least, are openly dismissive of the online experience. They take some classes online, for the convenience of not having to drag themselves to class — and, they readily admit, for the ease of not having to study much. “People know it’s kind of a joke and don’t learn that much from it,” Dustin Wahl, a senior from South Dakota, told me. “You use Google when you take your quiz and don’t have to work as hard. It’s pretty obvious.” (Liberty says using Google during quizzes or exams is cheating.)

Campus students are especially scornful of the online discussion boards that are in theory meant to replicate the back and forth of a classroom, but that in reality tend to be a rote exercise, with students making only their requisite one post and two comments per week, generating no substantive discussion. “It’s very minimal engagement,” said Alexander Forbes, a senior from California. Recently, a satirical campus newspaper, The Flaming Bugle, ran an Onion-style article with the headline “Cat Playing on Keyboard Inadvertently Earns ‘A’ for Discussion Board Post.”

Chris Gaumer taught English courses both on campus and online at Liberty after getting his bachelor’s degree on campus in 2006. The difference between the two forms of teaching was startling, he told me. As an online instructor, he said, he was not expected to engage in the delivery of any actual educational content. That was all prepared separately by L.U.O.’s team of course designers and editors, who assemble curriculums and videotaped lectures by other Liberty professors. This leaves little for the instructor to do in the courses, which typically run eight weeks. “As professor, you show up and your job is to handle emails and grade,” Gaumer said. This helps explain why the instructors — the roughly 2,400 adjuncts scattered around the country, plus the Liberty professors who agree to teach online courses on the side — are willing to take on the task for what’s long been the going rate for the job: $2,100 per course. (Falwell Jr. said it will soon go up to $2,700.)

Until recently, the course designers and editors, a team of about 30 people, worked out of the old Thomas Road Baptist Church — the congregation moved out of the former bottling plant years earlier — in a concrete room that got so cold in winter that they sometimes kept scarves and hats on. For editors, starting pay is now around $11 per hour. As L.U.O. boomed in size, they became so overwhelmed by the challenge of shaping hundreds of courses that L.U.O. decided in 2015 to focus designers and editors on the hundred or so highest-enrollment courses per term, leaving the maintenance of the remaining hundreds of courses up to the instructors themselves. One former editor recalled having a professor send a syllabus along with, essentially, an apology for throwing something together at the last minute.

Gaumer, who now works at Randolph College in Lynchburg, said the steep drop-off in quality from the traditional college to the online courses was both openly acknowledged among Liberty faculty and not fully reckoned with. The reason was plain, he said: Everyone knew that L.U.O. was subsidizing the physical university. “The motivation behind the growth seems to be almost entirely economic, because it’s not as if the education is getting any better,” he said.

Photo

Falwell acknowledged that Liberty’s faculty initially resisted the rise of the online program, fearing the degradation of academic standards. “The big victory was finding a way to tame the faculty,” he said. But he disputed that there was any great difference in quality. For one thing, he said, the university made sure that all of its online instructors “adhere to the fundamentals of the Christian faith, our doctrinal statement.” Physical distance was a challenge, he said, but online instructors overcame it by making an extra effort to reach out. “They spend a lot more time taking a personal interest in the students,” he said.

One of the 65,000 students who enrolled with L.U.O. in 2013 was Megan Hart, a woman from New Jersey with unflaggingly high spirits. Hart, who is in her 40s, started her working life at the glass company where her father worked, too, until he was laid off. From there, Hart made her way into education, teaching communications at the local community college and the local prison. Adjunct courses at the college paid just $525 per credit, netting her only about $5,000 per semester, so she got a low-level administrative job there, too.

Her first marriage, to the father of her daughter, ended in divorce. In January 2012, her second husband suddenly vanished. Hart and her daughter, then 9 years old, lost their home shortly afterward, and she filed for bankruptcy. She and her daughter moved into her parents’ basement and got by with donations from her local Assemblies of God church, where she was active. In 2013, she signed up to take three courses at L.U.O. that would provide her with a certificate in communications, allowing her to become a full-time instructor at the community college, which would reimburse her L.U.O. tuition.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hart, who had a master’s in communications and leadership through Pat Robertson’s Regent University, chose L.U.O. because of its affordability and Christian cachet. But in her years of teaching and taking courses, she said, she had never seen anything as flimsy as what L.U.O. passed off in its supposedly graduate-level courses. She had little interaction with the instructor, and the questions for the midterm and final exams were so arbitrary that it seemed to Hart as if they had been randomly generated by a computer program. She spent the open-book exams wildly flipping back and forth through the textbook and course materials trying to find the relevant passages. It was, she wrote to L.U.O. officials later, like “looking for Waldo.”

When she wrote the instructor for the second class to ask about the test, he responded: “As to exam question, I have no clue how the final is run.” He said he’d get back to her. He ended his note, “Do remember that God is in control and he works all things for our good.”

When Hart emailed the instructor for her third course, which had a closed-book exam, she confirmed Hart’s suspicions: “The exam questions are random.” Hart got good grades in the first two courses but was increasingly convinced she was paying for a meaningless experience. She sent an email outlining her concerns to the instructor and an L.U.O. academic mentor, adding that she might quit the third course. “We will certainly take your input very seriously,” the mentor responded. “May the Lord bless you richly in your studies and future endeavors.”

Finally, Hart told the officials that she was withdrawing from the third course, even though she had been informed that she would still have to pay 25 percent of the cost. “My spirit has been so sick over what I have experienced,” she wrote. In late 2013, she filed a complaint with a little-known government agency called the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, which oversees the state’s colleges.

Between 2009 and summer 2017, L.U.O. students filed 49 complaints with the council, more than for any other institution in the state. For some, the problem was administrative bungling — L.U.O. registered them for the wrong class, or required a class it turned out they didn’t need, and so on. For some, it was endless technical or logistical troubles that kept them from being able to submit their assignments or get textbooks. For others, it was disputes about tuition and financial aid that left them feeling as if L.U.O. was demanding more money than was fair, and withholding their transcripts until they paid up.

Several complainants said they were particularly taken aback by their L.U.O. experiences because of Liberty’s religious underpinnings. “I just expected that Liberty University being a Christian university,” they’d be more helpful, wrote a complainant who went to prison and then became homeless after a stint enrolled in L.U.O. He had been seeking to have his transcript released despite his still having a balance at L.U.O., so that he could resume his education elsewhere; Liberty responded by recommending homeless shelters. “Liberty’s motto is they are a Christian school that is training champions for Christ and they are the light of the world,” another student wrote six years ago. “That motto needs to be revised.”

The anodyne responses the students received from L.U.O. were frequently glossed with Christian bromides. To a student whose financial aid was suspended in 2015 after the student failed a course because the textbook didn’t arrive in time, an instructor sent “quiz tips that may help” that included “Eat a healthy meal before taking your quiz” and “Pray before beginning each quiz!” Other L.U.O. responses included language errors so extreme that they bordered on confusing: One administrator wrote in 2014 about a complainant’s having submitted work that “appeared to have been copied from an unsighted source,” while a professor responded to a student in 2012 that “no other acceptions will be made.”

Other students were left simply to flounder, contrary to Falwell’s claims of close attention from distant instructors. Lydia Terry-Dominelli, who lives in a suburb of Albany, N.Y., signed up with Liberty in 2013, when it looked as if she and her husband were headed for divorce and she was worrying about how she could support herself and her 9-year-old daughter. She decided to get her teacher’s certification and chose Liberty partly because she was an observant Anglican. “I was ready for something that had some kind of value system,” she told me.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 2015, Terry-Dominelli failed a graduate-level education course when, she said, one of the assignments she submitted vanished from Blackboard, the online system used by Liberty. After twice failing a writing course and puzzling over what she was doing wrong, she asked the course instructor for an explanation. He wrote back to suggest that she might do better if she found a “new work space” like the local library. After she assured him that her apartment sufficed and the conversation continued, he wrote: “I wonder if you can’t find a great prayer group through L.U.O.?”

Terry-Dominelli struggled further with confusing assignments in another graduate-level education course. She was starting to feel helpless over the lack of guidance. “I have prayed very hard, and what I keep being told is I am in the wrong place,” she wrote to the education instructor in late October of 2015.

“Bless your heart. I am so sorry,” the instructor responded. “I will join you in prayer for you to have wisdom and discernment.”

In early 2016, Terry-Dominelli was unable to access online the spring-semester courses she had registered for. She took it as a final sign and left Liberty, just a few courses short of the master’s degree she had borrowed more than $20,000 to pay for. In August 2016, having failed to establish a decent income, she moved back in with her husband. Lacking certification, she took a part-time job as an aide at a local elementary school. Unable to afford the loans she’d taken out, she filed for help under the U.S. Department of Education’s Borrower Defense program, which is intended for students who have incurred student debt after being misled by higher-education programs. (Her application is still pending.)

She also filed a complaint with the Virginia agency: “I feel that I was being pushed out of the program and I need to know why,” she had written to one of her professors. The agency declined to take action, finding no clear violations by Liberty. “What’s killing me is that I went into this program to try to change my situation,” she told me, “and I’m worse off than I was at the beginning.”

The Trump-Falwell bond has if anything grown even stronger in recent months. In October, Falwell Jr. told Breitbart News that Trump could “be the greatest president since Abraham Lincoln” and urged an evangelical army to rise up against the “fake Republicans” standing in his way. In December, he joined Trump in promoting Roy Moore’s Senate candidacy, quoting the song “Sweet Home Alabama” in a tweet on the eve of Election Day: “AL voters are too smart to let the media & Estab Repubs & Dems tell them how to vote. I hope the spirit of Lynyrd Skynyrd is alive/well in AL. ‘A southern man don’t need them around anyhow & Watergate does not bother me, does your conscience bother you, tell me true?’ ” In late February, he joined in on Trump’s mau-mauing of Jeff Sessions, calling the attorney general a “coward” in a tweet for his handling of the Russia investigation.

But on campus, Falwell has proved a more divisive leader than his father. In May 2016, conflict over his pro-Trump stance prompted the resignation of the chairman of the university board of trustees’ executive committee, Mark DeMoss, whose father was a major donor to the university. DeMoss previously told The Washington Post that “the bullying tactics of personal insult have no defense — and certainly not for anyone who claims to be a follower of Christ.” It also prompted students on campus, including Wahl and Forbes, to gather hundreds of signatures in opposition to Trump following the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape. After Falwell’s support for Trump following Charlottesville, several Liberty graduates mailed back their degrees in protest. One protester was Laura Honnol, a banking officer in Lubbock, Tex., who attended from 2003 to 2007. “There’s been a huge climate shift from Falwell Senior to Falwell Junior,” she told me. “You felt like you disagreed with Senior, but he had good intentions and just didn’t do it right sometimes. But Junior came along, and it’s become more of a profit machine and a numbers machine.”

The Trump connection is not without risk for Falwell. Some people who worked for L.U.O. in late 2016 and early 2017 blamed it for a dip in applications at the time and said the decline led to an April 2017 leadership overhaul and the departure of many employees. Falwell told me that Liberty has deliberately brought online enrollment down to around 85,000, explaining that “we wanted to make sure we kept the student quality at a certain standard.” And he said that his alliance with Trump has only helped the university: “For every student we lost because of political concerns, we picked up two or three inquiries who support us because of that political stand.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A relationship with Trump could benefit Falwell Jr. and Liberty in other ways too. One of the top orders of business for Trump’s education secretary, Betsy DeVos, has been to roll back Obama-era regulations on online-degree providers. She named a former official from for-profit DeVry University to lead the D.O.E. unit that polices fraud in higher education. Claims for student-debt relief under the Borrower Defense program are being considered at a far slower rate under DeVos, who is delaying by two years an Obama rule that would make it easier to file debt-relief claims. And DeVos is expected shortly to roll back several key regulations geared toward online providers: ones giving states regulatory powers over distance-learning programs, establishing clear standards for a credit-hour and requiring “regular and substantive” interactions between online instructors and students. Falwell told me that Liberty officials have had a major hand in some of DeVos’s actions: “A lot of what we sent them is actually what got implemented,” he said.

Photo

After the convocation on the first weekend in November, I met with Dustin Wahl in Liberty’s student center, overlooking the campus quad. He said that the unbridled success of the online program couldn’t help putting him in mind of the profit-seeking tradition within American Christianity, which is closely aligned with evangelical Christianity’s prosperity gospel — the notion that financial success, far from distracting us from the higher values, is an affirmation of godliness. Wahl told me he’d frequently heard people justify the school’s new wealth in these terms. “A lot of people just talk about it generally, how God has blessed us,” he said.

Falwell rejects such prosperity-gospel talk. “I’m not going to tell you that we’ve done better because we’re better people,” he told me. “What I will say is that we’ve always operated from a business perspective. We’ve treated it like a business.” And that’s what first drew him to Trump, he said: the kinship of one businessman to another. “I thought to myself, if there’s one thing this country needs, it’s exactly the methods we employed at Liberty to save the school and make it prosper, and that’s just basic business principles.”

As I sat with Wahl, the spoils of that prosperity were visible all around us: not just gleaming new buildings like the $50 million library with its robotic book-retrieval system, but also, up the mountain, a $7 million “Snowflex Centre,” with a polymer surface for year-round skiing — the only one of its kind at any university in the country. Elsewhere, the university is completing a $3 million shooting range. But, Wahl said, once you knew about the thousands of people far from Lynchburg who funded this splendor, it was hard to take your mind off them, and off the faith with which they signed up for L.U.O. “You get a phone call,” he said, “and it’s God telling you, ‘I’ll give you an education.’ ”

When we spoke before my visit, Wahl raved about the campus: “It’s beautiful,” he said. Then he added: “And it’s funded by the online program that’s sold to people who can’t really afford college.”Early in the morning, Natasha Pickowicz ducked into the walk-in refrigerator, the one all the way at the end of the dishwashing station in Café Altro Paradiso’s kitchen, and studied the family shelf. As usual, the tidy nook was stacked with plastic containers of odds and ends, leftover prep from the night before, set aside for staff meal. A pint of blanched broccolini stems here, a lump of blue-cheese butter there. But where anyone else might have seen a random muddle of junk, Natasha Pickowicz saw tarts — big, beautiful tarts that would feed the whole kitchen before noon.

She gathered a few pint containers: ham and red-onion scraps, spare confit leeks and yesterday’s mashed potatoes, tatters of provolone and raw cauliflower debris. She reached for fluttery maitakes, a sticky paste of caramelized onions and a handful of cold, slightly sad-looking boiled potatoes with their skins still on. Pickowicz set everything on the counter, just across from a cook smashing raw beef for carpaccio. “It’s really satisfying to find a purpose for all these things,” she said, already seeing how the bits and pieces would come together on cold discs of pie dough.

Pickowicz is a pastry chef, known for desserts like her glamorous fruit crostatas and the pastries she makes at both Altro Paradiso and Flora Bar in New York. She started baking savory tarts at an old job when there was an excess of squash one summer, and now she builds a few out of whatever’s on hand each morning, working quickly among the tasks on her to-do list so that she can set out a late breakfast for herself and the cooks. Her approach is spontaneous but deliberate, which is to say, the scraps are random, but there’s nothing random about the way that Pickowicz composes them. “I’m always thinking critically about how they’ll cook,” she said. “I’m thinking about creating layers, so when you bite into it, you’re transitioning from tender dough through body and structure.” I wasn’t sure exactly what she meant, until I watched her make four tarts.

For one, she layered mashed potatoes and cauliflower over dabs of caramelized onion. After it came out of the oven and cooled, she covered it in parsley leaves and lemon zest and draped over those thin, soft pieces of ham. She arranged the leeks over smudged mascarpone and lemon zest, keeping it simple. For the third, she broke the potatoes apart with her hands, creating rough, jagged edges that would go golden as they roasted on the pastry — which she coated first with smears of ricotta and an oily condiment of preserved lemon. The maitakes, after they were roasted with red-onion pieces and caramelized onion for the very last tart, would be covered with crisp, dressed leaves of pink radicchio del Veneto.

Photo

Repurposing leftovers, making something entirely whole and new from fragments, isn’t only about economy and efficiency in the kitchen. There’s joy in limiting yourself to what you already have, in finding a use for every scrap and stretching a little into a lot. At home, I made Pickowicz’s pastry dough, with its giant flecks of butter, using as little ice water as possible to bring the crumbs together, and tucking some extra dough into the freezer for another day’s tart. It was only technically spring in New York, so I didn’t have much to work with. Some ricotta, some small boiled potatoes and a single shallot. I asked myself, what would Natasha do?

I smeared ricotta all over the cold dough, grated lemon zest over the top and cracked a little bit of black pepper. Then I broke the potatoes up into big pieces with my hands, mixed in the sliced shallot and dressed it all with olive oil and salt. That went on top of the ricotta. I filled a few gaps with torn up provolone, using the last few slices in the fridge. And when the tart came out of the oven, when it had cooled down to room temperature, I seasoned it again and covered it in dressed radicchio leaves, which wouldn’t have been quite enough to make a meal on their own. It was a delicious and inexact emulation, a spontaneous salad tart, and somehow it was big enough to feed six.

Recipe: Potato-and-Radicchio Tart | Tart CrustCaissie Levy lives with her husband, David Reiser, and their toddler son, Izaiah, in an airy two-bedroom, two-bath co-op on the Upper West Side. It has high ceilings, hardwood floors stained a warm brown, large south-facing windows and a wall in the kitchen that you would bet your ticket to heaven was exposed brick.

But if not for Mr. Reiser’s cool hand on the throttle, Ms. Levy, a star of the new Broadway musical “Frozen,” just might be living in a sandwich-bag-sized apartment in Brooklyn or Washington Heights right now. Or a rat trap in Astoria that would put off a self-respecting rat.

Photo

A native of Hamilton, Ontario, Ms. Levy, 37, fell for New York when she came to the city as a 19-year-old student at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy, and vowed to make it her home. But during her 20s, often as not, she was out of town on tour or appearing in London’s West End in shows like “Hair” and the musical adaptation of the movie “Ghost.” She and Mr. Reiser, 37, a writer, composer and theater professor, married in 2011.

Four years ago, the couple decided it was time to put down roots in New York City and buy an apartment. They scrutinized hundreds, frequently at Sunday open houses just before Ms. Levy had to shove off to perform in the “Les Miserables” matinee. She wanted to buy any and every place she saw. Her husband’s attitude could be summed up thus: Let it go.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“If it was a hellhole or it was amazing, I’d say, ‘This is great. We can make this work. We can do this and this and this,’” Ms. Levy recalled. “I’ve always been a big interior design nerd, and I’d always be envisioning how we could move the walls.” And David would say, ‘This is the worst apartment I have ever seen.’”

Name: Caissie Levy Age: 37 Occupation: Actor/singer Having the do-re-mi, if not the dough: “‘Les Miz’ was the big gift, in that it allowed us to get a mortgage. We’re actors, so our finances are weird to banks. They don’t understand how you make a ton of money one year and not a lot the next year. ‘Les Miz’ was very helpful for that.”

She continued: “I think I was just so eager to own a piece of New York City that I was willing to leap, which is my way. And he was like, ‘Let’s take a breath, and keep it steady here, and wait for our place.’ And, of course, he was right.”My patient and I were locked in a game of decision-making hot potato.

“What would you do, Doc?” he said. We’d been discussing whether he should get screened for prostate cancer.

Such questions trouble most doctors. We often lob the choice back to patients, or “on the one hand, on the other hand” so much they start sympathizing with Harry Truman, who jokingly wished for one-handed advisers.

But the evidence wasn’t clear. I passed the potato back.

Medicine’s decades-long march toward patient autonomy means patients are often now asked to make the hard decisions — to weigh trade-offs, to grapple with how their values suggest one path over another. This is particularly true when medical science doesn’t offer a clear answer: Doctors encourage patients to decide where evidence is weak, while making strong recommendations when evidence is robust. But should we be doing the opposite?

Research suggests that physicians’ recommendations powerfully influence how patients weigh their choices, and that while almost all patients want to know their options, most want their doctor to make the final decision. The greater the uncertainty, the more support they want — but the less likely they are to receive it.Photo

LONDON — It was an unexpected invitation. Two years ago it would have been an unthinkable one. But last month an email arrived in my inbox requesting my presence in Riyadh, the capital city of Saudi Arabia. The desert kingdom, one of the most conservative societies in the world and historically known as a place with a resistance to anything new, was in the final stages of preparations for its first official fashion week. Now the organizers wanted a reporter from The New York Times to attend.

I said yes immediately, and not just because I wanted to see local design talent on the runways, or experience catwalk shows at an event held at the Ritz-Carlton hotel (yes, that one), with women-only audiences and a strict social media ban. Not long ago, such access to Saudi Arabia as a journalist, especially as a young, unmarried Western female one, was virtually unheard-of. But the country is experiencing a time of great change, propelled by the ascendance of the king’s son, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, 32. Alongside efforts to diversify the economy away from oil, “M.B.S.,” as he is widely known, has been spearheading the easing of many longstanding social restrictions. In recent months Saudi Arabia has given women permission to drive, join the military, visit sports arenas and cinemas, and as of last week, attend public fashion shows.

The prince even said last month that women do not need to wear the hijab or the black abaya (a loose-fitted robe), as long as their attire is “decent and respectful.” (For opening night, I opted to wear a floor-length, long-sleeved, midnight blue silk dress with hand-painted white flowers on the skirt, but kept an abaya close at hand in my bag.)

But did Saudis themselves believe real change was in the air? People under 25 represent 51 percent of the population; add Saudis up to their mid-30s and the proportion approaches 75 percent. I wanted to see what those citizens, most glued to their smartphones and plenty who have either been educated or spent time abroad, made of the lofty promises being made to them, and discover what government measures felt meaningful versus simply symbolic. I was curious to hear about their ambitions for employment in a volatile economy, and what their hopes were for what could come next. My chance came when the fashion week was unexpectedly postponed by 24 hours following my arrival into Riyadh (the event’s second abrupt delay), and I ended up with more time on my hands than originally expected.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

[For more coverage of women and gender issues, subscribe to Gender Letter, a new newsletter, or follow @nytgender on Instagram.]Tesla’s trials in putting the Model 3 into mass production have drawn scrutiny from investors. With a starting price of $35,000, the Model 3 is supposed to be Tesla’s most affordable and top-selling car. The company has been counting on a quick increase in sales to bolster revenue and enable the company to pare down losses and pay off bonds and borrowings while still investing heavily in future vehicles.

Concerns over the slow pace of Model 3 assembly spurred Moody’s Investors Service to cut Tesla’s credit rating last month and question whether the company could face a cash crunch this year.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Its financial troubles have been compounded by an investigation by federal safety experts into a fatal crash on March 23 that involved a Tesla Model X sport-utility vehicle that was operating with its Autopilot driver-assistance system engaged. The driver, Wei Huang, a software engineer at Apple, died in a hospital shortly after the crash.

The National Transportation Safety Board sent investigators to California to look into the crash. Tensions between Tesla and the agency increased after the automaker suggested the driver was at fault because data from the car showed that he did not have his hands on the steering wheel for several seconds before the car hit a concrete barrier.

In production of the Model 3, Mr. Musk gambled by creating an assembly line that relies much more heavily on automated equipment and robots than workers. But it has proved more difficult than he expected to get the machinery to work in harmony. He recently said he was sleeping at the Fremont plant while working to improve the production line, and he has described the delays and glitches as “production hell.”

In a tweet over the weekend, Mr. Musk acknowledged that “excessive automation at Tesla was a mistake. To be precise, my mistake. Humans are underrated.”

Tesla stock and bond prices have slumped in recent weeks. On Monday, Tesla shares closed at $291.21, down 3 percent on the day. They have lost nearly a fifth of their value since March 12.“They are extremely good drivers’ cars,” said Simon Evans, a technology entrepreneur who owns five McLarens and has a sixth on order. Mr. Evans, who lives near Reading, west of London, said he chose which car to take depending on his route. The McLarens, he said, are not only fast around a racetrack but “a pleasant place to be” for ordinary driving.

Photo

His McLarens are equally at home cruising highways and shuttling into the office. At the same time, Mr. Evans said, driving the cars on more interesting roads with hills and hairpin turns is “hugely rewarding.”

“What you find is that you are able to carry lots of speed into corners,” he said. “It is very, very possible to have fun in the legal speed limits.”

The connection between racing and road vehicles has a long history. Ferrari, Lotus, Mercedes-Benz, Bugatti and others can point to a proud racing heritage.

McLaren Automotive is distinct from the McLaren racing team, but both are owned by the McLaren Group. The relationship is hard to miss at the group’s lavish headquarters here in a London suburb. Racing machines from years past line a soaring interior boulevard overlooking an artificial lake. Amanda McLaren, a “brand ambassador” for the company, noted that the only car on display that McLaren hadn’t made is a 1929 Austin Ulster that Mr. McLaren, her father, raced when he was 15.

Although the family no longer has equity in the company, Ms. McLaren said her father had planned to someday build street cars before he was killed in a crash at Goodwood, a well-known British track, in 1970. He even built a prototype, the M6GT — “basically a racecar with a roof and number plates,” she said.

McLaren’s design engineering chief, Dan Parry-Williams, said that with both the company’s Formula One and road car designers on the same site, “it is not very hard to pick up the kind of D.N.A. that comes from racing.”

Photo

McLaren’s road cars, for instance, are increasingly built of expensive carbon fiber, a material it first used for racing, to give them lightness as well as strength that among other things protects the driver in a crash. McLaren’s road models also use aerodynamic techniques first developed in racing, like wings or spoilers placed in the rear to create down force to help the car stay planted on the road.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

McLaren’s new Senna — a £750,000 hypercar named for Ayrton Senna, who won three Formula One titles driving for McLaren — is track worthy but street legal. The aerodynamic features of the Senna even go beyond what is allowed in racing, Mr. Parry-Williams said, with adjustable blades on the front end to complement the wing on the rear.

McLaren says it will make only 500 examples of the Senna. It is an aggressive-looking vehicle with a large air intake snorkel on top along with the huge back fin. Top speed: 211 m.p.h. With only enough storage space for two helmets and two racing suits, “it is not really the ideal thing to go and buy your furniture in,” Mr. Parry-Williams said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Technologies developed for these high-priced vehicles are rolled out to other cars in McLaren’s line. For instance, the Senna’s predecessor, the P1, which was introduced in 2013, used an electric motor coupled to a gasoline engine to improve the car’s performance as well as reduce emissions. While McLaren is not currently making a hybrid vehicle, the company says hybrid engines will power half of its vehicles by 2022.

The 500 Sennas that McLaren plans to make are already sold out to buyers like Mr. Evans. He said that he had once owned a Ferrari but sold it after he found that he was using it a lot less than the McLaren he owned at the time, which did “everything at least as good or better.”

Yet McLaren has some way to go before it catches up with Ferrari, the company that Mr. Flewitt considers his main competitor. The Italian company with the bucking horse logo sold more than twice as many cars as McLaren — about 8,400 — last year.

Photo

McLaren’s customers may be genteel, but it has entered itself in a cutthroat race, analysts say. Mr. Flewitt may be able to charge almost unlimited prices for his cars, but he needs to put whatever money he makes back into new models and other investment.

“In the past, models from very specialist manufacturers could stay in production for 15 years,” said Peter Wells, a professor of automotive studies at Cardiff University. “That is not the case anymore.”

Mr. Wells said McLaren needed to sell more cars to make more money to pursue new markets like China, where the company’s sales are growing. They are “trailing Ferrari on that kind of track,” he said. McLaren is also lagging Ferrari in the prestigious Formula One competition, where Ferrari is a perennial contender. McLaren’s top driver, Fernando Alonso, finished 15th in last year’s championship.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yet McLaren doesn’t strike a visitor as being short of cash. The headquarters, which also house an applied technology unit, are a sunlit, crescent-shaped structure that almost seems to float in the lake. The factory floor gleams with spotless white tiles. Unlike most car plants, where assembly lines also produce a din, this one is eerily quiet because McLaren’s vehicles are assembled by hand.

Experts say Britain is one of the better locations for designing and building these cars. Many of the Formula One racing teams are based here, and there is a deep pool of designers and engineers who relish the opportunity to work on the most expensive and prestigious vehicles.

Mr. Flewitt said the company’s small group of shareholders, who are led by Mumtalakat, the sovereign wealth fund of Bahrain, have bought into a strategy of forgoing dividends and reinvesting profits into increasing the company’s value. Last year, McLaren had revenues of about £650 million and invested £140 million in new models and the capability to manufacture carbon fiber chassis in Sheffield, in central England.

Yet Mr. Flewitt acknowledged the intensity of the pressure to keep customers convinced that the machines McLaren made, no matter how superlative, were worth buying.

“When it is no longer new and exciting, somebody else will be doing something new and exciting,” he said, “and they will be taking the market.”NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.Though they might have something of the enchanted quality of a fairy tale, these experiences did, in fact, happen to (respectively) Patricia Herrera Lansing, the daughter of the fashion designer Carolina Herrera; to Zoe Jackson, scion of the actors LaTanya Richardson Jackson and Samuel L. Jackson; and to Flavin and Rainer Judd (named after their father’s fellow Minimalists and friends, the choreographer Yvonne Rainer and the sculptor Dan Flavin). And they happened, crucially, in 1980s New York — a time and place that allowed for an eccentric and productive sociocultural cross-pollination that seems, with every passing year, as the city becomes more expensive and more staid, less and less likely to recur.

For these now-adult children — born at different stages in their parents’ lives, they range in age from 27 to 53 — often first-generation New Yorkers growing up in the then still-gritty, still-weird, still-in-flux East Village or SoHo or TriBeCa or Harlem or even Park Slope, life was significantly not about (or not just about) having famous parents. Rather, it was about witnessing culture making at the closest range possible — from within the family unit — and learning along the way how to become culture makers themselves. And while the privileges that come along with a proximity to glamour and, sometimes, resources, cannot be denied, these children were often exposed to something far rarer and more expansive. They learned at a young age that family could widen to include friends and co-conspirators in both celebration and creative work. And they gathered from both their parents and their parents’ associates that creative work was neither magic nor a chore, but something you never stopped doing, a matter “of passion and choice,” in the words of the writer Nadja Spiegelman, the daughter of cartoonist Art Spiegelman and editor Françoise Mouly. Cultural work was an occupation that was just as, if not more legitimate than, say, practicing law, like those “funny people with briefcases who carried papers,” as Flavin Judd says.Those words often appeared alongside drawings by Keith Haring, who wasn’t just the patron artist of ACT UP but the emblematic artist of the city during that period. His work — inspired by, and evocative of, graffiti — brought the street into the gallery, and vice versa, much as Jean-Michel Basquiat and his high school friend Al Diaz did around the turn of the decade, when their symbol “SAMO” suddenly sprouted on walls all across the city, the siren of a new sensibility.

The line between high and low culture, between fringe and mainstream, blurred. Hip-hop was one example. Madonna, who released her first album in 1983, was another. Both popularized and commercialized sounds and styles that Latino and black New Yorkers had already embraced. But they also reflected the abiding dissonance of those years: The very communities that were being creatively pillaged were being politically ignored and repressed, and their frustration would boil over as the decade progressed. Black New Yorkers marched in protest in 1986 after a young black man who was fleeing a mob of white youths was struck by a car and killed in the Howard Beach section of Queens. Those marchers were led by a fiery minister named Al Sharpton, whose relative anonymity at the start of the decade would be a distant memory by its end.

Just as the era had its defining art and music, it had its signature restaurant, the Odeon. It opened in late 1980, pulling New Yorkers from more polished precincts to TriBeCa, which was then an urban frontier. In its sleek, unfussy dining room, glamour and grit sat cheek by jowl, and going to the bathroom to powder your nose could mean one of two things. That was immortalized in the novel “Bright Lights, Big City,” which was published in 1984 and greeted less as fiction than as a distillation of the zeitgeist in all its greedy, seedy glory. It featured an illustration of the Odeon’s Art Deco neon sign on its cover and established its author, Jay McInerney, as one of the nascent decade’s bards. Like his protagonist, he relished being naughty but yearned to be rich; those desires were hardly irreconcilable in a city that simultaneously embraced the materialism of the Reagan era and rejected its moralism, where stretch limos deposited partygoers in unseemly neighborhoods and yuppies ran rampant while “Die Yuppie Scum” graffiti spread.

The Odeon was like Area, the rising Chelsea department store Barneys and so many other temples of the time: an improbable, irresistible nexus of tribes — bankers and sculptors, models and socialite housewives, power publicists and literary brats — that hadn’t always played together before. “There had been a dividing line between uptown and downtown, and we wanted to make Barneys a hit so that everybody would come,” Simon Doonan, who became the store’s display director in the mid-80s, told me. “We broke down that division, which was more pronounced than it is now: The 1980s were when the cracks appeared.” And Barneys was yet another gilded place to see and be seen, amid the wares of New York-based designers — Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren, Michael Kors — who weren’t so much clothes makers as shamans, with a cache and currency that rivaled any Hollywood star’s.

Their labels live on, with less shimmer. So does the Odeon, minus the bathroom rites. But the most important survivor of the early 1980s — something that was crystallized then — is the idea of New York as a cradle like none other in America, the country’s messiest and most mesmerizing laboratory. “New York today is stronger economically, culturally more important and has a much different position in the world than it did then,” said Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy on the faculty of New York University since 1973. We have the early 1980s, in part, to thank for that.

And I still feel the spirit, strivings and tensions of those years. We’re a city once again at odds with the White House and its random and regressive edicts — with what it exalts and what it ignores. People are marching, though with pussy hats and Black Lives Matter signs as well as rainbow flags. We’re at the forefront of the perversely belated quest for justice for women who have been sexually harassed and abused, and we’re reckoning with how much our reality falls short of our ideals. New Yorkers, as always, come here to remake themselves — and to reinvent the city around them. It’s an unfinished story, in which certain chapters are bolder and more complicated than others. One of them is now. One of them was then.Caissie Levy lives with her husband, David Reiser, and their toddler son, Izaiah, in an airy two-bedroom, two-bath co-op on the Upper West Side. It has high ceilings, hardwood floors stained a warm brown, large south-facing windows and a wall in the kitchen that you would bet your ticket to heaven was exposed brick.

But if not for Mr. Reiser’s cool hand on the throttle, Ms. Levy, a star of the new Broadway musical “Frozen,” just might be living in a sandwich-bag-sized apartment in Brooklyn or Washington Heights right now. Or a rat trap in Astoria that would put off a self-respecting rat.

Photo

A native of Hamilton, Ontario, Ms. Levy, 37, fell for New York when she came to the city as a 19-year-old student at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy, and vowed to make it her home. But during her 20s, often as not, she was out of town on tour or appearing in London’s West End in shows like “Hair” and the musical adaptation of the movie “Ghost.” She and Mr. Reiser, 37, a writer, composer and theater professor, married in 2011.

Four years ago, the couple decided it was time to put down roots in New York City and buy an apartment. They scrutinized hundreds, frequently at Sunday open houses just before Ms. Levy had to shove off to perform in the “Les Miserables” matinee. She wanted to buy any and every place she saw. Her husband’s attitude could be summed up thus: Let it go.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“If it was a hellhole or it was amazing, I’d say, ‘This is great. We can make this work. We can do this and this and this,’” Ms. Levy recalled. “I’ve always been a big interior design nerd, and I’d always be envisioning how we could move the walls.” And David would say, ‘This is the worst apartment I have ever seen.’”

Name: Caissie Levy Age: 37 Occupation: Actor/singer Having the do-re-mi, if not the dough: “‘Les Miz’ was the big gift, in that it allowed us to get a mortgage. We’re actors, so our finances are weird to banks. They don’t understand how you make a ton of money one year and not a lot the next year. ‘Les Miz’ was very helpful for that.”

She continued: “I think I was just so eager to own a piece of New York City that I was willing to leap, which is my way. And he was like, ‘Let’s take a breath, and keep it steady here, and wait for our place.’ And, of course, he was right.”Depending on what the subjects are wearing, the closely cropped images conjure complicated representations that are not unlike his own views of modern policing. The side-by-side frames of Officer Eric King show him in uniform wearing his badge, handcuffs and firearm — all symbols of state-sanctioned power long regarded suspiciously in many black communities. The second image is a portrait of Mr. King wearing a black hoodie — an article of clothing that often results in black men and boys being seen as suspects on the streets of their communities.

“I approached this project from the lens of what W.E.B. Du Bois called ‘double consciousness’: the idea of having to fraction yourself in a space to survive,” said Mr. Edwards, 29, of the project that is featured on his social justice oriented multimedia website, BlackVign. “What is it like to have to navigate that as a black person in America? What is it like when you end up putting on this uniform that represents danger to a lot of people and can represent danger to you when you’re out of the uniform and you’re just wearing your black or brown skin?”Ryan M. Kelly won the Pulitzer Prize for breaking news photography for his “chilling image” of a car barreling into a crowd of protesters in Charlottesville, Va. He took the picture, which The Washington Post said would “define this moment in American history,” on his final assignment on his last day as a staff photographer at The Daily Progress.

Mr. Kelly had been covering a white nationalist rally on Aug. 12 when a car plowed into a crowd of counterprotesters, killing one person and injuring 19 others who had been frantically scrambling to get out of his way when they were tossed about in the chaos. In a first-person account for The Columbia Journalism Review, he said he had gone to cover the rally with his editor after weeks of preparation.

“There were groups on both sides scattered,” he wrote. “There were a few small fights that broke out from time to time. People were throwing stuff at each other. A few people were beating on each other. Eventually I came across two large groups of people protesting against the ‘Unite the Right’ rally and they merged together on Water Street.”

He said he walked ahead of the crowd — he estimated there were well over 100 people — when he stopped for a moment.