At the same time, though, they have determined that for Mr. Mueller to complete his inquiry in a timely manner, Mr. Trump will need to sit down for questioning. Mr. Giuliani plans to try to work with Mr. Mueller to come up with a way to question Mr. Trump that both sides are comfortable with.

The addition of Mr. Giuliani comes at a particularly tumultuous time for the president. Last month the president’s lead lawyer, John Dowd, quit the team after he determined the president was not following his advice. For much of the past month, the team has been led by Mr. Sekulow, who has had to assemble a new group of lawyers to deal with the issues in New York and another team to confront Mr. Mueller.

At the same time, Mr. Mueller has been pressuring Mr. Trump to sit down for an interview. The president, who initially said he was eager to answer Mr. Mueller’s questions under oath, is said to be more skeptical of an interview in the wake of the raid on Mr. Cohen’s office.

After Mr. Dowd quit, many well-known lawyers turned down the opportunity to join the president’s legal team. Some said that they did not believe Mr. Trump would listen to them and that their firms did not want to be associated with the president. But after the raid on Mr. Cohen, many more lawyers have become interested in working for Mr. Trump, according to people briefed on the matter. The lawyers believe the government overstepped its bounds by executing a warrant at a lawyer’s office and have contended the government violated the attorney-client privilege between Mr. Cohen and his clients.

Mr. Trump negotiated the discussions to have Mr. Giuliani join his team with Mr. Giuliani directly, a person close to the process said. Mr. Trump had repeatedly offered Mr. Giuliani the job of attorney general during the transition, but Mr. Giuliani turned it down because he wanted to be secretary of state.

Mr. Trump turned to Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, to be attorney general, but has publicly criticized Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry. Mr. Trump has said that Mr. Sessions should be protecting him from the inquiry.

Some close to the president believe he could try to replace Mr. Sessions with Mr. Giuliani in the coming months, although Mr. Giuliani would face an extremely difficult confirmation hearing in the Senate. When Mr. Giuliani sought the secretary of state job, Trump advisers, including the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, raised concerns about his business dealings and paid speeches to a shadowy Iranian opposition group that until 2012 was on the State Department’s list of foreign terrorist organizations.The Times reported at the time that Mr. Trump was irritated at Mr. Flynn for delaying such a call with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

Mr. Flynn was eventually fired for misleading Vice President Mike Pence and others about the details of a conversation with a Russian ambassador. Soon after, Mr. Comey was again at the White House for another meeting. This time, he wrote, Mr. Trump told him that Mr. Flynn “hadn’t done anything wrong” in calling the Russians and asked him to wrap up his inquiry.

“I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go,” Mr. Trump said, according to the memo.

Mr. Flynn has since pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about those conversations and is cooperating with investigators for the special counsel who inherited the investigation from Mr. Comey.

That exchange and other broad outlines of the memos have already been reported by The Times, and were relayed by Mr. Comey in testimony before the Senate and in his recent memoir, “A Higher Loyalty.”

But they are believed to be evidence in a possible obstruction of justice case against Mr. Trump being pursued by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.

The memos are exacting in their specificity, including details about who was sitting where, the precise times that conversations began and their durations. In some cases, Mr. Comey shared his accounts with others immediately afterward.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These details add credibility to Mr. Comey’s account of events. Mr. Trump has disputed some parts, including asking Mr. Comey to shut down an investigation into Mr. Flynn.

“What follows are notes I typed In the vehicle Immediately upon exiting Trump Tower on 1/5/17,” Mr. Comey writes at the beginning of his first memo, sent the next day to his deputy director, chief of staff and the F.B.I.’s chief counsel.

Select lawmakers have been allowed to view redacted versions of the memos at the Justice Department. But three House Republican committee chairmen requested last Friday that they be sent to Congress, and made clear this week that they were willing to issue a subpoena if the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, did not comply.

The Justice Department relented on Thursday and is expected to deliver unredacted versions of the memos via a secure transfer on Friday.

In a letter to lawmakers on Thursday, Stephen E. Boyd, an assistant attorney general, wrote, “In light of the unusual events occurring since the previous limited disclosure, the department has consulted the relevant parties and concluded that the release of the memorandums to Congress at this time would not adversely impact any ongoing investigation or other confidentiality interests of the executive branch.”

Photo

The three Republican chairman — Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of the Judiciary Committee, Representative Devin Nunes of the Intelligence Committee, and Representative Trey Gowdy of the Oversight Committee — issued a joint statement Thursday night taking direct aim at Mr. Comey’s character and the import of the memos. The documents, they said, show Mr. Comey was “blind with biases” and demonstrated bad judgment.

While Mr. Comey “went to great lengths to set dining room scenes, discuss height requirements, describe the multiple times he felt complimented and myriad other extraneous facts, he never once mentioned the most relevant fact of all, which was whether he felt obstructed in his investigation,” they wrote.

Democrats reached the opposite conclusion. Representative Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the Oversight Committee argued that the documents were the effort of a prudent law enforcement official alarmed by the president’s behavior.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The memos include other previously undisclosed conversations that shed light on the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation and Mr. Trump’s views of it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a Feb. 8 meeting with Reince Priebus, then the White House chief of staff, for example, Mr. Comey writes that Mr. Priebus asked about the contents of the salacious dossier produced by a former British spy that lays out a vast conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia to sway the election. In the days before the inauguration, Mr. Comey briefed Mr. Trump about the document and its contents, including a supposed encounter between Trump and Russian prostitutes.

Portions of that section of the memo were redacted, but in speaking with Mr. Priebus, Mr. Comey makes clear that the bureau was taking the allegations seriously.

“I explained that the analysts from all three agencies agreed it was relevant and that portions of the material were corroborated by other intelligence,” Mr. Comey wrote. He then defended his decision to share it with Mr. Trump, saying again that “much of it was consistent with and corroborative of other intelligence.”

Later in the conversation, Mr. Priebus asked Mr. Comey if their discussion was private. When the director replied that it was, the White House chief of staff asked whether the F.B.I. had ever wiretapped Mr. Flynn.

Mr. Comey told Mr. Priebus that the question was inappropriate and should be directed through other channels. His response was redacted.

The two men then proceed to the Oval Office, where Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump denied that he had consorted with Russian prostitutes, as the dossier claimed.

“The president said ‘the hookers thing’ is nonsense, but that Putin had told him ‘we have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world,’” Mr. Comey wrote. He said Mr. Trump did not specify when the conversation with Mr. Putin took place.

Other memos add new details to well-known exchanges. In the same meeting that Mr. Trump asked Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation, the men bonded over leaks of sensitive government information.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I said I was eager to find leakers and would like to nail one to the door as a message,” Mr. Comey wrote. But, he explained, prosecuting journalists “was tricky” for legal reasons.

Mr. Trump told Mr. Comey to talk to “Sessions,” referring to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, “and see what we can do about being more aggressive.”

Mr. Trump asked Mr. Comey on two separate occasions whether his deputy, Andrew G. McCabe “had a problem with him” and mentioned a large donation made to his wife’s political campaign by an ally of Hillary Clinton.

Mr. Comey defended Mr. McCabe as a “true pro” and said Mr. Trump would come to agree.

Instead, Mr. Trump would go on to lavish criticism on Mr. McCabe, arguing he was biased against him.

Mr. McCabe was fired by the F.B.I. in March for reportedly lying to investigators about his contacts with a reporter in an unrelated matter. Federal prosecutors are examining whether they have sufficient evidence to open a criminal investigation based on a report by the department’s inspector general.

And they show that Mr. Trump and top aides were eager to discuss with Mr. Comey the details of another consequential F.B.I. investigation: the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state. Mr. Priebus told Mr. Comey that he believed the Clinton campaign had mishandled the investigation and pressed him for an explanation of why Mrs. Clinton had not been charged.

“At some point, I added that it also wasn’t my fault that Huma Abedin forwarded emails to Anthony Weiner,” Mr. Comey wrote, referring to a top Clinton aide and her husband.Mr. McCabe has been swept up in an extraordinary and abrupt conclusion to his 21-year F.B.I. career. He was fired last month over the allegations at the heart of the inspector general report, and his appeal was rejected by Attorney General Jeff Sessions hours before Mr. McCabe would have been eligible for retirement benefits.

Mr. McCabe contended that the inspector general’s report and his firing were meant to discredit him as a witness in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is also examining whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice in trying to interfere with the inquiry.

In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has escalated his attacks on Mr. McCabe and his former boss, the fired F.B.I. director James B. Comey, as Mr. McCabe was ousted and Mr. Comey embarked on a publicity tour for his highly anticipated book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” which was published this week. Mr. Comey said in an interview on Thursday on CNN that he was conflicted about the accusations that Mr. McCabe was not forthcoming to investigators.

“James Comey just threw Andrew McCabe ‘under the bus,’” Mr. Trump wrote Thursday evening on Twitter. “Inspector General’s Report on McCabe is a disaster for both of them! Getting a little (lot) of their own medicine?”

Mr. McCabe is said to have recently sold the rights to his own book about his time at the F.B.I., which is likely to excoriate Mr. Trump.

Mr. McCabe was faulted last week in the highly critical report by Mr. Horowitz for being less than forthcoming when questioned by investigators. They were asking about the disclosure of information in 2016 to a Wall Street Journal reporter about a continuing criminal investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

Mr. McCabe authorized two F.B.I. officials to speak to The Journal to rebut allegations that he had slowed down the Clinton Foundation inquiry. As the resulting article noted, Mr. McCabe had insisted that his agents had the authority to investigate the foundation, even if the Justice Department refused to authorize grand jury subpoenas.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The inspector general’s report determined that on four occasions, Mr. McCabe demonstrated a lack of candor in discussing those interactions with investigators. Mr. Horowitz concluded that the engagement initiated by Mr. McCabe had not been justified under the news media policy of the F.B.I. and Justice Department and constituted misconduct.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McCabe has rebutted the allegations, describing them as “egregious inaccuracies.”

Mr. Horowitz is expected to release another report in the coming weeks summarizing an examination of the F.B.I.’s actions during the 2016 election. After his report about Mr. McCabe was made public last week, Mr. Trump went on the offensive.

“He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey - McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes!” Mr. Trump tweeted.

Mr. Comey has said that Mr. Trump is not fit to hold office and has compared him to a mobster. The president fired back, calling Mr. Comey the worst director in F.B.I. history.

Mr. McCabe does have plenty of supporters. This month, he raised more than a half-million dollars for his legal defense fund through an internet fund-raising tool.

Mr. McCabe also quietly shopped a book proposal recently to publishing houses. He received offers from multiple publishers, according to several industry executives, and came to an agreement to publish the book with one of the major houses.

His literary agent, Todd Shuster, declined to comment.

Mr. McCabe likely has an intriguing story to tell about his experience in the F.B.I. and his interactions with the Trump administration. As the deputy director, he was directly involved in the Russia investigation as well as the inquiry into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. He also participated in many other high-profile inquiries, including the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the arrest of a suspect in the 2012 attacks on American compounds in Benghazi.

It remains to be seen whether Mr. McCabe’s book will be derailed by the news of the criminal referral, or, if it goes forward, would generate the same degree of interest as Mr. Comey’s book, which became an instant best-seller, with a first printing of 850,000 copies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While Mr. Comey’s book has been an undisputed commercial success, the reaction in political and news media circles has been mixed. Some have praised Mr. Comey’s forthrightness, but others have criticized his wall-to-wall TV appearances as a self-aggrandizing publicity stunt that has exacerbated the already strained relations between Mr. Trump and the nation’s law enforcement agencies.

Mr. Trump sees the two former top F.B.I. officials as well as other law enforcement agents as part of a “witch hunt” to damage his presidency. For months, he has insisted that he did not collude with the Russian effort to influence the election.

The deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, who is overseeing the special counsel investigation, has said that he has seen no reason to stop the inquiry, even as Mr. Trump and his allies attack it as biased.

Three House Republican committee chairmen were prepared to support a subpoena to compel Mr. Rosenstein to turn over documents in the case, namely, unredacted copies of a set of closely held memos written by Mr. Comey about his interactions with the president.

They are believed to be key evidence in a possible obstruction of justice case against Mr. Trump being pursued by Mr. Mueller. Mr. McCabe is also known to have kept memos detailing his interactions with the president.

But Justice Department officials sent to Capitol Hill on Thursday declassified, unredacted copies of the memos, alleviating the need for a subpoena; they were quickly leaked to the news media later Thursday.By proposing the tariffs, Mr. Trump has moved to fulfill a central promise of his campaign: confronting those countries he believes are undermining American industry. Yet his goal — to revive the steel and aluminum industries, thereby aiding the Rust Belt states that were crucial to his election — has effectively prioritized one element of the Trump political coalition over another, larger bloc of voters. That larger segment, the farm belt, is essential to Republican success in the midterm elections and beyond.

Photo

From the still-thawing soybean fields of North Dakota and Kansas to the corn and pork farms of Iowa, voters across the political spectrum say the president’s attacks on American economic rivals could do grave damage to an already unstable commodities market.

“They’re not in touch with the reality of the Midwest and the impact that the tariffs would have,” said Bart Bergquist, a biology professor and part-time farmer who lives on 10 acres just south of Waterloo, Iowa. Mr. Bergquist, who voted for Mr. Trump in the 2016 election, added that commodities prices had already taken a toll on the area.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I know my neighbors are not rolling in money — they’re trying to supplement whatever else they can do to keep going,” he said.

Representative Rod Blum, a Republican, represents much of eastern Iowa and is facing a highly competitive race in what is the second-largest soybean-producing congressional district in the country. He and other politicians are facing a “nervous” farm community across the state, according to Grant Young, an Iowa-based Republican strategist.

“I listen to the farm show over the noon hour on WHO daily,” Mr. Young said of Iowa’s leading radio station. “They are usually a happy-go-lucky bunch promoting industry and holding a two-hour infomercial for the Farm Bureau. But the last couple of months I’m wondering if they need to take the sharp objects out of the studio.”

In Kansas, Bob Henry, who grows corn and soybeans in another up-for-grabs House district near the Nebraska border, said the country could ill afford to tangle with a market that American farmers rely on.

“For the United States soybean grower, China is the 800-pound gorilla in the room,” Mr. Henry said. He suggested that Beijing is exacting political payback against the Republican heartland: “China knows who got Trump elected.”

After an initial round of tariffs on a modest share of American exports, the Chinese have displayed a more keen awareness of the electoral map and moved to punish those industries whose misfortune will be felt most intensely in states and districts pivotal in 2018.

Karl Rove, the former strategist to President George W. Bush, said a trade clash “would limit Midwestern enthusiasm from our base and limit our ability to hold what we have and pick up more seats.” Mr. Rove also grumbled that Mr. Trump “has little to no understanding of the farm coalition.”

He may have a slightly better appreciation after a meeting last week in the West Wing with a small group of farm belt Republican senators and governors, during which two of them brought up the adverse impact that tariffs on exports could have in the midterm election, according to officials briefed on the conversation.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump used the session to direct a pair of his top economic advisers to reconsider whether the United States should join a free-trade pact with a group of Pacific nations. But just hours later he signaled on Twitter that he was unlikely to reverse course on that agreement, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Instead, there are already whispers, in Washington and in agriculture states, that the president is risking a replay of President Jimmy Carter’s grain embargo on the Soviets, which contributed to the massive losses Democrats suffered in 1980.

Indeed, after a year in which Mr. Trump only mused about pulling out of Nafta and was stymied by Congress in his attempt to slash the Agriculture Department’s budget, there is now a sense in the farm belt that Mr. Trump’s yearning to punish China could inflict real economic and political damage on his own political base.

“This is the first time it’s in your face, especially to us in the Midwest,” said Ed Schafer, a Republican former governor of North Dakota who was agriculture secretary under George W. Bush.

There may be no other race in America that is at once as significant as the Senate contest here and as shaped by whether China’s tariffs take effect this year. Most of North Dakota’s votes are in the eastern end of the state, in the Red River Valley — a region that also happens to be home to the three largest soybean-producing counties in the nation.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Senator Heitkamp won her seat by fewer than 3,000 votes in 2012. She remains personally popular, a valuable asset in a state with just 570,000 voters, but North Dakota has turned sharply away from Democrats in recent years.

But Mr. Trump has now handed her what may be a political gift.

“Senator Heitkamp will jump on the big, bad Trump and the stupid policy that’s coming out of Washington hurting our farmers,” Mr. Schafer said. “That’s a strong message in North Dakota.”

Or as Rob Port, a conservative talk radio host and columnist in the state, put it: “This is the perfect issue for her. Her base eats up the Trump bashing, but it’s also an economic argument that’ll have rural Trump voters saying, ‘Maybe blind allegiance to Trump isn’t such a good thing.’”

Ms. Heitkamp is already testing out such a message against her rival, Mr. Cramer.

“Clearly he sees his role is to be a vote for President Trump in the United States Senate,” she said. “And I believe my role is to be a vote for North Dakota in the United States Senate.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Cramer, who Mr. Trump repeatedly wooed to run for the Senate, accused his opponent of “hysteria” and said she was overstating what are at this point only trade negotiations.

Photo

“People in North Dakota prefer humility to hyperbole, and that kind of hyperbole I don’t think sells very well politically,” he said. “But it’s certainly not good for our farmers or good for our economy.”

But on a local talk radio program, Mr. Cramer let slip his frustration with the president’s actions. “He tends to have rather emotional responses,” he said of Mr. Trump.

North Dakota is not simply another red state where Democrats are bound for extinction. There is an enduring populist streak here, dating back to its mistrust of distant bankers and millers in Minneapolis, Chicago and New York. To this day, the state retains a state-controlled bank and mill.

“We’re Republicans until it comes to subsidies for farmers,” said George Blank, only half-jokingly, as he sipped coffee with a half dozen fellow retirees at their daily breakfast-and-bull session in Casselton’s Country Kitchen.

And, Mr. Blank noted, “everything drives on ag in this state.”

Recalling his years running a construction supply business in a state where one in four jobs is agriculture-related, he said: “When the price of corn went down that impacted us greatly.”

Now, though, soybeans have become the go-to commodity, said Vanessa Kummer, who farms 4,000 acres with her husband and son near Colfax, N.D. “It has become our cash crop and the most reliable crop to go to,” she said.

Nancy Johnson, who leads the North Dakota Soybean Growers Association, reached for a measure of cheery, upper-Midwest optimism as she expressed hope that the threat of tariffs was merely “a negotiating tactic” by Mr. Trump. But Ms. Johnson, who wears a soybean pendant necklace, said her farmers “are rightly concerned, because we’re being used as a weapon.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over on William Hejl’s farm in Amenia, N.D., just north of Casselton and part of the 86 percent of the state that is made up of farmland and ranches, the anxiety is as difficult to miss as the April snow crunching underfoot.

Photo

Showing a visitor his gleaming, green John Deere tractor, still in its shed for winter, Mr. Hejl said to “check back in August” — and not just to find better weather.

“If this thing hasn’t been resolved, that’s when it’s going to hurt,” he said of the outset of harvesting. “You’ve got to pay for the fuel and for the people to drive the combine.”

Kevin Skunes, a neighboring farmer who is also president of the National Corn Growers Association, joined Mr. Hejl and a visiting reporter for coffee, a brownie and a chance to sound the alarm.

“In an already depressed farm economy, if we take another hit on soybeans and corn it’s going to be disastrous,” Mr. Skunes said.

Back outside the post office in Casselton, Mr. Runck found his voice nearly drowned out by the sound of the speeding Burlington Northern Santa Fe — the same freight train that will be carrying crops west to the Pacific this fall.

But his answer carried clearly when he was asked whether he would support Ms. Heitkamp or Mr. Cramer: “I think the president has got to do the right thing between now and the election.”The judge wrote that she would later make public a full opinion explaining her reasoning. But at a hearing earlier on Thursday, she had made clear that she worried that the transfer would set a troubling precedent, and suggested that the government’s argument that it had a diplomatic need to swiftly carry out the deal probably did not outweigh the man’s constitutional rights to contest the legality of his detention.

In a statement, the man’s lead lawyer, Jonathan Hafetz of the American Civil Liberties Union, celebrated the blocking as a victory for the rule of law.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The court is rightly protecting this U.S. citizen’s constitutional rights and checking the Trump administration’s excessive claims of executive power,” he said. “The government cannot do whatever it pleases with a U.S. citizen without judicial review and a basis in law.”

Earlier, at the hearing, Mr. Hafetz had said the government’s only options, if it could not come up with a transfer deal his client would assent to, were to charge his client with a crime or release him.

One of the oddities of the case is that were the military to open his cell door, he would risk being immediately rearrested by Iraqi authorities who have been swiftly prosecuting and executing people associated with the Islamic State. Judge Chutkan said the man would have no right to make the United States bring him out of Iraq.

The man has admitted to working for the Islamic State, including guarding a gas field and monitoring civilians, and the recruiting files for the extremist group indicate that he was registered as a fighter, court filings have shown. But the man has insisted he went to Syria for journalistic reasons and was arrested, then agreed to work for the group to get out of prison. The government has not accused him of fighting for the Islamic State.

Mr. Hafetz also argued at the hearing that the government had no legal authority to send his client to another country against his will. He noted that the United States does not have an extradition treaty with the proposed receiving country and that the man is not accused of committing a crime on its soil.

He also noted that the court had not yet had an opportunity to rule on whether the man is indeed an enemy combatant, which his client contests. One of the novel questions raised by the case is whether the legal authority Congress granted the executive branch to fight Al Qaeda can be legitimately stretched to include the Islamic State.The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has never given a nominee for secretary of state anything but a favorable vote since the committee began considering nominees in the late 19th century, the Senate historian said on Thursday. And it has been almost 30 years since any cabinet nominee was reported with an unfavorable recommendation to the full Senate, a possible path for Mr. Pompeo.

“It has nothing to do with him,” Mr. Corker said, referring to the Democrats’ opposition to Mr. Pompeo. “I understand where they are. They feel like a vote for Pompeo is a proxy support for Trump.”

But even allies of the administration worry that the vote could taint Mr. Pompeo and undermine American diplomatic initiatives. In a telephone interview coordinated by the Trump administration, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said that a committee vote against confirmation “will wound him.” He urged senators to move quickly to confirm him.

“We cannot be without a secretary of state for very much longer,” he said.

Democrats say their opposition to Mr. Pompeo springs from more than just anti-Trump sentiment.

Mr. Pompeo first came to Mr. Trump’s attention in 2015 when, as a congressman from Kansas, he directed searing questions at Hillary Clinton during a hearing on the deadly 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya. Mr. Pompeo called Mrs. Clinton “morally reprehensible,” a charge that still rankles Democrats, particularly since he has faced nowhere near the scrutiny he demanded of Mrs. Clinton as C.I.A. officers have died under his leadership.

Photo

Mr. Pompeo’s ardent partisanship during his four terms in Congress did not endear him to Democrats. They also cite comments that have been called prejudiced against Muslims and lesbians, gay men, bisexuals and transgender individuals.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But at his confirmation hearing last week, Mr. Pompeo presented himself in surprisingly moderate terms, promising to defend gay rights around the world, work to rescue the Iran nuclear deal and reverse the administration’s marginalization of American diplomats.

On Wednesday and Thursday, Mr. Pompeo continued a charm offensive intended to moderate his image and answer questions about a secret trip he made to North Korea to meet with its reclusive leader, news of which surfaced this week.

Beyond Ms. Heitkamp, he has yet to notch any clear wins from his campaign.

Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, the only Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee who has yet to formalize his opposition to Mr. Pompeo, said on Wednesday that he was inclined to vote against him in part because calls and emails coming into his office from constituents were running 50 to 1 against Mr. Pompeo.

Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican and another member of the committee, said he had yet to make up his mind.

And Mr. Paul, who was one of the first senators to stake out his opposition to Mr. Pompeo’s nomination, said he was unmoved after his Thursday sit-down with Mr. Pompeo, despite Mr. Trump’s public assurances that Mr. Paul was a “very special guy” who had “never let me down.”

Mr. Paul, a libertarian-leaning Republican, has fretted that Mr. Pompeo will lead Mr. Trump toward a more interventionist foreign policy.Mr. Broidy and Mr. Nader met around the inauguration and worked to sway the Trump administration on behalf the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia at a time when Mr. Broidy was seeking contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars from the two countries.

Photo

In a statement, Mr. Broidy said, “This whole narrative is a fabrication driven by hackers who want to undermine me.”

Mr. Broidy resigned as deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee last week after admitting that he had worked through Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, to reach an agreement to pay $1.6 million to a Playboy model who became pregnant during an affair with the fund-raiser.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The results of Mr. Broidy’s efforts on Mr. Guo’s case are unclear. China has charged Mr. Guo with corruption, but he remains in New York, where he has become an outspoken critic of Chinese government self-dealing and is seeking asylum.

Mr. Broidy’s attempts to curry favor with Malaysia through the golf date, however, entailed more direct and insistent communications with the White House, illustrating the influence he hoped to use for the benefit of both Asian countries.

“I have done work in Malaysia over many years and know Prime Minister Najib Razak well,” Mr. Broidy wrote in an email to the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, dated Aug. 31, 2017, early in Mr. Kelly’s tenure.

Mr. Broidy had personally appealed to Mr. Trump in June for a one-on-one golf date with Mr. Najib during the prime minister’s coming visit to Washington, and “the president told me he would be happy to play golf with the PM,” Mr. Broidy wrote in the email. The president’s previous chief of staff, Reince Priebus, had confirmed the golf date to Mr. Broidy, but “unfortunately, the golf game is not appearing on the schedule that has been provided through protocol to the PM,” he wrote.

“I look forward to discussing this with you,” Mr. Broidy wrote to Mr. Kelly, thanking him for his assistance. A person close to Mr. Broidy said Mr. Kelly did not reply.

For Mr. Trump, a golf date with Mr. Najib could have fueled criticism that the president is indifferent to the appearance of corruption. Mr. Najib is under investigation by prosecutors in both the United States and Malaysia on suspicion of embezzling from a state investment fund, the 1Malaysia Development Berhad, or 1MDB. The Justice Department has filed a lawsuit seeking to seize $540 million in American assets purchased with money stolen from the fund.

A person close to Mr. Broidy said the golf date never happened and his business discussions with Malaysia never passed the preliminary stage.

The Chinese dissident, Mr. Guo, made a fortune in real estate and finance in China but fled in 2014 in anticipation of charges of corruption. He has said the allegations were fabricated by business and political opponents, and he has since styled himself as a whistle-blower exposing the corruption of the Chinese elite. He lives primarily in a 9,000-square-foot apartment overlooking Central Park that he bought three years ago for more than $67 million.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

One person close to Mr. Broidy said he was interested in the case because of his friendship with Steve Wynn, another top Republican fund-raiser. Mr. Wynn, a casino mogul who himself recently resigned as a Republican finance chairman after a sex scandal, had large business interests in China and also sought to persuade the United States to expel Mr. Guo.



Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A representative of Mr. Wynn did not respond to requests for comment, and a representative of Mr. Guo declined to comment.



Mr. Broidy wrote a draft memo dated May 6, 2017, to Mr. Nader, the Emirati adviser, laying out a complex proposal for both men to profit from an unusual three-way trade relying on their combined influence in Washington and Abu Dhabi, the capital of the U.A.E.

Mr. Nader would encourage his patron, Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Zayed al-Nahyan, to ask the United States to hand over Mr. Guo in connection with a business dispute with the U.A.E.

Mr. Broidy, meanwhile, would prod the Trump administration to comply with the extradition request from the U.A.E. while avoiding the appearance of turning a Chinese dissident over to China.

The Emiratis might then agree to deliver Mr. Guo to China, Mr. Broidy wrote, because they believe Mr. Guo owes $3 billion to Emirati investment funds. In exchange, the Chinese might pay off that debt, Mr. Broidy wrote.

“China would agree to pay” Mr. Nader and himself, Mr. Broidy wrote, and “Abu Dhabi would pay” them as well.

He and Mr. Nader “can assist members of the Trump administration, including President Trump, Mr. Kushner, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly, and National Security Adviser H. R. McMaster, see the value of cooperating with Abu Dhabi in getting custody of Mr. Guo, which in effect helps China get one step closer to acquiring custody of Mr. Guo,” Mr. Broidy wrote.

A person close to Mr. Broidy and familiar with the case said he did not send the email but still approached Mr. Nader in general terms about the proposal. In his statement, Mr. Broidy said: “I have never had a strategy or plan regarding Mr. Guo nor was there any compensation given or even discussed. And, to be clear, at no time was I told by George Nader or anyone that anyone from U.A.E. had any interest whatsoever in Mr. Guo.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most of the documents appear in 20 pages of emails from Mr. Broidy’s account that were provided to The Times by an anonymous group critical of his advocacy of foreign policies in the Middle East. Lawyers for Mr. Broidy have filed a lawsuit charging that hackers working for Qatar stole his emails in retaliation for his criticism of the country; Qatar has denied responsibility. The email to Mr. Kelly was provided by a different person.

Mr. Broidy drafted another memorandum, dated May 21, 2017, to Mr. Sessions. In it, Mr. Broidy wrote that “while conducting business in Malaysia” he had learned of “a potential opportunity for the U.S. and China to increase their law enforcement cooperation.”

A delegation from China was on its way to Washington four days later, Mr. Broidy wrote, and “the one request China will make” is the extradition of Mr. Guo, “who China alleges has conspired with others who have been arrested and charged with violations of numerous criminal laws of China.”

A person close to Mr. Broidy said he never sent that memorandum, and a Justice Department spokeswoman said Mr. Sessions never received it. But as late as the end of 2017 Mr. Broidy was evidently seeking to encourage Mr. Guo’s expulsion, in part by generating negative publicity about him. “Slam him,” Mr. Broidy wrote in October to an associate seeking to promote negative articles about Mr. Guo.The Justice Department sued to block the union of AT&T and Time Warner last November, saying it would hurt consumers who would likely see their monthly cable bills increase. The trial is being closely watched as a barometer of how the Trump Administration may treat mega-mergers, and for the implications of the case on antitrust policy and the entertainment landscape.

The trial is expected to wrap up in coming days after rebuttal arguments by the Justice Department and closing statements by both sides. Judge Richard J. Leon of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, who is presiding over the case, is expected to make a decision on the suit as early as the end of May.

In cross-examination of Mr. Stephenson, the Justice Department’s lead litigator, Craig Conrath, picked apart the portrayal of AT&T as under siege by Silicon Valley. Mr. Conrath said the key difference between AT&T and tech companies is that AT&T is in a powerful position as the company that provides broadband access to the internet — a service that Netflix and Amazon don’t offer.

Mr. Conrath also presented a friendly email from June 2017 between Mr. Stephenson and Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, in which Mr. Zuckerberg offered to help build AT&T’s ad platform. Mr. Conrath questioned the offer of “cooperation,” suggesting there was less of a rivalry between the companies than Mr. Stephenson had said.

Mr. Stephenson dismissed the significance of the email with Mr. Zuckerberg. Mr. Zuckerberg was following up on a casual meeting the executives had during an annual media industry gathering of executives in Sun Valley, Idaho, he said.Maile’s arrival was the product of several months of behind-the-scenes negotiation in the hidebound Senate, whose rules until Wednesday barred children from coming onto the Senate floor. A few months after Ms. Duckworth announced she was pregnant, she asked Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, the senior Democrat on the Senate Rules Committee, to help her engineer a rule change, necessary because senators are required to vote in person.

So it was that on Wednesday, senators voted unanimously that, henceforth, both male and female senators will be permitted to bring infants up to age one into the chamber. In an institution where a fair number of members are in their 80s, this was a monumental change, hardly as simple as it might seem.

First, Ms. Klobuchar said, there were the discussions over whether the Senate floor would turn into some kind of nursery.

“But what if there are 10 babies on the floor of the Senate?” Senator Orrin G. Hatch, 84, Republican of Utah, asked, according to The Associated Press. Replied Ms. Klobuchar: “That would be wonderful and a delight.”

Then came the concerns about whether there would be diaper changes. Or breast-feeding. (Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Klobuchar said, has no intention of doing either while on the Senate floor.)While the Senate could censure the president, it is doubtful Republicans would take that action before midterm elections in which they will be relying on Trump supporters to help them hold the Senate. It has been done only once before, in the case of Andrew Jackson (coincidentally a Trump favorite), and was later reversed.

Another Republican suggested that the Senate could refuse to consider Justice Department nominees unless the president agreed to the naming of a new counsel, a reaction Democrats would consider woefully insufficient. Democrats fear they might not learn the Republican reaction until after the president takes his own action.

“Why not head off a constitutional crisis at the pass, rather than waiting until it’s too late?” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said Thursday in calling for approval of the special counsel legislation. “Why even flirt with the prospect of a president challenging the very nature of our system of government?”

Democrats are just as concerned that Mr. Trump and House Republicans are building a separate case for firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who is overseeing the investigation as a result of the decision by Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself. They fear that a move against Mr. Rosenstein would not grab as much attention as dismissing Mr. Mueller and that Mr. Rosenstein’s successor could then constrain the inquiry.

Pressed again Wednesday evening at a news conference about whether he intended to fire either of them, Mr. Trump repeated his denunciation of the idea of collusion between Russia and his campaign as a hoax and called for the inquiry to be wrapped up. “As far as the two gentlemen you told me about, they’ve been saying I’m going to get rid of them for the last three months, four months, five months,” he said. “And they’re still here.”

Despite Mr. McConnell’s resistance, Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, still plans for his panel to take up the special counsel bill next week. It appears to have a strong chance of receiving the committee’s approval.

“The views of the majority leader are important to consider, but they do not govern what happens here on the Judiciary Committee,” Mr. Grassley said Thursday.WASHINGTON — A barrage of missiles against Syria by American, French and British forces most likely will not stop President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons program, a Pentagon assessment has concluded, despite President Trump’s “Mission Accomplished!” declaration hours after last weekend’s strikes.

The military intelligence report, put out less than three days after the attack, said the allied airstrikes likely set back Mr. Assad’s production of sarin gas.

But it found that the Syrian president is expected to continue researching and developing chemical weapons for potential future use, according to an American intelligence analyst who has seen the document and described it to The New York Times on the condition of anonymity.

“They do retain a residual capability” to produce chemical weapons, Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., the Joint Staff director, said on Thursday of the Syrian government. He said the chemical weapons are “spread through the country.”Photo

Seven and a half months after being nominated to lead NASA, Jim Bridenstine finally gets to start his new job. His confirmation following a vote in the Senate ends the longest span of time that NASA has operated without a permanent leader, and comes with a vivid reminder that few posts in Washington are now spared from partisan conflict.

On Thursday, the Senate confirmed Mr. Bridenstine, an Oklahoma congressman, as the new NASA administrator in a stark partisan vote: 50 Republicans voting for him and 47 Democrats plus two independents against. The vote lasted more than 45 minutes as Republicans waited for Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona to cast his lot. The vote was also punctuated by the appearance of Senator Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois, who cast her “no” vote on the Senate floor with her newborn daughter in hand.

Many who voted against him expressed concerns about his record of partisanship as well as some statements questioning climate change, an area of research in which the space agency plays a central role.

Mr. Bridenstine takes over an agency in transition. While President Obama talked of sending astronauts to Mars in a couple of decades, the Trump administration has instead focused on a nearer, quicker goal: to return to the moon. The administration has also proposed getting NASA out of the business of running the International Space Station and instead spur commercial alternatives that do not yet exist.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Critics have questioned whether the agency’s new administrator is up to the task.

Mr. Bridenstine, a former Navy pilot who is now in his third term in the House of Representatives, has become immersed in space issues. In 2016, he sponsored a bill called the American Space Renaissance Act, which proposed broad, ambitious goals for the nation’s space program, including directing NASA to devise a 20-year plan. Although it did not reach a vote, some of the ideas were incorporated into other legislation.Delays in delivering weapons systems have long been an irritant to foreign governments and domestic manufacturers, and almost every administration in the modern era has tried to fix the process. Top aides in the Trump White House have frequently called officials at the State Department and the Pentagon to try to hurry things along.

But the deals can pose an array of challenges, involving not only national security issues, such as the transfer of sensitive technologies, but also economic ones. India, the world’s largest weapons buyer, often requires defense firms to build weapons in India in partnership with Indian firms, the kind of requirements that the Trump administration finds objectionable in China with regard to cars and other products.

The biggest change announced on Thursday involves the sale of larger armed drones like the Predator and the Reaper, which have been the workhorses of the fight against insurgents in Afghanistan and the tribal regions of Pakistan. President Barack Obama embraced the weapons but was also so troubled by such remote warfare tools that he placed unusual restrictions on their sale.

Those restrictions have allowed drone makers in Israel, China and Turkey to capture a large part of a market that American manufacturers had pioneered, something the Trump administration wants to reverse.

The new drone export policy “will level the playing field by enabling U.S. firms to increase their direct sales to authorized allies and partners,” Peter Navarro, assistant to the president for trade and manufacturing policy, said in a news briefing on Thursday. He added, “This will keep our defense industrial base in the vanguard of emerging defense technologies while creating thousands of additional jobs with good wages and generating substantial export revenues.”

Mr. Navarro noted that at last year’s Paris Air Show, Chengdu Aircraft Industry Group of China showed off its Wing Loong II, a medium-altitude long-endurance drone that he described as a knockoff of General Atomics’ Reaper. He said the market for such aircraft was expected to be $50 billion annually within a decade.

Under the old policy, only Britain, France and Italy were approved to purchase armed drones, according to Dan Gettinger, co-director of the Center for the Study of the Drone at Bard College.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

As more countries are approved, “the risk is that countries may be more willing to use military force when they can do so without risking their own people,” Mr. Gettinger said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Sales of smaller, unarmed drones have fewer restrictions, and American manufacturers dominate the market for those, Mr. Gettinger said.

The newly announced changes in the policy governing which countries can purchase sophisticated American-made weapons, known as the Conventional Arms Transfer Policy, instruct the government to take domestic economic concerns into greater account than it has in the past.

The new policy also says that consideration should be given to minimizing civilian casualties. That could potentially justify sales of “smart” bombs, which are easier to direct to specific targets.

But experts said that the changes are not likely to have much effect on sales.

“I think it’s political posturing,” said Rachel Stohl, managing director of the Stimson Center, a think tank focusing on foreign policy. “We already sell to almost everybody in the world. Are we really going to open markets to places like Iran and North Korea now? I don’t think so.”

Human rights advocates denounced the changes as loosening rules they viewed as already too permissive. John Sifton, an advocacy director at Human Rights Watch, said that some of the changes were intended to make questionable arms sales easier to conduct.

“It’s going to be easier to give licenses in cases like Saudi Arabia, which has a history of launching military strikes that harm huge numbers of civilians,” Mr. Sifton said.

The Obama administration was also enthusiastic about foreign weapons sales, which soared during its tenure. Direct weapons sales declined in the first year of the Trump administration from the year before and are now roughly half the level seen in 2011, the first full year of the Arab Spring.

The policy changes were announced two days after a hearing on Capitol Hill during which senators from both parties expressed anguish at the vast humanitarian crisis in Yemen, caused in part by Saudi Arabia’s use of American weapons.

“Maybe part of the humanitarian answer is supplying less weapons to a war,” Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said during the hearing.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A bipartisan group of senators has proposed legislation that would require the State Department to routinely certify that Saudi Arabia is taking steps to end the suffering there, the sort of review that slows weapons purchases. The Trump administration opposes the legislation.The pessimism among policymakers — who are attending spring meetings of the I.M.F. and World Bank in Washington this week — contrasts with financial markets. Despite a bumpy couple of months, stocks and most other financial assets are still priced at levels that suggest growth will continue apace for some time to come.

“Economists are paid to worry,” said Nathan Sheets, chief economist at PGIM Fixed Income and a former official at the United States Treasury and the Federal Reserve. “We’re paid to find problems and challenges. I think the markets, on the other hand, are pretty good at living in the moment.”

What are these policymakers so worried about? Is this just a bunch of economists living up to their field’s reputation as the dismal science — or worse, letting their own policy preferences shape their forecasts? Or is the world economy, for all its apparent prosperity, actually in peril?

Let’s look at the interrelated threats the economists see.

Trade War Worries

President Trump tweeted last month that trade wars are “good, and easy to win,” but it is safe to say that leading economic policymakers do not agree. They instead see the risk of ruin in the administration’s tariff threats — a cycle of retaliation that could disrupt companies’ supply chains and cause global commerce to falter.

Image Steel coils for car production in Emden, Germany, last month. A steep tariff on steel imports is among the threats from President Trump that have unnerved economists. Credit David Hecker/Epa-Efe, via Rex, via Shutterstock.

Ms. Lagarde argued in a speech last week that the global trading system has had tremendous benefits in terms of reducing poverty and creating higher-wage jobs. “But that system of rules and shared responsibility is now in danger of being torn apart,” she said.In the past, the bank had been used by large corporations like Boeing and General Electric, which received loan guarantees to sell products like airplanes, satellites and industrial equipment to developing countries, lifting sales and supporting American jobs. It has provided loan guarantees to overseas airlines looking to buy American-made jets and helped organizations like the Environmental Chemical Corporation build water facilities in Africa.

Photo

Proponents of the bank, including some lawmakers, argue the institution could be a powerful weapon for a president who wants to increase domestic manufacturing and narrow the gap between what the United States imports and what it exports overseas.

Ex-Im provides the kind of government subsidies that other nations regularly use to help domestic companies compete abroad. Mr. Trump regularly blames those subsidies for a flood of cheap imports, saying they exacerbate the United States trade imbalance.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The bank was languishing before Mr. Trump took office, but it has worsened under his watch. Last year, Mr. Trump’s pick to oversee Ex-Im, Scott Garrett, a critic of the bank, was rejected by the Senate over concerns that he would close the agency. The other directors who were nominated by Mr. Trump remain stalled in the Senate, and the president has yet to pick a new leader to take the helm.

To business groups, manufacturers and veterans of the bank, Mr. Trump appears to be undermining his own trade aspirations by leaving Ex-Im in the lurch.

“I’m not sure he’s really being well served,” said Fred P. Hochberg, the most recent chairman of the bank, who departed in 2017. “If you want to be able to reduce trade deficits and you want to be able to export more, particularly capital goods, that’s what an Export-Import Bank does.”

In recent years, the bank has been barely functional. According to its most recent annual report, Ex-Im authorized just $3.4 billion of mostly short-term export credit in 2017. That is down from the $20 billion that it authorized in 2014, the last year that the bank was fully operational. The report points out that China provided $34 billion in medium- and long-term financing for its exports in 2016, underscoring the competitive disadvantage that the United States faces.

The bank’s crippling has been costly for both companies and their workers, including Boeing, which Mr. Trump has hailed as an emblem of American innovation. In the last two years, two deals involving the sale of its commercial satellites have been canceled and one was significantly delayed given the lack of a quorum at Ex-Im. The stalling of these deals alone has cost the company hundreds of millions of dollars.

“Restoring the Export-Import Bank to full strength is the single best thing Washington can do right now to build on the economic momentum of tax reform, shrink our trade deficits and level the playing field so American workers can win,” said Tim Keating, Boeing’s executive vice president for government operations.

Photo

In 2015, General Electric said that it would stop manufacturing certain gas engines in Waukesha, Wis., and that it would instead build a $265 million plant in Canada, which was offering financial support through its version of Ex-Im, known as Export Development Canada. G.E. attributed the move to the lack of United States export financing, saying in a statement that the company “will secure access to Canadian Export Finance to fill the gap from the lapse of the U.S. Export-Import Bank.”

After the bank’s board became empty last month, Jay Timmons, the chief executive of the National Association of Manufacturers, sent letters to every senator urging them to hold a vote on Mr. Trump’s nominees. Mr. Timmons warned that the lack of action was costing American jobs.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Countries in Europe and beyond have been luring U.S. manufacturers to set up shop overseas to take advantage of foreign export financing because the U.S. system is effectively broken,” Mr. Timmons said. “Manufacturers in the United States have lost billions of dollars in deals, and tens of thousands of American workers have lost opportunities for well-paying jobs supported by the exports that the Ex-Im Bank could have helped secure.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

At a congressional hearing last week, Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, pressed Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, about the fate of the bank and argued that not using its financing amounted to a lost opportunity. He suggested that some in the Trump administration wanted the bank to collapse.

“The president says he wants to see the trade deficit shrink, here’s a way we can do it,” Mr. Dent said.

In an interview after the hearing, Mr. Mnuchin would not say when the president would nominate a new leader for the bank, or whether some of his colleagues were rooting for its demise, but he insisted that Mr. Trump supported keeping the bank alive.

“The president does want it to function,” Mr. Mnuchin said.

In an interview last year with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Trump said he had initially been opposed to Ex-Im, seeing it as unnecessary, but had changed his mind.

“So instinctively you would say it’s a ridiculous thing, but actually it’s a very good thing and it actually makes money,” he said. “You know, it actually could make a lot of money.”

Photo

But the White House has done little to advance its nominees and politics continue to be an obstacle. Conservatives have traditionally disliked the bank because they argue that it amounts to corporate welfare and rewards rich corporations that do not need taxpayer assistance.

“They distort markets, impose risk on taxpayers and they’re bad policy for everybody,” said Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, who has been one of the most outspoken critics of Ex-Im and favors private financing alternatives.

Mr. Toomey has used procedural tactics to delay the nomination of the remaining nominees to the bank’s board. He said he wanted Mr. Trump to pick a “reformer” like Mr. Garrett, who does not believe in the current mission of the bank. And he said he hoped that the president would urge other countries to unwind their export financing banks as part of his trade negotiations.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Democrats who support the bank are growing increasingly impatient.

“One of the best things we can do to help the economy support jobs is to get Ex-Im fully functioning as soon as possible,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and “the full Senate should immediately confirm the bipartisan nominees so we can continue to support American businesses, manufacturing and jobs.”

Action does not appear to be forthcoming. An aide to Mr. McConnell said that votes on Mr. Trump’s other nominees would not be held until he names a new chairman.

For now, Ex-Im is ambling along. Veterans of the bank say that career employees are increasingly heading for the exits. Atop the bank’s website is an image of its boardroom, with five empty chairs.

This week, Ex-Im will hold its annual conference in Washington, but considering the circumstances, the gathering is unlikely to be a festive event.

“Who are you going to get to speak?” Mr. Hochberg wondered. “I want to know what they are going to say.”And now they have been compiled in a book, “Heart Talk: Poetic Wisdom for a Better Life,” published by Simon & Schuster in March.

Pouring herself a second cup of turmeric-infused ginger tea, Ms. Wade apologized for feeling tired. She had spent the previous night in a floral Erdem gown at the New Museum, where she hosted a book party with old classmates from elementary school and newer pals like Elaine Welteroth and Prabal Gurung.

“If people treat ‘Heart Talk’ less like a book and more like a best friend, I would really like that,” said Ms. Wade, 29, who has a mop of springy caramel-hued hair and an enviable closet of Gucci and Stella McCartney.

Her social calendar and political activism have been chronicled in Vogue and Marie Claire, and she has also been linked romantically to Senator Cory A. Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, though their current status is unknown. In the book’s acknowledgments, Ms. Wade writes: “To my partner, Cory, for being a constant source of light and inspiration in my life. You have truly been my rock during this process.” (Asked if they were currently dating, Ms. Wade, who is extremely reticent about her personal life, declined to clarify the status of their relationship.)

Image Ms. Wade's new book is filled with handwritten notes and self-affirming poems. Credit -

Being the world’s most tireless BFF is part of her package, as her book underscores. Filled with handwritten notes and underlined sentences, “Heart Talk” reads more like a user guide for a vague set of life’s hardships than as anything too preachy or precious.James B. Comey is currently a lot of things: ex-director of the F.B.I., ex-United States attorney, author, moral crusader, “slimeball” (according to President Trump) and so ubiquitous that he is impossible to ignore. But whether you think he is a heroic truth teller or a self-aggrandizing grandstander, and there are arguments for both, what is indisputable is that he is also something else: a 21st-century embodiment of a 20th-century archetype rooted deep in American mythology.

The ultimate G-man. With all the associations and expectations that image implies. If the Trump administration is its own reality show, Mr. Comey represents a character from a different Hollywood tradition. And if the goal of his book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” is to define what “ethical leadership” looks like — well. He’s providing an answer in more ways than one.Despite being a single parent, Daley often stayed late at the Capitol to work through legislative night sessions, initially by herself. “It was just after the Spanish-American War, and things were certainly humming,” she told Drew Pearson and Robert Allen in 1936 for their syndicated column Washington Merry-Go-Round.

That hum quickly grew to a din, composed of calls not only between legislators, but also from constituents who increasingly had their own phones for articulating complaints, comments and requests.

By 1905, Daley was supervising four other operators, all of them women; by 1909, there were 10, with men taking over during the less-busy night hours. The operators’ duties included keeping careful accounts of calls for billing purposes, and in 1913, Daley provided crisp and exacting testimony during an investigation of influence-peddling accusations against Rep. James Thomas McDermott, Democrat of Illinois, that resulted in his censure.

By 1929, Daley and the now-18 operators who reported to her were working out of more established quarters on the fifth floor of the Cannon Office Building, handling around 30,000 calls a day over 100 main lines and 1,000 stations. A year later, the introduction of the dial telephone provoked an uproar among senators. (“Could not be more awkward than it is,” grumbled one, Clarence Dill, Democrat of Washington State.) They passed a resolution opposing it and got phones that allowed for the option of warmer, more interactive “manual” service, with a woman’s hands connecting the calls.

By the time she retired in 1945, Daley was supervising a corps of 50 loyal “hello girls,” as they had come to be known, or “pluggers,” as they were also called, and attending to 535 members of Congress with a switchboard 60 times the size of the one she had first encountered. “This army of women were the ones who made the connections,” Lupton, the curator, said.

As the general leading this army, which her own daughter joined for a time, Daley had much discretion in handling calls and a prodigious institutional memory. Her salary, however, peaked at $2,740 a year, less than $40,000 in today’s dollars. She lived in a series of modest apartments with her daughter and, eventually, a granddaughter, Lucrece. One apartment was at the Brighton Hotel, where they sometimes took in boarders. It was a 45-minute streetcar ride from the Capitol.“It’s really hard if you only have a 2,000-mile radius,” said David H. Rank, who previously served as the acting United States ambassador to China.

Locations in the United States and Europe were in the running, a senior administration official said on Wednesday, though the situation was fluid. Here are some options being discussed:

Europe

In theory, a neutral location like Sweden or Switzerland would be ideal. Both maintain diplomatic relations with the United States and North Korea and have signaled a willingness to facilitate the meeting.

Those locales have been the sites of some of the most significant diplomatic achievements in history — Geneva hosted the 1985 meeting between President Ronald Reagan and the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev. It could provide the dramatic backdrop that both leaders appear to crave.

But to get there, one needs a plane.

“He’s not going to fly commercial,” Ms. Terry said of Mr. Kim.

American Territory

With the expected range of Mr. Kim’s planes, a trip to Hawaii or Guam, the closest United States territory to North Korea, would almost certainly require a refueling stop or a borrowed plane. Korea experts call that an indignity that Mr. Kim would not accept.

“I have trouble believing they would do that. It would be embarrassing,” said Joel S. Wit, a senior fellow at the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University. “They’ve got to borrow an airplane? I mean, what does that look like?”

Photo

The Korean Peninsula

Two locations in the Korean Peninsula have been floated as options. The Demilitarized Zone, a 2.5-mile-wide, 150-mile-long stretch of land dividing the peninsula, already has a facility that could serve as a meeting site: the Peace House in Panmunjom, a border village that is the only place in the contested strip where North and South Korean soldiers operate in proximity. The Peace House lies just across the demarcation line on the South Korean side.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It would be about a three-hour drive for Mr. Kim — no planes required. The stark setting, though, is hardly Trumpian.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“You have to think from Trump’s perspective,” Ms. Terry said of Panmunjom. “It’s just not sexy.”

Pyongyang best serves Mr. Kim’s interests. The Americans would be coming to him — the first official visit by a sitting American president to the capital.

But such a trip has obvious pitfalls for Mr. Trump. Bowing to Mr. Kim’s needs puts him in a weaker negotiating position and is unlikely to sit well with the president, whose bellicose foreign policy leaves little room for deference.

Foreign policy experts fear that a visit to Pyongyang risks legitimizing the authoritarian government of Mr. Kim, whose country has not had diplomatic relations with the United States since establishing itself as a separate state in 1948. But that argument could lose credence if the meeting moves forward.

“One could argue you have already legitimized the regime by having a summit,” Ms. Terry said.

The senior administration official said the two sites were probably out of the running.

Elsewhere in Asia

A venue in Asia might be the easiest compromise. It frees Mr. Kim from the political headache of traveling by plane and keeps Mr. Trump away from North Korea. The options are limited if he wants to maintain his own political capital, though. Vietnam and Singapore are being considered rather than more obvious choices like China or Japan.

China is politically problematic because of the rocky relationship between Mr. Trump and Beijing. Seeking Chinese help in arranging such a historic event would do little to polish the Americans’ credibility, and Mr. Kim’s own relations with the Chinese are tenuous at best.

“The politics of doing this kind of summit under the protective wing of the Chinese just strikes me as pretty implausible,” Mr. Rank said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Japan is not an option given its longstanding historical tensions with North Korea. Russia presents a similar problem to China; amid tensions with the Kremlin, Mr. Trump would be ill-served in relying on Russia to host what could be a crowning diplomatic achievement.

A long shot, Mongolia, could serve all parties, and its government has offered to play host to the meeting in its capital of Ulan Bator.

“At least politically, the easiest place for everyone would be Mongolia and Ulan Bator,” Mr. Wit said, “because the Mongolians like to think of themselves as the Switzerland of Asia.”3 World

Life After Castro: Who Is Cuba’s Next President?“By voting to roll back the CFPB’s work, senators have emboldened banks and finance companies to engage in racial discrimination by charging millions of people of color more for a car loan than is justified,” said Rion Dennis of Americans for Financial Reform, an advocacy group. “Lawmakers have also opened the door to challenging longstanding agency actions that are crucial to protecting workers, consumers, civil rights, the environment and the economy.”

Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, warned that rescinding the guidance would lead to a flood of unfair, predatory lending.

“This truly repugnant resolution ignores the unacceptable, undeniable truth that consumers’ interest rates are regularly marked up based on their race or ethnicity — a disgusting practice that continues to run rampant across the country,” he said.

The Department of Justice can still bring lawsuits against auto lenders for discriminatory practices, even if the guidance is nullified. However, legal experts say the government could be less successful in bringing such cases without the guidance from a government agency saying the practices are viewed as improper.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A 2011 report from the Center for Responsible Lending analyzed loan level data and found that African-Americans and Latinos were receiving higher numbers of interest rate markups on their car loans than white consumers. The bureau issued guidance in 2013 urging auto lenders to curb discriminatory lending practices and used that guidance to justify lawsuits that they brought against auto finance companies.

In late 2013, Ally Financial agreed to pay $98 million to settle accusations that it discriminated against minority borrowers who were charged more than white customers for auto loans by car dealers. The consumer bureau, along with the Department of Justice, also scored big settlements from American Honda Fifth Third Bank.

The settlements rankled Republicans who argued that the consumer bureau was using “junk science” to make the case that auto lenders were discriminating against customers on the basis of race.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Senate vote comes as companies face increased scrutiny for discriminatory practices. Starbucks is under fire after an employee called the police about two black men who were sitting in one of their Philadelphia coffee shops and waiting for a friend. The men were arrested.

But business groups and Republicans cheered the move, saying it would ease lending restrictions for car purchases.

“The legislation is a measured response to the CFPB’s attempt to regulate the $1.1 trillion auto financing market, avoid congressional scrutiny by issuing ‘guidance,’ and impose a new policy without necessary procedural safeguards,” said Peter Welch, president of the National Automobile Dealers Association.

Mr. Toomey hailed the rollback of the auto-lending restrictions as the repeal of an “ill-conceived regulation” and a sign that Congress was ready to reassert control over government agencies that have exceeded their authority.

“Any guidance, in fact any rule-making, ultimately, should be subject to congressional review,” Mr. Toomey said.

Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said the auto lending restrictions epitomized the consumer bureau’s rogue approach under its previous leadership. He said that the bureau had abused and exceeded its legal authority in trying to prevent discrimination in auto lending.

“I look forward to finally repealing this harmful and flawed bulletin very soon,” Mr. Hensarling said.Qualcomm’s situation illustrates the perils of trying to punish a major trading partner that has become a crucial link in supply chains stretching across the globe. By targeting foreign players with ties to their own markets, the United States and China are putting their own economic futures at risk. The question is whether the Trump administration will balk at paying that price — or see its goal of punishing China for unfair trade practices as more important than any collateral damage that could ensue.

“They’re obviously really caught in the middle,” Andrew Gilholm, the director of analysis for greater China at Control Risks, said of Qualcomm. “The demands the Chinese government has on them, and the demands coming from the U.S. side, at some point might become irreconcilable.”

Photo

The cold war that is emerging between the United States and China is increasingly centered on the kind of advanced computer chips that Qualcomm produces. The company’s chips are now common in smartphones, but they also serve as the basis of next-generation 5G systems, vast networks of sensors that may soon govern the function of everything from autonomous vehicles to smart power grids and manufacturing systems. Qualcomm is locked in competition with China’s Huawei for dominance of this new industry.

The emergence of this technology means that, for the Trump administration, national security is no longer confined to airplanes, tanks and weapons systems. Since these chips allow companies to collect vast amounts of information, control critical infrastructure and know the location of people and objects in real time, foreign ownership could pose an unprecedented security threat.

The administration’s focus on Qualcomm’s technology may be partially of the company’s own making. Earlier this year, the company asked the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which evaluates foreign acquisitions for national security threats, to intervene as it faced a hostile takeover attempt by Singapore-based Broadcom.

The Trump administration, already interested in the security implications of 5G technology, embraced the idea and made clear that the United States’ success was tied to Qualcomm’s. “China would likely compete robustly to fill any void left by Qualcomm as a result of this hostile takeover,” a United States Treasury official wrote in a letter to the companies. In March, Mr. Trump scuttled Broadcom’s $117 billion bid for Qualcomm, citing security concerns.

The administration is now considering giving regulators even more power to block Chinese investments by issuing an executive order modeled on a congressional bill on reviewing mergers for national security threats, people briefed on the discussions said. Those reviews would most likely apply to certain “critical sectors” that China uses its industrial policy to support — including semiconductors, aerospace and artificial intelligence.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Daniel H. Rosen, a partner at the research firm Rhodium Group, said policymakers worldwide are just now discovering that using foreign technology creates vulnerabilities that have outpaced governments’ ability to manage them.

“This is not just a China-U.S. phenomenon, but a matter of things which just a few years ago we thought were relatively benign now being weaponized in ways that we haven’t anticipated,” he said.

But trying to clamp down on Chinese products and investment flowing into the United States could be more painful for American companies that depend on access to partners and markets around the world than for their Chinese counterparts.

Photo

While China has already threatened tariffs of its own on United States products, it has other ways to retaliate — most notably, making life difficult for the many American businesses that depend on the country to source products or sell to China’s growing middle class.

For Qualcomm, that may already be happening. Its plan to expand its business into technology-connected vehicles depends in large part on acquiring a Dutch firm, NXP Semiconductors, for $44 billion. The deal has been approved by every government except for China, whose regulators have asked for more time to assess any antitrust violations.

On Thursday, Gao Feng, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce, said that the acquisition could have a “profound” impact on the technology industry but that the plan Qualcomm submitted to the regulator on how it would mitigate market competition issues would not be enough.

Many observers believe that China is using the review as leverage to exert pressure on the United States, which sees Qualcomm’s success as critical to American dominance in 5G.

“At a time when there is so much trade friction, Chinese regulators don’t necessarily need to stall the deal. They just need to continue postponing the review,” said Guan Zhisheng, an associate professor of economics at Sun Yat-sen University.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If trade tensions between the United States and China continue, American companies — especially those that use China as a platform to export to the United States — could see themselves embroiled in more time-consuming regulatory reviews revolving around pricing, monopoly power, food and drug safety, or bribery, Mr. Gilholm of Control Risks said. “That is another potentially very powerful front in this that China has not really used yet,” he said.

Qualcomm’s bottom line is also likely to be hurt by American efforts to target the Chinese. On Monday, the United States government said it was placing a seven-year ban on exports of American products to Chinese telecom firm ZTE, after the company made false statements to the government as part of an investigation into possible violations of American sanctions.

Jeff Fieldhack, research director at Counterpoint Technology Market Research, said this will be a considerable blow to the company, which provided chips for more than half of the roughly 45 million smartphones that ZTE sold globally last year. Qualcomm declined to comment.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Qualcomm has found itself under an increasingly uncomfortable spotlight in China in recent years. By 2013, the company was deriving more revenue from China than any other market, just as the Chinese government began expressing concern that its companies were forced to depend on the network infrastructure of American technology giants like Qualcomm and Cisco.

In late 2013, Chinese government investigators raided the Beijing and Shanghai offices of Qualcomm. After a 15-month investigation, regulators handed the company a record $975 million fine and declared Qualcomm a monopoly. The firm was forced to slash prices and pledge to move more of its sophisticated manufacturing to China and help boost the technological abilities of Chinese companies. Today, a growing chorus of American companies have complained that China has pressured them into sharing their technology in similar ways.

Fang Xingdong, a free speech activist and founder of the think tank China Labs, said their complaints had little merit. “The pressures on companies such as Huawei and ZTE in the U.S. market are much higher than those of U.S. companies in China,” he said. “The U.S. sanctions on ZTE are enough to kill the company.”

If China wanted to retaliate, Mr. Fang said, the simplest option would be to emulate American actions toward Huawei. “They could ban products from Qualcomm, Intel and Cisco in government, infrastructure and other areas of the market, based on security concerns,” he added.

In targeting Qualcomm, China could be seeking to influence the Trump administration by putting pressure on a company that has been politically connected in the United States, often serving as an unofficial liaison between the countries.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the years, Qualcomm has lobbied the United States government to further its interests in China, at one point helping to pave the way for China to join the World Trade Organization. In the late 1990s, Clinton administration officials pushed China to adopt American standards for mobile phones on behalf of Qualcomm.

But Qualcomm’s ability to influence the White House is unclear: The Trump administration has focused on recruiting American companies to build up their businesses domestically, not encouraging them to go abroad.

“Yes, the Chinese have a way to squeeze Qualcomm to really hurt their China revenue, and yes, Qualcomm has fought a lot of battles in the U.S. government arena,” said Derek Scissors, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. “The one weakness in the Chinese approach is it’s not clear the Trump administration cares about how much U.S. firms make in China.”Mr. Trump and his associates believe the issues in New York pose a far greater challenge to the president than even Mr. Mueller’s investigation. They do not know what was taken from Mr. Cohen’s office, and it is not clear what exactly investigators are looking into. But the fact that the authorities were able to get a federal judge to give them permission to raid Mr. Cohen’s office and residences has led Mr. Trump and his associates to believe the government possesses some evidence of wrongdoing by Mr. Cohen.

In hiring Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Trump has turned to someone who is a reliable, loyal surrogate and an attack dog on television. Mr. Giuliani is a former top official at the Justice Department and served as the United States attorney in Manhattan. But at age 73 he is no longer known as a powerhouse white-collar litigator and in recent years has been more active as a worldwide consultant.

One person close to Mr. Trump said the Raskins will be the longer-term and more durable additions to the team. Mr. Giuliani, by contrast, is coming on board as a short-timer not only to appear on television but also to see if he can use his decades-long ties with Mr. Mueller to re-establish a working relationship with the special counsel’s team. The relationship between the president’s lawyers and Mr. Mueller’s team blew up after agents raided Mr. Cohen.

Mr. Giuliani’s main focus will be on bringing an end to Mr. Mueller’s investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice and links between his campaign and Russia. As part of those efforts, Mr. Giuliani will take the lead dealing with Mr. Mueller’s office on an interview with Mr. Trump. The president and his lawyers do not believe Mr. Trump has any real legal exposure but are wary of the interview.

At the same time, though, they have determined that for Mr. Mueller to complete his inquiry in a timely manner, Mr. Trump will need to sit down for questioning. Mr. Giuliani plans to try to work with Mr. Mueller to come up with a way to question Mr. Trump that both sides are comfortable with.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The addition of Mr. Giuliani comes at a particularly tumultuous time for the president. Last month the president’s lead lawyer, John Dowd, quit the team after he determined the president was not following his advice. For much of the past month, the team has been led by Mr. Sekulow, who has had to assemble a new group of lawyers to deal with the issues in New York and another team to confront Mr. Mueller.

At the same time, Mr. Mueller has been pressuring Mr. Trump to sit down for an interview. The president, who initially said he was eager to answer Mr. Mueller’s questions under oath, is said to be more skeptical of an interview in the wake of the raid on Mr. Cohen’s office.

After Mr. Dowd quit, many well-known lawyers turned down the opportunity to join the president’s legal team. Some said that they did not believe Mr. Trump would listen to them and that their firms did not want to be associated with the president. But after the raid on Mr. Cohen, many more lawyers have become interested in working for Mr. Trump, according to people briefed on the matter. The lawyers believe the government overstepped its bounds by executing a warrant at a lawyer’s office and have contended the government violated the attorney-client privilege between Mr. Cohen and his clients.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump negotiated the discussions to have Mr. Giuliani join his team with Mr. Giuliani directly, a person close to the process said. Mr. Trump had repeatedly offered Mr. Giuliani the job of attorney general during the transition, but Mr. Giuliani turned it down because he wanted to be secretary of state.

Mr. Trump turned to Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, to be attorney general, but has publicly criticized Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry. Mr. Trump has said that Mr. Sessions should be protecting him from the inquiry.

Some close to the president believe he could try to replace Mr. Sessions with Mr. Giuliani in the coming months, although Mr. Giuliani would face an extremely difficult confirmation hearing in the Senate. When Mr. Giuliani sought the secretary of state job, Trump advisers, including the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, raised concerns about his business dealings and paid speeches to a shadowy Iranian opposition group that until 2012 was on the State Department’s list of foreign terrorist organizations.

Mr. Giuliani will be taking a leave of absence from his law firm, Greenberg Traurig, while he works for Mr. Trump. Three people close to the former mayor said that Greenberg Traurig lawyers were distressed that Mr. Giuliani was taking on the new role. Many at the firm were already uncomfortable with Mr. Giuliani’s work for the Trump campaign, his outspoken opinions and his role in helping to write the president’s first travel ban that affected mostly Muslim countries.

James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director Mr. Trump fired, is critical of Mr. Giuliani in his new book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership.” (Mr. Giuliani was Mr. Comey’s boss when Mr. Comey went to work for the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan in 1987.)

“Though Giuliani’s confidence was exciting, it fed an imperial style that severely narrowed the circle of people with whom he interacted, something I didn’t realize was dangerous until much later: a leader needs the truth, but an emperor does not consistently hear it from his underlings,” Mr. Comey wrote.Mr. McCabe has been swept up in an extraordinary and abrupt conclusion to his 21-year F.B.I. career. He was fired last month over the allegations at the heart of the inspector general report, and his appeal was rejected by Attorney General Jeff Sessions hours before Mr. McCabe would have been eligible for retirement benefits.

Mr. McCabe contended that the inspector general’s report and his firing were meant to discredit him as a witness in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is also examining whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice in trying to interfere with the inquiry.

In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has escalated his attacks on Mr. McCabe and his former boss, the fired F.B.I. director James B. Comey, as Mr. McCabe was ousted and Mr. Comey embarked on a publicity tour for his highly anticipated book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” which was published this week. Mr. Comey said in an interview on Thursday on CNN that he was conflicted about the accusations that Mr. McCabe was not forthcoming to investigators.

“James Comey just threw Andrew McCabe ‘under the bus,’” Mr. Trump wrote Thursday evening on Twitter. “Inspector General’s Report on McCabe is a disaster for both of them! Getting a little (lot) of their own medicine?”

Mr. McCabe is said to have recently sold the rights to his own book about his time at the F.B.I., which is likely to excoriate Mr. Trump.

Mr. McCabe was faulted last week in the highly critical report by Mr. Horowitz for being less than forthcoming when questioned by investigators. They were asking about the disclosure of information in 2016 to a Wall Street Journal reporter about a continuing criminal investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

Mr. McCabe authorized two F.B.I. officials to speak to The Journal to rebut allegations that he had slowed down the Clinton Foundation inquiry. As the resulting article noted, Mr. McCabe had insisted that his agents had the authority to investigate the foundation, even if the Justice Department refused to authorize grand jury subpoenas.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The inspector general’s report determined that on four occasions, Mr. McCabe demonstrated a lack of candor in discussing those interactions with investigators. Mr. Horowitz concluded that the engagement initiated by Mr. McCabe had not been justified under the news media policy of the F.B.I. and Justice Department and constituted misconduct.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McCabe has rebutted the allegations, describing them as “egregious inaccuracies.”

Mr. Horowitz is expected to release another report in the coming weeks summarizing an examination of the F.B.I.’s actions during the 2016 election. After his report about Mr. McCabe was made public last week, Mr. Trump went on the offensive.

“He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey - McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes!” Mr. Trump tweeted.

Mr. Comey has said that Mr. Trump is not fit to hold office and has compared him to a mobster. The president fired back, calling Mr. Comey the worst director in F.B.I. history.

Mr. McCabe does have plenty of supporters. This month, he raised more than a half-million dollars for his legal defense fund through an internet fund-raising tool.

Mr. McCabe also quietly shopped a book proposal recently to publishing houses. He received offers from multiple publishers, according to several industry executives, and came to an agreement to publish the book with one of the major houses.

His literary agent, Todd Shuster, declined to comment.

Mr. McCabe likely has an intriguing story to tell about his experience in the F.B.I. and his interactions with the Trump administration. As the deputy director, he was directly involved in the Russia investigation as well as the inquiry into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. He also participated in many other high-profile inquiries, including the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the arrest of a suspect in the 2012 attacks on American compounds in Benghazi.

It remains to be seen whether Mr. McCabe’s book will be derailed by the news of the criminal referral, or, if it goes forward, would generate the same degree of interest as Mr. Comey’s book, which became an instant best-seller, with a first printing of 850,000 copies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While Mr. Comey’s book has been an undisputed commercial success, the reaction in political and news media circles has been mixed. Some have praised Mr. Comey’s forthrightness, but others have criticized his wall-to-wall TV appearances as a self-aggrandizing publicity stunt that has exacerbated the already strained relations between Mr. Trump and the nation’s law enforcement agencies.

Mr. Trump sees the two former top F.B.I. officials as well as other law enforcement agents as part of a “witch hunt” to damage his presidency. For months, he has insisted that he did not collude with the Russian effort to influence the election.

The deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, who is overseeing the special counsel investigation, has said that he has seen no reason to stop the inquiry, even as Mr. Trump and his allies attack it as biased.

Three House Republican committee chairmen were prepared to support a subpoena to compel Mr. Rosenstein to turn over documents in the case, namely, unredacted copies of a set of closely held memos written by Mr. Comey about his interactions with the president.

They are believed to be key evidence in a possible obstruction of justice case against Mr. Trump being pursued by Mr. Mueller. Mr. McCabe is also known to have kept memos detailing his interactions with the president.

But Justice Department officials sent to Capitol Hill on Thursday declassified, unredacted copies of the memos, alleviating the need for a subpoena; they were quickly leaked to the news media later Thursday.Mr. Mulvaney is simultaneously working to defang the consumer bureau, an agency that has been a thorn in the side of the financial industry. He has criticized the bureau for wasteful spending and overzealous oversight.

Those dueling priorities — neutering the agency while fulfilling Mr. Trump’s promise to come down hard on Wells Fargo — have created friction.

Mr. Mulvaney, who also is director of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, has spent the past several months doing everything he can to weaken the agency. He requested $0 for the agency’s quarterly budget.

“The bureau is far too powerful, and with precious little oversight of its activities,” he wrote in a message to Congress this month.

But at the same time, according to several administration officials, Mr. Mulvaney has been eager to ensure that the bureau fulfilled the president’s commitment to go after Wells Fargo. In conversations with colleagues in the Trump administration, Mr. Mulvaney has emphasized his role in orchestrating the $1 billion fine.

Last week, after Reuters reported the possibility of the $1 billion penalty, Mr. Mulvaney accused his staff at the consumer bureau of leaking “confidential” details about the settlement talks. Just hours after testifying before Congress, Mr. Mulvaney sent a memo to staff saying he had instructed the bureau’s inspector general to look into leaks by employees.

“I am extraordinarily concerned that some of these leaks might have come from bureau employees,” he wrote. “I recognize that there may well be some (a few? a lot?) of people who work here who aren’t happy that I’m working here. That’s fine. I also recognize that these folks might be interested in undermining my leadership here, or in quite simply looking to make me look bad.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The penalty against Wells Fargo is likely to help insulate Mr. Mulvaney and the Trump administration against charges from Democrats and consumer groups that they are giving a pass to big banks. But aside from the expected Wells Fargo settlement, the consumer bureau — like other financial regulators in the Trump era — has been pursuing far fewer cases against banks than under the Obama administration.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

That is largely by design. Administration officials including Mr. Mulvaney have repeatedly said that overly harsh regulation has left the banking industry with less capacity to make loans to American businesses and to otherwise support a growing United States economy.

The evidence for such claims is scant. At the end of last year, federally insured banks had $9.7 trillion of loans outstanding — at or near their historical high point — even as most of the regulations erected under President Barack Obama remain intact, according to data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

And the industry is extraordinarily profitable. Wells Fargo, for example, said last week that it earned $5.9 billion in the first three months of the year. Other big banks reported similarly booming results — a far cry from an industry ravaged by overbearing regulators.

Wells Fargo is one of the country’s largest lenders, with branches and mortgage lending operations stretching from coast to coast. Until recently, Wells was the envy of the banking industry, with a reputation for steadily churning out profits while avoiding the reckless lending and investments that felled many of its rivals during the financial crisis.

That reputation has been obliterated by recent scandals. The trouble started in September 2016, when the consumer bureau revealed that the bank had been opening accounts and new credit cards in its customers’ names without telling them. The bank paid $185 million to settle that matter.

The fines kept coming. Since the beginning of 2016, state and federal regulators and the Justice Department have levied almost $1.5 billion in fines and penalties against the bank for offenses ranging from punishing whistle-blowers to unlawfully repossessing the cars of military service members.

In February, the Federal Reserve affixed extraordinarily tight handcuffs to Wells Fargo. The bank was barred from expanding until it cleaned up its internal financial and risk systems. The Fed also pushed for Wells to bring new blood on its board.

And Mr. Trump singled the bank out for criticism. “Fines and penalties against Wells Fargo Bank for their bad acts against their customers and others will not be dropped,” the president wrote on Twitter. “I will cut Regs but make penalties severe when caught cheating!”

The settlement expected on Friday is likely to cite Wells Fargo’s practice of forcing auto insurance on some of its customers. It also is expected to blame the bank for improperly charging mortgage customers and for failing to maintain adequate risk management and compliance practices, according to one of the people briefed on the action.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The $1 billion settlement is likely to intensify pressure on Wells Fargo’s chief executive, Timothy J. Sloan. Mr. Sloan, a veteran of the bank, took over after his predecessor, John Stumpf, resigned after the eruption of the scandal involving Wells Fargo’s creation of fake accounts. A person briefed on the matter said that Mr. Sloan had no plans to leave the bank.

Experts cautioned against viewing the expected large penalty as a sign that the Trump administration or the consumer bureau are changing their attitudes toward oversight of the banking industry.

“The Wells activities are so egregious, they are unique,” said Lawrence J. White, a professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business. “I don’t think this tells us one way or the other about the future direction of the C.F.P.B.”Mr. Mulvaney is simultaneously working to defang the consumer bureau, an agency that has been a thorn in the side of the financial industry. He has criticized the bureau for wasteful spending and overzealous oversight.

Those dueling priorities — neutering the agency while fulfilling Mr. Trump’s promise to come down hard on Wells Fargo — have created friction.

Mr. Mulvaney, who also is director of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, has spent the past several months doing everything he can to weaken the agency. He requested $0 for the agency’s quarterly budget.

“The bureau is far too powerful, and with precious little oversight of its activities,” he wrote in a message to Congress this month.

But at the same time, according to several administration officials, Mr. Mulvaney has been eager to ensure that the bureau fulfilled the president’s commitment to go after Wells Fargo. In conversations with colleagues in the Trump administration, Mr. Mulvaney has emphasized his role in orchestrating the $1 billion fine.

Last week, after Reuters reported the possibility of the $1 billion penalty, Mr. Mulvaney accused his staff at the consumer bureau of leaking “confidential” details about the settlement talks. Just hours after testifying before Congress, Mr. Mulvaney sent a memo to staff saying he had instructed the bureau’s inspector general to look into leaks by employees.

“I am extraordinarily concerned that some of these leaks might have come from bureau employees,” he wrote. “I recognize that there may well be some (a few? a lot?) of people who work here who aren’t happy that I’m working here. That’s fine. I also recognize that these folks might be interested in undermining my leadership here, or in quite simply looking to make me look bad.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The penalty against Wells Fargo is likely to help insulate Mr. Mulvaney and the Trump administration against charges from Democrats and consumer groups that they are giving a pass to big banks. But aside from the expected Wells Fargo settlement, the consumer bureau — like other financial regulators in the Trump era — has been pursuing far fewer cases against banks than under the Obama administration.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

That is largely by design. Administration officials including Mr. Mulvaney have repeatedly said that overly harsh regulation has left the banking industry with less capacity to make loans to American businesses and to otherwise support a growing United States economy.

The evidence for such claims is scant. At the end of last year, federally insured banks had $9.7 trillion of loans outstanding — at or near their historical high point — even as most of the regulations erected under President Barack Obama remain intact, according to data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

And the industry is extraordinarily profitable. Wells Fargo, for example, said last week that it earned $5.9 billion in the first three months of the year. Other big banks reported similarly booming results — a far cry from an industry ravaged by overbearing regulators.

Wells Fargo is one of the country’s largest lenders, with branches and mortgage lending operations stretching from coast to coast. Until recently, Wells was the envy of the banking industry, with a reputation for steadily churning out profits while avoiding the reckless lending and investments that felled many of its rivals during the financial crisis.

That reputation has been obliterated by recent scandals. The trouble started in September 2016, when the consumer bureau revealed that the bank had been opening accounts and new credit cards in its customers’ names without telling them. The bank paid $185 million to settle that matter.

The fines kept coming. Since the beginning of 2016, state and federal regulators and the Justice Department have levied almost $1.5 billion in fines and penalties against the bank for offenses ranging from punishing whistle-blowers to unlawfully repossessing the cars of military service members.

In February, the Federal Reserve affixed extraordinarily tight handcuffs to Wells Fargo. The bank was barred from expanding until it cleaned up its internal financial and risk systems. The Fed also pushed for Wells to bring new blood on its board.

And Mr. Trump singled the bank out for criticism. “Fines and penalties against Wells Fargo Bank for their bad acts against their customers and others will not be dropped,” the president wrote on Twitter. “I will cut Regs but make penalties severe when caught cheating!”

The settlement expected on Friday is likely to cite Wells Fargo’s practice of forcing auto insurance on some of its customers. It also is expected to blame the bank for improperly charging mortgage customers and for failing to maintain adequate risk management and compliance practices, according to one of the people briefed on the action.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The $1 billion settlement is likely to intensify pressure on Wells Fargo’s chief executive, Timothy J. Sloan. Mr. Sloan, a veteran of the bank, took over after his predecessor, John Stumpf, resigned after the eruption of the scandal involving Wells Fargo’s creation of fake accounts. A person briefed on the matter said that Mr. Sloan had no plans to leave the bank.

Experts cautioned against viewing the expected large penalty as a sign that the Trump administration or the consumer bureau are changing their attitudes toward oversight of the banking industry.

“The Wells activities are so egregious, they are unique,” said Lawrence J. White, a professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business. “I don’t think this tells us one way or the other about the future direction of the C.F.P.B.”But with the new $1 billion penalty, which is expected to be announced as soon as Friday, even I have to wonder: Has Wells Fargo been punished enough?

After all, the bank’s bad management is gone. Whether they’ve paid adequately for their multiple transgressions is an open question — no one has gone to jail, or even faced criminal charges. But Wells Fargo shareholders have been battered, with the company’s stock down about 16 percent this year, while shares of banking rivals like JPMorgan and Bank of America have fared much better, both with slight gains.

Photo

Over the past five years, a period that spans Wells Fargo’s fake accounts scandal, the comparison is even more dramatic: shares in JPMorgan and Bank of America have more than doubled. Wells Fargo’s stock has gained just about a third.

“People did this, not the bank,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “The behavior was reprehensible and they should have paid the price. But putting the onus on the corporation is a double whammy for shareholders. They were harmed by the actions of management and now they’re paying again.” (As a shareholder himself, Mr. Elson has felt the pain.)

The cost to Wells Fargo of the various scandals and related lawsuits and investigations isn’t limited to the billions it has had to set aside for penalties and other liabilities. The bank has also had to defend itself in regulatory proceedings and various civil lawsuits, including class actions filed by wronged customers, and it has had to conduct multiple internal investigations that revealed even more wrongdoing.

In a windfall for the legal sector, the bank has had to hire a horde of expensive lawyers, consultants and others to handle the fallout, an enormous management task in its own right. Wells Fargo recruited Allen Parker, one of the country’s most highly regarded (and highly paid) banking lawyers — who recently completed his tenure as presiding partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, and — as its new general counsel to oversee the sprawling legal problems.

Wells Fargo hasn’t said how much it has spent in legal fees and related expenses, but it has clearly had a material impact on the bank’s results. The costs show up in its efficiency ratio, which is overhead divided by revenue. Wells Fargo has traditionally aimed for between 55 and 59 percent.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the end of last year, Wells Fargo’s ratio was 76.5 percent.

Stripping out a $3.25 billion charge the bank took in the fourth quarter last year, it was still an elevated 61.5 percent. Wells Fargo’s chief executive, Tim Sloan, called the ratio “completely unacceptable.”

A Deutsche Bank managing director and bank analyst, Matt O’Connor, has been pressing Mr. Sloan at earnings conferences for more clarity on expenses and legal liability, but the bank’s chief executive has resisted. “I’d love to live in a world where I can give you an absolute guarantee and certainty, but it’s just not the world we live in,” he said during an earnings call last year.

Mr. O’Connor told me this week that there’s no question the bank’s expenses, driven by litigations costs, “are bloated,” which shows up in the weak efficiency ratio.

Photo

He also pointed to intangible costs, such as management distraction. “It’s hard to optimize the rest of your costs when all this is going on,” he said.

There may be light at the end of the tunnel for battered shareholders. Mr. O’Connor has a “buy” rating on the stock, arguing that at this point potential legal liabilities are already reflected in the share price, and eventually costs will come down as the litigation and regulatory issues are resolved.

The Fed is also expected to lift its cap on Wells Fargo’s assets at some point. It gave the bank 60 days to submit evidence that it had reformed its risk controls and compliance mechanisms. Still, the new Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, said the bank should expect to have its growth constrained for “a significant period.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

As for the individuals involved, many have paid a price. At the top, the board fired the former chief executive, John Stumpf, as well as Carrie Tolstedt, who led the community banking division responsible for the fake accounts. The bank clawed back $69 million from Mr. Stumpf and $67 million from Ms. Tolstedt (though both are still enormously wealthy — Mr. Stumpf left with deferred compensation and stock valued at over $130 million, even after the clawbacks. Ms. Tolstedt left with over $124 million before clawbacks).

Several midlevel managers were also fired along with more than 5,300 employees at the branch level, where most of the fake-account misconduct took place.

The board itself has been purged (or “refreshed,” as the bank puts it). Four longtime directors will depart later this month, reducing the board size to 12 members. The former board chairman, Stephen Sanger, retired last year, along with two other board members. At this point, only two directors have served longer than five years. Last year, the bank hired Mary Jo White, the former chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to assess the board’s self-evaluation program.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wells Fargo has initiated a raft of other reforms intended to protect its customers and rebuild its battered reputation, detailed on its website.

At this point it’s hard to imagine what more Wells Fargo can do (or how much more it can spend) to make amends.

“The government shouldn’t view a crippled institution as a piggy bank to generate revenue,” Mr. Elson said. “I’ve been a vocal critic of prior management, and the transgressions were serious. But at some point, you have to say enough. A healthy, viable bank is in everyone’s interests.”North Korea has dropped its demand that American troops be removed from South Korea as a condition for giving up its nuclear weapons, South Korea’s president said Thursday in presenting the idea to the United States.

President Moon Jae-in portrayed the proposal as a concession on the eve of talks involving the two Koreas and the United States. The North has long demanded that the 28,500 American troops be withdrawn, citing their presence as a pretext to justify its pursuit of nuclear weapons.

But in Washington, the Trump administration privately dismissed the idea that it was a capitulation by the North because an American withdrawal from the South was never on the table. Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director whom President Trump secretly sent to Pyongyang two weeks ago to meet Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, did not ask him to take such a step, senior officials said.

The move could increase pressure on the United States to support negotiations between North and South Korea on a peace treaty that would end the Korean War. While Mr. Trump gave those talks his blessing this week, officials said his ultimate goal is to force North Korea to relinquish its nuclear program. A peace treaty, they said, should be signed only after the North has given up its weapons.“We have great respect for many aspects of what they’re doing, but we have to get it together,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. “We have to end nuclear weapons.”

Analysts and former officials said the White House was right to be wary of Mr. Kim’s offer. They said it could drive a wedge between the United States and South Korea, which is deeply invested in bringing an end to the 68-year military conflict on the Korean Peninsula and will view Mr. Kim’s offer as an important step in that direction.

“It’s a classic, deft North Korean maneuver, which puts us at a disadvantage and makes us look like bad guys if we reject it,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a former Asia adviser to President Barack Obama.

In South Korea, where Mr. Moon announced Mr. Kim’s shift, he said it had encouraged the United States to proceed with plans to hold its first-ever summit meeting with North Korea. And he said the North was already showing a willingness to make concessions.

“The North Koreans did not present any conditions that the United States could not accept, such as the withdrawal of American troops in South Korea,” Mr. Moon told newspaper publishers in Seoul, before his own planned summit meeting with Mr. Kim next Friday.

“They only talk about an end to hostilities against their country and about getting security guarantees,” Mr. Moon said. “It’s safe to say that the plans for dialogue between the North and the United States could proceed because that has been made clear.”

When Mr. Moon’s special envoys met with Mr. Kim in Pyongyang last month, Mr. Kim said his country would no longer need nuclear weapons if it did not feel “threatened militarily” and was provided with “security guarantees.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

North Korea issued an official government statement as recently as 2016 calling on Washington to announce the withdrawal of American troops if it wanted to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Interpreter Newsletter Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news stories of the week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Since the 1990s, however, North Korean officials have occasionally told the Americans and South Koreans that they could live with an American military presence if Washington signed a peace treaty and normalized ties with the North. Mr. Kim’s father and predecessor, Kim Jong-il, sent a party secretary to the United States in 1992 to deliver that message.

When South Korea’s president at the time, Kim Dae-jung, met with Kim Jong-il in Pyongyang in 2000, the North Korean leader was quoted as saying that keeping American troops in Korea for “stability in Northeast Asia” even after a reunification was “not a bad idea, provided that the status and the role of U.S. troops be changed.”

“It is desirable that U.S. troops stay as a peacekeeping force in Korea, instead of a hostile force against the North,” Kim Jong-il said, according to the book “Peacemaker,” by Lim Dong-won, who attended the 2000 inter-Korean summit meeting.

Despite their suspicions about the younger Mr. Kim’s motives, American officials did not diminish the significance of his offer from a domestic standpoint. For decades, they said, the Kim family has survived by fueling a narrative of American aggression against the North. Declaring they could live with troops could undercut that narrative.

They said the announcement built on Mr. Kim’s earlier decision not to protest joint military exercises between the United States and South Korea — a step that did smooth the way for Mr. Trump to accept Mr. Kim’s invitation to meet.

To some extent, administration officials also need to manage Mr. Trump, who speaks often of the historic opportunity he has to settle one of the world’s longest-running conflicts.

“We’ve never been in a position like this with that regime, whether it’s father, grandfather or son,” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday. “And I hope to have a very successful meeting.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The president did not address the news of North Korea’s offer on troops on Thursday. After Mr. Abe left Palm Beach, Fla., on Thursday, Mr. Trump pivoted from diplomacy to law enforcement, traveling to a sun-kissed military base in Key West to showcase his administration’s efforts to cut off the flow of drugs into the United States from Central and South America.

Administration officials have been extremely circumspect about what Mr. Pompeo discussed with Mr. Kim during their meeting over Easter weekend. But he did raise the issue of three Americans detained in North Korea, and officials expressed cautious optimism that the United States was making progress in getting them out.

Analysts said that even if North Korea accepted an American military presence in the South, it might demand that it be significantly reconfigured and reduced.

In its 2016 statement, North Korea also demanded that the United States stop deploying long-range bombers, submarines and other “nuclear-strike capabilities” in and around South Korea if it wanted a nuclear-free peninsula, a condition that analysts said would doubtless please China.

On Thursday, Mr. Moon dismissed concerns that the United States might end up recognizing North Korea as a de facto nuclear power in return for a promise to freeze its nuclear and missile programs.

“I don’t think there is any difference between the parties over what they mean by denuclearization,” Mr. Moon said. “North Korea is expressing a willingness to denuclearize completely.”

In the separate South Korean and American summit meetings with Mr. Kim, Mr. Moon said there would be “no big difficulties” in reaching “broad agreements in principle.” North Korea, he said, would agree to denuclearize in return for normalized ties with the United States; aid to help rebuild its economy; and a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War. The challenge, he said, is in working out a road map to such a deal.

“As they say, the devil is in details,” Mr. Moon said.One was sentenced to 10 years of hard labor in 2016 for an espionage conviction. Two others are scholars — one studies accounting, the other agriculture — who taught at a prestigious science and technology university before they were arrested in 2017 on suspicion of “hostile acts.”

All three are Korean-American men who have been held in North Korea. They share a common surname, Kim, but they are not related.

Their fate is one of the many delicate subjects that President Trump and the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, are expected to discuss at their planned summit meeting, the first face-to-face encounter by the top leaders of the two nations.

Previous Americans jailed in North Korea have been treated brutally. One of them, Otto F. Warmbier, died in June 2017 after being released from 17 months of captivity. His parents said he had been tortured, and a coroner found that he had suffered extensive brain damage.Born one year after Fidel Castro’s forces took control of the island, Mr. Díaz-Canel is the first person outside the Castro dynasty to lead Cuba in decades.

He took the helm of government on Thursday morning to a standing ovation from the National Assembly, which elected him in a nearly unanimous vote. Mr. Castro embraced him, lifting the younger man’s arm in triumph.

Mr. Díaz-Canel’s slow and steady climb up the ranks of the bureaucracy has come through unflagging loyalty to the socialist cause — he “is not an upstart nor improvised,” Mr. Castro has said — but he largely stayed behind the scenes until recent years.

Now, as leader, Mr. Díaz-Canel is suddenly taking on a difficult balancing act. Most expect him to be a president of continuity, especially because he arrives in the shadow of Raúl Castro, who will remain the head of the armed forces and the Communist Party, arguably Cuba’s most powerful institutions.

But Mr. Díaz-Canel also has to figure out how to resuscitate the economy at a time when President Trump is stepping back from engaging with Cuba. On top of that, Mr. Díaz-Canel must find a way to manage the frustrations of a Cuban population impatient with the pace of change on the island — without the heft of his predecessor’s revolutionary credentials.

Such credentials have been the bedrock of political power in Cuba ever since Fidel Castro seized control of the nation in 1959. In the ensuing years, the Castros ruled over Cuba with ironclad control, bolstered by a cadre of loyalists, nearly all of whom had fought alongside them in the revolution.

In the end, the most effective opposition to the Castro brothers was time.

Fidel Castro handed power to Raúl in 2006, then died 10 years later at the age of 90. Raúl then ushered in some of the most substantial reforms in decades, and is now orchestrating yet another one — the passing of the torch to a new generation.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After opening up the economy to private investment and entrepreneurialism, expanding travel in and out of the country and re-establishing ties with the great enemy, the United States, Raúl Castro has selected Mr. Díaz-Canel to fill his shoes.

Video

But “he is someone who has very little exposure to U.S. political or cultural figures,” Daniel P. Erikson, a former State Department official, said of Mr. Díaz-Canel. “Frankly, he isn’t that well-known in the rest of Latin America, either.”

In his speech before the National Assembly, Mr. Díaz-Canel offered many of the same revolutionary talking points of his predecessors, but perhaps with less of the verve or creativity of Fidel Castro or the gravitas of Raúl.

Raúl Castro said Thursday that he thought Mr. Díaz-Canel would serve two terms as president, for a total of 10 years. After that, Mr. Castro said, he envisioned Mr. Díaz-Canel taking over as party leader in 2021, when Mr. Castro suggested that he would retire from that post for good. This, to some, is a glimpse of the future leadership structure of Cuba after the Castros.

Ever since Mr. Díaz-Canel was named first vice president in 2013, Cubans and Cuba watchers alike have scrambled to find out more about the enigmatic heir apparent, combing through his track record as party leader in the provinces of Villa Clara and Holguín, and later as minister of higher education, for clues on how he will lead.

In each position, according to those who knew him at the time, Mr. Díaz-Canel has been a quiet but effective leader, seemingly open to change. Many called him a good listener, while others described him as approachable, free of the rigidness and inaccessibility of typical party chiefs.

Through it all, he has also been a relentless defender of the revolution and the principles and politics it brought.

Stories of his Everyman qualities have spread widely in recent years: how he rode his bike to work instead of taking a government vehicle during gas shortages; how he defended the rights of a gay club in Santa Clara in the face of protests; how he patiently listened to academics grouse (sometimes about him) as minister of higher education.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More recently, he was a leading voice in the push for internet access in Cuba, arguing that the nation could not seal itself off from the outside world. Though his beliefs remain very much within the party line, those who know him say he does not adhere to the belief that Cuba can exempt itself from the modernization necessary to participate in the global economy.

But in Cuba, the continuum of political thinking is not black and white. Often, conventional definitions of progressives versus hard-liners do not apply. Leaders can be both, and Mr. Díaz-Canel is an example of that. While he is seen as open to the ideas of others, as a younger man he led a campaign to stifle students who read and discussed literature that was not approved by the Communist Party, according to those who knew him at the time.

Last year, a video was leaked of Mr. Díaz-Canel addressing a group of party officials. In it, he lambastes the United States, claiming that Cuba had no responsibility to meet its demands under the reconciliation brokered by President Barack Obama.

He then went on a diatribe against a website whose work he considered subversive. He told fellow officials that the government would shut it down — no matter whether people considered it censorship.

The video was seen as a way for Mr. Díaz-Canel to shore up his credentials with hard-line factions within the government, and yet a review of his career shows that he has not shied away from confronting activities deemed out of bounds by the government, either.

Mr. Díaz-Canel grew up in the central province of Villa Clara, about three hours from Havana, the son of a schoolteacher and a factory worker. He studied electrical engineering at the Central University of Las Villas, where he was active in political life.

He was viewed from an early age as a rising star within Cuba’s Communist Party.

As a young man, he joined the Union of Young Communists, the party’s youth league, where he stood out among his peers. He later worked as a bodyguard to Raúl Castro. According to a friend who knew him at the time, the assignment allowed him to show loyalty to the cause, and drew Mr. Díaz-Canel close to both Raúl and Fidel Castro.

Photo

He served three years in the army, another node of power in the country, after which he resumed his slow climb up the party ladder.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In his 20s, he was named the party’s liaison to Nicaragua, the only other Communist government in the region at the time, a posting viewed as important to the Cuban government.

Rodolfo Stusser, 72, recalled meeting Mr. Díaz-Canel in the late 1980s, while working as a doctor during Nicaragua’s civil war. Dr. Stusser felt the other doctors around him were lazy, not serious about their work. And just as he began liking his life in Nicaragua, he was being deployed elsewhere. He took his complaint to the Cuban Embassy, where he ran into a young Mr. Díaz-Canel, who offered him a ride.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Dr. Stusser unloaded, listing the various injustices he felt were being visited on him. It was almost therapeutic, he recalled. Mr. Díaz-Canel, an up-and-coming member in the party at the time, sat quietly and listened for the duration of the 40-minute drive, he recalled.

“He just heard me,” Dr. Stusser said. “He did not say anything at all. It helped me.”

Not long after, Dr. Stusser found his fortunes reversed in Nicaragua. He was allowed to stay. And an official who was giving him the runaround made time to see him.

Dr. Stusser, who defected in 2010 and now lives in South Florida, always suspected that the soft-spoken Communist Party official who listened but did not speak had quietly worked his connections in Havana and Managua to sort out his issues.

Juan Juan Almeida, 52, recalls hearing Mr. Díaz-Canel’s name come up years later in conversations with his father, who was a prominent member of the Cuban Communist Party at the time. He remembers his father coming home one night in 1993 after a meeting in which officials discussed future leaders of the country.

José Ramón Machado Ventura, a member of the Cuban old guard, proposed a slate of young leaders and Mr. Díaz-Canel’s name was among them.

“Raúl responded: He’s trustworthy, but too young,” Mr. Almeida remembers his father telling him after the meeting. “This was the first time I had ever heard the name Miguel Díaz-Canel.”

From then on, he said, Mr. Díaz-Canel’s name came up often. He moved from one prominent job to another — including provincial posts where he developed a reputation as an effective and loyal functionary.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As first secretary in Villa Clara Province, Mr. Díaz-Canel came to office during the so-called special period, when the generous aid flowing to Cuba from the Soviet Union was abruptly cut off after its collapse.

Back then, Mr. Díaz-Canel took his bicycle to work rather than ride in the air-conditioned car he was entitled to as a prominent leader. It was the sort of move people still talk about in Villa Clara and its capital, Santa Clara.

Mr. Almeida, who also defected to the United States, said he and Mr. Díaz-Canel had many mutual friends, in particular musicians and artists whom Mr. Díaz-Canel had taken the time to support in their careers. The new president also has a son who is a musician in Argentina, Mr. Almeida added.

“He mixes with the intellectual class, goes to concerts and is close to young people,” Mr. Almeida said. “All of the people I know who we have in common speak very well of him. They don’t speak of him in dictatorial fashion.”

Photo

Academics and others in Havana declined to be interviewed about Mr. Díaz-Canel, because the government did not give them permission.

In Santa Clara, Mr. Díaz-Canel is remembered for his Bermuda shorts at a time when party officials wore more formal attire, and for wearing his hair long.

His beliefs also skewed liberal, residents say. He lent his support to one of the country’s only gay clubs, El Mejunje. When it opened decades ago, the club was a point of contention. But Mr. Díaz-Canel, who took his children to the club when it hosted children’s activities, consistently backed the club in the face of controversy.

“He supported us anytime there was a complaint made against us,” said Ramón Silverio Gómez, the club’s director. “He was an ally. And one day when I saw him he said, ‘You can keep counting on my support and my understanding.’”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yet some saw Mr. Díaz-Canel’s persona as crafted and less genuine than is often supposed. Sure, he rode his bike to and from work. But he was always trailed by his personal security in vehicles, others said.

“It was a bit of demagoguery,” said Guillermo Fariñas, a well-known dissident and Cuban psychologist who grew up with Mr. Díaz-Canel in Villa Clara. “In terms of the gasoline, he was on a bicycle, but there were cars with security going behind him. It was a bit a manipulation of the people.”

Mr. Fariñas recalled how one night, while he was hospitalized, the power went out. This was during the time of greatest shortages in Cuba, in the 1990s.

At about 3 o’clock in the morning, Mr. Díaz-Canel, who was first secretary in the province, went to the hospital and began going from room to room, checking on patients and apologizing for the blackout.

Even back then, Mr. Fariñas was a known dissident. He was in the hospital recovering from a hunger strike.

“When they were outside my room, I could hear the state security agents telling him, ‘No, don’t go to that room. That’s a counterrevolutionary’s room,’” he recalled. “Díaz-Canel was like, ‘What do you mean, don’t go to that room? Of course I’ll go to that room!’”

Mr. Díaz-Canel entered, shook Mr. Fariñas’ hand and said, “Let’s not talk about politics.”

The men chatted briefly before Mr. Díaz-Canel rushed off to see the next patient.

“My impression was that he was doing politics,” Mr. Fariñas said.

Mr. Fariñas also recalled how, after graduation, Mr. Díaz-Canel became a teacher and party functionary at his university, joining a nationwide campaign to fight “negative tendencies” in Cuba.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“They tried to convince people that if you were not a real communist, you had to be sanctioned,” Mr. Fariñas said of Mr. Díaz-Canel. “He was the head of that at the university.”

It was part of the duality of Mr. Díaz-Canel, he added. Mr. Díaz-Canel could be accessible, friendly and modern — mingling with locals, playing basketball with the youth and listening to rock music. But he could also be a staunch advocate of communism and the revolution, willing to silence critics.

“He was very active, very militant and very unconditional in his loyalty to the regime,” Mr. Fariñas said.Born one year after Fidel Castro’s forces took control of the island, Mr. Díaz-Canel is the first person outside the Castro dynasty to lead Cuba in decades.

He took the helm of government on Thursday morning to a standing ovation from the National Assembly, which elected him in a nearly unanimous vote. Mr. Castro embraced him, lifting the younger man’s arm in triumph.

Mr. Díaz-Canel’s slow and steady climb up the ranks of the bureaucracy has come through unflagging loyalty to the socialist cause — he “is not an upstart nor improvised,” Mr. Castro has said — but he largely stayed behind the scenes until recent years.

Now, as leader, Mr. Díaz-Canel is suddenly taking on a difficult balancing act. Most expect him to be a president of continuity, especially because he arrives in the shadow of Raúl Castro, who will remain the head of the armed forces and the Communist Party, arguably Cuba’s most powerful institutions.

But Mr. Díaz-Canel also has to figure out how to resuscitate the economy at a time when President Trump is stepping back from engaging with Cuba. On top of that, Mr. Díaz-Canel must find a way to manage the frustrations of a Cuban population impatient with the pace of change on the island — without the heft of his predecessor’s revolutionary credentials.

Such credentials have been the bedrock of political power in Cuba ever since Fidel Castro seized control of the nation in 1959. In the ensuing years, the Castros ruled over Cuba with ironclad control, bolstered by a cadre of loyalists, nearly all of whom had fought alongside them in the revolution.

In the end, the most effective opposition to the Castro brothers was time.

Fidel Castro handed power to Raúl in 2006, then died 10 years later at the age of 90. Raúl then ushered in some of the most substantial reforms in decades, and is now orchestrating yet another one — the passing of the torch to a new generation.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After opening up the economy to private investment and entrepreneurialism, expanding travel in and out of the country and re-establishing ties with the great enemy, the United States, Raúl Castro has selected Mr. Díaz-Canel to fill his shoes.

Video

But “he is someone who has very little exposure to U.S. political or cultural figures,” Daniel P. Erikson, a former State Department official, said of Mr. Díaz-Canel. “Frankly, he isn’t that well-known in the rest of Latin America, either.”

In his speech before the National Assembly, Mr. Díaz-Canel offered many of the same revolutionary talking points of his predecessors, but perhaps with less of the verve or creativity of Fidel Castro or the gravitas of Raúl.

Raúl Castro said Thursday that he thought Mr. Díaz-Canel would serve two terms as president, for a total of 10 years. After that, Mr. Castro said, he envisioned Mr. Díaz-Canel taking over as party leader in 2021, when Mr. Castro suggested that he would retire from that post for good. This, to some, is a glimpse of the future leadership structure of Cuba after the Castros.

Ever since Mr. Díaz-Canel was named first vice president in 2013, Cubans and Cuba watchers alike have scrambled to find out more about the enigmatic heir apparent, combing through his track record as party leader in the provinces of Villa Clara and Holguín, and later as minister of higher education, for clues on how he will lead.

In each position, according to those who knew him at the time, Mr. Díaz-Canel has been a quiet but effective leader, seemingly open to change. Many called him a good listener, while others described him as approachable, free of the rigidness and inaccessibility of typical party chiefs.

Through it all, he has also been a relentless defender of the revolution and the principles and politics it brought.

Stories of his Everyman qualities have spread widely in recent years: how he rode his bike to work instead of taking a government vehicle during gas shortages; how he defended the rights of a gay club in Santa Clara in the face of protests; how he patiently listened to academics grouse (sometimes about him) as minister of higher education.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More recently, he was a leading voice in the push for internet access in Cuba, arguing that the nation could not seal itself off from the outside world. Though his beliefs remain very much within the party line, those who know him say he does not adhere to the belief that Cuba can exempt itself from the modernization necessary to participate in the global economy.

But in Cuba, the continuum of political thinking is not black and white. Often, conventional definitions of progressives versus hard-liners do not apply. Leaders can be both, and Mr. Díaz-Canel is an example of that. While he is seen as open to the ideas of others, as a younger man he led a campaign to stifle students who read and discussed literature that was not approved by the Communist Party, according to those who knew him at the time.

Last year, a video was leaked of Mr. Díaz-Canel addressing a group of party officials. In it, he lambastes the United States, claiming that Cuba had no responsibility to meet its demands under the reconciliation brokered by President Barack Obama.

He then went on a diatribe against a website whose work he considered subversive. He told fellow officials that the government would shut it down — no matter whether people considered it censorship.

The video was seen as a way for Mr. Díaz-Canel to shore up his credentials with hard-line factions within the government, and yet a review of his career shows that he has not shied away from confronting activities deemed out of bounds by the government, either.

Mr. Díaz-Canel grew up in the central province of Villa Clara, about three hours from Havana, the son of a schoolteacher and a factory worker. He studied electrical engineering at the Central University of Las Villas, where he was active in political life.

He was viewed from an early age as a rising star within Cuba’s Communist Party.

As a young man, he joined the Union of Young Communists, the party’s youth league, where he stood out among his peers. He later worked as a bodyguard to Raúl Castro. According to a friend who knew him at the time, the assignment allowed him to show loyalty to the cause, and drew Mr. Díaz-Canel close to both Raúl and Fidel Castro.

Photo

He served three years in the army, another node of power in the country, after which he resumed his slow climb up the party ladder.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In his 20s, he was named the party’s liaison to Nicaragua, the only other Communist government in the region at the time, a posting viewed as important to the Cuban government.

Rodolfo Stusser, 72, recalled meeting Mr. Díaz-Canel in the late 1980s, while working as a doctor during Nicaragua’s civil war. Dr. Stusser felt the other doctors around him were lazy, not serious about their work. And just as he began liking his life in Nicaragua, he was being deployed elsewhere. He took his complaint to the Cuban Embassy, where he ran into a young Mr. Díaz-Canel, who offered him a ride.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Dr. Stusser unloaded, listing the various injustices he felt were being visited on him. It was almost therapeutic, he recalled. Mr. Díaz-Canel, an up-and-coming member in the party at the time, sat quietly and listened for the duration of the 40-minute drive, he recalled.

“He just heard me,” Dr. Stusser said. “He did not say anything at all. It helped me.”

Not long after, Dr. Stusser found his fortunes reversed in Nicaragua. He was allowed to stay. And an official who was giving him the runaround made time to see him.

Dr. Stusser, who defected in 2010 and now lives in South Florida, always suspected that the soft-spoken Communist Party official who listened but did not speak had quietly worked his connections in Havana and Managua to sort out his issues.

Juan Juan Almeida, 52, recalls hearing Mr. Díaz-Canel’s name come up years later in conversations with his father, who was a prominent member of the Cuban Communist Party at the time. He remembers his father coming home one night in 1993 after a meeting in which officials discussed future leaders of the country.

José Ramón Machado Ventura, a member of the Cuban old guard, proposed a slate of young leaders and Mr. Díaz-Canel’s name was among them.

“Raúl responded: He’s trustworthy, but too young,” Mr. Almeida remembers his father telling him after the meeting. “This was the first time I had ever heard the name Miguel Díaz-Canel.”

From then on, he said, Mr. Díaz-Canel’s name came up often. He moved from one prominent job to another — including provincial posts where he developed a reputation as an effective and loyal functionary.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As first secretary in Villa Clara Province, Mr. Díaz-Canel came to office during the so-called special period, when the generous aid flowing to Cuba from the Soviet Union was abruptly cut off after its collapse.

Back then, Mr. Díaz-Canel took his bicycle to work rather than ride in the air-conditioned car he was entitled to as a prominent leader. It was the sort of move people still talk about in Villa Clara and its capital, Santa Clara.

Mr. Almeida, who also defected to the United States, said he and Mr. Díaz-Canel had many mutual friends, in particular musicians and artists whom Mr. Díaz-Canel had taken the time to support in their careers. The new president also has a son who is a musician in Argentina, Mr. Almeida added.

“He mixes with the intellectual class, goes to concerts and is close to young people,” Mr. Almeida said. “All of the people I know who we have in common speak very well of him. They don’t speak of him in dictatorial fashion.”

Photo

Academics and others in Havana declined to be interviewed about Mr. Díaz-Canel, because the government did not give them permission.

In Santa Clara, Mr. Díaz-Canel is remembered for his Bermuda shorts at a time when party officials wore more formal attire, and for wearing his hair long.

His beliefs also skewed liberal, residents say. He lent his support to one of the country’s only gay clubs, El Mejunje. When it opened decades ago, the club was a point of contention. But Mr. Díaz-Canel, who took his children to the club when it hosted children’s activities, consistently backed the club in the face of controversy.

“He supported us anytime there was a complaint made against us,” said Ramón Silverio Gómez, the club’s director. “He was an ally. And one day when I saw him he said, ‘You can keep counting on my support and my understanding.’”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yet some saw Mr. Díaz-Canel’s persona as crafted and less genuine than is often supposed. Sure, he rode his bike to and from work. But he was always trailed by his personal security in vehicles, others said.

“It was a bit of demagoguery,” said Guillermo Fariñas, a well-known dissident and Cuban psychologist who grew up with Mr. Díaz-Canel in Villa Clara. “In terms of the gasoline, he was on a bicycle, but there were cars with security going behind him. It was a bit a manipulation of the people.”

Mr. Fariñas recalled how one night, while he was hospitalized, the power went out. This was during the time of greatest shortages in Cuba, in the 1990s.

At about 3 o’clock in the morning, Mr. Díaz-Canel, who was first secretary in the province, went to the hospital and began going from room to room, checking on patients and apologizing for the blackout.

Even back then, Mr. Fariñas was a known dissident. He was in the hospital recovering from a hunger strike.

“When they were outside my room, I could hear the state security agents telling him, ‘No, don’t go to that room. That’s a counterrevolutionary’s room,’” he recalled. “Díaz-Canel was like, ‘What do you mean, don’t go to that room? Of course I’ll go to that room!’”

Mr. Díaz-Canel entered, shook Mr. Fariñas’ hand and said, “Let’s not talk about politics.”

The men chatted briefly before Mr. Díaz-Canel rushed off to see the next patient.

“My impression was that he was doing politics,” Mr. Fariñas said.

Mr. Fariñas also recalled how, after graduation, Mr. Díaz-Canel became a teacher and party functionary at his university, joining a nationwide campaign to fight “negative tendencies” in Cuba.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“They tried to convince people that if you were not a real communist, you had to be sanctioned,” Mr. Fariñas said of Mr. Díaz-Canel. “He was the head of that at the university.”

It was part of the duality of Mr. Díaz-Canel, he added. Mr. Díaz-Canel could be accessible, friendly and modern — mingling with locals, playing basketball with the youth and listening to rock music. But he could also be a staunch advocate of communism and the revolution, willing to silence critics.

“He was very active, very militant and very unconditional in his loyalty to the regime,” Mr. Fariñas said.3 World

Life After Castro: Who Is Cuba’s Next President?But even Mr. Castro, with his revolutionary credentials and fraternal connections, could not pull off all of the changes he had set out to make. Too many old-guard associates put up obstacles when they saw the widening inequalities that accompanied economic reforms. So although Mr. Castro is widely believed to be planning a move from Havana to Santiago de Cuba — on Cuba’s southeastern coast, the other side of the country — he is not expected to leave Mr. Díaz-Canel entirely to his own devices.

Mr. Castro was credited with strengthening institutional control and formalizing the concept of consensus governing. He believes in delegated authority. He has made sure that there are enough internal checks and balances to keep an eye on any successor with big ideas, while still watching this one’s back. Mr. Díaz-Canel was a handpicked successor, and it is not in Raúl Castro’s interest to see him fail.

“Raúl will be watching,” said Andy S. Gómez, a Cuba expert, now retired, who worked at the University of Miami. “Raúl, as first party secretary, will be not only watching him, but, more importantly, being there for him, symbolically, so he can move forward.”

Alcibíades Hidalgo, who was Raúl Castro’s chief of staff for a dozen years, believes that his former boss will hold on to power “until the day he dies.”

Photo

Alejandro Castro Espín, 52, is Raúl Castro’s son. Mr. Castro Espín runs the intelligence services for both the armed forces and the Interior Ministry. That is a big task in a country that works hard to stifle dissent and sniff out spies.

Mr. Castro Espín was part of the team that negotiated with President Barack Obama’s administration over restoring diplomatic ties with the United States, a sign that he is part of the most trusted inner circle.

But he also has serious anti-imperialist credentials: The title of a book he wrote in 2009, “Empire of Terror,” offers a not-very-subtle clue of his opinion of Cuba’s big neighbor to the north.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The most important of the younger generation is Castro Espín,” said Brian Latell, a former C.I.A. analyst who has closely watched the Castro family. “I think he has a lot of influence with his father.”

Juan Juan Almeida, the son of a Cuban revolutionary war hero, grew up with Mr. Castro Espín and lived in his house when they were children. He said he was not convinced that his former best friend had the skills to succeed after his father dies.

“He’s powerful, but his power was given to him by his father,” Mr. Almeida said. “He will last as long as his father’s power lasts.”

Some experts believe that Raúl Castro would have liked to have made his son president, but that it would have looked bad internationally to have another Castro take over.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Breaking News Emails Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Gen. Luis Alberto Rodríguez López-Callejas was a Castro by marriage — he used to be married to Raúl Castro’s daughter Débora, and is the father of Mr. Castro’s favorite grandson.

General Rodríguez is president of Gaesa, the holding company that controls the military’s business interests. The military runs all of the hotels and state-run restaurants, convenience stores and gas stations, making General Rodríguez one of the country’s most powerful men.

“He must have 1,200 companies under him,” said Guillermo Fariñas, an outspoken critic of the government who lives in Villa Clara Province. “I think the one who manages the country economically is him.”

Raúl Rodríguez Castro, General Rodríguez’s son, is Raúl Castro’s bodyguard, the kind of position that lends itself to knowing all kinds of secrets, Mr. Fariñas said.

Photo

Mariela Castro is Raúl Castro’s daughter. A member of Parliament, she enjoys an international and domestic following, largely because of her support for gay and transgender rights.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Mariela is part of the scenery,” Mr. Hidalgo said. “She’s a decorative figure with a nice cause. In terms of power, she is far from the role of her brother or her ex-brother-in-law.”

Mr. Almeida said it boiled down to appearances.

“In terms of becoming a vice minister or joining the Council of State, I don’t see her doing that,” Mr. Almeida said. “The idea is to present a democratic face and erase the faces of the past. For the international community, they need to offer a nice friendly face of Cuba, which means not putting forth a Castro.”

Mr. Hidalgo, a former ambassador to the United Nations who later defected and now lives in Miami, does not think it will work.

“They are trying to give an appearance of change to what is fundamentally the same,” he said. “They are trying to continue Castroism without Castros in the near future, which is practically impossible.”Two black men whose arrests at a Starbucks in Philadelphia led to protests and plans for bias training at thousands of the chain’s locations spoke about the ordeal for the first time on Thursday, saying they were not told by the police why they were being escorted out.

The men, Donte Robinson and Rashon Nelson, both 23, went to a downtown Starbucks on April 12 for a business meeting involving real estate that they had been working on for months, they said during an interview with ABC’s “Good Morning America.”

Mr. Nelson asked to use the restroom and was told by the manager that they were only for paying customers. He joined Mr. Robinson at a table to wait for the person they planned to meet. The manager approached, asked them if they wanted to order drinks. They declined.

According to 911 records, approximately two minutes after the men entered the store, the police were called.Mr. Robinson said they were put in double lock handcuffs, were not read their rights and were not told why they were being arrested. They were “escorted out and put into a squad car,” he said. “In that moment, I am trying to process what’s going on.”

“After the first time they walk over and they say, ‘you have to leave,’ I say, ‘we are here for a meeting,’” Mr. Robinson added. “We have been working on this for months.”

The men were arrested on suspicion of trespassing. Starbucks did not press charges and they were released.

In a separate interview with The Associated Press, Mr. Nelson said he wondered if he would make it home alive.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“Anytime I’m encountered by cops, I can honestly say it’s a thought that runs through my mind,” he said. “You never know what’s going to happen.”

The men said on “Good Morning America” that they hoped the incident would spur a dialogue about race. “I want to make sure that this situation doesn’t happen again,” Mr. Robinson said. “What I want is for young men to not be traumatized by this, and instead motivated, inspired.”

Mr. Nelson said he hoped the episode would inspire black people “to really stand up and show your greatness, and that you are not judged by the color of your skin as our ancestors were.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“This is something that has been going on for years and everyone’s blind to it,” he added. “But they know what’s going on, if you get what I mean.”

In a news conference on Thursday, Commissioner Richard Ross Jr. of the Philadelphia Police Department apologized to the two men and said the episode warranted a policy change.

He also suggested that the officers might not have been aware that Starbucks, which has more than 8,000 stores nationwide, presents itself as a meeting place where people can linger.

“They were put in some ways in an untenable position,” he said. “You can’t expect them to walk into every business and intuitively know what every policy is.”

The Starbucks employee who asked the men to leave is no longer working there. The chain’s chief executive, Kevin R. Johnson, said this week that what happened to the men was wrong.

“It’s my responsibility to understand what happened and what led to that, and ensure that we fix it,” Mr. Johnson said.

Starbucks has announced it would close its stores in the United States on May 29 to give anti-bias training to 175,000 employees.

The scene was recorded in a video that has been viewed more than 11 million times on Twitter. The arrests prompted a #BoycottStarbucks campaign and protests at the store, in Philadelphia’s Center City.The researchers found that suspension rates at those schools plummeted for groups of students traditionally suspended at very high rates, and who may have been victims of bias.

“It allows people to just think in a more mindful way when interacting with other people,” said Jason Okonofua, a social psychologist at the University of California, Berkeley, who was the lead researcher. “It’s putting yourself in the other person’s shoes, seeing humanity in that person.’’

Some workers have seen the benefits of these exercises. Darion Robinson, a volunteer and community engagement coordinator at City Garden Montessori School in St. Louis, said he took a three-day anti-bias training course when he started in July and felt that it helped build a sense of community.

Photo

“I think it’s pushed people to be open and have real conversations about things that are going on,” he said.

Other academics and experts on bias caution that anti-bias training is a sensitive exercise that can be ineffective or even backfire if handled incorrectly. Any training that involves explicitly telling people to set aside their biases is especially likely to fail, said Seth Gershenson, an economist at American University who has also studied anti-bias training, because it requires so much mental energy it can exhaust people.

Even with training, some said, it is exceedingly easy to revert to the original biases. “In the moment of stress, we tend to forget our training,” said Mark Atkinson, the chief executive of Mursion, which provides a simulation platform for training workers in skills like interpersonal interactions.

Mr. Atkinson said Mursion attempts to solve this problem using highly lifelike avatars to simulate real-life interactions. “You want to give people reps around stressful circumstances,” Mr. Atkinson said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some experts argue that the most effective way to eliminate unconscious bias is to limit the extent to which people engage in automatic, reflexive thinking. One solution is to try to nudge workers toward more thoughtful and deliberative decision-making.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In a study involving the Seattle Police Department, researchers randomly selected a group of officers to meet with their sergeants and have an open-ended, 20-minute conversation about a recent encounter with a citizen. The encounters frequently involved minor issues like loitering — a situation analogous to the Philadelphia Starbucks incident. Over a six-week period, the officers selected to have those conversations were about 12 percent less likely to resolve an incident with an arrest.

“We were getting the police officers to slow down their thinking,” said Emily Owens, an economist at the University of California, Irvine, who was one of the researchers. Although the study didn’t look explicitly at arrest rates by race, Ms. Owens argued that, “when you’re not automating, and you’re thinking slowly, bias is less likely to influence your behavior.” (Ms. Owens stressed that the study was only suggestive and that overall the evidence on the effectiveness of bias training for police is very thin.)

Still, Joelle Emerson, chief executive of Paradigm, which advises companies on strategies for increasing diversity, argued that limiting employees’ discretion altogether can be a far more effective way of reducing bias than trying to alter their thinking.

Well-understood policies that leave less room for discretion can often save employees from having to make decisions that reflect bias, said Ms. Emerson, whose company advises several retailers. For example, rather than generally urging employees to keep an eye out for suspicious-looking customers in order to cut down on shoplifting, which can prompt sales associates to follow customers of certain races at disproportionate rates, stores concerned about theft might want to adopt a clear, uniformly applied security protocols.

“The whole challenge of implicit bias is that we’re not the best judges of when it’s impacting us,” she said.

Ms. Emerson pointed to hiring, another area that is often rife with unconscious bias. Many companies, including some of her clients, like Pinterest, have moved toward a more structured hiring process. For example, in an effort to remove subjectivity from interviews, her firm often encourages managers to come armed with examples of better or worse responses to questions.If he had lost in court, Armstrong faced the possibility of paying treble damages under the terms of the False Claims Act, which is aimed at recovering government money obtained by fraud. The government could have demanded nearly $100 million.

The settlement averted a trial scheduled to begin with jury selection in about two weeks in Federal District Court in Washington.

“I am particularly glad to have made peace with the Postal Service,” Armstrong said in a statement issued by Peters’s law firm. “While I believe that their lawsuit against me was without merit and unfair, I have since 2013 tried to take full responsibility for my mistakes, and make amends wherever possible. I rode my heart out for the Postal cycling team, and was always especially proud to wear the red, white and blue eagle on my chest when competing in the Tour de France. Those memories are very real and mean a lot to me.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The prospect of losing his fortune had loomed over Armstrong, 46, since the case was filed in 2010. It was the most daunting of the legal woes that have dogged him since he confessed. A statement from Peters’s law firm said the settlement had ended “all litigation against Armstrong related to his 2013 admission that during his career as a professional cyclist he had used performance-enhancing substances.”

Floyd Landis, a former teammate of Armstrong’s, was the original plaintiff in the case, acting as a whistle-blower with a chance to receive a share of any money recovered by the government.

The government chose to join the case after Armstrong’s confession in 2013, and the Postal Service claimed it would not have sponsored the team if it had known Armstrong was doping.

Landis, who also doped during his cycling career and was stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title, will receive $1.1 million of the government’s $5 million. In addition to the $5 million settlement, Armstrong will pay $1.65 million to cover Landis’s legal costs, according to lawyers for both Landis and Armstrong.

“It has been a difficult ordeal, and public opinion was not always on my side,” Landis said in a statement from his lawyer’s office. “But it was the right thing to do and I am hopeful that some positive changes for cycling and sport in general will be the result.”

The government considered pursuing criminal fraud charges against Armstrong almost a year before he confessed, but it dropped the case.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“No one is above the law,” Chad A. Readler, the acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s civil division, said Thursday in a statement. “A competitor who intentionally uses illegal P.E.D.s not only deceives fellow competitors and fans, but also sponsors, who help make sporting competitions possible. This settlement demonstrates that those who cheat the government will be held accountable.”If he had lost in court, Armstrong faced the possibility of paying treble damages under the terms of the False Claims Act, which is aimed at recovering government money obtained by fraud. The government could have demanded nearly $100 million.

The settlement averted a trial scheduled to begin with jury selection in about two weeks in Federal District Court in Washington.

“I am particularly glad to have made peace with the Postal Service,” Armstrong said in a statement issued by Peters’s law firm. “While I believe that their lawsuit against me was without merit and unfair, I have since 2013 tried to take full responsibility for my mistakes, and make amends wherever possible. I rode my heart out for the Postal cycling team, and was always especially proud to wear the red, white and blue eagle on my chest when competing in the Tour de France. Those memories are very real and mean a lot to me.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The prospect of losing his fortune had loomed over Armstrong, 46, since the case was filed in 2010. It was the most daunting of the legal woes that have dogged him since he confessed. A statement from Peters’s law firm said the settlement had ended “all litigation against Armstrong related to his 2013 admission that during his career as a professional cyclist he had used performance-enhancing substances.”

Floyd Landis, a former teammate of Armstrong’s, was the original plaintiff in the case, acting as a whistle-blower with a chance to receive a share of any money recovered by the government.

The government chose to join the case after Armstrong’s confession in 2013, and the Postal Service claimed it would not have sponsored the team if it had known Armstrong was doping.

Landis, who also doped during his cycling career and was stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title, will receive $1.1 million of the government’s $5 million. In addition to the $5 million settlement, Armstrong will pay $1.65 million to cover Landis’s legal costs, according to lawyers for both Landis and Armstrong.

“It has been a difficult ordeal, and public opinion was not always on my side,” Landis said in a statement from his lawyer’s office. “But it was the right thing to do and I am hopeful that some positive changes for cycling and sport in general will be the result.”

The government considered pursuing criminal fraud charges against Armstrong almost a year before he confessed, but it dropped the case.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“No one is above the law,” Chad A. Readler, the acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s civil division, said Thursday in a statement. “A competitor who intentionally uses illegal P.E.D.s not only deceives fellow competitors and fans, but also sponsors, who help make sporting competitions possible. This settlement demonstrates that those who cheat the government will be held accountable.”The album earned Monáe a Grammy nomination for the song “Many Moons.” She would go on to collect five more nominations across two more albums, both of which starred her alter-ego, Mayweather. For years, Monáe remained safely cocooned within the character. “Cindi helps me talk more,” she said; through Mayweather, she could address things she didn’t feel comfortable talking about directly. “You can parallel the other in the android to being a black woman right now, to being a part of the L.G.B.T.Q. community,” she said. “What it feels like to be called a nigger by your oppressor.” Mayweather was a proxy for all the things about Monaé that made others uncomfortable, like her androgyny, her opaque sexual identity, her gender fluidity — her defiance of easy categorization.

But then Monáe shifted her attention to acting. She made her film debut as the de facto surrogate mother of a young black boy in “Moonlight,” which won the Oscar for Best Picture last year; she starred, with Octavia Spencer and Taraji P. Henson, in the blockbuster “Hidden Figures,” about early black female mathematicians. Fans wondered if she would commit to films, where she could attain a level of fame that can be elusive in music. But part of the reason she was slow to return, she told me, is that her mentor, Prince, died unexpectedly. They were working together closely on what would become “Dirty Computer.” “This was the person that I would literally call and talk to about sounds or: ‘How should I say this? Is this saying too much?’ I just never could imagine a time where I couldn’t pick up the phone or email him, and he’d contact me right back and we’d talk about all these things that I was unsure of.”

The music Monáe introduced on that dusty afternoon in Los Angeles marked her highly anticipated return. “Dirty Computer,” a celebratory ode to femininity and queer people, seems to signal a new era in her career: If in the past she seemed distant, using Mayweather to stand in for the real Monáe, she now seems ready to present herself to the public. “Right now I’m escaping the gravity of the labels that people have tried to place on me that have stopped my evolution,” she told me. “You have to go ahead and soar, and not be afraid to jump — and I’m jumping right now.”

Two months later, in February, I was in the back of an Uber, riding southwest toward a subdivision of Atlanta. After a pause at a security gate, the car drove through an upscale, predominantly black community, past typical suburban scenes — teenagers shooting hoops, people taking out their garbage, men working on their cars. I was heading to Wondaland Arts Society, Monáe’s creative headquarters. Its inspiration is Paisley Park, the elaborate compound outside Minneapolis that housed Prince’s rehearsal space, recording rooms, concert venue and countless parties. Several years ago, Monáe established the Wondaland label — one of the few black women to have a label of her own — and signed several acts, including the band St. Beauty (one member, Isis Valentino, was a backup singer for Monáe) and the singer and rapper Jidenna. The Wondaland artists often practice together and appear on one another’s albums. And the compound, where the artists often crash, has become a center of black culture in Atlanta. Much of “Black Panther” was shot in and around the city, and the cast held impromptu gatherings at Wondaland. At one, Chadwick Boseman whaled on the drums and Lupita N’yongo was hailed as the best dancer. They were among the first to hear “Dirty Computer,” and their approval gave Monáe’s confidence a boost. “I felt understood,” she told me. “I felt like, Man, these are people I admire and I respect, and they love this album. I have to finish it.”

Outside Wondaland, eight cars lined the long driveway, and staccato bursts floated from an open window upstairs. It sounded like band practice, a score being workshopped. I recognized the music from “Dirty Computer.” A Wondaland staff member named Kelly greeted me at the door and gave me a quick tour. From the outside, the house looked like any other Southern McMansion, but the entryway immediately suggested something different. Thick, leafy palm trees crowded the foyer so densely that I had to wrestle them to get through. A handwritten note asked guests to slip off their shoes. An archway was decorated with a dozen or so clocks, in different shapes and colors, their hands frozen at various times.

Photo

Before I went down to the sprawling lower level where Monáe and I would talk, I poked my head into a few of the rooms on the first floor, all filled with recording equipment and more luscious tropical plants. People seemed to be having casual meetings in many of them. There was a large wraparound kitchen, where a woman was chopping army quantities of vegetables. On the dining-room table, there was a chocolate cake surrounded by red and blue balloons, a bottle of sparkling rosé and a laserjet printout that read in block caps: “CONGRATULATIONS, YOU DIRTY COMPUTER.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The stairs to the basement were covered with green turf, so that even as my eyes adjusted to the dimming light, my feet were receiving the pleasantly disorienting sensation of outdoors. Downstairs, there were tropical plants everywhere; brilliant orange-and-white fish swam in an expansive tank bathed in purple lights. I counted at least five keyboards, eight guitars, two drum kits, a piano, a cello, a trumpet and a saxophone. A stack of books piled on an end table included “Writing Better Lyrics,” “Sapiens,” “Zen Guitar” and “Built to Last,” a book on business management. There was a desk crowded with sound mixers and synthesizers, and a box set of Jimi Hendrix CDs. A minifridge was stocked with seltzer, wine and water, and a bottle of absinthe stood on the desk.

Monáe soundlessly padded into the room, clad in a velour caftan, gold earrings and rings to match. She was barefoot, her toes painted metallic silver. She had arrived from Los Angeles that morning, and tried to take a nap, but Jidenna, who was in town, woke her up with his practicing. Though she apologized for being tired, she was buoyant. It had been 24 hours since her first two singles — “Django Jane” and “Make Me Feel” — were released, and both were trending on social media. “I’m still nervous, obviously, but I’ll enjoy this moment,” she told me, as she arranged herself more comfortably on a chair next to the couch where I was sitting. “But I won’t drive myself nuts trying to preplan what people are going to say, what they’re going to think, even though it terrifies me — I just have to put my energy into finishing.”

Monáe, who is 32, told me that she has been circling the themes explored on “Dirty Computer” for at least a decade, but that earlier it felt safer to package herself in metaphors. “I knew I needed to make this album, and I put it off and put it off because the subject is Janelle Monáe.” She’s still having a conversation with herself, she said, about who she wants to be when she’s in the spotlight. The sanitized android version felt more accepted — and more acceptable — than her true self. The public, she explained, doesn’t really “know Janelle Monáe, and I felt like I didn’t really have to be her because they were fine with Cindi.” When Prince died in April 2016, she started to rethink how she would present herself. “I couldn’t fake being vulnerable. In terms of how I will be remembered, I have anxiety around that, like the whole concept about what I’ll be remembered for.”

At its core, “Dirty Computer” is a homage to women and the spectrum of sexual identities. The songs can be grouped into three loose categories: Reckoning, Celebration and Reclamation. “The first songs deal with realizing that this is how society sees me,” she said. “This is how I’m viewed. I’m a ‘dirty computer,’ it’s clear. I’m going to be pushed to the margins, outside margins, of the world.” “D’Jango Jane” is an ode to black power and pride that is also a dirge about the struggles that come with that heritage. The middle half of the album is a raucous party. “It’s like, O.K., these are the cards I’ve been dealt,” she said. These songs include “Make Me Feel” and “Pynk” — the sizzling, sex-drenched songs that titillated the internet when they were released earlier this year. The album winds down with an anthem about being an American, whose sound evokes Prince’s “Let’s Go Crazy,” with lyrics like “love me for who I am,” and “cross my heart and hope to die, I’m a big old piece of American pie.”

Monáe will release an extended musical film with the album that illustrates and complements “Dirty Computer.” The 50-minute “emotion picture,” as she calls it, follows a young woman, played by Monáe, on the run from an authoritarian government that hunts down so-called deviants and “cleans” them by erasing their memories. Those memories serve as the musical interludes (the videos) amid the drama — “Handmaid’s Tale” meets “San Junipero,” set in a desiccated “Mad Max” landscape. It follows a crew of young kids, mostly black, dancing and dodging capture. Longtime fans will recognize the parallels to Mayweather — which Monáe expects — but instead of focusing on a fictional male human lover, the object of her affection is the actress Tessa Thompson, with whom Monáe is frequently photographed in real life. A beautiful man whom she occasionally hugs and kisses makes appearances, but he feels like an afterthought. Plausible deniability. The star-crossed romance between Thompson and Monáe, and whether they will be separated or reunited, is the true narrative of the film.

Most popular music is so determinedly centered on heterosexual dynamics that any hint of same-sex interactions can feel revelatory, even radical, upon the first encounter. That’s the way it felt to me when I first watched Monáe’s film. The queer sexual interactions are refreshingly explicit — miming digital and oral sex — and images throughout celebrate women. The video for the song “Pynk” is an extended appreciation of the female anatomy, with neon signs screaming, “[Expletive] Power,” and pink-frilled jumpsuits that wouldn’t look out of place in a Judy Chicago installation.

Already much of social media has speculated on the nature of Monáe and Thompson’s relationship, and this film — especially with scenes like Thompson poking her head from between the legs of Monae’s pink vagina pantsuit — is certain to only inflame those rumors. The first time I saw the video for “Make Me Feel,” months before its YouTube release, I found it so sexually suggestive (Thompson appears throughout the song, fawning over Monáe, dancing with her, almost kissing her) that I immediately texted the woman I was dating at the time, “omg janelle might really be gay.” It felt as declarative as a coming-out could. And yet in person, Monáe would say only that she felt this was her coming-out as an advocate of women and queer issues. “I want it to be very clear that I’m an advocate for women,” she said. “I’m a girl’s girl, meaning I support women no matter what they choose to do. I’m proud when everybody is taking agency over their image and their bodies.” She told me that she wanted the album to be especially relevant to black women and queer women, for them to feel seen and heard in this album. “I felt that way when I listened to Lauryn Hill, as I was trying to find myself as a young woman, I felt that way when I listened to Stevie Wonder when I was trying to understand God more.”

I asked Monáe what she thought of the internet’s speculation about her romantic relationship with Thompson. Watching her as she decided on a response was like watching a mathematician working out Fermat’s Last Theorem. Gears were churning; calculations were being made. Finally, she laughed, raised her eyebrows and deflected: “I hope people feel celebrated,” she said. “I hope they feel love. I hope they feel seen.” It was late into the evening, and I was conscious of how long we’d been talking — at least two hours — and let it drop. But the issue lingered for me, especially the more times I watched her film.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These days, the culture seems more accepting and welcoming of queerness: Young actors and pop stars like Amandla Stenberg and Lady Gaga are identifying publicly as bisexual. Lena Waithe and her fiancée were recently photographed by Annie Leibovitz for Vanity Fair. And yet, nonheteronormative sexuality remains the last taboo. Monáe is media-savvy enough to protect herself from becoming tabloid fodder for publications that want to turn her personal life into spectacle or reduce her art to her sexuality. She told me repeatedly that she worried what her early fans and very religious and very Southern family would think. There’s little precedent for a black female celebrity at her level living openly as a lesbian in a gay relationship.

Monáe has spent a lifetime perfecting the art of being a pop star who isn’t a sexual object. Discretion is a survival strategy, a coping mechanism especially useful for black women living in the public eye. But she has now made an explicit album about sexual expression and identity that is somehow still shrouded in ambiguity. In 2018, empowerment isn’t a color — it’s a call to action. It’s Cardi B talking about how much she loves her vagina, not holding a neon sign explaining that she has one. On “Dirty Computer,” it still feels as if Monáe is deciding which version of herself to show the world — or that this is the tentative beginning of a larger reveal.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Magazine Newsletter Get the best of the Magazine delivered to your inbox every week, including exclusive feature stories, photography, columns and more. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Monáe grew up in a large yet tightknit family in Kansas City, Kan., the kind with relatives in the double digits. Money was scarce, but they made do. Her parents worked in the service industry, her mother as a janitor and her stepfather as a postal worker. Her mother was a Baptist but didn’t mind when Monaé listened to racy R. & B. songs by groups like Jodeci or rappers like Tupac. Her great-grandmothers played organ in church and taught piano. Her biological father sang. She thinks he could have gotten a record deal if he hadn’t battled an addiction to crack. Her mother left him when Monáe was a toddler and remarried. He was in and out of prison Monáe’s entire childhood. “He’s sober now,” she told me, and the author of a memoir in which he writes about Monáe: “She always had this distinctive look in her eye that said: ‘I’m going to make it! No matter what!’ And I believed that she would.”

As a teenager, Monáe was enrolled in a young playwrights’ program and performed in talent showcases on the weekend, where she sang Lauryn Hill songs a cappella and usually won. She watched movies like “The Wiz” but struggled with the same question that all black children weaned on American pop culture eventually reckon with: Is this all there is?

After high school, she moved to New York to study musical theater at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy. She couldn’t afford to live on campus, so she shared a room at 140th and Amsterdam with an older cousin, who worked nights at the Post Office. They each took a shift sleeping while the other was at work or school and saw each other on the weekends. Her congregation supplied some funds, and Monáe did some work as a maid to make ends meet. She spent the rest of her time in libraries, reading plays and practicing monologues. Her best friend was studying in Atlanta and regaled her with tales of wild parties and the camaraderie of black Greek life. “It was just more exciting than what I was doing,” she said. She liked the rigor and discipline of her school but worried she would lose her edge: “I didn’t want to sound, or look or feel like anybody else.” She made the decision to leave New York after a year and a half.

Monáe eventually settled in a boardinghouse that was directly across from the university center that contains all four of Atlanta’s historically black colleges: Clark Atlanta University, Spelman College, Morehouse College and the Morehouse School of Medicine. She went to Georgia State University’s Perimeter College to save money and began to write her own music. Atlanta in the early 2000s was a hotbed for musical innovation, with artists like OutKast spinning their eccentricities and distinct Southern identity into record deals and national fame. Monáe began experimenting with her own sound, performing around campus — in dorm rooms, at school events and, once, on the steps of the library. She made a CD called “The Audition” and sold it out of the trunk of her Mitsubishi Galant. She worked at Office Depot and during slow moments updated her Myspace page with new photos and music.

During this period, she met Mikael Moore, her longtime manager, and his classmates Chuck Lightning and Nate Wonder, who would eventually became close collaborators and form the backbone of all her creative efforts — writing songs with Monáe and directing her videos, which they continue to do. At an open-mic night, she met Antwan Patton, otherwise known as Big Boi, from OutKast. He invited her to contribute to “Got Purp? Vol. II,” a 2005 compilation album that featured artists of Dirty South rap like Goodie Mob and Bubba Sparxxx but few other women. She also appeared on the soundtrack for “Idlewild,” the 2006 musical film starring Patton and André Benjamin, or André 3000, Patton’s partner in OutKast.

Sean Combs, the producer also known as Puffy at the time, reached out to her after her work with Big Boi put her on his radar. Monáe had already taken a few meetings with record executives, and was disillusioned by those early encounters. They criticized her style, which then involved, sartorially, androgynous suits, and musically, operatic odes to her character Cindi Mayweather. During one performance, she noticed midsong, breathless and sweating from the effort of dancing and singing, an executive casually reading a magazine. “I cried,” she said. “I mean, I cried.” She made Puffy a deal: She had just finished “Metropolis.” She’d hear him out if he came to see her perform. “It was important to know if he was serious, that he was going to appreciate me and not try to change my live show or my music.” Combs halted filming on his reality show, “Making the Band” and flew down. He loved what he saw. “He said, let’s meet tomorrow and let’s talk,” Monáe recalled.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Combs told Monáe that he wanted to introduce her to a larger audience. “I knew I had to work with her,” he told me via email. “It was immediate. I just knew she was going to be important to music and culture. It was the same sort of feeling I had when I first heard Biggie or Mary J. Blige, and I wanted to help introduce this artist to the world.”

In 2008, Combs announced the signing of Monáe to his label, Bad Boy Records. They rereleased “Metropolis” and then followed up with “The ArchAndroid” in 2010 and “The Electric Lady” in 2013 (as well as “Dirty Computer”). Monáe went on tour with No Doubt and Bruno Mars and collaborated with Solange Knowles and Erykah Badu. She landed an endorsement with CoverGirl. She was being sent movie scripts. None moved her until she read the one for “Moonlight.”

Yesi Ramirez, the casting director on the movie, had flagged Monáe for the director Barry Jenkins, and they scheduled a screen test over Skype. When she appeared, her hair filled the frame, even more than her face. He was startled. “I wanted to call her Auntie. I was used to the pompadour, and this larger-than-life entity, the outer-space person that I’d seen live in Oakland with Erykah Badu, and I had to reconcile that person with this person before me,” he said. “We started talking, and it was very clear that she got it.”

During the beginning of production, Monáe lost a relative to gun violence. Jenkins felt that the story of Chiron, the boy whose life the movie follows as he matures, spoke to her because she knew young men like him, lost and struggling to make sense of their sexuality — and understood the way strangers can raise you as much as your biological family can. “She felt it was important that someone like that be centered in a narrative,” Jenkins told me. “And whatever she could do to bring it to larger light, she was down for.”

For Monáe, “Moonlight” and then “Hidden Figures” were a way to convey the message she has striven over and over to convey: recognition and validation for people overlooked by society. “I was, like, this is just another way to get out the message I’ve been trying to talk about for so [expletive] long that I feel like I don’t know if anybody is listening,” she told me. “You can show people better than you can tell them.”

Photo

Rain is Kryptonite to social outings in L.A., but bad weather could not touch the mood in the room at Catch LA in early March. There were a few men — Jay Ellis from “Insecure,” as well as Monáe’s team of male collaborators — but women were everywhere: Ava DuVernay, Rosario Dawson, the director Dee Rees accompanied by her partner, Sarah Broom, Debra Lee, the president of the BET network. The actresses Danai Gurira and Lupita Nyong’o arrived together. Geena Davis watched the scene approvingly from a nearby table. The former editor of Teen Vogue, Elaine Welteroth, held court at another. The New York DJ Kitty Cash played songs, mostly by female artists. Tessa Thompson bounced around in a gorgeous yellow-and-pink feathery coat and leather pants, occasionally at Monáe’s side. The women had gathered for a brunch that Monáe was hosting for her “Fem the Future” project to support women in the entertainment industry. Monáe had chosen three female filmmakers to make short films funded by Belvedere vodka that answered the question: What does a beautiful future look like? The event was nominally to celebrate them but more largely to gather in one room actors, writers, directors and producers Monáe admired.

Monáe, dressed in a Bella Freud ice-blue velvet suit, matching glitter eyeliner and perfectly matte red lips, walked to the front of the restaurant and picked up a microphone. “This room looks good,” she said. “You inspire me and encourage me to be a better woman and artist.” Earlier in her career, she said, she asked some label reps to recommend other female producers and creators she could work with. The list they provided stunned her. “It was so tiny,” she said. “I was upset.” To channel that anger, she said, she started her initiative to help women “cross-connect and open doors,” as she put it. “It gives everybody a seat at the table.”

Throughout my conversations with Monáe, she talked about her dedication to lifting up women. Some of that didn’t quite square with me — most of the crew that supports her creatively, spiritually, administratively seem to be men. But Monáe’s event felt like a mild insistence that she got it. This brunch seemed like a woman-centric version of a few rounds on the golf course — a space that emphasized the importance of networking, beyond film sets, parties and premieres as a means to lay the groundwork for future collaborations. Seeing her in that capacity reminded me that she’s still evolving into the woman she wants to be in the world and the role she wants to play.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A few years ago, the singer and actor Harry Belafonte was asked by a reporter for The Hollywood Reporter to comment on “members of minorities in Hollywood today.” Belafonte, a prominent civil rights activist who helped organized the 1963 March on Washington where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his “I Have a Dream” speech, took the opportunity to express frustration about what he perceived as the political malaise of celebrities. “I think one of the great abuses of this modern time is that we should have had such high-profile artists, powerful celebrities,” he said, “but they have turned their back on social responsibility.” Until recently, few publicly stepped in to fill the hole he named. In the past, Monáe shied away from anything that could potentially derail her career. “I used to be a lot more afraid of going off script,” she told me.

She emerged as an activist in August 2015, at a demonstration in Philadelphia she led in support of the local Black Lives Matter movement. There’s a photo of Monáe surrounded by most of the artists in the Wondaland collective: Jidenna, St. Beauty, Roman GianArthur, Chuck Lightning and the producer Nana Kwabena. Their mouths are open, midchant, and the look on their faces is determined. They are holding drums, signs, one another. For Monáe, the times were too urgent to ignore. Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland had recently died following controversial encounters with the police. She realized she had a voice that she could use. That she needed to use. A few days later, Monáe released the anthem “Hell You Talmbout,” which is less a song than a chant. At nearly seven minutes long, it calls out the names of black men and women who were victims of police brutality, followed by the urging to say their names. It was a significant moment in her career: She would no longer be cautious when it came to social responsibility. The song came out almost a year before Beyoncé’s breaking-chains “Freedom” or Solange Knowles’s primal scream on “A Seat at the Table.” A few months later, Ava DuVernay and Ryan Coogler gave a benefit concert in Flint, Mich., to raise money for the clean-water-deprived city that was also a boycott of the Oscars. Monáe performed alongside Stevie Wonder, Vic Mensa and Hannibal Buress. Monaé told me that in the past, she tended to write anthems for other people. “I don’t always live them, I don’t. And I’m learning more and more to live them, to make myself live them.”

Her highest-profile moment came with the 2017 presidential inauguration. Monáe was invited to speak — as well as sing — at the Women’s March by Ginny Suss, a member of the organizing committee in charge of music. Suss wanted artists whose music reflected their personal politic. “When you look at the arc of her career, there has always been a moral core and ethical center to her music, that breaks down constructions of race and gender in our society,” Suss told me. “It’s a tool to imagine the world we want through the accessibility of pop music. Having her stand up and have that voice at the march was amazing.”

Monáe had heard that Lucia McBath, the mother of Jordan Davis; Sybrina Fulton, the mother of Trayvon Martin; and Gwen Carr, the mother of Eric Garner, were going to be there, too, and she wanted to offer support. She herself was still reeling from the election, she added. “I just wanted to come and not only uplift, but I wanted to be uplifted, too.” As she made her way backstage, she got a sense of the crowd for the first time. “I saw, like, tens of thousands — hundreds of thousands of women and men and people from all around the world, babies and Muslims and trans and L.G.B.T. folks,” she recalled. “I was like, Oh, my God.” She hadn’t expected such a tremendous turnout, for so many people to care about what happens to women. The importance of the task hit her. But there was no privacy backstage, no place to prepare or gather her thoughts — just a communal room where the speakers were chatting and taking photographs. Monáe had no choice but to wing it. “That was just one of those moments where I was just, like, It might not come out right, but as long as your intentions are pure, as long as you’re honest,” she told me. She drew from the mixture of emotions stirred up by her recent role in “Hidden Figures,” about female African-American mathematicians suffering from discrimination even as they performed pivotal jobs for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration during the American space race of the 1960s. “Everything that was going on in January felt like that era, when we’re talking about a blatant war on women’s rights.”

She appeared calm as she addressed the enormous crowd. “Women will be hidden no more,” she said. “We have names. We are complete human beings.” For many people, the speech cast Monáe in a new light: she became more than a psychedelic Tim Burton character. The response galvanized her. “I just had to speak from my heart,” she said. “Not a lot of artists do it.”

This January, she took the stage at the Grammys, where she delivered a short speech to introduce the singer Kesha, who’d had a legal battle with her former producer Dr. Luke. A member of TimesUp, a Hollywood initiative to fight sexual harassment, Monáe wore its pin proudly on her black suit as she called out the music industry for its epidemic patterns of sexual harassment and assault. “We come in peace, but we mean business,” she said to the crowd. “Just as we have the power to shape culture, we also have the power to undo the culture that does not serve us well.”

In Atlanta, after our conversation at Wondaland, Monáe seemed to get a second wind. The band upstairs had resumed practicing for her forthcoming tour, and she wanted to check in on their progress. She invited me to join her. If the basement was where ideas began to gestate, then the room she led me to was where they were polished before leaving the house. It had a ballet barre and floor-to-ceiling mirrors. She disappeared for a few minutes before returning in black leggings and the same cropped moto jacket from the presentation in Los Angeles.

Monáe greeted everyone in her band — the drummer, keyboard player, guitarist and two backup singers — hugging them and taking a few moments to inquire about their health, their families, their side projects, before taking her position in front of them. She patted her pockets, searching for a missing item, which she spied on a speaker: mirrored sunglasses. She put them on and nodded to the band. They launched into “Make Me Feel” and then “I Got the Juice,” and she ran through them a few times, losing herself a little more in the music during each performance.

Despite the accolades and Grammy nominations, Monáe has yet to achieve significant commercial success. If there’s a moment that her entire discography has been building toward, it is right now, with this release. Her desire for a win shone nakedly. She sneaked coy peeks at me to see if I was paying attention. It was impossible to tear my eyes away, not to want for her what she so clearly wants for herself. At the completion of each song, Monáe would grin, breathless. “That’s going to sound so good live,” she said, happily. But then the perfectionist came out again. She asked the band what else they had prepared. The sheepish answer came: Nothing. She paused, letting her displeasure seep out for few moments, just enough for them to know that they’d need to step it up. “Well, all right, then,” she replied. “Let’s go through them again.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In all our encounters, Monáe seemed as if she was bracing herself for anything, including the worst — harsh reviews, irrelevancy, dismissals. But all that carefully maintained composure fell away as she twirled and dropped to her knees. Earlier, I asked her what she ultimately wanted: awards? Album sales? Money? She referred to Prince again: He was in that “free [expletive] category,” she said. “That’s where I want to be. That’s where I want to ultimately be.”The album earned Monáe a Grammy nomination for the song “Many Moons.” She would go on to collect five more nominations across two more albums, both of which starred her alter-ego, Mayweather. For years, Monáe remained safely cocooned within the character. “Cindi helps me talk more,” she said; through Mayweather, she could address things she didn’t feel comfortable talking about directly. “You can parallel the other in the android to being a black woman right now, to being a part of the L.G.B.T.Q. community,” she said. “What it feels like to be called a nigger by your oppressor.” Mayweather was a proxy for all the things about Monaé that made others uncomfortable, like her androgyny, her opaque sexual identity, her gender fluidity — her defiance of easy categorization.

But then Monáe shifted her attention to acting. She made her film debut as the de facto surrogate mother of a young black boy in “Moonlight,” which won the Oscar for Best Picture last year; she starred, with Octavia Spencer and Taraji P. Henson, in the blockbuster “Hidden Figures,” about early black female mathematicians. Fans wondered if she would commit to films, where she could attain a level of fame that can be elusive in music. But part of the reason she was slow to return, she told me, is that her mentor, Prince, died unexpectedly. They were working together closely on what would become “Dirty Computer.” “This was the person that I would literally call and talk to about sounds or: ‘How should I say this? Is this saying too much?’ I just never could imagine a time where I couldn’t pick up the phone or email him, and he’d contact me right back and we’d talk about all these things that I was unsure of.”

The music Monáe introduced on that dusty afternoon in Los Angeles marked her highly anticipated return. “Dirty Computer,” a celebratory ode to femininity and queer people, seems to signal a new era in her career: If in the past she seemed distant, using Mayweather to stand in for the real Monáe, she now seems ready to present herself to the public. “Right now I’m escaping the gravity of the labels that people have tried to place on me that have stopped my evolution,” she told me. “You have to go ahead and soar, and not be afraid to jump — and I’m jumping right now.”

Two months later, in February, I was in the back of an Uber, riding southwest toward a subdivision of Atlanta. After a pause at a security gate, the car drove through an upscale, predominantly black community, past typical suburban scenes — teenagers shooting hoops, people taking out their garbage, men working on their cars. I was heading to Wondaland Arts Society, Monáe’s creative headquarters. Its inspiration is Paisley Park, the elaborate compound outside Minneapolis that housed Prince’s rehearsal space, recording rooms, concert venue and countless parties. Several years ago, Monáe established the Wondaland label — one of the few black women to have a label of her own — and signed several acts, including the band St. Beauty (one member, Isis Valentino, was a backup singer for Monáe) and the singer and rapper Jidenna. The Wondaland artists often practice together and appear on one another’s albums. And the compound, where the artists often crash, has become a center of black culture in Atlanta. Much of “Black Panther” was shot in and around the city, and the cast held impromptu gatherings at Wondaland. At one, Chadwick Boseman whaled on the drums and Lupita N’yongo was hailed as the best dancer. They were among the first to hear “Dirty Computer,” and their approval gave Monáe’s confidence a boost. “I felt understood,” she told me. “I felt like, Man, these are people I admire and I respect, and they love this album. I have to finish it.”

Outside Wondaland, eight cars lined the long driveway, and staccato bursts floated from an open window upstairs. It sounded like band practice, a score being workshopped. I recognized the music from “Dirty Computer.” A Wondaland staff member named Kelly greeted me at the door and gave me a quick tour. From the outside, the house looked like any other Southern McMansion, but the entryway immediately suggested something different. Thick, leafy palm trees crowded the foyer so densely that I had to wrestle them to get through. A handwritten note asked guests to slip off their shoes. An archway was decorated with a dozen or so clocks, in different shapes and colors, their hands frozen at various times.

Photo

Before I went down to the sprawling lower level where Monáe and I would talk, I poked my head into a few of the rooms on the first floor, all filled with recording equipment and more luscious tropical plants. People seemed to be having casual meetings in many of them. There was a large wraparound kitchen, where a woman was chopping army quantities of vegetables. On the dining-room table, there was a chocolate cake surrounded by red and blue balloons, a bottle of sparkling rosé and a laserjet printout that read in block caps: “CONGRATULATIONS, YOU DIRTY COMPUTER.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The stairs to the basement were covered with green turf, so that even as my eyes adjusted to the dimming light, my feet were receiving the pleasantly disorienting sensation of outdoors. Downstairs, there were tropical plants everywhere; brilliant orange-and-white fish swam in an expansive tank bathed in purple lights. I counted at least five keyboards, eight guitars, two drum kits, a piano, a cello, a trumpet and a saxophone. A stack of books piled on an end table included “Writing Better Lyrics,” “Sapiens,” “Zen Guitar” and “Built to Last,” a book on business management. There was a desk crowded with sound mixers and synthesizers, and a box set of Jimi Hendrix CDs. A minifridge was stocked with seltzer, wine and water, and a bottle of absinthe stood on the desk.

Monáe soundlessly padded into the room, clad in a velour caftan, gold earrings and rings to match. She was barefoot, her toes painted metallic silver. She had arrived from Los Angeles that morning, and tried to take a nap, but Jidenna, who was in town, woke her up with his practicing. Though she apologized for being tired, she was buoyant. It had been 24 hours since her first two singles — “Django Jane” and “Make Me Feel” — were released, and both were trending on social media. “I’m still nervous, obviously, but I’ll enjoy this moment,” she told me, as she arranged herself more comfortably on a chair next to the couch where I was sitting. “But I won’t drive myself nuts trying to preplan what people are going to say, what they’re going to think, even though it terrifies me — I just have to put my energy into finishing.”

Monáe, who is 32, told me that she has been circling the themes explored on “Dirty Computer” for at least a decade, but that earlier it felt safer to package herself in metaphors. “I knew I needed to make this album, and I put it off and put it off because the subject is Janelle Monáe.” She’s still having a conversation with herself, she said, about who she wants to be when she’s in the spotlight. The sanitized android version felt more accepted — and more acceptable — than her true self. The public, she explained, doesn’t really “know Janelle Monáe, and I felt like I didn’t really have to be her because they were fine with Cindi.” When Prince died in April 2016, she started to rethink how she would present herself. “I couldn’t fake being vulnerable. In terms of how I will be remembered, I have anxiety around that, like the whole concept about what I’ll be remembered for.”

At its core, “Dirty Computer” is a homage to women and the spectrum of sexual identities. The songs can be grouped into three loose categories: Reckoning, Celebration and Reclamation. “The first songs deal with realizing that this is how society sees me,” she said. “This is how I’m viewed. I’m a ‘dirty computer,’ it’s clear. I’m going to be pushed to the margins, outside margins, of the world.” “D’Jango Jane” is an ode to black power and pride that is also a dirge about the struggles that come with that heritage. The middle half of the album is a raucous party. “It’s like, O.K., these are the cards I’ve been dealt,” she said. These songs include “Make Me Feel” and “Pynk” — the sizzling, sex-drenched songs that titillated the internet when they were released earlier this year. The album winds down with an anthem about being an American, whose sound evokes Prince’s “Let’s Go Crazy,” with lyrics like “love me for who I am,” and “cross my heart and hope to die, I’m a big old piece of American pie.”

Monáe will release an extended musical film with the album that illustrates and complements “Dirty Computer.” The 50-minute “emotion picture,” as she calls it, follows a young woman, played by Monáe, on the run from an authoritarian government that hunts down so-called deviants and “cleans” them by erasing their memories. Those memories serve as the musical interludes (the videos) amid the drama — “Handmaid’s Tale” meets “San Junipero,” set in a desiccated “Mad Max” landscape. It follows a crew of young kids, mostly black, dancing and dodging capture. Longtime fans will recognize the parallels to Mayweather — which Monáe expects — but instead of focusing on a fictional male human lover, the object of her affection is the actress Tessa Thompson, with whom Monáe is frequently photographed in real life. A beautiful man whom she occasionally hugs and kisses makes appearances, but he feels like an afterthought. Plausible deniability. The star-crossed romance between Thompson and Monáe, and whether they will be separated or reunited, is the true narrative of the film.

Most popular music is so determinedly centered on heterosexual dynamics that any hint of same-sex interactions can feel revelatory, even radical, upon the first encounter. That’s the way it felt to me when I first watched Monáe’s film. The queer sexual interactions are refreshingly explicit — miming digital and oral sex — and images throughout celebrate women. The video for the song “Pynk” is an extended appreciation of the female anatomy, with neon signs screaming, “[Expletive] Power,” and pink-frilled jumpsuits that wouldn’t look out of place in a Judy Chicago installation.

Already much of social media has speculated on the nature of Monáe and Thompson’s relationship, and this film — especially with scenes like Thompson poking her head from between the legs of Monae’s pink vagina pantsuit — is certain to only inflame those rumors. The first time I saw the video for “Make Me Feel,” months before its YouTube release, I found it so sexually suggestive (Thompson appears throughout the song, fawning over Monáe, dancing with her, almost kissing her) that I immediately texted the woman I was dating at the time, “omg janelle might really be gay.” It felt as declarative as a coming-out could. And yet in person, Monáe would say only that she felt this was her coming-out as an advocate of women and queer issues. “I want it to be very clear that I’m an advocate for women,” she said. “I’m a girl’s girl, meaning I support women no matter what they choose to do. I’m proud when everybody is taking agency over their image and their bodies.” She told me that she wanted the album to be especially relevant to black women and queer women, for them to feel seen and heard in this album. “I felt that way when I listened to Lauryn Hill, as I was trying to find myself as a young woman, I felt that way when I listened to Stevie Wonder when I was trying to understand God more.”

I asked Monáe what she thought of the internet’s speculation about her romantic relationship with Thompson. Watching her as she decided on a response was like watching a mathematician working out Fermat’s Last Theorem. Gears were churning; calculations were being made. Finally, she laughed, raised her eyebrows and deflected: “I hope people feel celebrated,” she said. “I hope they feel love. I hope they feel seen.” It was late into the evening, and I was conscious of how long we’d been talking — at least two hours — and let it drop. But the issue lingered for me, especially the more times I watched her film.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These days, the culture seems more accepting and welcoming of queerness: Young actors and pop stars like Amandla Stenberg and Lady Gaga are identifying publicly as bisexual. Lena Waithe and her fiancée were recently photographed by Annie Leibovitz for Vanity Fair. And yet, nonheteronormative sexuality remains the last taboo. Monáe is media-savvy enough to protect herself from becoming tabloid fodder for publications that want to turn her personal life into spectacle or reduce her art to her sexuality. She told me repeatedly that she worried what her early fans and very religious and very Southern family would think. There’s little precedent for a black female celebrity at her level living openly as a lesbian in a gay relationship.

Monáe has spent a lifetime perfecting the art of being a pop star who isn’t a sexual object. Discretion is a survival strategy, a coping mechanism especially useful for black women living in the public eye. But she has now made an explicit album about sexual expression and identity that is somehow still shrouded in ambiguity. In 2018, empowerment isn’t a color — it’s a call to action. It’s Cardi B talking about how much she loves her vagina, not holding a neon sign explaining that she has one. On “Dirty Computer,” it still feels as if Monáe is deciding which version of herself to show the world — or that this is the tentative beginning of a larger reveal.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Magazine Newsletter Get the best of the Magazine delivered to your inbox every week, including exclusive feature stories, photography, columns and more. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Monáe grew up in a large yet tightknit family in Kansas City, Kan., the kind with relatives in the double digits. Money was scarce, but they made do. Her parents worked in the service industry, her mother as a janitor and her stepfather as a postal worker. Her mother was a Baptist but didn’t mind when Monaé listened to racy R. & B. songs by groups like Jodeci or rappers like Tupac. Her great-grandmothers played organ in church and taught piano. Her biological father sang. She thinks he could have gotten a record deal if he hadn’t battled an addiction to crack. Her mother left him when Monáe was a toddler and remarried. He was in and out of prison Monáe’s entire childhood. “He’s sober now,” she told me, and the author of a memoir in which he writes about Monáe: “She always had this distinctive look in her eye that said: ‘I’m going to make it! No matter what!’ And I believed that she would.”

As a teenager, Monáe was enrolled in a young playwrights’ program and performed in talent showcases on the weekend, where she sang Lauryn Hill songs a cappella and usually won. She watched movies like “The Wiz” but struggled with the same question that all black children weaned on American pop culture eventually reckon with: Is this all there is?

After high school, she moved to New York to study musical theater at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy. She couldn’t afford to live on campus, so she shared a room at 140th and Amsterdam with an older cousin, who worked nights at the Post Office. They each took a shift sleeping while the other was at work or school and saw each other on the weekends. Her congregation supplied some funds, and Monáe did some work as a maid to make ends meet. She spent the rest of her time in libraries, reading plays and practicing monologues. Her best friend was studying in Atlanta and regaled her with tales of wild parties and the camaraderie of black Greek life. “It was just more exciting than what I was doing,” she said. She liked the rigor and discipline of her school but worried she would lose her edge: “I didn’t want to sound, or look or feel like anybody else.” She made the decision to leave New York after a year and a half.

Monáe eventually settled in a boardinghouse that was directly across from the university center that contains all four of Atlanta’s historically black colleges: Clark Atlanta University, Spelman College, Morehouse College and the Morehouse School of Medicine. She went to Georgia State University’s Perimeter College to save money and began to write her own music. Atlanta in the early 2000s was a hotbed for musical innovation, with artists like OutKast spinning their eccentricities and distinct Southern identity into record deals and national fame. Monáe began experimenting with her own sound, performing around campus — in dorm rooms, at school events and, once, on the steps of the library. She made a CD called “The Audition” and sold it out of the trunk of her Mitsubishi Galant. She worked at Office Depot and during slow moments updated her Myspace page with new photos and music.

During this period, she met Mikael Moore, her longtime manager, and his classmates Chuck Lightning and Nate Wonder, who would eventually became close collaborators and form the backbone of all her creative efforts — writing songs with Monáe and directing her videos, which they continue to do. At an open-mic night, she met Antwan Patton, otherwise known as Big Boi, from OutKast. He invited her to contribute to “Got Purp? Vol. II,” a 2005 compilation album that featured artists of Dirty South rap like Goodie Mob and Bubba Sparxxx but few other women. She also appeared on the soundtrack for “Idlewild,” the 2006 musical film starring Patton and André Benjamin, or André 3000, Patton’s partner in OutKast.

Sean Combs, the producer also known as Puffy at the time, reached out to her after her work with Big Boi put her on his radar. Monáe had already taken a few meetings with record executives, and was disillusioned by those early encounters. They criticized her style, which then involved, sartorially, androgynous suits, and musically, operatic odes to her character Cindi Mayweather. During one performance, she noticed midsong, breathless and sweating from the effort of dancing and singing, an executive casually reading a magazine. “I cried,” she said. “I mean, I cried.” She made Puffy a deal: She had just finished “Metropolis.” She’d hear him out if he came to see her perform. “It was important to know if he was serious, that he was going to appreciate me and not try to change my live show or my music.” Combs halted filming on his reality show, “Making the Band” and flew down. He loved what he saw. “He said, let’s meet tomorrow and let’s talk,” Monáe recalled.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Combs told Monáe that he wanted to introduce her to a larger audience. “I knew I had to work with her,” he told me via email. “It was immediate. I just knew she was going to be important to music and culture. It was the same sort of feeling I had when I first heard Biggie or Mary J. Blige, and I wanted to help introduce this artist to the world.”

In 2008, Combs announced the signing of Monáe to his label, Bad Boy Records. They rereleased “Metropolis” and then followed up with “The ArchAndroid” in 2010 and “The Electric Lady” in 2013 (as well as “Dirty Computer”). Monáe went on tour with No Doubt and Bruno Mars and collaborated with Solange Knowles and Erykah Badu. She landed an endorsement with CoverGirl. She was being sent movie scripts. None moved her until she read the one for “Moonlight.”

Yesi Ramirez, the casting director on the movie, had flagged Monáe for the director Barry Jenkins, and they scheduled a screen test over Skype. When she appeared, her hair filled the frame, even more than her face. He was startled. “I wanted to call her Auntie. I was used to the pompadour, and this larger-than-life entity, the outer-space person that I’d seen live in Oakland with Erykah Badu, and I had to reconcile that person with this person before me,” he said. “We started talking, and it was very clear that she got it.”

During the beginning of production, Monáe lost a relative to gun violence. Jenkins felt that the story of Chiron, the boy whose life the movie follows as he matures, spoke to her because she knew young men like him, lost and struggling to make sense of their sexuality — and understood the way strangers can raise you as much as your biological family can. “She felt it was important that someone like that be centered in a narrative,” Jenkins told me. “And whatever she could do to bring it to larger light, she was down for.”

For Monáe, “Moonlight” and then “Hidden Figures” were a way to convey the message she has striven over and over to convey: recognition and validation for people overlooked by society. “I was, like, this is just another way to get out the message I’ve been trying to talk about for so [expletive] long that I feel like I don’t know if anybody is listening,” she told me. “You can show people better than you can tell them.”

Photo

Rain is Kryptonite to social outings in L.A., but bad weather could not touch the mood in the room at Catch LA in early March. There were a few men — Jay Ellis from “Insecure,” as well as Monáe’s team of male collaborators — but women were everywhere: Ava DuVernay, Rosario Dawson, the director Dee Rees accompanied by her partner, Sarah Broom, Debra Lee, the president of the BET network. The actresses Danai Gurira and Lupita Nyong’o arrived together. Geena Davis watched the scene approvingly from a nearby table. The former editor of Teen Vogue, Elaine Welteroth, held court at another. The New York DJ Kitty Cash played songs, mostly by female artists. Tessa Thompson bounced around in a gorgeous yellow-and-pink feathery coat and leather pants, occasionally at Monáe’s side. The women had gathered for a brunch that Monáe was hosting for her “Fem the Future” project to support women in the entertainment industry. Monáe had chosen three female filmmakers to make short films funded by Belvedere vodka that answered the question: What does a beautiful future look like? The event was nominally to celebrate them but more largely to gather in one room actors, writers, directors and producers Monáe admired.

Monáe, dressed in a Bella Freud ice-blue velvet suit, matching glitter eyeliner and perfectly matte red lips, walked to the front of the restaurant and picked up a microphone. “This room looks good,” she said. “You inspire me and encourage me to be a better woman and artist.” Earlier in her career, she said, she asked some label reps to recommend other female producers and creators she could work with. The list they provided stunned her. “It was so tiny,” she said. “I was upset.” To channel that anger, she said, she started her initiative to help women “cross-connect and open doors,” as she put it. “It gives everybody a seat at the table.”

Throughout my conversations with Monáe, she talked about her dedication to lifting up women. Some of that didn’t quite square with me — most of the crew that supports her creatively, spiritually, administratively seem to be men. But Monáe’s event felt like a mild insistence that she got it. This brunch seemed like a woman-centric version of a few rounds on the golf course — a space that emphasized the importance of networking, beyond film sets, parties and premieres as a means to lay the groundwork for future collaborations. Seeing her in that capacity reminded me that she’s still evolving into the woman she wants to be in the world and the role she wants to play.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A few years ago, the singer and actor Harry Belafonte was asked by a reporter for The Hollywood Reporter to comment on “members of minorities in Hollywood today.” Belafonte, a prominent civil rights activist who helped organized the 1963 March on Washington where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his “I Have a Dream” speech, took the opportunity to express frustration about what he perceived as the political malaise of celebrities. “I think one of the great abuses of this modern time is that we should have had such high-profile artists, powerful celebrities,” he said, “but they have turned their back on social responsibility.” Until recently, few publicly stepped in to fill the hole he named. In the past, Monáe shied away from anything that could potentially derail her career. “I used to be a lot more afraid of going off script,” she told me.

She emerged as an activist in August 2015, at a demonstration in Philadelphia she led in support of the local Black Lives Matter movement. There’s a photo of Monáe surrounded by most of the artists in the Wondaland collective: Jidenna, St. Beauty, Roman GianArthur, Chuck Lightning and the producer Nana Kwabena. Their mouths are open, midchant, and the look on their faces is determined. They are holding drums, signs, one another. For Monáe, the times were too urgent to ignore. Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland had recently died following controversial encounters with the police. She realized she had a voice that she could use. That she needed to use. A few days later, Monáe released the anthem “Hell You Talmbout,” which is less a song than a chant. At nearly seven minutes long, it calls out the names of black men and women who were victims of police brutality, followed by the urging to say their names. It was a significant moment in her career: She would no longer be cautious when it came to social responsibility. The song came out almost a year before Beyoncé’s breaking-chains “Freedom” or Solange Knowles’s primal scream on “A Seat at the Table.” A few months later, Ava DuVernay and Ryan Coogler gave a benefit concert in Flint, Mich., to raise money for the clean-water-deprived city that was also a boycott of the Oscars. Monáe performed alongside Stevie Wonder, Vic Mensa and Hannibal Buress. Monaé told me that in the past, she tended to write anthems for other people. “I don’t always live them, I don’t. And I’m learning more and more to live them, to make myself live them.”

Her highest-profile moment came with the 2017 presidential inauguration. Monáe was invited to speak — as well as sing — at the Women’s March by Ginny Suss, a member of the organizing committee in charge of music. Suss wanted artists whose music reflected their personal politic. “When you look at the arc of her career, there has always been a moral core and ethical center to her music, that breaks down constructions of race and gender in our society,” Suss told me. “It’s a tool to imagine the world we want through the accessibility of pop music. Having her stand up and have that voice at the march was amazing.”

Monáe had heard that Lucia McBath, the mother of Jordan Davis; Sybrina Fulton, the mother of Trayvon Martin; and Gwen Carr, the mother of Eric Garner, were going to be there, too, and she wanted to offer support. She herself was still reeling from the election, she added. “I just wanted to come and not only uplift, but I wanted to be uplifted, too.” As she made her way backstage, she got a sense of the crowd for the first time. “I saw, like, tens of thousands — hundreds of thousands of women and men and people from all around the world, babies and Muslims and trans and L.G.B.T. folks,” she recalled. “I was like, Oh, my God.” She hadn’t expected such a tremendous turnout, for so many people to care about what happens to women. The importance of the task hit her. But there was no privacy backstage, no place to prepare or gather her thoughts — just a communal room where the speakers were chatting and taking photographs. Monáe had no choice but to wing it. “That was just one of those moments where I was just, like, It might not come out right, but as long as your intentions are pure, as long as you’re honest,” she told me. She drew from the mixture of emotions stirred up by her recent role in “Hidden Figures,” about female African-American mathematicians suffering from discrimination even as they performed pivotal jobs for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration during the American space race of the 1960s. “Everything that was going on in January felt like that era, when we’re talking about a blatant war on women’s rights.”

She appeared calm as she addressed the enormous crowd. “Women will be hidden no more,” she said. “We have names. We are complete human beings.” For many people, the speech cast Monáe in a new light: she became more than a psychedelic Tim Burton character. The response galvanized her. “I just had to speak from my heart,” she said. “Not a lot of artists do it.”

This January, she took the stage at the Grammys, where she delivered a short speech to introduce the singer Kesha, who’d had a legal battle with her former producer Dr. Luke. A member of TimesUp, a Hollywood initiative to fight sexual harassment, Monáe wore its pin proudly on her black suit as she called out the music industry for its epidemic patterns of sexual harassment and assault. “We come in peace, but we mean business,” she said to the crowd. “Just as we have the power to shape culture, we also have the power to undo the culture that does not serve us well.”

In Atlanta, after our conversation at Wondaland, Monáe seemed to get a second wind. The band upstairs had resumed practicing for her forthcoming tour, and she wanted to check in on their progress. She invited me to join her. If the basement was where ideas began to gestate, then the room she led me to was where they were polished before leaving the house. It had a ballet barre and floor-to-ceiling mirrors. She disappeared for a few minutes before returning in black leggings and the same cropped moto jacket from the presentation in Los Angeles.

Monáe greeted everyone in her band — the drummer, keyboard player, guitarist and two backup singers — hugging them and taking a few moments to inquire about their health, their families, their side projects, before taking her position in front of them. She patted her pockets, searching for a missing item, which she spied on a speaker: mirrored sunglasses. She put them on and nodded to the band. They launched into “Make Me Feel” and then “I Got the Juice,” and she ran through them a few times, losing herself a little more in the music during each performance.

Despite the accolades and Grammy nominations, Monáe has yet to achieve significant commercial success. If there’s a moment that her entire discography has been building toward, it is right now, with this release. Her desire for a win shone nakedly. She sneaked coy peeks at me to see if I was paying attention. It was impossible to tear my eyes away, not to want for her what she so clearly wants for herself. At the completion of each song, Monáe would grin, breathless. “That’s going to sound so good live,” she said, happily. But then the perfectionist came out again. She asked the band what else they had prepared. The sheepish answer came: Nothing. She paused, letting her displeasure seep out for few moments, just enough for them to know that they’d need to step it up. “Well, all right, then,” she replied. “Let’s go through them again.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In all our encounters, Monáe seemed as if she was bracing herself for anything, including the worst — harsh reviews, irrelevancy, dismissals. But all that carefully maintained composure fell away as she twirled and dropped to her knees. Earlier, I asked her what she ultimately wanted: awards? Album sales? Money? She referred to Prince again: He was in that “free [expletive] category,” she said. “That’s where I want to be. That’s where I want to ultimately be.”_____

Photo

3. North Korea has apparently removed a major obstacle to negotiations with the U.S.

South Korea reported that Kim Jong-un is no longer demanding that American troops be removed from South Korea as a condition for denuclearization. If confirmed, that’s a game changer.

Above, American soldiers in South Korea dragged dummies during a competition earlier this month.

Officials are scrambling to work out the details for a meeting between Mr. Kim and President Trump in the coming weeks. They’re still hunting for a location, and travel time is a major concern: It’s unclear whether Mr. Kim’s fleet of Soviet-era planes can fly more than a few thousand miles.

_____

Photo

4. A Pentagon assessment has concluded that the American-led strike against the Syrian government, seen above, most likely will not stop its chemical weapons program.

And we launched a new podcast, “Caliphate,” following our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she reports on the Islamic State. In the latest episode, she talks to a former member about how and why he joined. Listen here, and you can also sign up for email updates about new episodes.

_____

Photo

5. For decades, marriage to an American citizen has been a virtual guarantee of legal residency, the main hurdle being proof that the relationship is legitimate. Not anymore.

Now some people who had old deportation orders are being arrested when they show up for their marriage interviews. That’s what happened to Leandro Arriaga, above with his family. He spent two months in detention before a judge released him with an ankle monitor.

Would you pass the green card marriage interview? Here is a sampling of questions gathered from immigration lawyers that you can try with your partner.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

_____

Photo

6. Two black men whose arrests at a Starbucks in Philadelphia led to protests have spoken about the ordeal for the first time.

Donte Robinson and Rashon Nelson, both 23, said they went to the Starbucks for a meeting involving real estate that they had been working on for months.

“I want to make sure that this situation doesn’t happen again,” Mr. Robinson, right, said on “Good Morning America.” “What I want is for young men to not be traumatized by this, and instead motivated, inspired.”

Starbucks announced it would close thousands of stores for anti-bias training next month. The announcement thrust a fundamental question to center stage: Does such training actually work?

____

Photo

7. For the first time in decades, Cubans have a president whose last name is not Castro.

Miguel Díaz-Canel Bermúdez, left, took the helm of government to a standing ovation from the National Assembly. Here’s what we know about him.

He replaces Raúl Castro, who stepped down after two terms as president. Mr. Castro will remain the leader of the Communist Party and the head of the armed forces.

There’s a sense of wistfulness among aging Cuban exiles in Miami who have been waiting decades to see the Castros go. But with a handpicked successor taking office, they don’t expect real change anytime soon.

_____

Photo

8. Two years after the sudden death of Prince by accidental overdose, the authorities in Minnesota announced that no one would be criminally charged in the case.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The county attorney said the enigmatic musician died after unknowingly taking counterfeit Vicodin that contained fentanyl. But, he said, there was “no reliable evidence of how Prince obtained” the fatal drug.

Though Prince had been a strict proponent of sober living, friends said he had suffered from chronic hip pain that he was trying to manage and perform through.

_____

Photo

9. At the time of his death, Prince was mentoring Janelle Monáe as she worked on what would become her new album, “Dirty Computer.”

It’s her first solo studio album in five years, and a celebratory ode to femininity and queer people. Our Times Magazine writer Jenna Wortham traveled to Los Angeles for a listening party — and then to Ms. Monáe’s artistic compound, Wondaland Arts Society in Atlanta, to discuss it.

“Right now I’m escaping the gravity of the labels that people have tried to place on me that have stopped my evolution,” Ms. Monáe said. “You have to go ahead and soar, and not be afraid to jump.”

_____

Photo

10. Robots have taken our jobs, learned our chores and beaten us at our own games. Now, researchers in Singapore say they have trained one to perform another task known to confound humans: assembling furniture from Ikea.

It took a robot just 20 minutes to put together most of a $25 Stefan chair. But take heart: The robot didn’t succeed right away. There were several failed attempts, and researchers tweaked the system repeatedly before the robot was finally able to assemble the chair on its own.

_____

Photo

11. Finally, the late-night hosts were still digesting the news of the secret trip to North Korea by the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, over Easter weekend.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I can’t believe Trump kept something this big secret!” Stephen Colbert exclaimed. “How did he do it? I mean, the only possible explanation is that Michael Cohen paid him $130,000 to stay quiet about it.”

Have a great night.

_____

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com._____

Photo

• If the world economy is looking so great, why are global policymakers so gloomy?

Worries about trade and debt are the top concerns for officials, above, gathering in Washington for the I.M.F. and World Bank meetings. Beyond the threat of a trade war, they are worried about growing financial imbalances, like Germany’s export surplus, that could spur the next downturn.

The Trump administration’s policies have effectively crippled the Export-Import Bank, an 84-year-old Washington institution.

_____

Photo

• “Shut up, Satan!”

Yelling at the devil is just one way to rid a friend or loved one of demonic possession, or so 300 Roman Catholics, above, learned in an exorcism master class in Rome. (Also helpful: uninterrupted praying, chastity and good cellphone coverage.)

The annual seminar seeks to train an army of exorcists to confront a surge in evil that its ultraconservative sponsors blame on atheism — and Pope Francis.

(Warning: Black magic can be transmitted through smartphone screens.)

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

Photo

• U.S. regulators are expected to fine Wells Fargo $1 billion for a range of alleged misdeeds, the biggest bank penalty of the Trump era.

• General Electric, the industrial giant, invested heavily in digital technology but has pulled back, finding that becoming a big tech player is daunting and costly.

• Qualcomm, the American chip maker, is finding itself in the cross hairs of a looming U.S.-China trade war.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Advertisers have long had a symbiotic relationship with Facebook. But user concerns about privacy are forcing companies to re-examine how they work with the social network.

• Southwest Airlines’ fatal accident after takeoff from New York this week is renewing scrutiny of inspections. No problems were detected when the plane was checked two days before the explosion.

• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

• Rudy Giuliani, above, the former New York City mayor, will join President Trump’s legal team dealing with the investigation into Russian election interference. [The New York Times]

• A Greek court’s ruling that lets migrants arriving on the country’s islands travel freely within its borders could threaten the E.U.’s refugee deal with Turkey. [The New York Times]

• The British police are looking for a group of masked thieves who stole jade and gold Chinese antiques from a museum. [The New York Times]

• Marriage to a U.S. citizen used to be a virtual guarantee of legal residency. That is no longer the case under the Trump administration. [The New York Times]

• In Spain, the supermarket chain Carrefour introduced a new range of insect-based foods, including spicy chili buffalo worms and smoked crickets. New E.U. regulations paved the way for such products. [The Guardian]

• The Cannes Film Festival ended a ban on Lars von Trier, the Danish film director, whom it declared persona non grata in 2011 for remarks about Hitler. [The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Brexit: The E.U. rejected British proposals for solving the Northern Ireland border issue, the latest challenge for Prime Minister Theresa May’s government as it tries to prepare for leaving the bloc. [Politico]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

Photo

• Recipe of the day: Close out the week with a sheet-pan meal of roasted chicken, potatoes, arugula and a garlic yogurt.

• Here’s how to help colleagues who don't know they need help.

• Leftovers? Make a savory tart.

Noteworthy

Photo

• Can dirt save the world? Farming could pull carbon out of the air and into the soil, but that would mean a new way of thinking about how to tend the land.

• In memoriam: Rob Matthews, 56, a blind British runner who won eight Paralympic gold medals and broke 22 world records. “Running turned back the fear,” he said.

• A Frenchman has become the first person in the world to receive two full facial transplants.

Back Story

Photo

“Old soldiers never die; they just fade away.”

Gen. Douglas MacArthur, above, took those words from an old Army ballad and made them famous 67 years ago this week in his farewell address to Congress.

Little did that five-star American general know that he had just given rise to an army of so-called snowclones, a relatively new linguistic phenomenon that’s tougher to explain than it is to use.

A snowclone, as defined by the linguistics professor Geoffrey K. Pullum in 2003, is a “customizable, instantly recognizable, timeworn, quoted or misquoted phrase or sentence that can be used in an entirely open array of different jokey variants.” (Mr. Pullum also called them “some-assembly-required adaptable cliché frames for lazy journalists.”)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Let’s try one. Using General MacArthur’s template, “Old golfers never die, they just lose their drive,” would be a snowclone. Using X and Y as stand-ins, snowclones are easy to spot: X is my middle name, a few Xs short of a Y, and so on.

It’s unclear who first said “pink is the new black,” but it is now one of the most popular snowclone templates, notably producing the title of the Netflix series “Orange Is the New Black.”

Study of the subject appears half-serious: One article was titled “Snowclone Is the New Cliché.”

Charles McDermid wrote today’s Back Story.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)

Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.(The chickenpox vaccine is usually given in two doses, with the first dose recommended at age 12 to 15 months and the second at age 4 to 6. Those 13 and older who were never vaccinated or had chickenpox should get two shots at least four weeks apart.)

Studies have indicated that more than 99 percent of Americans aged 40 and older have had chickenpox even if they don’t remember it, according to Dr. Rosanne M. Leipzig, geriatrician at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people 50 and older get the new shingles vaccine whether or not they remember having had chickenpox as a child.

Those who never had chickenpox but did get the vaccine for it may also be susceptible to shingles because the vaccine contains a weakened live virus. However, the risk of shingles for those who had the chickenpox vaccine is much lower than for people who had the natural infection.

If you are uncertain about your disease or vaccine history, you can get a blood test to check for immunity to chickenpox, though the result does not distinguish between protection via the disease or the vaccine. Thus, if the result is positive, Dr. Leipzig says you’d be wise to get the shingles vaccine because you could be harboring the live virus.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Lest you have doubts about the value of this vaccine, consider the effects of shingles. It is a painful infection of a single sensory nerve on one side of the body that can occur almost anywhere but most commonly involves the torso or face. Initial symptoms of tingling or burning pain within days develop into a red bumpy rash and very painful blisters.

The blisters heal in a week or two to form crusty scabs that eventually fall off. But for about 15 percent of people, shingles does not end there. Instead, it leaves them with deep, searing nerve pain — a condition called postherpetic neuralgia, or PHN — that can last for months or years and has no treatment or cure. More than half the cases of PHN affect people over 60.

Other possible complications of shingles include pneumonia, hearing problems, blindness and encephalitis.

That’s not all. Although most people get shingles only once, it can happen again, especially if you have a weakened immune system, which most everyone does with advancing age.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you’re lucky you may detect the onset of shingles before the rash appears. Years ago when I went to bed with what had been a daylong gnawing irritation on one side of my back, I awakened in the middle of the night with the thought, “I have shingles.” First thing in the morning I got a prescription for the antiviral drug acyclovir, which halted progress of the disease.

Not willing to trust my luck a second time, I got the new vaccine. Here’s how it compares to its predecessor Zostavax, which over all reduces the risk of shingles by 51 percent and of PHN by 67 percent. According to the C.D.C., Shingrix can protect 97 percent of people in their 50s and 60s and 91 percent of those in their 70s and 80s. It also reduces the risk of PHN by 86 percent, and it appears to be longer lasting than Zostavax, which starts to lose its protection after three years.

What makes Shingrix so much better is the inclusion of a substance called an adjuvant that boosts the body’s immune response to the vaccine. Another difference is that Zostavax contains a live, weakened virus, making it unsuitable for people with poor immunity, whereas Shingrix contains a nonliving virus particle and may eventually be approved for those with compromised immunity, who are especially susceptible to a severe case of shingles.

I should tell you that the new vaccine is not exactly a walk in the park. The shot itself is painful and can cause a sore arm for a day or two. Some people develop immune-related side effects like headache, fever or an upset stomach that last less than three days, according to the manufacturer, GlaxoSmithKline. My only reaction beyond local soreness was an acid stomach for a day or two.Q. Do scammers send unsolicited text messages about credit card fraud? How do I know what is real?

A. Scammers will try just about anything to steal your money or your identity, so bogus credit card fraud alerts are certainly possible.

Many credit card companies have a warning system in place to automatically notify you of suspicious activity on your account, and will contact you by the method specified in your account settings — usually by text message, telephone call or email.

If you get a text message or email alert about fraud out of the blue and want to confirm its authenticity, call the customer-service number on the back of your card and ask to speak to a representative. If you prefer an online approach, log into your account on the company’s website (or mobile app) over a secure network connection and check for notifications about suspicious account activity. To be on the safe side, do not call the number or open any links that may have been included with the message, even though some can be legitimate.

Image Many credit-card companies issue legitimate alerts when they detect suspicious activity on your account. If you're not sure a text message is real, call the number on the back of the credit card or visit your account online to check. Credit The New York Times

Many financial institutions have sophisticated and automated fraud-detection algorithms that can quickly detect signs of unusual activity on your account — often before you are aware of it. Your purchasing history, geographic location of the charge, merchant choice and spending amounts are some factors typically used in fraud-detection systems.But abstraction, in several varieties, proved to be double-edged. On the one hand, it seemed to offer a new, expansive utopian dimension for art, beyond social, racial and aesthetic particularities. At the same time, it was inadequate to deal with undeniable realities of life in the Vietnam era. Traumatized by political events of 1970 — the United States invasion of Cambodia, the killing of students at Kent State and Jackson State — she began to come to grips with her own identity as an African American in a violent, racist society.

Photo

The initial work that resulted from this awakening wasn’t overtly topical, but it was about as far from being abstract as she could get. She used her own body as a primary image in a series of unannounced public performances. For one, she walked New York streets soaked in wet paint; for another she rode the subway wearing odoriferous clothing; for a third she broke into spontaneous dance — in bank lines and libraries — to the internalized sound of Aretha Franklin singing “Respect.” She turned herself into a disruptive alien, an outsider, a disturber.

Photo

A few years later, she gave the alien a racial identity and a name. Wearing an Afro wig, a fake mustache and mirrored sunglasses, she enacted the stereotype of an aggressive young African-American male whom she called the Mythic Being. Sometimes, he showed up in public, and verbally confronted passers-by. He also existed in hand-altered photographs. In one such picture, published as a paid-for insertion in the Village Voice, he is made to think the words: “I embody everything you most hate and fear.”

Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Almost inevitably, Ms. Piper has become best known over the years for her art about racism, and for good reason: it’s powerful work, brilliantly varied in form. Some of it draws on her considerable graphic skills. In a series of 1980s charcoal drawings called “Vanilla Nightmares” she inserts scowling, sexualized black-skinned figures into news stories and upscale advertisements from The New York Times.

Photo

In a 1991 installation called “What It’s Like, What It Is, #3,” she continues to explore direct-address performance. Here, in what might be considered a Mythic Being update, an African-American man, seen on a video monitor surrounded by bleacher-like seating, slowly recites, and rejects, a long list of racial slurs: “I’m not pushy. I’m not lazy. I’m not noisy. I’m not shiftless. I’m not crazy. I’m not servile. I’m not stupid.”

Photo

Ms. Piper has also, over the decades, consistently used her own image in inventive, distanced, self-mocking ways, as in two well-known self likenesses done several years apart, one, a pencil drawing titled “Self-Portrait Exaggerating My Negroid Features” (1981) the other, a crayon-enhanced photograph called “Self-Portrait as a Nice White Lady” (1985). In these images, as in all of her work, her aim is not to assert racial identity but to destabilize the very concept of it.

Photo

And she has fun playing with it. In her exhilaratingly witty 1983 film “Funk Lessons,” she coaches a class of mostly white graduate students in the how-tos of soul dancing (shake your head, lift your leg), as if blackness were a personal style that could be learned by instruction. And in a quietly scathing 1988 video installation, “Cornered,” she treats racial identity as both a delusion and an entrapment.

Photo

Playing a role, as she usually does — very little of her work is directly autobiographical — she speaks directly to us, a very likely white art world audience, with the measured tone of a newscaster. She informs us that, despite her light complexion, she is black, and that chances are good, given the American history of racial mixing, that we are black too. This reality has negative fallout in two directions. It means that white listeners lose their politically privileged identity, and she — now a self-declared “black artist” — is trapped in hers.

Photo

Because race has often been her subject, a frequent and career-shaping assumption is that it is her only one, a misperception that this retrospective makes a serious and successful effort to correct. It devotes considerable space to her early, abstract work. It reminds us that the references in her subsequent topical work has been broad-based, ranging from the war in Vietnam to poverty in America. We are reminded that the images of difference generated by the performances were images not defined by ethnicity, and that the original Mythic Being series was as much about gender as it was about race.

Photo

Misogyny has always been one of Ms. Piper’s targets. In 1986, she designed a business card intended to be passed out at opportune moments to defuse instances of sexual aggression. The card read: “Dear Friend, I’m not here to pick anyone up, or to be picked up. I am here alone because I want to be here, ALONE.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The show also reminds us of the multidisciplinary texture of Ms. Piper’s career. Professionally, she is both, and equally, a visual artist and an academic scholar. (She taught philosophy for decades in American colleges and universities and teaches it now in her new permanent home in Germany.) Walking through the show you can see thinking happening right before your eyes. And certain strands of her more recent work have a meditative, existentialist cast — a reminder of Ms. Piper’s initial hopes for the transcendent potential of abstraction.

A decade-spanning project called “Everything” (2003-2013) has three parts. One is a series of informal photographic portraits in which the faces have been obliterated and replaced by the words “Everything will be taken away.” Another is a set of images of American political martyrs (Medgar Evers, Robert F. Kennedy, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.) accompanied by the same phrase. A third is an installation of four schoolroom blackboards on which that phrase is repeatedly written in chalk, like a lesson meant to be drilled into memory.

The mortality-redolent words also form an essential tenet of Hindu philosophy: everything — lives, eras, identities, art — will change.

The great emblem of change is Shiva, the divine yogi, dancing his circular dance of life and death. His image appears repeatedly in Ms. Piper’s recent art, most notably in a 2004 film documenting a spectacular iteration of “Funk Lessons.” And at the end of the MoMA show, just outside the final gallery, we see a projected 2007 video of Ms. Piper soul-dancing in a public plaza in Berlin, alone except for pedestrians on their way from here to there.

The image brings the retrospective full circle, back to Ms. Piper’s solo performances of outsiderness of many decades ago. It’s to the credit of the show’s organizers — Christophe Cherix, chief curator of the drawings and prints department at MoMA; David Platzker, a former curator in that department; Cornelia H. Butler, chief curator at the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles; and Tessa Ferreyros, a curatorial assistant at MoMA — that they’ve been careful to make such links, and by doing so point up the fierce, steady logic of this artist’s career.

It’s even more to their credit — and a boon to the future — that they’ve kept that career’s difficulty, and toughness, and nowness to the fore. Historically, institutionally, MoMA has favored smoothness and symmetry, whiteness. It has tended to shave off the awkward corners of art, sand its sharpest edges down. In this case, the corners and edges stand firm in an art and a career that is entirely about them.It would be a shame to miss this chance, said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.

Photo

“It is urgent, a window of opportunity between now and European elections is real but narrowing,” he said. “The constellation of the most centrist German chancellor in a long time in her last term looking for her legacy and a French president, newly elected on a European platform and highly ambitious, is very rare.”

“If you think European reform can happen outside a crisis, you’ll never get a better constellation than now,” he added.

If populism and nationalism surged with the impact of the financial crisis, Mr. Macron argues, the best answer is a more integrated European Union that protects and benefits its citizens and a more sustainable eurozone, with its own budget, banking protections and financial management.

But resistance to Mr. Macron’s vision of more Europe is mounting, in Germany and beyond. The prospect of Britain’s exit from the union a year from now has prompted the smaller, more economically conservative nations of Europe’s north to come out firmly against Mr. Macron’s proposals.

“It’s getting hard politically, it’s getting hard timewise, and it’s getting hard in terms of momentum,” said Jean Pisani-Ferry, a French economist and former adviser to Mr. Macron. “Not only for the countries with no appetite for it, but for Germany, too.”

In Germany, new ministers are still figuring out their jobs, Ms. Merkel’s governing Christian Democrats are running to the right and the Social Democrats, the center-left party in the coalition, have silenced their most prominent pro-European voices.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Christian Democratic lawmakers have been pushing to anchor any financial overhaul to a treaty change, which in turn would require approval from individual parliaments, creating considerably more uncertainty and delay.

Photo

In a joint news conference on Thursday in Berlin, Ms. Merkel promised Mr. Macron some form of compromise over how to reinforce the euro and the eurozone’s banks.

“There are of course always different starting points when it comes to the opinions of Germany and France,” she said. “We need open debates and in the end we need the ability to compromise.”

But compromise will mean minor changes, and almost surely on German terms.

“The Italian political mess will be an alibi for Germany and bad news for Macron,” said Enrico Letta, the Italian former prime minister, at a meeting of the Ambrosetti Forum in Italy. “We’re wasting momentum.”

Nouriel Roubini, a globe-trotting economist who predicted the crash of a decade ago, said that the fundamental problems of the euro “won’t be solved until you have real fiscal and then political union. But for now, it’s stalled, and the Germans will see the Italian risks as another reason not to move forward.”

The Germans are “worried as ever that risk sharing becomes risk shifting, that a fiscal union becomes a transfer union,” he said.

Until eurozone countries like France, Greece, Italy and Portugal “have done enough fiscal austerity so that public debt is sustainable, and do enough reform so that their potential growth approaches that of Germany,” Berlin will hesitate, he added.

At the same time, Mr. Roubini said, Mr. Macron has made some important fixes in France, increasing market flexibility, taxing some pensions and cutting the budget deficit.

Photo

“So he can tell the Germans that ‘it’s not only cheap talk I’m delivering, and while you may not be able to accept full range of reforms, we can meet somewhere in the middle,’” Mr. Roubini said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Macron proposals like a eurozone finance minister and a budget, to help countries deal with high unemployment or economic shocks, have been put aside while the bloc tries to make a few less spectacular and more technocratic fixes.

Given timing, the European Commission has narrowed its focus, said Valdis Dombrovskis, the commissioner in charge of the euro and financial stability. “We need to strengthen the resilience of the eurozone economy and its shock-absorption tools,” he said in an interview.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

That means, he said, concentrating on promoting structural reforms in member states, completing a banking union and turning the European Stability Mechanism, created during the Greek debt crisis, into a more competent European Monetary Fund.

The idea is to protect eurozone countries and their banks from another crisis. But there are concerns about the governance of the new fund, about how much money would be involved and about how non-eurozone members would contribute.

There are also worries about the amount of nonperforming loans still held by banks in countries like Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Portugal, as well as the amount of sovereign debt they hold, given the lesson of the euro crisis that sovereign bonds are hardly risk-free.

So Germany and northern countries in particular are pressing for more “risk reduction” before “risk sharing,” Mr. Dombrovskis said.

Photo

That means that another key change intended to reassure citizens — a European banking deposit insurance scheme, like one in the United States — is unlikely to happen soon.

Instead, Mr. Dombrovskis said he hoped for gradual progress, increasing bank liquidity first before moving toward mutualization of debts, which remains a red line for Berlin.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“But we need to move during this mandate,” he said. “We must agree not to lose another year.” Given the populist surge, “We need Europeans to feel these positive economic figures in their pocketbooks, to show people that they are better off with Europe than without.”

But risks increase over time, with growth due to slow in the medium term, Brexit unresolved, Italy confusing and a possible trade war in the offing, noted Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the Eurasia Group. “Markets remain complacent for now, but it will not last forever,” he said.

Jyrki Katainen, the European commissioner for jobs and growth, said in an interview that “the main issue is trust among member states, which is not as good as it should be.”

Rather than a Macronian revolution, he urged evolution, and a road map for the next five or 10 years. “A longer perspective would help trust, with steps made conditional, so it’s not unbalanced,” he said.

Heidi Crebo-Rediker, who was the State Department’s first chief economist, said she foresaw a slow process. “Until you have confidence in all the banking systems, including Italy, and an agreement that risks can now be managed centrally, only then you take that final step forward,” she said.

“But just when you have the potential to move forward in France and Germany, there’s the potential for a real scare from the south, from Italy,” she added. “So even slow progress is now under threat.”

Mr. Katainen, a Finnish former prime minister, still sees progress coming from Paris and Berlin.

“Macron and Merkel get along well, respect one another, are both pro-European and ambitious,” he said. “Both want to leave a mark on Europe. I see Macron as pragmatic, setting his priorities for the future, but it doesn’t mean every detail must be done.”Photo

It was the fall of 2004, and I was touring a film set at the studio that was adapting my war memoir, “Jarhead.” The screenwriter walked me onto a soundstage that was supposed to look like my Marine Corps boot-camp barracks. It was small and inconsequential compared with the mighty buildings and squad bays on Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego, where I survived grueling training and verbal abuse 16 years earlier. Still, the room gave off an ominous vibe. The drab colors were right. The bunks were tightly cornered. It closely resembled a boot-camp set from a movie I’d watched many times before. A ghost filled the room: Marine Gunnery Sergeant Hartman.

The screenwriter, himself a Marine veteran of the Vietnam era, admitted to me that there was no way the filmmakers could ever top the “Full Metal Jacket” boot-camp sequences that were brought to life so intensely by R. Lee Ermey, a Marine Corps veteran who served two years as a drill instructor in the 1960s. The only thing they could try was homage to a famous scene and its defining character.

It wasn’t just the film world on which Ermey’s character left an impression. The Gunny’s persona saturated military culture, especially that of the Marine Corps. The boys who wanted to serve believed that intimidation and humiliation were essential to the formation of their warrior selves. And drill instructors were happy to oblige.

When the film was released in 1987, I watched it in a theater in Sacramento with a few other knuckleheads who were destined to join the Marine Corps. Because of Stanley Kubrick’s previous work, many viewers expected a purely antiwar film. And they might have seen just that. But what we saw felt beautiful and profane and dangerous — normal American kids transformed into war-ready combatants through barbarism and violence and the best marksmanship training in the world. It was both terrifying and thrilling to watch. I wanted to experience the brutality and humiliation that “Full Metal Jacket” so fully embodied.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hartman had hooked us with the promise that he — this leather-faced, battle-hardened beast — could turn young, soft, irrelevant boys into the most lethal human killing machines in history. “Full Metal Jacket” wasn’t the only reason I joined the Marine Corps, but it was a major one. The Gunny pointing his finger in a recruit’s face while shouting profanity, hurling insults at the recruits’ manhood and mothers and posing questions and insinuations about their sexuality indoctrinated us with the idea that coded racism, physical abuse and psychological hazing went hand in hand with becoming a man. For my generation and those to come, the Gunny secured the already-supercharged drill instructor stereotype into one of the most recognizable characters in movie history.

Got a confidential news tip for At War? The New York Times would like to hear from readers who want to share messages and materials with the At War team.

We were sold, despite the part when the Gunny was killed by Pyle, a disgruntled recruit who was humiliated and hazed one too many times. I was 17, and Pyle’s act of murder and suicide barely registered as significant to me. Or if it did, it registered as a symptom of Pyle’s own ineptitude. Marines performed, achieved and endured. Others swallowed some full metal jacket.Photo

It was the fall of 2004, and I was touring a film set at the studio that was adapting my war memoir, “Jarhead.” The screenwriter walked me onto a soundstage that was supposed to look like my Marine Corps boot-camp barracks. It was small and inconsequential compared with the mighty buildings and squad bays on Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego, where I survived grueling training and verbal abuse 16 years earlier. Still, the room gave off an ominous vibe. The drab colors were right. The bunks were tightly cornered. It closely resembled a boot-camp set from a movie I’d watched many times before. A ghost filled the room: Marine Gunnery Sergeant Hartman.

The screenwriter, himself a Marine veteran of the Vietnam era, admitted to me that there was no way the filmmakers could ever top the “Full Metal Jacket” boot-camp sequences that were brought to life so intensely by R. Lee Ermey, a Marine Corps veteran who served two years as a drill instructor in the 1960s. The only thing they could try was homage to a famous scene and its defining character.

It wasn’t just the film world on which Ermey’s character left an impression. The Gunny’s persona saturated military culture, especially that of the Marine Corps. The boys who wanted to serve believed that intimidation and humiliation were essential to the formation of their warrior selves. And drill instructors were happy to oblige.

When the film was released in 1987, I watched it in a theater in Sacramento with a few other knuckleheads who were destined to join the Marine Corps. Because of Stanley Kubrick’s previous work, many viewers expected a purely antiwar film. And they might have seen just that. But what we saw felt beautiful and profane and dangerous — normal American kids transformed into war-ready combatants through barbarism and violence and the best marksmanship training in the world. It was both terrifying and thrilling to watch. I wanted to experience the brutality and humiliation that “Full Metal Jacket” so fully embodied.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hartman had hooked us with the promise that he — this leather-faced, battle-hardened beast — could turn young, soft, irrelevant boys into the most lethal human killing machines in history. “Full Metal Jacket” wasn’t the only reason I joined the Marine Corps, but it was a major one. The Gunny pointing his finger in a recruit’s face while shouting profanity, hurling insults at the recruits’ manhood and mothers and posing questions and insinuations about their sexuality indoctrinated us with the idea that coded racism, physical abuse and psychological hazing went hand in hand with becoming a man. For my generation and those to come, the Gunny secured the already-supercharged drill instructor stereotype into one of the most recognizable characters in movie history.

Got a confidential news tip for At War? The New York Times would like to hear from readers who want to share messages and materials with the At War team.

We were sold, despite the part when the Gunny was killed by Pyle, a disgruntled recruit who was humiliated and hazed one too many times. I was 17, and Pyle’s act of murder and suicide barely registered as significant to me. Or if it did, it registered as a symptom of Pyle’s own ineptitude. Marines performed, achieved and endured. Others swallowed some full metal jacket.“The picture that emerges is that of a man who managed to further his career under the Nazi regime, despite his apparent political and ideological distance from it,” Mr. Czech, of the University of Vienna, wrote in his study.

Asperger syndrome is a lifelong developmental disability associated with autism that affects perception and social interaction. About one in 68 children in the United States have been identified with Autism Spectrum Disorder.

The study’s findings have prompted debate and consternation among people with autism and their advocates, especially those who identify with the term “Asperger,” Carol Povey, director of the London-based Center for Autism of the National Autistic Society, said in an email.

“Obviously, no one with a diagnosis of Asperger syndrome should feel in any way tainted by this very troubling history,” she said.

The study has also provoked discussion across social media platforms, with some conflicted about Dr. Asperger’s name being linked to the condition.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“My overriding feeling is one of anger, that I thought Hans Asperger was someone who tried to protect and save children who were just like me,” a Twitter user called Ryan Hendry wrote. “Instead, it appears he was part of the Nazi machine that intended to exterminate us.”

There are about 700,000 people with autism in Britain, Ms. Povey said, adding, “We will be listening closely to the response to this news so we can continue to make sure the language we use to describe autism reflects the preferences of autistic people and their families.”

The editors of Molecular Autism said they believed that Dr. Asperger was guilty of the accusations against him. “We are aware that the article will be controversial,” Simon Baron-Cohen, a co-editor of the journal, said in a statement.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“We believe that it deserves to be published in order to expose the truth about how a medical doctor who was seen as only having made valuable contributions to the field of pediatrics and child psychiatry was guilty of actively assisting the Nazis in their abhorrent eugenics and euthanasia policies.”

He added, “This historical evidence must now be made available.”

Dr. Asperger, who died in 1980, was a pioneer of autism research and is best known for shaping the understanding of the developmental disorder that came to be known as Asperger syndrome.

In 1944, he used the term “autistic psychopathy” to describe the disability. The name Asperger syndrome was introduced by the British psychiatrist Lorna Wing in 1981.

Mr. Czech traced Dr. Asperger’s involvement in the selection of victims for the Nazis’ child-euthanasia program to his role in 1942 on a commission that screened youngsters with mental disabilities.

The commission selected 35 children and categorized them as being “uneducable,” which resulted in their being killed at Am Spiegelgrund.

Some experts, however, have suggested that the new evidence should be seen in the context of the time.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Virtually all doctors in Germany at that time were members of the Nazi Party, and there was almost no opposition to the euthanasia programs for the mentally ill and handicapped, except from one or two heads of asylums and a very small number of Catholic bishops,” Anthony Bailey, a professor of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of British Columbia in Canada, said in an email.

But Mr. Czech argued that the euthanasia program was not obligatory because the operation was illegal, even in Nazi Germany.

He said that, at the time, Austria’s annexation to Germany in 1938 resulted in the expulsion of Jewish physicians and spurred a great political upheaval. But it also opened opportunities for Dr. Asperger, he added.

What emerges after years of searching through personnel files and patient records, he said, is a portrait of a doctor who “sought to accommodate himself to the Nazi regime and was rewarded with career opportunities.”“The picture that emerges is that of a man who managed to further his career under the Nazi regime, despite his apparent political and ideological distance from it,” Mr. Czech, of the University of Vienna, wrote in his study.

Asperger syndrome is a lifelong developmental disability associated with autism that affects perception and social interaction. About one in 68 children in the United States have been identified with Autism Spectrum Disorder.

The study’s findings have prompted debate and consternation among people with autism and their advocates, especially those who identify with the term “Asperger,” Carol Povey, director of the London-based Center for Autism of the National Autistic Society, said in an email.

“Obviously, no one with a diagnosis of Asperger syndrome should feel in any way tainted by this very troubling history,” she said.

The study has also provoked discussion across social media platforms, with some conflicted about Dr. Asperger’s name being linked to the condition.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“My overriding feeling is one of anger, that I thought Hans Asperger was someone who tried to protect and save children who were just like me,” a Twitter user called Ryan Hendry wrote. “Instead, it appears he was part of the Nazi machine that intended to exterminate us.”

There are about 700,000 people with autism in Britain, Ms. Povey said, adding, “We will be listening closely to the response to this news so we can continue to make sure the language we use to describe autism reflects the preferences of autistic people and their families.”

The editors of Molecular Autism said they believed that Dr. Asperger was guilty of the accusations against him. “We are aware that the article will be controversial,” Simon Baron-Cohen, a co-editor of the journal, said in a statement.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“We believe that it deserves to be published in order to expose the truth about how a medical doctor who was seen as only having made valuable contributions to the field of pediatrics and child psychiatry was guilty of actively assisting the Nazis in their abhorrent eugenics and euthanasia policies.”

He added, “This historical evidence must now be made available.”

Dr. Asperger, who died in 1980, was a pioneer of autism research and is best known for shaping the understanding of the developmental disorder that came to be known as Asperger syndrome.

In 1944, he used the term “autistic psychopathy” to describe the disability. The name Asperger syndrome was introduced by the British psychiatrist Lorna Wing in 1981.

Mr. Czech traced Dr. Asperger’s involvement in the selection of victims for the Nazis’ child-euthanasia program to his role in 1942 on a commission that screened youngsters with mental disabilities.

The commission selected 35 children and categorized them as being “uneducable,” which resulted in their being killed at Am Spiegelgrund.

Some experts, however, have suggested that the new evidence should be seen in the context of the time.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Virtually all doctors in Germany at that time were members of the Nazi Party, and there was almost no opposition to the euthanasia programs for the mentally ill and handicapped, except from one or two heads of asylums and a very small number of Catholic bishops,” Anthony Bailey, a professor of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of British Columbia in Canada, said in an email.

But Mr. Czech argued that the euthanasia program was not obligatory because the operation was illegal, even in Nazi Germany.

He said that, at the time, Austria’s annexation to Germany in 1938 resulted in the expulsion of Jewish physicians and spurred a great political upheaval. But it also opened opportunities for Dr. Asperger, he added.

What emerges after years of searching through personnel files and patient records, he said, is a portrait of a doctor who “sought to accommodate himself to the Nazi regime and was rewarded with career opportunities.”Meanwhile, it costs nothing to take the Brooklyn, Manhattan and Williamsburg bridges either way across the East River.

“There is no rhyme or reason to the tolls that people pay,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said when he addressed the issue in January by calling for “lowering the outer-borough tolls, which are crazy high” as part of any congestion pricing plan.

For commuters like Marcel Vantuyn, the tolls add up quickly, even with E-ZPass discounts. He pays $88.85 every week in combined tolls for the Verrazano and Goethals bridges just to shuttle back and forth between his home in Brooklyn and his job in Elizabeth, N.J. “Monthly tolls basically add up to a car payment,” he said.

Mr. Vantuyn, 58, said that while a reliable public transit system is vital for the city, the funding for it should be raised from taxes on all city residents, and not just tolls on drivers. “It’s not good policy to target a particular group,” he said. “I think everything for the common good should come from a common pool.”

Truckers pay even higher tolls. On the Verrazano, the full tolls range from $34 to $132 depending on the number of axles, and with an E-ZPass discount, $20.80 to $79.52.

Steve Margarella, 64, who owns a road construction company on Staten Island, has to absorb between $2,000 and $10,000 in bridge tolls every month to send his fleet of trucks around the city. “It puts all Staten Island companies at a disadvantage,” he said.

In some neighborhoods, the tolls also lead to spillover congestion from “bridge-shopping.” Canal Street in Lower Manhattan has become jammed with drivers from Brooklyn bound for New Jersey who go out of their way to avoid the Verrazano toll. Many cross over on the Manhattan Bridge, travel along Canal Street and then into the Holland Tunnel to New Jersey.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“You have a situation because there’s so much excess regional traffic coming through what is now a neighborhood,” said Ellen Baer, president of Hudson Square Connection, a business improvement district, who has seen traffic to the Holland Tunnel block intersections, impede deliveries and worsen noise and pollution.

Photo

The wide disparity in bridge tolls is largely a function of who runs what bridge. Of the more than 2,000 bridges in the city, the major crossings are operated by three different entities: the city’s Transportation Department, the state-controlled Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the interstate Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

The city oversees 789 bridges and does not charge tolls on any of them. Some elected officials view the East River bridges as a free public resource and have opposed periodic attempts over the years to toll them.

In contrast, the Port Authority and M.T.A. charge tolls on their bridges, but independently set the amounts based on their financial needs. “You’re buying more than the bridge when you pay that toll,” said Robert E. Paaswell, a civil engineering professor at the City College of New York. “In theory, tolls are supposed to go away when a bridge is paid for, but that rarely happens. The costs are skewed because in addition to maintenance, they are used by different agencies for different purposes.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Tolls from the four Port Authority-run bridges — the Bayonne, Goethals, Outerbridge Crossing and George Washington — and the Lincoln and Holland tunnels are used not only to support those crossings but also public transit services, including the Port Authority bus terminal and the PATH train system. Ron Marsico, a spokesman for the authority, said that it “consolidates the revenues from all its operations to meet the capital investment and operating needs of its facilities.” The last toll increase was in 2011, and less than 15 percent of drivers — those without E-ZPass — currently pay the full $15 cash toll, he said.

The M.T.A. operates seven bridges, including the Verrazano, which was the longest suspension bridge in the world when it opened in 1964 with a toll of just 50 cents. Today, it is one of the city’s busiest links with, on average, 196,000 vehicle crossings per day on weekdays, of which Staten Island residents account for about 75,000 crossings per day, according to M.T.A. data.

M.T.A. officials said that the $17 toll is higher than its other bridges because it is priced to cover the return trip. A federal law pushed through by then U.S. Representative Guy V. Molinari, a Republican from Staten Island, converted two-way toll collections to one-way in 1986 to reduce commuting times and air pollution on the Staten Island end of the bridge. Similarly, in 1970, the Port Authority decided on one-way tolls on traffic going into New York City to reduce congestion and emissions.

The M.T.A.’s other major bridge crossings — including the Bronx-Whitestone, Throgs Neck and Robert F. Kennedy (formerly the Triborough) — all charge a top toll of $8.50 each way, for a total of $17 round-trip.

The Verrazano toll has long riled local residents on both sides of the bridge, many of whom subscribe to an enduring urban myth — repeatedly debunked — that the bridge was supposed to be free once it was all paid for. Instead, the toll has steadily crept upward, most recently by $1 last year.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s not because the bridge is getting more expensive,” said Samuel I. Schwartz, a transportation consultant who has proposed reducing such tolls as part of a congestion pricing plan. “It’s because we need more and more money to pay for the subways and trains coming into Manhattan.”

From the Verrazano alone, the M.T.A. collected $417 million in tolls in 2017, up from $393 million the year before. M.T.A. officials said the money paid for the bridge’s maintenance, services and debt, with any remaining surplus going to support public transit.

About 85 percent of vehicles crossing the Verrazano qualify for the E-ZPass rate, according to M.T.A. data. Of those, about 45 percent received an additional Staten Island resident discount, paying $5.50, or $3.20 for car pools.

But many drivers and their supporters complain that efforts to offset the high tolls do not go far enough.

State Senator Martin J. Golden, a Republican from Brooklyn who has led rallies at the foot of the bridge for lower tolls, said many Brooklyn residents also relied heavily on the Verrazano yet do not receive the resident discount. “Talk about gouging people,” Mr. Golden said. “My community is very upset. It’s a tremendous burden on them and it shouldn’t be.”

On the other end of the bridge, Linda Baran, president of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce, said she recently heard from an architect struggling to find workers willing to commute because of the tolls “and he’s not the only business that has mentioned it.”

“People hesitate to visit Staten Island because the tolls are so high,” she said. “It’s really frustrating when you see the East River bridges are free. I believe that everybody needs to give a little.”Meanwhile, it costs nothing to take the Brooklyn, Manhattan and Williamsburg bridges either way across the East River.

“There is no rhyme or reason to the tolls that people pay,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said when he addressed the issue in January by calling for “lowering the outer-borough tolls, which are crazy high” as part of any congestion pricing plan.

For commuters like Marcel Vantuyn, the tolls add up quickly, even with E-ZPass discounts. He pays $88.85 every week in combined tolls for the Verrazano and Goethals bridges just to shuttle back and forth between his home in Brooklyn and his job in Elizabeth, N.J. “Monthly tolls basically add up to a car payment,” he said.

Mr. Vantuyn, 58, said that while a reliable public transit system is vital for the city, the funding for it should be raised from taxes on all city residents, and not just tolls on drivers. “It’s not good policy to target a particular group,” he said. “I think everything for the common good should come from a common pool.”

Truckers pay even higher tolls. On the Verrazano, the full tolls range from $34 to $132 depending on the number of axles, and with an E-ZPass discount, $20.80 to $79.52.

Steve Margarella, 64, who owns a road construction company on Staten Island, has to absorb between $2,000 and $10,000 in bridge tolls every month to send his fleet of trucks around the city. “It puts all Staten Island companies at a disadvantage,” he said.

In some neighborhoods, the tolls also lead to spillover congestion from “bridge-shopping.” Canal Street in Lower Manhattan has become jammed with drivers from Brooklyn bound for New Jersey who go out of their way to avoid the Verrazano toll. Many cross over on the Manhattan Bridge, travel along Canal Street and then into the Holland Tunnel to New Jersey.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“You have a situation because there’s so much excess regional traffic coming through what is now a neighborhood,” said Ellen Baer, president of Hudson Square Connection, a business improvement district, who has seen traffic to the Holland Tunnel block intersections, impede deliveries and worsen noise and pollution.

Photo

The wide disparity in bridge tolls is largely a function of who runs what bridge. Of the more than 2,000 bridges in the city, the major crossings are operated by three different entities: the city’s Transportation Department, the state-controlled Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the interstate Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

The city oversees 789 bridges and does not charge tolls on any of them. Some elected officials view the East River bridges as a free public resource and have opposed periodic attempts over the years to toll them.

In contrast, the Port Authority and M.T.A. charge tolls on their bridges, but independently set the amounts based on their financial needs. “You’re buying more than the bridge when you pay that toll,” said Robert E. Paaswell, a civil engineering professor at the City College of New York. “In theory, tolls are supposed to go away when a bridge is paid for, but that rarely happens. The costs are skewed because in addition to maintenance, they are used by different agencies for different purposes.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Tolls from the four Port Authority-run bridges — the Bayonne, Goethals, Outerbridge Crossing and George Washington — and the Lincoln and Holland tunnels are used not only to support those crossings but also public transit services, including the Port Authority bus terminal and the PATH train system. Ron Marsico, a spokesman for the authority, said that it “consolidates the revenues from all its operations to meet the capital investment and operating needs of its facilities.” The last toll increase was in 2011, and less than 15 percent of drivers — those without E-ZPass — currently pay the full $15 cash toll, he said.

The M.T.A. operates seven bridges, including the Verrazano, which was the longest suspension bridge in the world when it opened in 1964 with a toll of just 50 cents. Today, it is one of the city’s busiest links with, on average, 196,000 vehicle crossings per day on weekdays, of which Staten Island residents account for about 75,000 crossings per day, according to M.T.A. data.

M.T.A. officials said that the $17 toll is higher than its other bridges because it is priced to cover the return trip. A federal law pushed through by then U.S. Representative Guy V. Molinari, a Republican from Staten Island, converted two-way toll collections to one-way in 1986 to reduce commuting times and air pollution on the Staten Island end of the bridge. Similarly, in 1970, the Port Authority decided on one-way tolls on traffic going into New York City to reduce congestion and emissions.

The M.T.A.’s other major bridge crossings — including the Bronx-Whitestone, Throgs Neck and Robert F. Kennedy (formerly the Triborough) — all charge a top toll of $8.50 each way, for a total of $17 round-trip.

The Verrazano toll has long riled local residents on both sides of the bridge, many of whom subscribe to an enduring urban myth — repeatedly debunked — that the bridge was supposed to be free once it was all paid for. Instead, the toll has steadily crept upward, most recently by $1 last year.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s not because the bridge is getting more expensive,” said Samuel I. Schwartz, a transportation consultant who has proposed reducing such tolls as part of a congestion pricing plan. “It’s because we need more and more money to pay for the subways and trains coming into Manhattan.”

From the Verrazano alone, the M.T.A. collected $417 million in tolls in 2017, up from $393 million the year before. M.T.A. officials said the money paid for the bridge’s maintenance, services and debt, with any remaining surplus going to support public transit.

About 85 percent of vehicles crossing the Verrazano qualify for the E-ZPass rate, according to M.T.A. data. Of those, about 45 percent received an additional Staten Island resident discount, paying $5.50, or $3.20 for car pools.

But many drivers and their supporters complain that efforts to offset the high tolls do not go far enough.

State Senator Martin J. Golden, a Republican from Brooklyn who has led rallies at the foot of the bridge for lower tolls, said many Brooklyn residents also relied heavily on the Verrazano yet do not receive the resident discount. “Talk about gouging people,” Mr. Golden said. “My community is very upset. It’s a tremendous burden on them and it shouldn’t be.”

On the other end of the bridge, Linda Baran, president of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce, said she recently heard from an architect struggling to find workers willing to commute because of the tolls “and he’s not the only business that has mentioned it.”

“People hesitate to visit Staten Island because the tolls are so high,” she said. “It’s really frustrating when you see the East River bridges are free. I believe that everybody needs to give a little.”The New York Times publishes as many as 200 stories a day. Our correspondents were on the ground in more than 160 countries last year, and in every state. Their work includes authoritative coverage of current affairs, the arts and business, as well as guidance on how to live a smarter, more cultured life.

Your subscription gives you access to all of it. Where should you start?

We asked people who know The Times best — our reporters and editors — for tips. Here’s what they suggested:

1. Download our news app to your phone or tablet. And don’t forget to log in, whether using the app or visiting the Times homepage on your computer. If you haven’t already, you can subscribe here.

2. Once the app is installed, you can enable notifications about breaking news and other major coverage, as well as specific topics like politics and sports. To manage your notifications in the app, tap the bell (iOS) or three dots (Android) in the top right corner.The engine that failed so catastrophically on a Boeing 737 plane operated by Southwest Airlines this week is not the only jet engine model with problems that have caught the eye of safety officials.

Like the engine on the Southwest jet, two others — one used on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and another on some Boeing 767s — developed cracks. On Tuesday, the same day as the engine failure on the Southwest plane, the Federal Aviation Administration said Boeing 787 Dreamliners powered by Rolls-Royce engines could no longer be flown on ultralong, over-water flights.

The engines are produced by three different manufacturers, but the fact that all three have developed safety issues is prompting questions about the engines’ design, operation and their inspection procedures.

The worry is that the flaws are part of a trend as manufacturers push to develop ever more powerful and complex machines.An auditing firm responsible for monitoring Facebook for federal regulators told them last year that the company had sufficient privacy protections in place, even after the social media giant lost control of a huge trove of user data that was improperly obtained by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica.

The assertion, by PwC, came in a report submitted to the Federal Trade Commission in early 2017. The report, a redacted copy of which is available on the commission’s website, is one of several periodic reviews of Facebook’s compliance with a 2011 federal consent decree, which required Facebook to take wide-ranging steps to prevent the abuse of users’ information and to inform them how it was being shared with other companies.

The accounting firm, formerly known as PricewaterhouseCoopers, effectively gave Facebook a clean bill of health. “Facebook’s privacy controls were operating with sufficient effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance to protect the privacy” of users, said the assessment, which stretched from February 2015 to February 2017.

But during that period, Facebook was aware that a researcher based in Britain, Aleksandr Kogan, had provided Cambridge Analytica with private Facebook data from millions of users. Cambridge, which later worked for the Trump campaign, used the information to build psychological profiles of American voters before the 2016 election. Some details of Mr. Kogan’s work — though not the full scope of the data he had obtained — were revealed in an article in The Guardian in late 2015.Mr. Metz said on Thursday that the pills prescribed by Dr. Schulenberg did not lead to Prince’s fatal overdose. “The bottom line is we simply do not have sufficient evidence to charge anyone with a crime in relation to Prince’s death,” he said.

Members of Prince’s family who attended the news conference declined to comment on the decision. A representative for the family, John Goetz, said of the investigators, “They certainly dug deep and tried hard.” He added that the family had not ruled out filing a wrongful-death lawsuit.

Photo

In addition to Dr. Schulenberg, investigators had focused on doctors and medical personnel who were trying to treat Prince for an apparent painkiller addiction, as well as Mr. Johnson, an employee of the musician since the 1980s, according to court documents released last April.

Though Prince had been a proponent of sober living, friends said after his overdose that the singer had suffered from chronic hip pain he was trying to manage and perform through. Following his death, dozens of pills were found at his Paisley Park home and studio in Chanhassen, a Twin Cities suburb, Mr. Metz said.

They were almost entirely counterfeits of Vicodin, many of them kept in bottles marked Bayer and Aleve, Mr. Metz said.

Born Prince Rogers Nelson, the musician was found dead, at 57, in a Paisley Park elevator on April 21, 2016, by Mr. Johnson and others. A toxicology report, obtained by The Associated Press in March, found high concentrations of fentanyl in the singer’s stomach, liver and blood. Although fentanyl can be prescribed legally, frequently in the form of a patch, it is often used to manufacture counterfeit pills that are sold on the black market as oxycodone and other pain relievers.

Photo

In announcing the decision not to charge anyone in Prince’s death, Mr. Metz said that the singer had been in “significant pain for a number of years” and had been treating himself with painkillers, although he had no known prescriptions for Vicodin or fentanyl in his name.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Because Prince was an intensely private person, he was certainly assisted and enabled by others to obtain some of these medications,” Mr. Metz said. “Those individuals included, but are not limited to, Dr. Schulenberg and Kirk Johnson.” But Mr. Metz said there was no evidence to tie any specific person to the fatal pills.

In a statement, Mr. Johnson’s lawyer, F. Clayton Tyler, said that Mr. Johnson was “relieved” that no charges had been filed against him. “He continues to deny that he had anything to do with the death of his close friend, Prince,” the statement said. “Today’s decision affirms his innocence.”

Mr. Johnson still works at Paisley Park as an estate manager, according to his LinkedIn profile. He has not been questioned since the initial interviews, Mr. Tyler said.

Photo

Prince, notoriously discreet, did not even have a cellphone, which hindered the investigation, Mr. Metz said. Details of the singer’s life remained shrouded in secrecy even after his unexpected death. Investigators said in court records that those who were present at the home that morning “provided inconsistent and, at times, contradictory statements.” The musician also left no will, leading to complex and ongoing proceedings among his six heirs.

There had been signs that Prince’s closest confidantes were concerned with his apparent addiction. Six days before his death, a chartered jet carrying the singer home from a concert in Atlanta — his final full show — made an emergency stop in Moline, Ill., where Prince was treated for an opioid overdose, taken to a hospital and released that same day with no further drug testing.

The incident prompted another examination of Prince by Dr. Schulenberg on April 20, during which the doctor prescribed Prince a medication used to treat opiate withdrawals. (An associate of Prince’s also alerted a California-based doctor who specializes in addiction, who put his son on a red-eye flight to Minneapolis to treat the musician.)

As part of the settlement, Dr. Schulenberg agreed to two years of “heightened compliance requirements for logging and reporting his prescriptions of controlled substances to the D.E.A.,” the United States attorney’s office in Minneapolis said in a statement.

Video

“Doctors are trusted medical professionals and, in the midst of our opioid crisis, they must be part of the solution,” Greg Booker, the United States attorney for Minnesota, said in the statement. “As licensed professionals, doctors are held to a high level of accountability in their prescribing practices, especially when it comes to highly addictive painkillers.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Amy Conners, the doctor’s lawyer, maintained in a statement that Dr. Schulenberg never prescribed drugs to Prince in someone else’s name. “After he learned of Prince’s addiction, he immediately worked to refer Prince to a treatment facility and to transfer care to a chemical dependency specialist,” Ms. Conners said.

Dr. Schulenberg moved to a new job in a different suburb of Minneapolis soon after Prince’s death, and is still a doctor in good standing in Minnesota, according to state licensing board records.

Deaths in the United States involving fentanyl more than doubled from 2015 to 2016, according to government data, amid a sharp rise in drug-related fatalities overall. Prince’s death coincided with a surge in fentanyl on the black market in Minnesota, and the case heightened the level of concern about opioids there. And his was not the only case involving a high-profile musician: In January, Tom Petty was found to have died from an accidental drug overdose involving fentanyl, while Lil Peep, a 21-year-old rapper who died of an overdose in November, had fentanyl, among other prescription drugs, in his system as well.

Most fentanyl overdoses come from illegal versions of the drug bought on the street or on the “dark web” in pill form, said Ken Solek, an assistant special agent in charge of the Minneapolis office of the Drug Enforcement Administration. Because it’s cheap to produce, the drug is often smuggled into the country and sold as pricier prescription pain pills.

“Most of it’s being ordered from China and dealers encapsulate it or press it into pills in a basement,” Mr. Solek said, adding that users may think they are buying pills such as oxycodone, but in reality, they are 100 times stronger.• A robot conquered one of humanity’s most difficult tasks: assembling Ikea furniture. The researchers behind the technological marvel explain how they did it.

• Qualcomm, the American chip maker, is finding itself in the cross hairs of a looming U.S.-China trade war that threatens its operations and future growth in both markets.

• Advertisers have long had a symbiotic relationship with Facebook. But user concerns about privacy are forcing companies to re-examine how they work with the social network.

• The German authorities raided the offices of Porsche, one of Volkswagen’s most profitable units, in a widening investigation into an emissions-cheating scandal.

• Southwest’s fatal accident this week is renewing scrutiny of inspections. No problems were detected when the plane was checked two days before the explosion.

• U.S. stocks were down. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

• Rohingya camps in Bangladesh have flooded, raising fears before the monsoon season. Nearly one million people arrived there fleeing violence in Myanmar. [Agence France-Presse]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Marriage to a U.S. citizen used to be a virtual guarantee of legal residency. That is no longer the case under the Trump administration. [The New York Times]

• A Chinese doctor was jailed for an essay criticizing a popular tonic liquor as quack medicine. Now he has been freed — and applauded. [The New York Times]

• A volcano in southern Japan erupted for the first time in 250 years, prompting the meteorological agency to raise the alert level to 3 out of 5. [Asahi Shimbun]

• A freak accident caused an islandwide blackout in Puerto Rico, seven months after Hurricane Maria plunged it into darkness. [The New York Times]

• Australia’s banking commission has uncovered disturbing stories of financial advisers charging fees to dead clients. [The Guardian]

Photo

• In Saudi Arabia, a V.I.P. screening of the Hollywood blockbuster “Black Panther” signified the end of a decades-old ban on movie theaters, part of a wider social opening in the kingdom. [The New York Times]

• A record number of Nepalese women are climbing Mount Everest this season. [BBC]

• Lost and found: An Indian man missing for 40 years will reunite with his family after a YouTube video of him singing on a Mumbai street went viral. [Agence France-Presse]

Smarter Living

Photo

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Leftovers? Make a savory tart.

• Here’s how to help a resistant colleague.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Recipe of the day: Close out the week with a sheet-pan meal of roasted chicken, potatoes, arugula and garlic yogurt.

Noteworthy

Photo

• Can dirt save the earth? Farming could pull carbon out of the air and into the soil, but that would mean a new way of thinking about how to tend the land.

• A hip-hop duo whose album features anti-Jewish lyrics won an award at the German equivalent of the Grammys, setting off a debate about the rise of anti-Semitism.

• The Times publishes nearly 30 film reviews a week. Here’s a selection of what to see (or skip) for Australian viewers.

Back Story

Photo

“Old soldiers never die; they just fade away.”

Gen. Douglas MacArthur, above center, took those words from an old Army ballad and made them famous 67 years ago this week in his farewell address to Congress.

Little did that five-star American general know that he had just given rise to an army of so-called snowclones, a relatively new linguistic phenomenon that’s tougher to explain than it is to use.

A snowclone, as defined by the linguistics professor Geoffrey K. Pullum in 2003, is a “customizable, instantly recognizable, timeworn, quoted or misquoted phrase or sentence that can be used in an entirely open array of different jokey variants.” (Mr. Pullum also called them “some-assembly-required adaptable cliché frames for lazy journalists.”)

Let’s try one. Using General MacArthur’s template, “Old golfers never die, they just lose their drive,” would be a snowclone. Using X and Y as stand-ins, snowclones are easy to spot: X is my middle name, a few Xs short of a Y, and so on.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It’s unclear who first said “pink is the new black,” but it is now one of the most popular snowclone templates, notably producing the title of the Netflix series “Orange Is the New Black.”

Study of the subject appears half-serious: One article was titled “Snowclone Is the New Cliché.”

Charles McDermid wrote today’s Back Story.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.

And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.

Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.The reef is home to thousands of species, including sharks, turtles and whales. Australia relies on it for about 70,000 jobs and billions of dollars annually in tourism revenue, all now threatened by years of accumulated damage.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The study’s authors estimated how much coral had died in the immediate aftermath of the 2016 heat wave, and then returned nine months later to discern how many corals had regained their color — a sign of restored health — and how many had died. Their report describes a catastrophic die-off on the northern part of the reef, impacting the mix of coral species.

Professor Hughes said scientists had predicted a mass die-off resulting from global warming, but “what the paper shows is that it’s well underway.” He added, “That transition is happening here and now.”

Corals require warm water to thrive, but they are extremely sensitive to heat, and an increase of two or three degrees Fahrenheit above normal can kill them.

Scientists said that if nations honored global commitments in the Paris climate accord aimed at preventing temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius, Australia would still have the Great Barrier Reef in 50 years. It would still look very different from today.

But if greenhouse gas emissions continue on their current trajectory, the reef will be unrecognizable, they said.

“We’re in unchartered territory,” Professor Hughes said, adding, “Where we end up depends completely on how well or how badly we deal with climate change.”

The Great Barrier Reef has bleached four times since 1998, according to scientists. Record high temperatures in 2016 were followed by another bleaching event last year.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We’re now at a point where we’ve lost close to half of the corals in shallow-water habitats across the northern two-thirds of the Great Barrier Reef due to back-to-back bleaching over two consecutive years,” said Sean Connolly, also with the center for coral reef studies at James Cook University.Critic’s take: “‘The Death of Stalin’ is by turns entertaining and unsettling, with laughs that morph into gasps and uneasy gasps that erupt into queasy, choking laughs.”

Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.

Australian release date: March 29

Video

Starring: Nick Robinson, Jennifer Garner, Josh Duhamel, Katherine Langford, Alexandra Shipp



Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Directed by: Greg Berlanti

What is it? A closeted gay high schooler finds solace and, eventually, love in an anonymous email buddy — until a blackmailer stumbles on the secret correspondence.

You’ll like it if you liked: “The Edge of Seventeen,” “The Perks of Being a Wallflower” and “Pretty in Pink.”

Critic’s take: “The emotional resonance may be surprising given the movie’s relentless gloss, but it’s real.”

Read the full review by Glenn Kenny.

Australian release date: March 29

Video

Starring: Emily Blunt, John Krasinski, Noah Jupe, Millicent Simmonds, Leon Russom

Directed by: John Krasinski

What is it? “An old-fashioned creature feature with a single, simple hook. The creatures are blind, hungry and navigate by sound.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You’ll like it if you liked: “It Follows,” “The Babadook” and “Alien.”

Critic’s take: “In its convincing portrayal of a situation where a rusty nail is as lethal as an unexploded bomb, and the few remaining inhabitants seem — much like the audience — more likely to die of stress than anything else, the movie rocks. You may go in jaded, but you’ll leave elated or I’ll eat my words.”

Read the full review by Jeannette Catsoulis.

Australian release date: April 5

Video

Starring: Bryan Cranston, Koyu Rankin, Edward Norton, Bob Balaban, Bill Murray

Directed by: Wes Anderson

What is it? “An animated movie set in a fantasy Japan. There, cat-fancying villains of the future conspire to eradicate dogs.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Australia Letter Newsletter Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

You’ll like if you liked: Any Wes Anderson movie.

Critic’s take: “Too often the movie feels overworked, fussy. And when an explosion darkens Trash Island, evoking the horrors of Japan’s past, Mr. Anderson feels like he’s circling a profundity he doesn’t know how to handle.”

Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.

Australian release date: April 12

Video

Starring: Lucy Hale, Tyler Posey, Violett Beane, Sophia Ali, Landon Liboiron

Directed by: Jeff Wadlow

What is it? A group of college friends discover too late that their Mexican vacation has left them with a nasty infection.

You’ll like it if you liked: The “Final Destination” series.

Critic’s take: “‘Truth or Dare’ is a wearying slog through crushed feelings and mangled bodies. So much so that when one poor soul was compelled to drive a ballpoint pen into his forehead, the temptation to emulate him was almost irresistible.”

Read the full review by Jeannette Catsoulis.

Australian release date: April 12

Video

Starring: Bryan Cranston, Laurence Fishburne, Steve Carell, J. Quinton Johnson, Deanna Reed-Foster

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Directed by: Richard Linklater

What is it? “Set in 2003, at the stage of the Iraq war when we were assured that the mission was being handily accomplished, it brings together three Vietnam veterans for a somber task.”

You’ll like it if you liked: “The Last Detail,” “Dazed and Confused” or “Waking Life.”

Critic’s take: “Even if ‘Last Flag Flying’ isn’t quite persuasive, it is nonetheless enormously thought-provoking, and its roughness is a sign of how earnestly it grapples with matters that other movies about war prefer not to think about.”

Read the full review by A.O. Scott.

Australian release date: April 25A six-month grant from the Uganda Press Photo Award spurred Esther Mbabazi to document what it is like to be a teenager in Uganda, where the half the country’s citizens are under 16. The topic was fresh in her memory: She herself was only 23.

Ms. Mbabazi said she hadn’t previously noticed Uganda’s youthful demographics. “But once I thought about it, I realized that almost everyone I knew was young,” she said. “I settled on teenagers because they are just starting to get a sense of independence in their lives.”

With the help of a mentor, the German photographer Anne Ackermann, she settled on three main characters to follow.Photo

Amy Schumer puts out so much energy in “I Feel Pretty” that it’s hard not to feel charged up, too. The movie is seriously suboptimal, but she is such a force for good — for comedy, for women — and the laughs land often enough that you can go, if somewhat begrudgingly, with the messy flow. But dear lord she needs to work with better material, with funnier, sharper, far smarter scripts and with directors who can do something, anything, with the camera. There’s more cinematic intelligence in the best bits on her Comedy Central show “Inside Amy Schumer” than in her three starring vehicles.

In her last one, “Snatched,” Ms. Schumer played the clueless, often beleaguered yet fundamentally decent and finally (of course) triumphant character that is a familiar comedic type. The character was a kind of holy fool, a very weak variation on the title disaster that she played in “Trainwreck,” her breakout, a movie — notably — she also wrote. The big idea in “Snatched” is the constancy of mother love (Goldie Hawn played Mom), which is tethered to a wincing story that trades on the clichés about dangerous foreigners. It’s a clunker not least because its you-go-girl ethos is delivered through the spectacle of white women imperiled by villains with (other) accents and darker skin.

In “I Feel Pretty,” Ms. Schumer again embraces the part of the lovable not-quite-losers, women who are always trying hard to fit in but who invariably stand out because they’re sometimes falling splat on their faces. Her Renee Bennett works for Lily LeClair, a big beauty company with fancy Fifth Avenue digs. For some reason, she toils in a decrepit basement office in Chinatown with one taciturn co-worker (Adrian Martinez). Renee is an exile at work (an existential situation that worked better in Mike Judge’s movie “Office Space”), but when she is summoned to LeClair headquarters she glimpses another world.

It’s heaven on earth, or so she believes, an exotic realm filled with long-legged stunners who look like they’re cat-walking on a Paris runway even when strolling down an office hall. They leave Renee agog, none more so than the boss, Avery LeClair, played by Michelle Williams with a thick schmear of makeup and the stunned look of a recent accident victim. Working a delectably funny, unsexy squeak — a somewhat adenoidal version of Marilyn Monroe baby-breathiness — Ms. Williams slips off with the movie whenever she totters onscreen. Avery is a cartoon of conventional feminine beauty; Ms. Williams’s performance also suggests that she’s a casualty of that same convention.

Video

There’s a kernel of a bright idea in that paradox, but, alas, the movie isn’t about Avery, or especially bright. It’s about Renee, who’s appealing partly because Ms. Schumer is and because the character has been calculated to trigger anyone who’s ever felt like one of life’s losers. That doubtless means most of Earth’s population, even if Renee’s feelings of inadequacies specifically involve how she looks, which the story largely frames as a problem of self-confidence. When you meet Renee, she is going to a class at SoulCycle — one of a number of egregious product placements — an otherwise everyday activity that she approaches with jitters and darting, I’m-so-unworthy looks at other, thinner women.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I Feel Pretty” cannily never says that thinner is better; it’s too smart to go there. And it doesn’t have to because Renee expresses that each time she gazes — eyes shining and widening — at another woman who looks a few dress sizes smaller than she is. (She doesn’t bestow such gaga looks on her friends, played by the appealing duo of Busy Philipps and Aidy Bryant.) The story kicks in when Renee suffers a knockout blow and wakes up believing she is a knockout. The movie’s one, endlessly repeated joke is that the only thing that’s changed is how this fit, attractive woman sees herself. And because Renee now believes she’s beautiful, she easily snags a dream job and boyfriend (Rory Scovel).Then there’s the question of what the E.R.A. would do. Even the most die-hard proponents of the amendment acknowledge that it’s unlikely to radically advance women’s rights, at least in the short term. That’s because, for decades, many courts have applied the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to sex discrimination, creating a body of case law that’s functioned as a sort of de facto E.R.A. As to whether the amendment could actually undo some programs that are beneficial to women, like sex-based affirmative action efforts, legal experts point to the fact that though the Constitution already protects the rights of people regardless of race, race-based affirmative action continues to exist. They also point to parts of the country that have state-level E.R.A.s and have not had such outcomes.

The fight against the E.R.A. is being led by groups on the religious right like the Illinois Family Institute, using arguments that are the ideological heirs of those so vociferously expressed by Phyllis Schlafly, whose group Stop E.R.A. — the first word standing for “Stop Taking Our Privileges” — which became the Eagle Forum, prevented the E.R.A.’s ratification at the time.

Those arguments include fearmongering about how coed locker rooms could become standard and alimony for women outlawed — arguments that are hard to take seriously but that nonetheless helped Mrs. Schlafly to very effectively convince Americans, including many women, that the E.R.A. was bad news. (Mrs. Schlafly, who died in 2016, would no doubt be appalled that her home state, Illinois, could now play such a pivotal role in ratification.)

Another conservative talking point is that the E.R.A. would lead to abortion restrictions being struck down. That outcome is not at all certain, but it would help many women. (For obvious reasons, the anti-E.R.A. crowd already had to slink away from an argument that the amendment would lead to legalizing same-sex marriage.)

Looking at everything the E.R.A. would not do raises the question of why it’s still needed. Here’s why it is: The court decisions that make up the “de facto E.R.A.” can be undone in a way a constitutional amendment cannot. The E.R.A. would add an extra layer of legal protection for women — and men — against discrimination. This could become especially important if Mr. Trump gets to pick additional conservative Supreme Court justices.

There’s also a symbolic and emotional element to this fight that’s not to be discounted. Ruth Bader Ginsburg — who, before becoming a Supreme Court justice, fought many legal battles over gender discrimination and is a longtime supporter of the E.R.A. — summed up this argument in 2014.

“I would like my granddaughters, when they pick up the Constitution, to see that notion — that women and men are persons of equal stature,” she said. “I’d like them to see that is a basic principle of our society.”

Enshrining women’s rights in the Constitution matters. Doing so now, during this presidency, would be particularly fitting.Then there’s the question of what the E.R.A. would do. Even the most die-hard proponents of the amendment acknowledge that it’s unlikely to radically advance women’s rights, at least in the short term. That’s because, for decades, many courts have applied the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to sex discrimination, creating a body of case law that’s functioned as a sort of de facto E.R.A. As to whether the amendment could actually undo some programs that are beneficial to women, like sex-based affirmative action efforts, legal experts point to the fact that though the Constitution already protects the rights of people regardless of race, race-based affirmative action continues to exist. They also point to parts of the country that have state-level E.R.A.s and have not had such outcomes.

The fight against the E.R.A. is being led by groups on the religious right like the Illinois Family Institute, using arguments that are the ideological heirs of those so vociferously expressed by Phyllis Schlafly, whose group Stop E.R.A. — the first word standing for “Stop Taking Our Privileges” — which became the Eagle Forum, prevented the E.R.A.’s ratification at the time.

Those arguments include fearmongering about how coed locker rooms could become standard and alimony for women outlawed — arguments that are hard to take seriously but that nonetheless helped Mrs. Schlafly to very effectively convince Americans, including many women, that the E.R.A. was bad news. (Mrs. Schlafly, who died in 2016, would no doubt be appalled that her home state, Illinois, could now play such a pivotal role in ratification.)

Another conservative talking point is that the E.R.A. would lead to abortion restrictions being struck down. That outcome is not at all certain, but it would help many women. (For obvious reasons, the anti-E.R.A. crowd already had to slink away from an argument that the amendment would lead to legalizing same-sex marriage.)

Looking at everything the E.R.A. would not do raises the question of why it’s still needed. Here’s why it is: The court decisions that make up the “de facto E.R.A.” can be undone in a way a constitutional amendment cannot. The E.R.A. would add an extra layer of legal protection for women — and men — against discrimination. This could become especially important if Mr. Trump gets to pick additional conservative Supreme Court justices.

There’s also a symbolic and emotional element to this fight that’s not to be discounted. Ruth Bader Ginsburg — who, before becoming a Supreme Court justice, fought many legal battles over gender discrimination and is a longtime supporter of the E.R.A. — summed up this argument in 2014.

“I would like my granddaughters, when they pick up the Constitution, to see that notion — that women and men are persons of equal stature,” she said. “I’d like them to see that is a basic principle of our society.”

Enshrining women’s rights in the Constitution matters. Doing so now, during this presidency, would be particularly fitting.Despite the imposition of unprecedented sanctions against Russia by the Trump administration and Congress over the past year, President Vladimir Putin only seems more intent on causing grievous harm to international peace and stability.

Alongside increased financial sanctions against Mr. Putin and his cronies, there is another arrow in the American quiver that would add diplomatic pressure against Russia: The State Department should consider adding the country to its list of state sponsors of terrorism, alongside its close allies Iran and Syria.

The moral case for such a designation is sound. Russia has invaded its neighbors Georgia and Ukraine, it supports the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad and our enemies in Afghanistan, and it is engaged in active information warfare against Western democracies, including meddling in the 2016 United States elections.

This week, the Organization for Prevention of Chemical Weapons announced that the Kremlin had crossed yet another previously unimaginable line, when it confirmed findings by the British government that a Russian military-grade nerve agent, which British authorities identified as Novichok, was used to poison a former Russian intelligence agent, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury. The attack also resulted in the hospitalization of British law enforcement officials who responded to the scene, as well as bystanders.Despite the imposition of unprecedented sanctions against Russia by the Trump administration and Congress over the past year, President Vladimir Putin only seems more intent on causing grievous harm to international peace and stability.

Alongside increased financial sanctions against Mr. Putin and his cronies, there is another arrow in the American quiver that would add diplomatic pressure against Russia: The State Department should consider adding the country to its list of state sponsors of terrorism, alongside its close allies Iran and Syria.

The moral case for such a designation is sound. Russia has invaded its neighbors Georgia and Ukraine, it supports the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad and our enemies in Afghanistan, and it is engaged in active information warfare against Western democracies, including meddling in the 2016 United States elections.

This week, the Organization for Prevention of Chemical Weapons announced that the Kremlin had crossed yet another previously unimaginable line, when it confirmed findings by the British government that a Russian military-grade nerve agent, which British authorities identified as Novichok, was used to poison a former Russian intelligence agent, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury. The attack also resulted in the hospitalization of British law enforcement officials who responded to the scene, as well as bystanders.Stop me if you’ve heard this before. A G.O.P. presidential candidate loses the popular vote, but somehow ends up in the White House anyway. Despite his dubious legitimacy, his allies in Congress take advantage of his election to ram through a huge tax cut that blows up the budget deficit while disproportionately benefiting the wealthy. While the big bucks go to the big incomes, however, the tax bill does throw some crumbs at the middle class, and Republicans try to sell the bill as a boon to working families.

So far this account applies equally to George W. Bush and Donald Trump. But then the story takes a turn. The Bush sales job was effective: While the 2001 tax cut wasn’t overwhelmingly popular, more people approved than disapproved, and it provided the G.O.P. with at least a modest political boost. But the Trump tax cut was unpopular from the start — in fact, less popular than past tax hikes.

And this tax cut doesn’t seem to be winning more support over time. Most Americans say they don’t see any positive effect on their paychecks. Public approval of the tax cut seems, if anything, to be falling rather than rising. And Republicans have pretty much stopped even mentioning the bill on the campaign trail.

Which raises the question: Why doesn’t snake oil sell like it used to?

In the past, deficit hypocrisy was an important weapon in the G.O.P. political arsenal. Both parties talked about fiscal responsibility, but only Democrats practiced it, actually paying for policy initiatives like Obamacare. Yet Democrats were punished for doing the right thing — remember “they’re taking $500 billion from Medicare”? — while Republicans seemingly paid no price for their cynicism. Voters focused on the extra money in their pockets, ignoring the long-run consequences of big tax cuts for the rich.The nation’s largest cities and metropolitan areas — home to a majority of Democratic voters — are at the forefront of the party’s most vexing racial, ethnic and class conflicts.

Last week, in an essay for CityLab, Richard Florida, a professor of urban planning at the University of Toronto, described how housing costs are driving the growing division between upwardly and downwardly mobile populations within Democratic ranks:

The rise in housing inequality brings us face to face with a central paradox of today’s increasingly urbanized form of capitalism. The clustering of talent, industry, investment, and other economic assets in small parts of cities and metropolitan areas is at once the main engine of economic growth and the biggest driver of inequality. The ability to buy and own housing, much more than income or any other source of wealth, is a significant factor in the growing divides between the economy’s winners and losers.

Allies on Election Day, the two wings of the Democratic Party are growing further estranged in other aspects of their lives, driven apart by the movement of advantaged and disadvantaged populations within and between cities. These demographic patterns exacerbate intraparty tensions.

Florida, writing with Benjamin Schneider of CityLab, expands on this point:

While the advantaged members of the knowledge, professional, and creative class have enough money left over even after paying the cost of housing in these cities, it’s the less-well-paid members of the service and working classes who get the short end of the stick, with not nearly enough left over to afford the basic necessities of life. They are either pushed to the periphery of these places or pushed out altogether.

The competition for housing between rich and poor has become a critically important and divisive issue in urban America.

“The state of housing affordability in the expensive coastal metros is driving a wedge between two factions of the American left,” Issi Romem, a fellow at the Terner Center for Housing Innovation at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote in an email to me.Years ago I was rehearsing a piece for flute, viola and piano by the composer Seymour Barab. Mr. Barab was attending the rehearsal, and the pianist asked him at one point if it was important to “bring out,” or highlight, a certain clever rhythmic pattern. Mr. Barab’s instant reaction was to shout: “No! It’s none of your business!”

Mr. Barab’s position, expressed in his inimitable fashion, was that it was not the performer’s job to try to teach the audience, nor was it the audience’s responsibility to try to pass some sort of test in rhythm recognition. If he, the composer, had done his job well, and had organized and manipulated his musical materials in a compelling fashion, the music would “work,” and the audience would enjoy it.

It’s sad but true that many people denigrate and distrust their own reactions to classical music out of fear that they don’t “know enough,” and that other, more sophisticated folks know more. When people leave the movie theater they rarely hesitate to give their opinion of the movie, and it never occurs to them that they don’t have a right to that opinion. And yet after most classical music concerts you can swing your program around from any spot in the lobby and hit a dozen perfectly capable and intelligent people issuing apologetic disclaimers: “Boy, I really loved that — but I’m no expert” or “It sounded pretty awful to me, but I don’t really know anything, so I guess I just didn’t get it.”

At least those people showed up. Many others are too intimidated to attend classical concerts at all.

It’s human nature to want to know more, and to try to understand and explain our experiences and reactions. And there’s no denying that the more we know about music, as with cooking or gardening or football, the more levels of enjoyment are available to us, and the better we’re able to recognize great achievement. Do we have to know the Latin names of flowers — or the English names, for that matter — to be moved by the beauty of a garden? No. Do we have to know about blocking schemes and “defensive packages” to be excited when our team scores a touchdown? No. But we find these things … interesting. They add to our appreciation.In a friend’s phone, my number appears not under my own name but under Olivia Pope. I once spent weeks searching for a white gown in her style. When I finally posted a photo of me in the dress, I captioned it: “Channeling Olivia Pope.”

To say I was obsessed with the character is an understatement. Was I ridiculous? Absolutely. But I didn’t care.

Olivia was brilliant, in control and ambitious. She had a great job, a perfectly decorated apartment, an incredible wardrobe of fabulous wrap coats, designer bags, the most flattering white and gray pantsuits and silky loungewear to wear during evenings spent drinking her favorite wine — du Bellay — out of her beautiful wine glasses. At one point Crate & Barrel was selling 20 times as many of the glasses after they were prominently featured in the show’s second season. Are you surprised that I own them?

Olivia was motivated by the selfless higher purpose of protecting the republic — “gladiators in white hats,” she and her team called themselves. But she wasn’t perfect.

She went to great lengths to get a Republican elected to the Oval Office, had a yearslong affair with him and worked to keep him in power, even when he no longer deserved it. She was responsible for deaths and the destruction of people’s lives. All of these flaws made me like her even more.

For decades, black female characters were strictly stereotypical — sassy or hypersexual or mammies — who often existed solely to serve the white people around them. It’s not just that Olivia was complex; it’s that “Scandal” didn’t situate her blackness at the center of the narrative. Even her affair with the president was seen as scandalous not because she was black but because the president was cheating on his wife. By refusing to treat blackness as a determining characteristic when it’s not, Ms. Rhimes burst the door wide open for black women on television.

“For me, writing Olivia Pope as the lead meant she got to be the lead, and the lead is everything,” Ms. Rhimes recently said. “She’s the love interest, she’s mean, she’s kind, she’s flawed, she’s brilliant at her job. She makes mistakes.”

“Scandal” is what the world looks like when a black woman is a respected leader. Olivia doesn’t need anyone’s permission, she just needs respect and trust. From there, it’s handled.In a friend’s phone, my number appears not under my own name but under Olivia Pope. I once spent weeks searching for a white gown in her style. When I finally posted a photo of me in the dress, I captioned it: “Channeling Olivia Pope.”

To say I was obsessed with the character is an understatement. Was I ridiculous? Absolutely. But I didn’t care.

Olivia was brilliant, in control and ambitious. She had a great job, a perfectly decorated apartment, an incredible wardrobe of fabulous wrap coats, designer bags, the most flattering white and gray pantsuits and silky loungewear to wear during evenings spent drinking her favorite wine — du Bellay — out of her beautiful wine glasses. At one point Crate & Barrel was selling 20 times as many of the glasses after they were prominently featured in the show’s second season. Are you surprised that I own them?

Olivia was motivated by the selfless higher purpose of protecting the republic — “gladiators in white hats,” she and her team called themselves. But she wasn’t perfect.

She went to great lengths to get a Republican elected to the Oval Office, had a yearslong affair with him and worked to keep him in power, even when he no longer deserved it. She was responsible for deaths and the destruction of people’s lives. All of these flaws made me like her even more.

For decades, black female characters were strictly stereotypical — sassy or hypersexual or mammies — who often existed solely to serve the white people around them. It’s not just that Olivia was complex; it’s that “Scandal” didn’t situate her blackness at the center of the narrative. Even her affair with the president was seen as scandalous not because she was black but because the president was cheating on his wife. By refusing to treat blackness as a determining characteristic when it’s not, Ms. Rhimes burst the door wide open for black women on television.

“For me, writing Olivia Pope as the lead meant she got to be the lead, and the lead is everything,” Ms. Rhimes recently said. “She’s the love interest, she’s mean, she’s kind, she’s flawed, she’s brilliant at her job. She makes mistakes.”

“Scandal” is what the world looks like when a black woman is a respected leader. Olivia doesn’t need anyone’s permission, she just needs respect and trust. From there, it’s handled.MONROVIA, Liberia — I grew up in the Gibraltar area of Clara Town, a slum in Monrovia, the capital of Liberia. Sport was my passport out of poverty. A combination of luck and hard work enabled me to make my improbable journey from the dusty football fields of Clara Town to glamorous stadiums in Europe. I played professional football for the biggest clubs in the world and was honored to be the first African named FIFA World Player of the Year.

On Jan. 22, I returned to the Samuel Doe football stadium in Monrovia — a beloved venue where I had played numerous games — to take the oath of office as the president of Liberia. It was the nation’s first peaceful, democratic transfer of power in almost 75 years. I stood in the stadium proud and aware of the great responsibility of leading Team Liberia.

Growing up as a poor child, I intimately saw and experienced the hardships an ordinary Liberian faced. I know the difficulties and horrors our people suffered before and during the crippling conflicts that tore Liberia apart from 1989 to 2003. In the mid- and the late ’90s, I often returned home as a good-will ambassador for the United Nations Children’s Fund to help draw attention to my people’s plight and to work to disarm child soldiers.

I moved back to Liberia in 2003. The arrival of peacekeepers the same year, first from our West African neighbors and then from the United Nations, helped end 14 years of successive, brutal civil wars, which killed around 250,000 people and displaced around two million.Legalization has barely made a dent in those disparities. As of 2014 in Colorado, the marijuana arrest rate for black people was almost three times that of whites. In New York City, the marijuana arrest rate for black people in New York City was over four times that of whites; the Bronx has one of the country’s highest rates of marijuana arrests. Meanwhile, black people make up an estimated 1 percent of marijuana dispensary owners, owning less than three dozen of the 3,000 or so retail shops nationwide.

Too many people have been deported, made homeless, lost financial aid, levied fines and fees or had their children taken away from them because of marijuana arrests.

White entrepreneurs who are cashing in on legal marijuana must work to reverse these trends. People in the marijuana industry, and the lawmakers who help it flourish, should highlight the racist history of marijuana prohibition and acknowledge its continuing impact.

The cannabis industry must also press for policies to decriminalize marijuana. It should call for the release of people like Mr. Winslow who sit in jails and prisons for the mere use, possession or sale of marijuana. And it must push legislators, prosecutors and law enforcement officers to throw out convictions derived from marijuana offenses.

Cannabis profiteers and customers should also push their lawmakers to emulate Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Florida and the city of Oakland, Calif., each of which has enacted policies, in some cases described as “marijuana reparations,” that encourage and give priority on retail licenses to people of color and those who have been disproportionately harmed by marijuana prohibition and enforcement.

More white people should do what Mr. Boehner did and publicly announce their support of sensible marijuana policy. They should draw on their own experiences to undermine the racialized stigma the drug was long tagged with. The reality is that when a problem has a white face, the government and law enforcement agencies are more likely to react sensibly to that problem.

As white people make money from marijuana, black people languish in jail for smoking it.I frequently care for patients with advanced cancer. A majority have already tried some combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. Many have landed back in the hospital because the cancer has returned or spread widely, and left them in intractable pain or struggling to breathe.

The hospital stay is often a time when patients decide to stop aggressively fighting their cancer, and instead to focus on palliative care and achieving a measure of comfort and grace at the end of life. The moment of transition can be subtle. It’s sometimes signaled by a sweet look from a husband to a wife, a gentle touch of the patient’s hand by an adult child, or two simple words: “It’s time.”

Over the past 20 years, evidence has demonstrated that palliative care decreases pain, improves comfort, and even, in some cases, prolongs life by a few months. In my experience, conversations about turning to it often begin with patients recognizing that curing their cancer is impossible. Patients sometimes ask for my opinion on this. While the conversation is often heartbreaking, it has rarely been a hard call.

But now it is. And that has thrown a wrench into the way we treat patients with advanced cancer.

The reason is a new generation of cancer treatments that have become available in the last few years. Some, called immunotherapy, harness the patient’s own immune system to battle the tumor. Others, known as targeted therapies, block certain molecules that cancers depend on to grow and spread. The medical literature — usually circumspect when it comes to cancer, in light of many overhyped treatments in the past — now fairly gushes with terms like “revolutionary” and “cure.” In this case, the hype feels mostly justified.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey has called for snap elections on June 24, almost a year and a half before the scheduled date in November 2019. He is expected to win because he has, once again, managed to stack the odds — militant nationalism, strong economic growth, a post-coup state of emergency that allows him to deploy security forces to crush his opposition and almost complete control of the Turkish media — in his favor.

The Turkish economy grew at 7.4 percent last year. Mr. Erdogan is seizing the moment to take credit for the strong economic performance before the economy shows signs of overheating. And there are worries stirred by a credit boom: The annual inflation rate peaked at 13 percent in November, the highest in 14 years. The current account deficit swelled to 4.7 percent of the gross domestic product in December, and the lira tumbled to a historic low in April.

Mr. Erdogan is enjoying popular support because of a surge of Turkish nationalism after his victory in the Afrin area of northern Syria, which the Turkish Army and its affiliates took from the Kurdish People’s Protection Units, or YPG. The YPG is linked to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), the terrorist group that Turkey has been fighting for decades.

But there are concerns about the elections being held while the state of emergency, imposed in the aftermath of the failed 2016 coup, remains in place. The state of emergency gives the police, controlled by the central government, the right to arrest anyone without a court order and gives the government administration the mandate to curb freedoms of expression, assembly and association.Another problem is the stupefying amount of administration that diplomats overseas have to contend with, instead of practicing diplomacy; many have taken to calling it “e-hell.” It gets in the way of the very reason they live in foreign countries — to understand and analyze developments in those countries and engage with their societies to better inform United States policies.

What about the staffing gaps overseas every summer, when officers start new assignments at embassies and consulates weeks or even months after their predecessors have left? Even in the age of instant communication, this leads to a lack of continuity and a need for almost every new officer to reinvent the wheel.

As for those outside government, internationally focused think tanks could play a role in producing research on trends and innovation in diplomatic practice. They have largely ignored that, saying their job is to study foreign policy, not what some call “the machinery” that carries it out. The main reason for that is funding — it’s much easier to find donors willing to finance policy research, which they hope will influence official government decisions. However, given the damage being done to the machinery, getting the process right will be as important as the policy substance on the other side of the dark age.

Academia can help as well. The Trump administration’s policies and actions have significantly diminished the attractiveness of diplomacy as a career for young Americans. As a result, the number of those taking the Foreign Service exam has decreased by nearly half since Mr. Trump’s election, and compared with pre-2017 figures, fewer than a third of new officers are being accepted into the Foreign Service.

So it’s vital to keep alive the young generation’s interest in and pursuit of diplomacy as a career. But it’s difficult to find colleges and universities in the United States (and globally, for that matter) that teach diplomacy. Not international relations, but diplomatic practice. Even schools whose names include the words “diplomacy” or “foreign service” offer no more than a couple of diplomacy-related courses, one of which is usually in diplomatic history.

To that end, my school, the Washington International Diplomatic Academy, which trains diplomats and other international affairs professionals from around the world, is holding a practical training program for students this summer for the first time. They will learn what is increasingly becoming a lost art, as well as specific skills, from some of the best diplomats in recent years, including recent State Department refugees. Still, I’d rather see dozens of universities offer multiyear degree programs.

The longer the United States fails to exercise its diplomatic muscle, the worse its atrophy will get. Future Foreign Service leaders could emerge from its current ranks or among Americans still in college. Naturally, they will aspire to become ambassadors and assistant secretaries. But once at the top, despite the huge political demands of those jobs, they should find time to take care of their colleagues in the service. Dark age or renaissance, no one else will.HOUSTON — It’s going to be strange, living in Houston without Barbara Bush. She was so much a part of this place, even if many of us just imagined that we had anything to do with her. All those literacy galas starring best-selling authors, the loyal appearances at Astros games (thank God she lived to see them win the World Series!), the endless questions about who she would and would not support, and the bracingly frank answers that often seemed a little jolting in a country-club Republican wife. (See most recently: “I don’t know how women” could vote for Donald Trump.)

Unlike so many flash-in-the-pan socialites here, Mrs. Bush reigned like a semi-benevolent monarch for decades, particularly after she and 41 moved back to Houston permanently in the 1990s, following that painful loss to Bill Clinton. And once 43 took over the White House in 2000, the Bush stock, which never hit a low here, began to rise precipitously again. It will be very hard to forget all those dinner parties where to say an unkind word about any member of the Bush family was to assure that you were never, ever invited back.

In the beginning, they didn’t cause much of a fuss. The Bushes came to Houston from West Texas in 1962, when George H.W. had already set the family on the path to wealth as president of a small oil company. Back then, there were lots of families who were linked to the oil business, and many of them were, well, more colorful. The Bushes were just another pair of Yankee immigrants without much flash, which in those days was the behavior of choice.

Then George got into politics, running for president of the Harris County Republican Party in ’62. Most Texans were Democrats back then — even if they were right-wing Democrats — and Barbara’s introduction to local politics sounds about right. She got a flier in the mail calling her father, a publisher of women’s magazines, “a tool of the Commies,” as she wrote in her autobiography, and when she canvassed a neighborhood for her husband a woman kept spitting in her flowerpot while Mrs. Bush asked for her support. Another not-so-potential supporter answered the door in his underwear “and didn’t seem to mind a bit.”To be sure, defense contracts are hardly new in Silicon Valley, and Google’s recent moves might be seen as heralding Silicon Valley’s return to its natural home in defense contracting. But that would be to misunderstand both Silicon Valley history and today’s technology.

The internet and much of digital computing did indeed emerge from decades of United States defense contracts, beginning as long ago as World War I. Yet the Pentagon itself sloughed off the internet — not knowing quite what to do with it, and rightly judging it to be insecure — to the National Science Foundation. When the internet became a commercial concern, the National Science Foundation off-loaded it to the Department of Commerce. Government might have given birth to the internet, but it sure didn’t raise it.

The emergence of a civilian, entrepreneurial tech culture in the 1970s owed as much intellectually, if not (at first) financially, to the antiwar movement and the 1960s counterculture — hardly friends of the military-industrial complex. Out of this the dominant, highly creative ethos of geek antiauthoritarianism grew. It is hard to believe that closer ties with the military would perpetuate this culture of innovation.

The technology involved in projects like Azure Government Secret and Project Maven is also very different from the data-sharing projects of the 1960s. Those older technologies would not have been created in the absence of government funding. Today’s projects, in contrast, are all basically A.I. plays. Very little of this is defense-specific, but all of it is useful for defense and espionage. Unlike, say, weapons development, A.I. research is inherently dual-use. United States tech giants would be pursuing it with or without government contracts. Silicon Valley does not need the Pentagon to initiate these endeavors.

The Pentagon is in a different position. It came around very reluctantly to the idea that it is dependent on private industry for the defense of the country and the projection of American power. But come around it has, in no small part thanks to China.Sit on a log by the Madidi River in Bolivia at dusk and you can hear what an Amazon forest should sound like. The music includes red howler monkeys, breathy thumps from the mutum jungle fowl, droning cicadas, eerie calls locals attribute to deadly bushmaster vipers and the unhinged excitement of elusive titi monkeys. Around your feet, the beach is crisscrossed by jaguar tracks and those of the pony-size tapir, a shy beast that, if you keep quiet, will saunter out of the forest and swim across the river.

This is what scientists call an “intact forest landscape.” It’s a swath of at least 500 square kilometers (about 193 square miles, equal to 70,000 soccer fields) of unbroken forest. Because of their size, these areas have maintained all their native plant and animal life and biophysical processes. These forests still adorn parts of our planet’s tropical midsection, notably the Amazon, Congo Basin and the island of New Guinea. And they form a northern belt, the boreal forests of Canada, Russia, Alaska and Scandinavia.

Intact forests today total around 11.8 million square kilometers (about 4.6 million square miles), according to estimates by a group of researchers and organizations, including Greenpeace, Global Forest Watch, World Resources Institute, Transparent World, University of Maryland, World Wildlife Fund of Russia and Wildlife Conservation Society. That’s roughly the United States and Mexico combined. It’s about a quarter of the planet’s total forest area, the rest of which is fragmented by roads, mines, cities and agriculture. Over 7 percent has been lost since 2000. Keeping the rest is a key to turning around three stubborn global trends: climate change, the sixth great extinction crisis and the loss of human cultures.

In the tropics, intact forests hold 40 percent of the aboveground forest carbon even though they make up only 20 of those latitudes’ forests. And intact forests have been shown recently to absorb enough carbon to offset many Amazon countries’ (like Peru) total emissions. When forests become fragmented, edge effects (forest damage at created edges), drying and fire cause over 150 million tons of annual emissions — more than result from outright deforestation.Mr. O’Reilly’s production, however, is perhaps a bit too scrupulously realistic. For a McPherson drama to have full impact, you need to sense the glow of the numinous within the normal, of the possibility that life as we know it might suddenly catch fire and melt. The flammability quotient here is never very high.

But if you’re willing to forgive the absence of miracles, this “Seafarer” offers a lucid and straightforward reading of a play that seems to grow only richer with increased acquaintance. Certainly, it is one of the best portraits I know of alcoholism as an existential condition, and of the woes and the balms of heavy drinking.

Photo

Potent potables — including that lethal elixir known as poteen — are fuel and sustenance for this play’s five characters, who assemble for drink and cards in the home of the bossy, whiny Richard Harkin (Colin McPhillamy) and his brooding, put-upon brother, Sharky (Andy Murray). And, as realized with exactingly shabby detail in Charlie Corcoran’s wonderful two-story set, a slovenly home it is.

Richard is blind, having lost his sight after falling into a dumpster, and this is his first Christmas “in the dark,” as he puts it. Problems of vision are rampant in “The Seafarer.” The agreeably sodden Ivan Curry (Michael Mellamphy) spends much of the show looking for his eyeglasses.

But everyone — including the late-arriving Nicky Giblin (Tim Ruddy), who’s dating Sharky’s ex-wife and is accompanied by the dapper Mr. Lockhart — is plagued by a sense of disorientation, of not knowing where he is or how he got there. Drink, of course, can do that to a fellow.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But in “The Seafarer,” boozing becomes a metaphor for the human condition itself, in which sight functions “through a glass darkly,” to borrow from the New Testament. An unapologetically Christian philosophy pulses throughout this Christmas story, which includes a memorable description of a dream in which a house fly has the eye of God.

Mr. McPherson’s dialogue continually coaxes poetry out of mundane conversation. (Richard, for instance, describes his brother as behaving “like a stray cat in a sock.”) And the cast here delivers such speech confidently and entertainingly.

What’s lacking — most crucially in Mr. McPhillamy’s blustery Richard, who must become the play’s unexpected moral center — is the sense of a surprising grace at work within these garrulous drunkards. Only Mr. Murray’s excellent Sharky, a self-destructive man who is struggling to stay off the bottle, seems naturally (and un-self-consciously) to straddle two worlds.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Then again, it’s Sharky who has the most at stake here. In the play’s climactic second-act card game, it is his very soul that he has anted up and appears destined to lose.

Mr. Lockhart, as might be expected, has a silken way with words. “Time deepens and slows down somehow in a card game,” he says. “It could be any moment. It’s always the same moment.”

The game, in this rendering, never achieves that state. But Mr. O’Reilly’s scrupulously produced, clearsighted “Seafarer” definitely doesn’t squander time, even if it never quite transcends it.Let's Get Started

Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below.What do you like about these tools, and what could be better?

The online ad tracking services are helpful for the desktop and mobile web, but I haven’t yet found an effective way to sort through the many, many ads that flow through Facebook and Instagram or across various mobile apps.

Photo

In the wake of the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica controversy, many privacy experts are pointing out that if something is free, you are the product. Do you agree with that?

This question makes me think of a headline from The Onion, “Exciting New App Allows Users to Be Pawns in 26-Year-Old C.E.O.’s Little Game.” I generally agree with the privacy experts, but don’t know if there are good ad-free alternatives for a lot of services that people can pay for. Maybe in the future?

How has tech changed advertising, and how much is the advertising industry looking to tech these days?

Tech has transformed advertising — there are so many more ways to target and reach people now than when the industry was dominated by TV, print, radio and event sponsorships.

There’s also so much more data being collected about our habits by an array of companies, from big tech platforms to agencies to the advertisers themselves. Huge portions of advertising dollars in the last few years have gone to the big tech giants that we read about all the time — specifically Google and Facebook and, to a lesser extent, companies like Snap. Lately, advertisers have said they’re spending more money on Amazon. So there are still more major changes afoot.

As for how advertisers are looking at tech — it can be a double-edged sword. The ability to follow consumers wherever they go online comes with the risk that brands could end up with their ads appearing on conspiracy and extremist sites or offensive YouTube videos. Platforms like Twitter have made it easy for brands to talk to consumers, but it’s also opened them up to new criticism, demands and potential boycotts.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Advertisers are also grappling with how to measure their ads in this new world. That’s a challenge throughout the industry. Think of all the ways that people watch TV shows now. I recently watched — or, more accurately, binged — NBC’s “The Good Place.” I watched the first season on Netflix, where there were no ads, then saw the first eight episodes of the second season through NBC’s Apple TV app, where there were lots of commercials. I watched the final few on Hulu, which might have had different ads. That type of behavior — especially since I was using my parents’ cable login for the NBC app — is a new kind of challenge for the people buying, selling and measuring ads.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech? Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

What do you think of Google’s and Facebook’s power in the online ad industry?

It’s an enormous topic within the advertising industry, which generally refers to Google and Facebook as the “duopoly.” It’s pretty remarkable that two of the world’s most valuable companies make virtually all of their money from selling online ads and dominate more than half of the American digital ad market.

Their size and influence make it essential for people to really understand how the companies’ business models work and the types of information they’re sharing with them every day — and what makes them such powerful advertising machines.

Obviously, advertisers are drawn to Facebook and Google properties because people are spending lots of time there. But they’re also fast and easy to use and rely heavily on automation. Lately, we seem to be getting a crash course in how the tools that advertisers love can be misused, whether it’s in the political realm or through fraudulent or discriminatory ads. I’m interested to see how humans factor into solving some of these issues — for example, YouTube is implementing more human screening of videos to assuage advertisers’ fears about appearing on inappropriate content.

Outside work, what tech product do you love using?

It’s a tie between two. I recently installed a Chrome extension called HabitLab to help keep me from wasting time when I’m online.

And I love the Bose wireless speaker that my boyfriend gave me for Diwali. I use it to listen to podcasts and talk on the phone while cooking or cleaning. I love that the speaker gets me away from my phone, which can charge in the meantime, and that I can use it throughout my apartment. It would be nice if it just did the cooking for me, though.

What’s your advice for those who want to prevent their data from being tracked by advertisers?

It’s hard to prevent, but you can take some steps to limit it. Explore the privacy settings on your smartphone, including which apps have access to your location and microphone and whether you allow ad tracking. Delete apps that you don’t use anymore.

Some people like ad blockers, but they can be operating their own businesses that allow ads through from advertisers that pay them. You could also check the settings for internet-connected devices like your television, and turn off certain “smart” features that could be sharing your viewing habits with third parties. When you check out at a store, you can avoid giving your phone number, email address or ZIP code. Finally, you can see and delete your ad preferences on Facebook and those for Google, too.There are people with dementia who can be upset by being told sad news but, perhaps because they lack short-term memory, can’t really assimilate it. It’s simply unkind to tell such people the same painful truth over and over again, and it may be best not to tell them even once. But it sounds as if your aunt was in a good position to take in the fact that your mother had died. In these circumstances, it was disrespectful to deny her this information. People who have the capacity to absorb information are entitled to the truth about things that matter to them.

Your cousin was wrong to lie to her mother, therefore, and wrong to ask you to play along, though she no doubt did this with the best of intentions. But you could certainly have handled the situation better. Once you realized that these lies were wrong, you should have told your cousin that you weren’t going to participate in the deception any longer — and told her before you passed along the sad news. As it was, you weren’t just delivering the news about your mother; you were telling your aunt that her daughter had been lying to her. You were right to show your aunt consideration and respect, but you could have tried to spare some too for your misguided but well-meaning cousin.

I am the youngest of three children and the only daughter. My siblings are both in their late 60s, and both my parents have died within the last few years. When I was a child, my mother told me often that she had pined for a daughter, and I have always been aware that this desire was the reason she had a third child — me. My brother who was the second son always believed he was the least-loved child. Recently I was going through some old papers when I discovered a letter written to my mother by a close friend of hers when my mother was pregnant with this brother. In the letter, my mother’s friend refers to the unborn child by my name, implying that my mother was so sure that this baby was a girl that my mother had already named her. To me, this validates the feeling my brother has always had that his parents valued his siblings more. My dilemma is whether to show my brother the letter. On the one hand I worry that he will be hurt and that it will reopen an old wound. On the other hand, it illuminates the truth of his experience. Should I show my brother the letter or keep silent? Name Withheld



Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some people, as we’ve seen, think that it’s better to live without painful knowledge when there’s nothing you can do about it. If your mother were still alive, your brother could have taken this up with her. Let me say I’m not confident that such a conversation would have yielded much of value; for one thing, given how different children are, it’s hard to evaluate claims that a parent didn’t treat them equally. But at this point, there’s not even a possibility of seeking resolution in this way.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Once again, though, people are entitled to be in touch with the truth about things that matter to them. Your discovery, you feel, confirms your brother’s sense about how he was valued. Maybe it will prove helpful to him. (He may have felt guilty about resenting your parents because he wasn’t sure he had judged them fairly, and the letter may relieve some of that guilt.) Maybe it will, as you fear, prove hurtful. The fact is, it’s hard to predict how he’ll process it, and it’s not up to you to do so. Don’t try to manage his access to the truth. Let him see the letter.

I work at a nonprofit where a majority of our staff works far more than 40 hours a week. We are allowed to work from home one day a week. One of my co-workers has told me that when she works from home, she is actually running errands and taking care of her kids and that she will sometimes work at night to make up for it. Since I and many of our co-workers already work many nights and weekends, this doesn’t seem fair. She is often unavailable when she is supposed to be working.

This co-worker is currently on maternity leave, but we’ve learned that she will be allowed to work from home indefinitely when her maternity leave ends. I fear that she is going to pull even less of her weight and that the rest of us will have to cover for her. To complicate matters, I suspect she gets this leniency because she is friends with one of our bosses. This is not the first time new rules have been created to accommodate her, but not others in a similar situation.

On the one hand, I don’t want to get involved — if she wants to be dishonest, that’s up to her. On the other hand, her lies have a direct impact on me; I have to work more because she’s working less. Our clients are also affected, and because we are dealing with legal matters, her dishonesty may be a breach of her ethical responsibilities to them. Should I stay quiet? If not, how can I talk to management about this? Name Withheld



It would, I agree, be good for your organization and for your clients to remedy this situation. If your nonprofit has an H.R. department, you can start there, and there’s always the board, which is charged with advising and supervising management. Consider contacting a board member if there’s one you know and trust, or send the board the relevant information — perhaps anonymously, if you’re worried about retaliation. The board should be concerned that members of the staff feel they cannot bring such issues to management. And the board should care about staff morale and efficiency and doing the best for your clients, all of which are at stake.

Taking such measures may not be easy. But if you stay quiet, you’re condoning an abuse of the system. Because it can be hard to estimate how long a legal task will take, clients and colleagues count on staff members to pull their weight. Your colleague isn’t producing at the rate she would were she working the hours she has been paid for. What’s more, her special treatment unfairly imposes burdens on others, and it creates a bad atmosphere, which can itself affect productivity. Leniency goes too far when it promotes dishonesty, unfairness and disaffection.Q. Could you please review best practices if one’s email is hacked? Is changing the password for that email sufficient? Is it necessary to change the email address (use a whole new email) for each site, like Amazon, that uses the hacked email as the user login?

A. If you still have access to the compromised account, changing the password is one of many steps you should take to protect yourself. If you are having trouble regaining control of the account, visit your mail provider’s site for instructions on recovering your account. Apple, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo all have guides on their sites, as should other email and internet service providers. Tell your friends that your account was hacked and to ignore any odd messages that appear to have come from you.

Your account may have been hacked through malicious software, so scan your computer for malware and viruses with a security program. If you do not have security software installed, you can use Microsoft’s built-in Windows Defender or Microsoft Security Essentials. Avast and AVG are among the many companies that make free basic antivirus software for Windows and Mac. Malwarebytes has free and trial versions of its malware-scanning program for Windows and Mac that can work alongside antivirus software. You should also update your computer and devices with the latest security updates.Photo

THE LIFE TO COME

By Michelle de Kretser

344 pp. Catapult. $26.

The Australian novelist Michelle de Kretser has made a habit of disputing the notion that travel necessarily broadens the mind. Her fourth novel, “Questions of Travel,” which won Australia’s most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin, contrasted the journeys of an asylum-seeker from the subcontinent with those of a backpacking travel-guide writer from Sydney. The characters in “The Life to Come,” de Kretser’s fifth novel, are similarly peripatetic. While they all eventually enjoy a comfortable life in suburban Sydney, some are dogged by memories of past lives in violent places. The memory of a stretch of wall split by the sun transports an elderly woman back to her childhood in Sri Lanka: “Pictures like that were always there, running invisibly under her Australian life, appearing now and again like snatches of an old videotape that a later recording has overlaid without entirely erasing.”

The émigré is one kind of traveler, portrayed here with sympathy and lyricism. But de Kretser, who was born in Sri Lanka and came to Australia at 14, saves her startling satirical firepower for another — the expats of the global West, or those who can travel on a whim. In a novel that restlessly spans decades and continents, a woman named Pippa is as close as de Kretser gets to a protagonist. It is Pippa’s friends, colleagues and acquaintances whose stories we learn via impressionistic flashbacks. In the late 1990s, when we meet her, she is an idealistic undergraduate in Sydney who announces “I love India” after watching a documentary on TV. Over time, she becomes a more interesting character, a full-fledged writer who seeks experiences in the world with which to animate her fiction. Yet Pippa remains naïve. She preaches empathy for refugees on Facebook, but is careless of the inner lives of others.

Photo

In 2010, Pippa goes to Paris on a writing fellowship. (The ensuing novel, “French Lessons,” is a flop.) Her approach to other cultures is uncomplicated. Europe, she thinks, is “momentous and world-historical”; Australia, “eventless.” Plus, there’s all that foreign food, which can be recreated at Instagram-worthy dinner parties back home. Many scenes revolve around Pippa in the kitchen, whipping up something ostentatiously multicultural: a lamb tagine with saffron, carrots and fennel for a sick neighbor; a salad of pork and ginger during a Thai phase; local prawns for her literary agent served with lemon juice, brown bread and butter. Meals like these are as familiar in Brooklyn or Portland as they are in inner-city Sydney. Call it the cult of Ottolenghi — that trendy Israeli-British chef is name-checked on more than one occasion.

In one scene, the function of food as a status symbol for globe-trotting cosmopolites becomes clear. During her time in Paris, Pippa befriends Céleste, an older woman who lives alone. Céleste’s father died in the aftermath of the massacre of Algerians in the French capital in 1961; her mother remarried an Australian man she met on the Métro. The family emigrated to Western Australia, but in adulthood Céleste found her way back to Paris as a translator. (This is the kind of fractured life, filled with loss and hard-won visa stamps, that de Kretser protects from ridicule.) Relatives visiting from Perth come over to Céleste’s small apartment for lunch, and she prepares gratin dauphinois, chicken in a wine sauce and asparagus from the market.

The Australians, flush with money from the mining boom of the new millennium, push the meal around on their plates and talk of how they eat at home: quinoa and broad bean salad, barley with pomegranate seeds. “Why do Australians go on so much about food?” Céleste asks her mother afterward on Skype. Her mother’s reply is brutal. “Because they live in a country of no importance.” For a novel concerned with dislocation, there’s a lot of grounding humor in “The Life to Come.” Most of it comes at the expense of Pippa and her ilk, but de Kretser’s observations are so spot on, you’ll forgive her even as you cringe.When neo-Nazi and alt-right demonstrators attacked counterprotesters in Charlottesville, Va., last August, killing one and injuring several others, many Americans responded with surprise that white supremacists were suddenly in their midst. But white-power activism is not new, nor has it been part of an underground history. We knew. And we forgot.

Twenty-three years ago, on April 19, 1995, a Ryder rental truck filled with fertilizer exploded in front of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. The bombing killed 168 people, including 19 children — the largest deliberate mass casualty event on American soil between Pearl Harbor and the Sept. 11 attacks.

And yet, in these 23 years, the bombing remains misunderstood as an example of “lone wolf” terrorism. People repeat the words of the bomber Timothy McVeigh, an avowed white-power advocate who before his execution pointed out how scary it was that one man could wreak “this kind of hell.”

But in fact, the bombing was the outgrowth of decades of activism by the white-power movement, a coalition of Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, skinheads and militias, which aimed to organize a guerrilla war on the federal government and its other enemies.TAICANG, China — If China calls for a boycott of American goods, Chinese workers like David Xu could be in trouble.

Mr. Xu is one of thousands of residents of this port town who cash paychecks from American companies. He works as a technician at a Procter & Gamble manufacturing and distribution center here, one of the company’s biggest in China. Across town, Nike has opened a huge distribution center, its largest in Asia.

In all, more than 40 other American companies have set up shop here, making chemicals, lighters and a broad range of other products for a Chinese market eager for American goods.

“There is no deep hatred for American companies,” said Mr. Xu, who has worked for Procter & Gamble for 13 years. “The impact of this trade conflict shouldn’t be big. After all, American companies bring so many conveniences to the lives of Chinese people.”“There is a mountain of demand and a trickle of supply,” said Chris Nicholson, the chief executive and founder of Skymind, a start-up working on A.I.

That raises significant issues for universities and governments. They also need A.I. expertise, both to teach the next generation of researchers and to put these technologies into practice in everything from the military to drug discovery. But they could never match the salaries being paid in the private sector.

In 2015, Elon Musk, the chief executive of the electric-car maker Tesla, and other well-known figures in the tech industry created OpenAI and moved it into offices just north of Silicon Valley in San Francisco. They recruited several researchers with experience at Google and Facebook, two of the companies leading an industrywide push into artificial intelligence.

In addition to salaries and signing bonuses, the internet giants typically compensate employees with sizable stock options — something that OpenAI does not do. But it has a recruiting message that appeals to idealists: It will share much of its work with the outside world, and it will consciously avoid creating technology that could be a danger to people.

“I turned down offers for multiple times the dollar amount I accepted at OpenAI,” Mr. Sutskever said. “Others did the same.” He said he expected salaries at OpenAI to increase as the organization pursued its “mission of ensuring powerful A.I. benefits all of humanity.”

OpenAI spent about $11 million in its first year, with more than $7 million going to salaries and other employee benefits. It employed 52 people in 2016.

Photo

People who work at major tech companies or have entertained job offers from them have told The New York Times that A.I. specialists with little or no industry experience can make between $300,000 and $500,000 a year in salary and stock. Top names can receive compensation packages that extend into the millions.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The amount of money was borderline crazy,” Wojciech Zaremba, a researcher who joined OpenAI after internships at Google and Facebook, told Wired. While he would not reveal exact numbers, Mr. Zaremba said big tech companies were offering him two or three times what he believed his real market value was.

At DeepMind, a London A.I. lab now owned by Google, costs for 400 employees totaled $138 million in 2016, according to the company’s annual financial filings in Britain. That translates to $345,000 per employee, including researchers and other staff.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Researchers like Mr. Sutskever specialize in what are called neural networks, complex algorithms that learn tasks by analyzing vast amounts of data. They are used in everything from digital assistants in smartphones to self-driving cars.

Some researchers may command higher pay because their names carry weight across the A.I. community and they can help recruit other researchers.

Mr. Sutskever was part of a three-researcher team at the University of Toronto that created key so-called computer vision technology. Mr. Goodfellow invented a technique that allows machines to create fake digital photos that are nearly indistinguishable from the real thing.

“When you hire a star, you are not just hiring a star,” Mr. Nicholson of the start-up Skymind said. “You are hiring everyone they attract. And you are paying for all the publicity they will attract.”

Other researchers at OpenAI, including Greg Brockman, who leads the lab alongside Mr. Sutskever, did not receive such high salaries during the lab’s first year.

In 2016, according to the tax forms, Mr. Brockman, who had served as chief technology officer at the financial technology start-up Stripe, made $175,000. As one of the founders of the organization, however, he most likely took a salary below market value. Two other researchers with more experience in the field — though still very young — made between $275,000 and $300,000 in salary alone in 2016, according to the forms.

Though the pool of available A.I. researchers is growing, it is not growing fast enough. “If anything, demand for that talent is growing faster than the supply of new researchers, because A.I. is moving from early adopters to wider use,” Mr. Nicholson said.

That means it can be hard for companies to hold on to their talent. Last year, after only 11 months at OpenAI, Mr. Goodfellow returned to Google. Mr. Abbeel and two other researchers left the lab to create a robotics start-up, Embodied Intelligence. (Mr. Abbeel has since signed back on as a part-time adviser to OpenAI.) And another researcher, Andrej Karpathy, left to become the head of A.I. at Tesla, which is also building autonomous driving technology.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In essence, Mr. Musk was poaching his own talent. Since then, he has stepped down from the OpenAI board, with the lab saying this would allow him to “eliminate a potential future conflict.”Judge Vance’s son, Robert S. Vance Jr., himself a judge in Alabama, said Thursday that he had not forgiven Mr. Moody because “he has not acknowledged any remorse or any acknowledgment that he was guilty.”

“I’m not a psychiatrist, but if you’re talking about using labels like psychopath, this seems to be the kind of person that would fit that description because of absolute lack of empathy or concern for others,” Judge Vance said.

Mr. Moody was pronounced dead at 8:42 p.m. on Thursday inside a South Alabama prison, ending a generations-long legal drama that began in 1972, when he planned a bombing against an automobile dealer who had repossessed his car.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His unsuccessful efforts to have his conviction overturned in that case stirred a protracted rage against the 11th Circuit, which has jurisdiction in Alabama, Florida and Georgia, Mr. Moody’s home state. After the 11th Circuit rejected Mr. Moody’s appeal in August 1989, the court noted in a subsequent ruling, he began trying to develop “war gases” and prepared what he termed a “Declaration of War” against the appellate court.

In December 1989, Mr. Moody mailed a parcel with a bomb — steel pipe, smokeless powder and 80 finishing nails — to the suburban Birmingham home of Robert Vance Sr., who had only considered Mr. Moody’s appeal when it was before the full court. The bomb exploded when Judge Vance opened the package, killing him and gravely injuring his wife.

Another bomb two days later killed Robert E. Robinson, an African-American lawyer in Savannah, Ga. Officials also intercepted a device that was sent to the 11th Circuit’s offices in Atlanta, as well as a bomb that was mailed to a Florida office of the N.A.A.C.P.

Prosecutors believed Mr. Moody disguised his motive by using the name of a fictitious group when he vowed to kill judges and railed against African-Americans and the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit’s treatment of them.

Federal officials began to focus on Mr. Moody after an investigator described one of the bombs to a chemist with what was then known as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, who sketched the device on a napkin and noticed its similarity to one Mr. Moody had built in 1972.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“That’s Moody’s bomb,” the chemist said in an episode Mr. Freeh described in his memoir, which noted that Mr. Moody’s companion ultimately cooperated with investigators and provided crucial information.

Mr. Moody, who attended law school and apparently resented that he could not practice, has maintained his innocence. In a recent letter to Judge Vance, he wrote, “Had my Dad been murdered, I would want to know who had done it.”

Yet federal officials long pointed to a recording, partly transcribed in a court ruling, of Mr. Moody talking to himself in jail after the killings: “Now you’ve killed two. … Now you can’t pull another bombin’.”

“I never came across someone like him: very brilliant, very determined, very skillful,” Mr. Freeh recalled on Thursday, adding, “He made it a campaign to declare war against the courts and kill these innocent people, but I’ve never seen a defendant like that.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Legal questions that often surface in capital cases were not at issue on Thursday as Mr. Moody’s execution neared. There were not, for example, last-minute questions about his competency or Alabama’s reliance on a lethal injection protocol that includes midazolam, a sedative whose use in executions has been bitterly disputed.

Instead, Mr. Moody’s final efforts to avoid execution, which the United States Supreme Court rejected, were largely procedural, including whether the federal government could turn him over to Alabama — and its execution chamber — while Mr. Moody served his federal sentence of seven life terms, plus 400 years. (The federal case included charges connected to the bombs sent to Judge Vance and Mr. Robinson. Mr. Freeh, who prosecuted the federal case at Mr. Mueller’s behest, said he believed Mr. Robinson’s killing was intended “to create a diversion” to distract investigators.)

The Justice Department said Mr. Sessions, Alabama’s attorney general when Mr. Moody was tried in state court, had determined that the federal government did not object to Mr. Moody being in Alabama’s custody “for purposes of carrying out the capital sentence.”

In a plea for clemency to Gov. Kay Ivey, one of Mr. Moody’s lawyers noted that Judge Vance was “by all accounts, an opponent of capital punishment.” On Thursday, the judge’s son acknowledged that his father had expressed reservations about executions.

“But he also made clear that as a judge, he has to follow what the law dictates and put aside his personal views, and he had to do that several times sitting as a judge,” Judge Vance said of his father.

“Moody was tried, convicted by a jury of his peers twice, the final time with the recommendation of the death penalty,” he said. “I think the legal system worked well in getting those convictions.”

Prompted at the prison near the Florida border on Thursday night, Mr. Moody offered no last words.Two sheriff’s deputies in North Florida are dead after a gunman walked up to the window of a Chinese restaurant where they were eating on Thursday afternoon and shot them, the authorities said.

Photo

The shooting occurred around 3 p.m. in Trenton, Fla., about 30 miles west of Gainesville. When additional deputies responded to the restaurant, Ace China, they found both the deputies dead inside it, and the suspect — John Hubert Highnote, 59, of nearby Bell — dead outside, according to the Gilchrist County Sheriff’s Office.

The office said that the suspect’s motive was unclear, and Sheriff Bobby Schultz declined at a Thursday night news conference to confirm whether he had killed himself. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating.

Sheriff Schultz identified the victims as Sgt. Noel Ramirez, 29, and Deputy Taylor Lindsey, 25. Sergeant Ramirez was married with two young children, and Deputy Lindsey was unmarried but had a girlfriend.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I made contact with the families, and as you’d expect, you can never be prepared for something like this,” Sheriff Schultz said. “But make no mistake, they’re proud of their families. They understood when their loved ones pinned on the badge and they strapped on the gun that this was a possibility.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trenton, the seat of rural Gilchrist County, is a small town of around 2,000 residents, but the killing of the deputies drew the attention and condolences of national officials.As the Trump administration arrests thousands of immigrants with no criminal history and reshapes the prospects of even legal immigrants — an overdue corrective, officials say, to the lenient policies of the past — many who have lived without papers for years are urgently seeking legal status by way of a parent, adult child or spouse who is already a citizen or permanent resident.

In a growing number of cases, however, immigrants with old deportation orders that were never enforced are getting the go-ahead after an interview by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that handles residency and citizenship, only to be arrested by ICE.

“It’s like playing dice in Las Vegas or something,” said William Joyce, a former immigration judge who now practices immigration law in Boston. “It’s not 100 percent, but you’re playing with fire if you go to that interview. You can walk in, but you won’t be walking out.”

Mr. de Oliveira and his wife had been dating for eight years, ever since Ms. de Oliveira’s sister introduced them and they started working next door to each other — he at a pizza place, she at a Dunkin’ Donuts. They had a son three years later, but he waited until 2016 to marry Ms. de Oliveira, a Massachusetts native, partly because he did not want her family to think he was angling for a green card.

[Would you pass the green card marriage interview? Take the test.]

After the wedding, all the things they could not do while he lacked legal status became obvious: Not being able to go on their honeymoon, because he could not fly. Not being able to get a joint credit card. Not being able to get car insurance.

“He got caught because he was trying to do the right thing,” Ms. de Oliveira said of her husband’s arrest on Jan. 9. “It was like a setup.”

It took a month for her husband to be released. Because she did not know what else to say when their son asked, Ms. de Oliveira told him that his father was working out of town.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Like many of the immigrants detained this way, Mr. de Oliveira, a house painter, had no criminal history. To the Trump administration, the other thing they had in common was more germane: a legal but, until now, unenforced obligation to leave the country that had stuck to them for years, even as they pieced together lives and families in the United States.

In the later years of the Obama administration, the government mostly left people without criminal records alone, focusing instead on immigrants who had only recently arrived or had been convicted of serious crimes.

But the Trump administration emphasizes that everyone living here illegally is fair game for deportation, a policy that has bumped up immigration arrests by more than 40 percent since the beginning of 2017. Those who were ordered out of the country years ago are especially easy marks for an agency with limited resources for enforcement — especially if they walk straight into an immigration office.

ICE agents who once allowed many unauthorized immigrants to stay in the country as long as they checked in regularly have, over the past year, begun arresting many of those same immigrants at their once-routine ICE appointments. Unlike people who have had no prior contact with the immigration system, those who have already received orders of deportation have few, if any, protections against swift deportation.

Most who have been arrested under the Trump administration’s policies had scant prospects of ever achieving legal status, whether through marriage to a citizen or another route.

People like Mr. de Oliveira, on the other hand, were well on their way.

Getting a green card through spouses and relatives had become far easier in recent years for those who were living in the country illegally. Until 2013, undocumented applicants had to leave the country and wait out the application process from abroad, in some cases for as long as a decade, before returning with green cards.

Then the Obama administration created a waiver to abbreviate the process. Hurdles remained: Applicants still had to undergo vetting and security checks, for example, and prove that being deported would cause an American citizen — a spouse, for example — significant hardship. But once an immigration officer certified that their marriages were real, those with old deportation orders could ask an immigration judge to lift them so they could move on with their applications.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Now, however, it is risky simply to show up for an interview.

“For many individuals, it’s sort of this Sophie’s choice of remaining in the shadows, without formal immigration status,” or hazarding arrest, said Genia Blaser, a staff attorney at the Immigrant Defense Project, a New York-based group that has been fielding calls from immigrants concerned about the new policies.

One such case made national headlines in the fall, when a Mexican man from the Denver area who had tried to obtain a green card through his daughter, a senior at Yale, was arrested at his residency interview. Despite a national campaign to get him released, the man, Melecio Andazola Morales, was deported in December.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Feb. 8, immigration agents in San Francisco went a step further, arresting a Sudanese man at his interview for asylum, where he was supposed to be given a chance to explain why he feared returning to his home country. He had overstayed his visa, according to his lawyer, but had no criminal history or deportation order.

Immigration lawyers in New England, in particular, say there has been an unmistakable swell in the number of clients arrested at marriage interviews over the past few months. In the past, they said, U.S.C.I.S. officers had routinely alerted their counterparts at ICE to marriage applicants with old deportation orders, but only since President Trump took office had immigration agents begun to arrest those people at interviews. (A few such cases had occurred under the Bush administration as well, they said.)

Several lawyers said that they could no longer in good conscience encourage their clients to go to their marriage interviews, even if staying away would mean throttling a process that had already swallowed up months, if not years, and perhaps thousands of dollars in legal and application fees.

“So you end up with a situation where, all right, you don’t go to the interview, you don’t get the petition approved, so there’s no way forward,” said Mr. Joyce, who said at least five clients of his firm had been arrested in the middle of applying for a marriage-based green card over the last year, including two who were later deported.

An ICE spokesman, John Mohan, said that ICE has always worked with other government agencies to gather information for enforcement purposes.

“ICE does not exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement,” he said. “Any individual determined to be in violation of U.S. immigration laws may be subject to arrest, detention and removal from the United States.”

Some remain undeterred. Leandro Arriaga, 43, had been warned by his lawyer that he might be detained at his marriage interview because he had been ordered deported years ago. But he decided to go anyway, determined to get legal papers. Without them, “You can’t do nothing, you can’t go to college, you can’t do things in your own name,” Mr. Arriaga said. “I said, ‘I don’t want to be illegal anymore. I’ve got to do something.’”

Mr. Arriaga had arrived illegally from the Dominican Republic in 2001, settling in the Boston area. He married a citizen, had three children, divorced, married another citizen and had another child, building a good business buying and fixing up old properties along the way.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After talking it over with his wife, Katherine, he decided to take a chance on the marriage interview, which was scheduled for March 2017 at the immigration office in Lawrence, Mass. An immigration officer certified his marriage, clearing him to move to the next step toward legalization. But before he could leave the office, he was detained, along with four other marriage applicants who were interviewing that morning, at least two of whom also had their petitions approved that morning.

It took until the end of May for him to get out of detention — more than two months of legal motions, court hearings and negotiations. The government ultimately released him with an ankle monitor, leaving Mr. Arriaga free to continue pursuing his application for a green card.

Nearly a year later, though he was still chasing paperwork, he did not regret having walked into the immigration office. “I really think that I did the right thing,” he said.

Many people, though, are heeding their lawyers’ advice and postponing any application for legalization — even those who are likely to be deemed eligible. The risks are too great.

Natalia and Junior Roveda, who have been together seven years, managed to make it through their marriage interview last year in Massachusetts without incident. Mr. Roveda had come to the United States illegally from Brazil in 2005 and evaded a subsequent deportation order. He was moving into the next stage of the legalization process when he was arrested outside their apartment in the town of Framingham. In November, he was deported to Brazil, where he is now living with his parents.

Since then, his marble and granite business has gone dormant. Ms. Roveda, 25, gave up their apartment, sold the furniture and started working 20 extra hours a week at her job as an aesthetician and makeup artist to help support him in Brazil. When she can, she makes the long journey to visit him.

Still, Mr. Roveda is pursuing his green card from abroad. Their lawyers have told them it could take up to a year, and Mr. Roveda fears being stuck there, away from his wife and his faltering business, for much longer.

“It is not fair,” he said. “I was already approved and everything.”Just how much G.E. has invested in its digital initiatives is uncertain, but it has been several billion dollars. In an article last year in the Harvard Business Review, Mr. Immelt wrote that in 2016 “we put about $4 billion into developing analytics software and machine learning capabilities.”

G.E.’s digital effort dates to 2011, when Mr. Immelt recruited William Ruh, an executive at Cisco Systems. Later that year, the company set up a center in San Ramon, Calif., east of San Francisco. At the time, Mr. Ruh announced big plans to hire as many as 400 software engineers to write code for the industrial internet.

The San Ramon work force swelled sharply to 1,400 in the summer of 2016, and to a peak of 2,000 last summer — before coming down to about 1,800, after a round of cuts earlier this year.

During the buildup, G.E. recruited veteran software managers who had worked at leading tech companies, including Google, Microsoft and Apple. With the cuts at GE Digital and its narrowed focus, some of them have departed.

In its early days, the San Ramon center concentrated on writing data analysis and modeling software for applications like predicting when a gas turbine or jet engine would need maintenance, before the machine failed. In 2013, G.E. called that software Predix.

The product plan later broadened to include a cloud-based software platform for handling all kinds of sensor and machine data, and secure communications from the factory floor to data centers. G.E. even built its own data centers.

The software platform under development was often referred to as an operating system for the industrial internet. When the product concept expanded, so did the Predix brand.The fallout has become unusually personal for Ahalogy, which in recent weeks has been contacted by almost a dozen frustrated Facebook users demanding to know what the company is and why it has their contact information.

The queries have come via email and social media as more people have learned just how much Facebook knows about them and are downloading their data and more closely scrutinizing sections on the social network like “Advertisers with your contact info.”

“Ahalogy Partners” sometimes shows up because the Cincinnati-based firm runs digital marketing campaigns for a range of advertisers and uses its account to buy targeted Facebook ads on their behalf.

One Twitter user confronted the company in late March after downloading her Facebook data, calling it “desperate” and saying, “I learned that Facebook gave you my data? Why?” She added the hashtag #DeleteMyData.

Mr. Gilbreath explained that Ahalogy, like many marketers, often buys data from outside firms for campaigns so that it can direct ads to certain groups of people — say, Walmart shoppers — but that the company doesn’t store that material and can’t see personal information like email addresses.

While marketers may be frustrated right now, few have actually left Facebook. The company is the second-biggest seller of digital ads with more than $40 billion in annual revenue. Last week, Carolyn Everson, Facebook’s vice president of global marketing solutions, said at a conference that the company did not expect “major changes to our overall revenue and business model.”

Photo

Ms. Everson and her team, which works with agencies and the biggest global advertisers, have been in overdrive in recent weeks. She has sent frequent emails to agency leaders, held calls with Facebook’s council of top marketers and joined a discussion with the Association of National Advertisers. She noted in an interview that she “would much rather err on the side of over-communication right now.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

John Montgomery, executive vice president for brand safety at WPP’s GroupM, said that while he was dismayed by the initial “pocket of silence” from Facebook in the wake of the revelations, the company has since been candid. He said he appreciated the email updates sent by Ms. Everson every other day.

One of the points of concern seems to be apps that companies made years ago at the behest of Facebook. The tech company recently declared that it would conduct a full investigation of apps that obtained access to a large amount of user information before Facebook changed its platform policies. Between 2010 and the change in 2014, Facebook encouraged brands from insurers to entertainment companies to make games and other apps for the site, according to one agency executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Ms. Everson said Facebook would look at all app developers, including major brands, that had access to large amounts of data and conduct audits if it saw “suspicious activity.”

“To marketers who have asked me about that, I have said if they have an app or had an app, that all app developers will be looked at,” Ms. Everson said. “They understand that and recognize our mission only works if people feel it’s safe to communicate online and share with others.”

Other advertisers have expressed alarm over Facebook’s plan to remove the “partner categories” on its site. These categories enable advertisers to direct ads to people based on data collected by outside companies, including their purchasing habits in physical stores and profiles like “big-city moms.”

Facebook said that the change would improve user privacy. But it has also resulted in a perhaps counterintuitive lesson for marketers: Several are devising new ways to build up their own customer data lists out of concern that they were too reliant on Facebook for such information.

One executive gave a hypothetical example of a jam brand that had been targeting ads on Facebook through shopping habits based on outside company data. That company might now set up a recipe site and create a newsletter to distribute great recipes every week. It could also make a loyalty program with peanut butter and jelly points, a children’s site and an iJam app, collecting customer data from each.

Mr. Montgomery said that he did not expect people to migrate from Facebook en masse.

“The major question we’ve asked together of ourselves and our clients is will this affect user engagement on the platform, and we haven’t seen any of that yet,” he said. “At the end of the day, what really counts is whether the users will value the utility of Facebook over the privacy missteps.”

If people stop using Facebook in significant numbers, it will test the patience of advertisers, which have had a fraught relationship with the social network. The main points of contention have been the amount of data that advertisers can access on the platform and issues around how ad performance is measured. Facebook is aiming to soothe them while it sorts through a very public problem.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“There may have been sellers in media that maybe got the benefit of doubt when something went wrong — when you get discretion, relationships matter, perceptions of the media brand matter,” said Brian Wieser, a media analyst at Pivotal Research. “But with Facebook, I feel like a common refrain I’ve heard is that user trends go down, that’s going to have ramifications.”

Yet Ms. Everson has received many public messages of support and praise for her leadership on Twitter and on her Facebook page from agency executives and chief marketing officers, including those at General Electric and Toys “R” Us.

In one of her emails to advertisers last month, which a recipient shared with The New York Times, Ms. Everson said it was important to remember that Facebook’s mission was unchanged. It is still the same company, she said, that is “bringing connectivity to remote areas of the world” and that “gives people a voice and enables the movements that are changing the world.” She concluded by saying, “Thank you so very much for your continued partnership.”Like Mr. Washington, Mr. Jordan, 31, got his big break on television: on HBO’s “The Wire,” when he was just 15. After his heartbreaking performance in “Fruitvale Station,” about the last day in the life of a transit-police shooting victim, he starred in the popular “Rocky” reboot “Creed.” And earlier this year, he played the villain, Erik Killmonger, in the Marvel juggernaut “Black Panther,” winning perhaps the best reviews of anyone in the extremely well-reviewed cast.

Next month, he stars in “Fahrenheit 451” on HBO, a dystopian film based on the novel by Ray Bradbury. Mr. Jordan plays a “fireman,” part of a state-sanctioned brigade that hunts down readers and burns books. His company, Outlier Society Productions, is one of the film’s producers and also among the first to adopt inclusion riders, requiring diversity among cast and crew, as called for by Frances McDormand from the stage of this year’s stage.

Over a cocktail hour at the Lambs Club in Manhattan (a Diet Coke for Mr. Washington, a sauvignon blanc for Mr. Jordan), the actors traded notes about creating characters and the socially minded work that really matters to them. These are excerpts from the conversation.

PHILIP GALANES If Mike reminds people of a young Denzel, who did young Denzel remind people of?

DENZEL WASHINGTON I never saw it that way. I never even thought about movie stars. My goal was to be on Broadway, to earn $650 a week. My hero was James Earl Jones. And I came to acting green. I was taking pre-law courses, then journalism courses. Then I took an acting class and got bit by the bug. So I came down to Lincoln Center and saw plays and stage actors.

Photo

GALANES But all those things you did — law, journalism, acting — they’re all about getting to the bottom of a story, right?

WASHINGTON I like that part: building a character. You start with the material that gives you clues. If you’re playing a boxer, you want to throw out punches. If you’re playing a conductor, you want to get on a train.

GALANES And the script?

WASHINGTON Sure, but you don’t know who the character is just by reading the script. I don’t read a script and go, “Now, I get it!” That’s just the beginning. The first thread you pull.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

MICHAEL B. JORDAN The script tells you what’s going up on screen. But the biggest part, the fun part, is figuring out what happened to that character before Page 1 of the script. What kind of food does he like? Did he get into fights going to school? That back story determines the choices you make within the confines of the script. And going through that process with the director is a big part of the collaboration. Now I’ve got notebooks and notebooks of back stories. Some directors may want you to add something or change your version. That’s when you try to find common ground.

GALANES Is that why you’ve both worked with directors repeatedly? Mike with Ryan Coogler; Denzel with Spike Lee and Antoine Fuqua. Your common ground?

WASHINGTON [laughing] Maybe they’re the ones who called. What you’re saying is part of it, but I don’t think it’s just one way.

JORDAN Those are the roles I was lucky enough to get. Ryan and I have worked together three times, and I have a really close relationship with him. But I said no to lots of other things with other people in-between. They weren’t right. Personally, I think you’re defined by what you say no to.

WASHINGTON I say yes to everything!

GALANES Why do I doubt that? Managing a career as big as yours must take a lot of work.

WASHINGTON Not now. Maybe early on. Now, I just do what I want to do. And you don’t want to walk down the same road twice. I’m sure after doing “Iceman Cometh,” I won’t be looking to do another play.

JORDAN For a minute.

WASHINGTON Yeah, not for a while.

Photo

GALANES You’re too young to remember this, Mike. But early in his career, Denzel was so beloved for playing good guys — in “Glory” and “Cry Freedom” — that we all freaked out when he started playing villains: in “Training Day,” “American Gangster.” And he was even better at bad guys! Was that about walking down different roads?

WASHINGTON I grew up right here in New York. Trust me, “Training Day” was a lot closer to who I was than a lot of the others. It wasn’t a stretch for me. And the original script was more like “Lethal Weapon.” But when Antoine [Fuqua] came on board, he brought this whole L.A. gangster thing to it. That wasn’t even in the script. But I went with it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

JORDAN So much trickles down from the director. That’s why I try to choose the ones who make the best environments to work in, so we can maybe make something as good as “Training Day.” You don’t want to go into a project with somebody who won’t be helpful to your process — or vice versa.

GALANES I read this funny thing about you, Mike: You started choosing projects where you wouldn’t die in the end?

JORDAN It started with my mom, who’s superemotional. When I shot my death scene in “The Wire,” she was on set. And the P.A.’s kept coming to me and saying: “You may want to check on your mom.” I go see her, and she’s sitting there bawling. I’m just a kid. I’m going, “Come on, Ma. You’re embarrassing me.” And after “Fruitvale Station,” I was like, “Man, this is really affecting her.” But there was another thing, too. Look at Denzel’s career. I want people to see me win. I want audiences to see me ending up on top — not dying. I want to be the leading man.

WASHINGTON How old are you?

JORDAN 31.

WASHINGTON Man, I got underwear older than that.

JORDAN That was the real thought process: How do I become a leading man? I know phenomenal actors who can’t open movies overseas. How do you become the guy who can carry a film?

WASHINGTON So, you study the game?

JORDAN You, Will Smith, Tom Cruise, Leo [DiCaprio]. You guys are my models. You’re all your own person, and you all have great qualities that make you “that guy.” So, how do I take what I have in me and create my version of that?

GALANES Is that why you went the superhero route?

JORDAN Without a doubt. International markets are key for me. So, when I get a chance, I’m taking it. “The Fantastic Four” was superimportant, regardless of how it turned out. [The 2015 film was a critical and commercial failure.] A million things have to go right for a movie to be successful, and actors don’t control a lot of them.

GALANES You probably made up for it with “Black Panther.” Why no superheroes for you, Denzel?

WASHINGTON Nobody asked.

JORDAN That’s crazy! Really?

GALANES Superheroes have changed. When Denzel might have played one, they were dull. The villains were interesting: Jack Nicholson and Heath Ledger. Like you in “Black Panther,” Mike.

Photo

Photo

WASHINGTON When I was a teenager, “Shaft” and “Super Fly,” those were our superheroes. I remember watching “Super Fly” with my boy Carl, and when we got back to the projects, he carved the character’s name — Priest — on the elevator door. And Richard Roundtree in those long leather coats in “Shaft.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

GALANES Both of your new projects are dark. “Iceman Cometh” is brutal. And in “Fahrenheit 451,” competing ideas are so scary that people decide to burn all the books and kill the readers. Why choose them now?

JORDAN I was shooting “Black Panther,” down in Atlanta, when I first saw the script for “Fahrenheit.” I didn’t want to do it at all. I didn’t want to play an authority figure — especially with what’s going on with the police in my community. I didn’t want to play an officer who was oppressing people. But then I had lunch with the director [Ramin Bahrani], and he talked me through his vision, what the movie would be about. And slowly, I changed my mind.

GALANES It’s powerful to watch a black man in your role.

JORDAN But it wasn’t all there on the page. I needed to make sure that he was willing to collaborate, to change some things to help me, as a black man, feel more comfortable in that role. And my company’s co-producing it alongside HBO was important to me too. This is my first time working with the director and the network, giving my opinion and hoping that it’s taken seriously.

Photo

WASHINGTON (laughing) Getting your big boy voice.

GALANES Like coming back to the stage, Denzel?

WASHINGTON Well, this is my third play with [producer] Scott Rudin. We did “Fences” and “Raisin in the Sun,” and now we developed “Iceman Cometh” together. Every four or five years, I want to do something onstage, and he does all the heavy lifting. We put together a list of possible plays: “King Lear,” “Coriolanus,” “Iceman,” a few more.

GALANES All tragedies?

WASHINGTON Yeah. Then we boiled it down to “Iceman” and “King Lear.” And he said: “Let’s do ‘Lear’ five years from now.” I said: “O.K., we’ll do that next — God willing.”

Photo

GALANES But why “Iceman”?

WASHINGTON Eugene O’Neill. That simple. The chance to interpret his brilliant material. You know, my first role on stage, when I was a student at Fordham, was in “The Emperor Jones.” I’ve always loved O’Neill. And here I am, 40 years later, coming back to him in “Iceman.”

GALANES Your character, Hickey, seems like the life of the party at first, but what a tortured soul he turns out to be. What drew you to him?

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

WASHINGTON His desire to see people happy. Even when he knows he can’t make that happen, that desire is still there in him.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

GALANES It’s a mountain of a play — four hours long. Is it hard to maintain that intensity every night?

WASHINGTON Listen, this is what I love: acting on stage. And I don’t have to do anything else. Just be in this play. So, don’t feel sorry for me compared to most workers in America.

GALANES Is theater on your radar, Mike?

JORDAN Down the line. But right now, I want to take care of my family financially and grow my production company. That’s the big thing I want to do: set my family up.

GALANES Why’s that?

JORDAN As a kid, you don’t see your circumstances. I didn’t. It’s not until you look back and think, “Man, we were poor!” My parents really hid that from me. They kept me safe.

GALANES You had a tough situation, too, Denzel.

WASHINGTON It wasn’t that tough. I was having a good time. A lot of my boys went to prison.

JORDAN That’s why I want to take care of my family now. Then let me go and work on my craft, do something to fulfill me on the inside. That’s what I think theater is going to be for me — when I’m older. What do you love about it, Denzel?

WASHINGTON The energy from the audience is immediate. And you get to develop a full life. See, in film, you might shoot the end first, then the middle. But on stage, it’s the full score of the character’s life. And you always get another night.

GALANES Meaning?

WASHINGTON In film, you don’t get another night to shoot a scene. You can try to fix it in other scenes. But film is a director’s medium. Theater is for actors. We’re directed, but once the curtain goes up, it belongs to us. And every night’s as different as the audience. Some nights, they cheer the whole way through; others, they don’t cheer at all.

Photo

Photo

GALANES Let me shift gears. We’re living through a time right now where men in power who’ve done ugly things —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

WASHINGTON No. We’re not “living through a time right now.” It’s always been this way, from the beginning of time. Pick one: from Caesar to Caligula. Now, it’s just on the news cycle every 15 seconds.

JORDAN And opinion is now fact — because anyone with a Twitter handle can say it.

WASHINGTON It doesn’t even have to be true; it just has to be first.

GALANES Hang on, I’m asking something different: Based on your years as a powerful figure, why do you think some guys turn to ugly behavior, and others don’t?

WASHINGTON Nobody’s perfect, man. Don’t put me on a pedestal, if that’s what you’re trying to do. I’m just a human being. I made mistakes; I’ll make some more. Hopefully, you learn from them. My mother always said, “Keep it simple.” The older I get, the more I understand her: Cut away the fat. When you’re younger, you want to see, taste, touch.

JORDAN I concur.

WASHINGTON (laughing) There you have it. But when you get to be my age, you learn you don’t have to. I have a beautiful wife, beautiful children, a great job. What more do I need?

JORDAN And people like us, actors of color, we don’t get a lot of second chances. It’s a different type of scrutiny. Knowing it’s not all fair and equal, you’ve got to make smart decisions in the moment.

WASHINGTON I remember going home one time and saying to my mother, “Hey, Ma, did you ever think that I …” And she said: “Stop right there! Do you know all the people who’ve been praying for your raggedy butt?” You don’t get there by yourself.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

JORDAN That’s crazy! I was just thinking: I’m going to church in the morning — because I know the people there have always prayed for me. Their blessings have protected me from terrible situations. That’s how I think about keeping it simple: remembering where it started — that village, that tribe that kept you safe.

WASHINGTON The way I see it, I’m in the service business now. I’m here to serve God, my family and young people of color in our business. I talked to Ava [DuVernay, whose “Wrinkle in Time” had just opened] this morning. Now, Mike knows more about what it’s like for younger folks today. There were no black superheroes when I was growing up.

GALANES And it was 38 years between Sidney Poitier’s Oscar for best actor and yours.

WASHINGTON And then something like five [Oscars] to black actors in the last 10 years.

GALANES How about opportunities for people of color?

WASHINGTON That’s why I’m here! That’s why I’m still in the race. And I’m passing the baton. What a lot of people don’t know is: When you pass the baton, you keep running behind the other runner, you don’t just stop. I’m like, “Make the turn, bring it home!” I like helping people. I want to see them do well.

JORDAN That’s why I want to produce so much. I like creating opportunities for people.

GALANES You were right out of the gate on inclusion riders, Mike. The first to say, My company guarantees that casts and crews will be diverse.

JORDAN That’s superimportant to me. No matter what community we’re talking about. Everybody should be in a position where they can win.

WASHINGTON I’m just wired that way.

JORDAN My path is my path. I can’t take nothing away from nobody, and nobody can take nothing away from me. I’m running my race. But we can still encourage each other.

WASHINGTON What’s the harm in that? You’ll never see a U-Haul behind a hearse.I am a student at a small liberal arts college. My friend takes a required psychology class with me. But she has acute autism, so when we take exams, she goes into another room, by herself, to take them. She recently told me that when she takes these tests, she uses her notes to do better. This hardly seems fair to everyone who actually studied. I also don’t understand how this situation is supposed to help her issues. Should I tell the professor?

ANONYMOUS

Wrongdoing generally requires two elements: a guilty act, actus reus, and a guilty mind, mens rea. (Thanks for letting me strut my legal stuff — and my Latin!) But based on your story, I’m skeptical about your friend’s intent. If she knew she were cheating by using her notes, why would she tell you? You seem a bit competitive and not a natural ally of someone who would bend the grading curve to your detriment. Also, why do you imply that she’s not studying?

Still, I have never encountered the term “acute autism,” so I don’t know the nature of your friend’s deficits or what accommodations the school makes for her. Why not ask her about her use of notes if you’re concerned? But here’s my real advice: Speak to her like someone who wants to help a pal — one who is probably walking a tougher road than you are — and not as someone who’s livid at being cheated out of a good grade. Like sunshine (and Netflix original series), opportunities abound.

Image Credit Christoph Niemann

Can’t We Skip the Circumcision?

My sister-in-law is likely having a baby boy the week before we leave for a prepaid vacation with my entire family that’s been planned for over a year. This would place the bris in the middle of our vacation. I think it would be more meaningful to visit a few weeks later, post-recovery, when we can spend time with mother and baby. But my husband’s family insists we come to the bris. My husband says he will be disowned if we don’t go. We already make many concessions to his family. Must we attend?The film, “Nigerian Prince,” follows a Nigerian-American high schooler, Eze (Antonio J. Bell), whose mother sends him to live with his aunt (played by the Nigerian actress Tina Mba) in Lagos. There, Eze befriends his cousin, Pius (Chinaza Uche), a professional scammer who sends phishing emails, among other deceitful business pursuits.

Mr. Okoro wrote the story with Andrew Long, a fellow Howard University alumnus. As they developed the script, they were guided by the director Spike Lee, who mentored Mr. Okoro at N.Y.U. (Mr. Lee is also an executive producer of the film.)

The project was long-gestating. “This is classic Faraday,” Sheldon Chau, the film’s cinematographer, said in a phone interview. “He comes up to me and he asks me, ‘Sheldon, what are you doing summer 2017?’ This is in 2014. And I was like, ‘I think I’m free.’ And he was like, ‘Well, that’s when I want to do my feature.’”

Photo

The plot is based in part on Mr. Okoro’s own life. A Nigerian-American raised in Maryland, Mr. Okoro was sent to live with his extended family in Lagos for his first two years of high school, in the early 2000s.

Like his character, Eze, he reluctantly left his friends and home. “I definitely resented it,” he said.

He eventually learned to appreciate the new culture; one of his hopes is that the film will resonate with other young Nigerian-Americans who have felt disconnected from their roots.

But shooting a movie in the West African city brought a host of unforeseen challenges.

“We shot during the end of the rainy season,” said Mr. Okoro, who was familiar with the region’s climate but hadn’t bargained for all the difficulty it would present in filming. “There were some days where we’d go to set at 6 a.m., and it’d rain at 6:30 and flood.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The week before filming began, the crew arrived to a space meant to double as a police station onscreen, but it, too, was flooded. They didn’t end up using that location, though not because of the flooding; as at several other sites, the owner decided at the last minute that despite a signed contract, filming would no longer be allowed there. With little leverage and less time, Mr. Okoro and his team went searching for an alternative.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In addition to the frequent rains and notoriously unreliable power, they ran up against in the city’s heavy traffic, which the director described as “like L.A. times five or 10.”



Mr. Okoro and his team did have assistance. Several of his collaborators were peers from N.Y.U. To help them navigate, they hired artists from the prosperous Nigerian film industry, known as Nollywood. Most of the crew members were Nigerian, and the American heads of creative departments were paired with Nigerian artists.

“It just became apparent that all the departments needed a partner to show us the proper way to do things,” Ari Fulton, the costume designer who met Mr. Okoro at N.Y.U., said in a phone interview.

Photo

For Ms. Fulton, the assistance came from Olaogun Opeyemi, a Nigerian costume designer and the film’s costume supervisor, who helped make nuanced choices. One example is a red hat worn by Pius, the cousin, that’s an adaptation of an Igbo cap. Ms. Opeyemi helped fill out the history of the cap, which younger Nigerians have adapted for more casual use.

Another learning experience was realizing that despite the size of the budget, financial decisions still had to be carefully considered.

“The million dollars just flies,” said Mr. Chau, the cinematographer. He described the days after winning the grant, when he and Mr. Okoro would fantasize about using elaborate film gear. But they quickly realized that they were being unrealistic; after all, their budget, while several times higher than the $150,000 or $200,000 they’d initially hoped to shoot the movie for, was still modest for a feature film.

“We went back to pretty much our initial approach,” Mr. Chau said. “It was a humbling experience.”

Still, Mr. Chau also noted that while Mr. Okoro was the ostensible winner, the money had a trickle-down effect, bolstering the professional portfolios of his young collaborators.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The profiles of all of us came up,” Mr. Chau said.

The pressure trickled down, too.

“If someone hands you a million dollars, they expect you to turn out an amazing product,” Ms. Fulton observed. “It’s a huge thing to carry on your shoulders.”

Mr. Okoro has carried it for a year.

The morning after the film was finished — the sound mixed, the color corrected — less than two weeks before the film’s April 24 premiere, the director was standing in a Tribeca restaurant where this year’s award finalists were scheduled to pitch their films.

After exchanging greetings with two of the new judges, the actor Griffin Dunne and the comedian Ilana Glazer, Mr. Okoro took a seat, waiting for the new finalists to appear.

On the floor at his feet sat a hard plastic carrying case he’d brought with him. Inside it was a computer drive with the copy of “Nigerian Prince” that will be used for the Tribeca screenings. The film was finally ready, and Mr. Okoro would not let it out of his sight.Not included in the news release, which quoted the financial firm’s president and various elected leaders: the artist Arturo Di Modica, who created the roughly 7,000-pound bronze bull and, in 1989, deposited it downtown without permission.

Mr. Di Modica was not pleased when “Fearless Girl” appeared nearly 30 years later, and in an emotional news conference last year threatened to go downtown and turn his bull around, so that it would no longer be facing the new statue. His lawyers have argued that “Fearless Girl” had altered the meaning of the original work, and that the city infringed on the artist’s rights in doing so.

“The idea of connecting the two statues together is the legal vulnerability that the city has had for 13 months,” said Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer representing Mr. Di Modica. “This once again is an example of wealth and power taking precedence over what is right and fair,” he added, citing the city’s apparent consultations with both State Street and the New York Stock Exchange, which issued its own news release on Thursday welcoming the “Fearless Girl” statue.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Siegel said that he and Mr. Di Modica have been discussing whether to go to court to keep the bull in place. “The message to Mayor de Blasio is that you have no right to unilaterally move the bull,” he said. “They don’t own the statue.”

Fernando Luis Alvarez, the owner of a Connecticut gallery where Mr. Di Modica shows his work, defended the bull as a symbol of optimism and said the meaning of the original had been distorted. “It’s not about gender,” he said. “It is really disgusting how political this has become.”

The decision to move the statues is not part of Mr. de Blasio’s commission on monuments, which met several times and, after recommending that the statue of a 19th-century surgeon who conducted experimental operations on female slaves be moved from Central Park, disbanded.

If the bull were to be moved to the area in front of the stock exchange, it would be a return of sorts: Mr. Di Modica originally placed his artwork there under cover of night. The police at the time said it was a traffic obstruction; it was later moved to its current location.

A spokesman for Mr. de Blasio said that it was important to the mayor, who has posed with “Fearless Girl” and spoken of its meaning to young women and girls, to keep the two works together.

“The mayor felt it was important that the ‘Fearless Girl’ be in a position to stand up to the bull and what it stands for,” said Eric F. Phillips, the mayor’s press secretary. “That’s why we’re aiming to keep them together. The bull has also always been a traffic and safety issue the city’s hemmed and hawed over. The moves achieve a few goals.”In a Facebook post that followed Wednesday’s verdict, Mr. Krim said he and his wife were “deceived and betrayed by the defendant’s family, who remain wholly unaccountable for their role in the murders of our children.”

Ms. Severino and Celia Ortega did not respond to email messages and telephone calls on Thursday.

Assemblyman Steve Otis, a Westchester Democrat, said he is in the process of drafting legislation that would make it a crime for child care applicants to falsify information on their resumes.

“The horrific case of the Krim family and what they experienced highlighted something familiar to everybody: the task of hiring caregivers,” Mr. Otis said in a recent interview. “Under the current law, there isn’t a legal duty to protect children.”

According to testimony during the trial, Ms. Ortega’s family did not tell the Krims that she had scant experience caring for children — she had abandoned her own son when he was 4 leaving him with her sister in the Dominican Republic. She also had a long history of depression, paranoia and delusion, they testified.

It is not uncommon for parents to make child care decisions based on feedback from their peers, and hire caretakers — nannies or babysitters — who are paid off the books, in cash, parents and experts in the industry said. In New York City, parents face soaring costs and challenges finding high-quality, affordable care for their children, and typically rely on recommendations from others.

Agencies and licensed child care centers tend to be much more expensive, an issue that extends beyond New York. While there are local and federal programs that provide subsidies to low-income parents to assist with child care, the system in America lacks the robust infrastructure that exists in countries like Denmark and Switzerland, experts said, where such services are partially government funded.

“Places like Britain and Denmark combine paid family leave for parents with newborns, along with public preschool,” said Bruce Fuller, a professor of education and public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. He noted that New York State is “ahead of the game, recently expanding paid leave. But we’re a half-century behind Europe in these societies’ commitment to young families.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Regulation of child care in the country also varies from state to state and by type of care, but in-home providers are among the least monitored, experts said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“This is a totally unregulated kind of child care,” said Julia Wrigley, a sociology professor at the City University of New York, and the author of “Other People’s Children,” about cultural differences in education. “It’s in the employer’s home. The people are not really vetted until they are already in the home.”

Things had gone relatively smoothly for the first 18 months of Ms. Ortega’s employment at the Krim household. She was only asked to work about 20 hours a week, usually in the afternoons, as Ms. Krim was a stay-at-home mother. She was rarely left with the children alone for very long. She earned at least $500 a week and helped pick up and drop off the children.

In April 2012 things began to change. Ms. Ortega had a bitter fight with her sister Miladys Garcia and was kicked out of the family apartment at 610 Riverside Drive. She moved into an apartment in the Bronx belonging to other family members. In June, she brought her teenage son back from the Dominican Republic to live with her.

In that time, Ms. Ortega became more and more depressed, her family testified. She began to talk cryptically about feeling she was being followed by shadows, hearing voices and seeing a “black man,” relatives testified. She told her sisters to pray for her and to take care of Jesus, as if she were going away.

She also had conflicts with Ms. Krim. She chafed at doing housework, even after asking for additional hours, and declined an offer from one of Ms. Krim’s friends for a part-time job. After that refusal, Ms. Krim chastised Ms. Ortega in front of her children’s school, an exchange prosecutors said infuriated the nanny.

By late October, Ms. Ortega moved back into the family apartment on Riverside Drive. Three days before the murders, Ms. Ortega sought help from a psychologist, but neither she nor her relatives ever informed the Krim family of her declining mental state.

On Oct. 25, 2012, after taking her middle child, Nessie, to swim class, Ms. Krim returned to her Upper West Side apartment after 5 p.m. and found her two other children dead in a bathtub and Ms. Ortega shoving a large knife into her own neck.

The case shocked parents throughout the city who rely on others to help care for their children. Christa D. Nader, the president of Kith & Kin, a household staffing agency, said after the murders she recognized “a noticeable level of distrust” among some parents.

Ms. Nader said she was a nanny at the time of the murders and recounted being in a park . There were other nannies with children they were caring for. She recalled the sorrow in their faces, the tears and the constant — “I don’t understand how someone could do that.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We had this shared horror,” she said. “Our city relies on nannies, relies on these quality folks to be the hands, feet, mouths and voices of parents, and something like that was beyond imagination.”Photo

The score was tied in the bottom of the fifth inning on Thursday night, and the Yankees’ No. 3 hitter laced a ball to right, driving in a run to put the Yankees ahead of the Toronto Blue Jays.

The No. 3 hitter, however, was not Giancarlo Stanton, the Yankees’ prized off-season acquisition who had occupied that spot all season, but rather Didi Gregorius, the team’s shortstop.

Looking to shake things up for Stanton, who had struggled badly since a dominant performance on opening day, Yankees Manager Aaron Boone moved him from third to fourth in the lineup. It would be hard to declare the move a dramatic success, with Stanton going 1 for 3 with an infield single and a walk, but no matter how the sausage was made, the team walked away with a 4-3 win.

Boone played down the lineup change, saying it was partially inspired by Toronto’s starter, Aaron Sanchez, being tough against right-handed batters. But Boone assured reporters that there were no plans to move Stanton even further down the lineup should he continue to struggle.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I’m not ready to move him down-down in the order,” Boone said. “I still want him surrounded by impact guys. You move him down, and then all of a sudden, he’s one good at-bat maybe from getting locked back in, and then all of a sudden, you’re in a situation where it’s a blatant pitch-around and those kinds of things.”

Photo

Stanton, who had plenty of experience hitting fourth during his eight years with the Miami Marlins, managed to go the entire game without striking out — just the fourth time he has done that in 17 appearances for the Yankees — but Toronto’s pitchers were remarkably aggressive against him. Sanchez went right after Stanton with a mixture of fastballs and changeups — starting an at-bat in the third inning with a 94-mile-per-hour fastball right down the middle that Stanton harmlessly tapped to the shortstop for a one-pitch out.KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Max Mirnyi, one of the top doubles players in tennis, encountered a scheduling crisis during a recent tournament in Long Island. He had to practice for a match, but he also had promised to accompany his 13-year-old daughter, Melanie, on an excursion that would require time and planning.

Mixing competition and parenting can be a complicated enterprise, especially in a sport like tennis that requires extensive international travel. Serena Williams, who now travels with her 7-month-old daughter, is learning this, just as players like Victoria Azarenka, Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic have done before her.

But Mirnyi knows a trick or two. To resolve his recent predicament, Mirnyi entrusted Melanie with the job of organizing a trip into Manhattan to see “Anastasia,” the Broadway musical.

“She said, ‘Dad, don’t worry about me,’” Mirnyi said. “‘You go practice. I have schoolwork. I am going to read through the play we are going to see, and I’m going to tell you how we will get there.’ And she did.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It helps that Melanie Mirnyi is a teenager, only a few years younger than some players competing on tour. She is, by her own observations at tournaments, the oldest child of any player currently on tour. That makes her father, 40, a foremost expert on combining parenting and tennis.Both outcomes seem possible in Harry Hadden-Paton’s wily interpretation, which puts the character’s mansplaining, blowhard ways in context. Younger than the typical Higgins (but more the age Shaw imagined), Mr. Hadden-Paton, best known for playing unambiguous good guys on “Downton Abbey” and “The Crown,” makes sense of the character’s on-off switch of vulnerability and hauteur. He is a baby.

This makes him more coherent and potentially more forgivable; he, too, is a captive of his gender and class. As Ms. Ambrose’s Eliza completes her metamorphosis, increasing in stature and radiance and vocal power, he grows more baffled and petulant, more protective of his privilege.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That privilege is on full display in this typically deluxe Lincoln Center Theater production. It has by now become almost unremarkable — until you look elsewhere on Broadway — that the company has sprung for 29 musicians to play the original, unimprovable orchestrations by Robert Russell Bennett and Phil Lang. Mercifully, the excellent work of the music director, Ted Sperling, is preserved in Marc Salzberg’s understated and naturally balanced sound design.

Balance if not understatement is the production’s visual hallmark too; Mr. Sher alternates between very spare, contemporary stage pictures and Higgins’s imposing (and rotating) Wimpole Street townhouse. This alternation provides the wow factor we expect at Lincoln Center — the house heaves into view like the ship in Mr. Sher’s 2015 production of “The King and I” — but also serves a thematic purpose.

At every turn the designers (sets by Michael Yeargan, costumes by Catherine Zuber, lighting by Donald Holder) ask us to consider the economic contrasts that govern Eliza’s world. Higgins’s home is a sybarite’s mansion, crowded with servants and modern art. The scene in which Eliza practices her shaky new identity at the opening day of the Ascot races — one of the greatest comic sequences in all musicals — is a gorgeous study of silver and lavender in elegant, forbidding silhouettes.

Video

But as Eliza’s father, Alfred, faces marriage — in an exciting if slightly odd version of “Get Me to the Church on Time,” complete with male cancan dancers in drag — we watch as the shabby tavern that helped maintain his status among the “undeserving poor” flips around to become the shabby church that will deliver him into the worse fate of middle class morality. It’s a charming touch in Christopher Gattelli’s choreography that Alfred (Norbert Leo Butz) is carried off at the end of the number as if on a funeral bier.

The casting of a star like Mr. Butz in a less-than-starring role may at first seem like overkill; the musical reduces Alfred’s role significantly from its prominence in the play. But with less stage time, the supporting characters have to do more exacting work. Mr. Butz, a double Tony Award winner, is just about the only actor I know who could sell two brassy showstoppers while at the same time suggesting the mind of an “original moralist” and the ruthlessness of a man for whom a daughter is just a form of capital. Even his dancing is philosophical.

But all of the supporting roles are smartly considered. As Freddy, the déclassé twit who falls for Eliza and keeps singing “On the Street Where You Live,” Jordan Donica makes an unabashedly silly foil, a man with too much polish and not enough substance. Allan Corduner as Pickering delicately sketches a more complex inner life than is usually permitted the character.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

And though Diana Rigg as Higgins’s mother is the definition of luxury casting, as a former Eliza (in the 1974 West End “Pygmalion” with Alec McCowen) she automatically suggests a kinship with her son’s pupil that locks their cross-class solidarity into place. A suffragist march that winds through one of the ensemble scenes underlines the idea.

Such telltales of a feminist reading are not merely opportune; they are accurate to Shaw’s intent. It was he who had Pickering ask whether Higgins is a “man of good character where women are concerned” — to which Higgins in essence responds: There’s no such thing. Higgins, for all his brutishness, understands that relations between the sexes have been hopelessly muddled by social constructs of gender and class; as a wealthy intellectual he can try, as Shaw did, to abstain from the mess entirely.

But “My Fair Lady,” being a classic musical and thus nearly synonymous with romance, keeps complicating that resolve. Infamously, Lerner and Loewe borrowed the ending that was tacked onto the 1939 film without Shaw’s prior approval: the one in which Eliza returns to Higgins’s study as if to become his helpmeet if not his wife.

I don’t want to spoil this marvelous, redemptive revival’s resolution of that discrepancy. But Mr. Sher’s final image shows how history — even if it took 100 years — would eventually start to outgrow its brutes, and how it still might do so compassionately, by teaching them a lesson.“We were so fascinated that they could stay underwater much longer than us local islanders,” Dr. Jubilado said. “I could see them literally walking under the sea.”

Even as anthropologists study Bajau culture, biologists have grown curious about them, too. Bajau divers been observed plunging more than 200 feet underwater, their only protection a pair of wooden goggles — a physiological marvel.

In 2015, Melissa Ilardo, then a graduate student in genetics at the University of Copenhagen, heard about the Bajau. She wondered if centuries of diving could have led to the evolution of traits that made the task easier for them.

“It seemed like the perfect opportunity for natural selection to act on a population,” said Dr. Ilardo.

Her first step was to travel to Sulawesi, Indonesia, and then to a coral reef island where she reached a Bajau village. After she proposed her study, they agreed to the plan. She returned a few months later, this time with a portable ultrasound machine to measure the size of the Bajau people’s spleens.

Photo

When people plunge into water, they respond with the so-called diving reflex: the heart rate slows and blood vessels constrict as a way to shunt blood to vital organs. The spleen also contracts, squirting a supply of oxygen-rich red blood cells into the circulation.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

All mammals have a diving reflex, but marine mammals like seals have a particularly strong one. Scientists suspect that the reflex helps them dive deeper — as it turns out, seals with bigger spleens can dive deepest. An enlarged spleen seems to function like a bigger scuba tank.

Dr. Ilardo scanned the abdomens of the Bajau villagers and then traveled about 15 miles inland to a village occupied by farmers known as the Saluan. She scanned them, too.

When Dr. Ilardo compared scans from the two villages, she found a stark difference. The Bajau had spleens about 50 percent bigger on average than those of the Saluan.

Yet even such a remarkable difference might not be the result of evolution. Diving itself might somehow enlarge the spleen. There are plenty of examples of experience changing the body, from calloused feet to bulging biceps.

Only some Bajau are full-time divers. Others, such as teachers and shopkeepers, have never dived. But they, too, had large spleens, Dr. Ilardo found. It was likely the Bajau are born that way, thanks to their genes.

Photo

On her visit to Sulawesi, Dr. Ilardo also took mouth swabs from the Bajau and Saluan from which she extracted DNA. She looked at the genetic variations in each village and compared them to people from neighboring countries, such as New Guinea and China.

A number of genetic variants have become unusually common in the Bajau, she found. The only plausible way for this to happen is natural selection: the Bajau with those variants had more descendants than those who lacked them.

One variant of a gene called PDE10A influenced the size of spleens in the Bajau. People with one copy of the mutant gene had bigger spleens than those with none. People with two copies had even bigger spleens.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Scientists had never found a special role for PDE10A in the spleen. “This connection was a bit bizarre,” Dr. Ilardo said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But there’s one possible link. PDE10A has been shown to control the level of thyroid hormone in the body. And scientists have found that injecting thyroid into mice with stunted spleens can make the organs grow larger.

Still, that wouldn’t pin down exactly how PDE10A became so common in the Bajau. “It’s the question that’s harder than others,” said Rasmus Nielsen, a geneticist at the University of California, Berkeley, who collaborated with Dr. Ilardo.

Photo

For her own part, Dr. Ilardo suspects that natural selection favored the Bajau variant of PDE10A because deep diving is so risky. “I would think, as morbid as it is, that if they didn’t have this, it would kill them,” she said.

François-Xavier Ricaut, an anthropologist at the University of Toulouse who was not involved in the study, said that it wasn’t clear yet how quickly this evolutionary change happened.

Some researchers suspect the Bajau only began diving to great depths when a market for sea cucumbers opened up in China in the 1600s. Or perhaps the adaptation began thousands of years earlier, at the end of the Ice Age, when rising sea levels turned the region around Indonesia into islands.

“This study acts as a cornerstone for exciting questions to follow,” said Dr. Ricaut.

Dr. Ilardo said there were likely a number of other genes that help the Bajau dive. She and her colleagues also found evidence for natural selection on a gene called BDKRB2.

In a study published last year, Russian scientists discovered that it plays a role in the diving reflex. In people with variants of BDKRB2, blood vessels are more tightly constricted when they plunge their faces into cold water.

To see if that’s the case with the Bajau, Dr. Ilardo will need to take another trip to beautiful Sulawesi. “I would be happy doing this as long as I can,” she said.Robots have taken our jobs, learned our chores and beaten us at our own games.

Now researchers in Singapore say they have trained one to perform another task known to confound humans: figuring out how to assemble furniture from Ikea.

A team from Nanyang Technological University programmed a robot to create and execute a plan to piece together most of Ikea’s $25 solid-pine Stefan chair on its own, calling on a medley of human skills to do so. The researchers explained their work in a study published on Wednesday in the journal Science Robotics.

“If you think about it, it requires perception, it requires you to plan a motion, it requires control between the robot and the environment, it requires transporting an object with two arms simultaneously,” said Dr. Quang-Cuong Pham , an assistant professor of engineering at the university and one of the paper’s authors. “Because this task requires so many interesting skills for robots, we felt that it could be a good project to push our capabilities to the limit.”Daedra Charles, a Hall of Fame basketball player who helped the University of Tennessee win two national championships under its indomitable coach, Pat Summitt, died on Saturday in Detroit. She was 49.

Her death was confirmed by the University of Tennessee, which did not specify the cause.

Charles, who went by the surname Charles-Furlow after her marriage to Anthony Furlow, was a powerful center with a soft touch who became a critical part of the Lady Vols, a team characterized by relentlessness and an unflagging work ethic under Summitt, who by the time she retired had won more games (1,098) than any other Division I college coach, male or female. (She died in 2016 at 64.)

Charles was twice an All-American pick and in 1991 was named the Southeastern Conference’s Female Athlete of the Year. (The male honoree was Shaquille O’Neal, of Louisiana State University.) That same year, she won the Wade Trophy, an annual award given by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association to the best women’s college player in the country.

Charles went on to play for the United States Olympic Team, winning a bronze medal in the 1992 Games in Barcelona, Spain. She was inducted into the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame in 2007.Photo

Lee Holley, who created an idyllic picture of postwar American teenage life through “Ponytail,” a syndicated cartoon panel and Sunday comic strip that appeared in hundreds of newspapers around the world, died in a plane crash on March 26 in Marina, Calif. He was 85.

His daughter, Karen, confirmed the death in the last week as DNA tests were being performed on the remains. Mr. Holley, an amateur pilot, was flying his single-engine plane when it crashed at Marina’s municipal airport on the morning of the 26th. There were no passengers aboard. Marina is about 10 miles north of Monterey, Calif.

Mr. Holley was an assistant and ghost illustrator for Hank Ketcham’s “Dennis the Menace” comics in 1960 when he conjured up “Ponytail.” In single- and multi-panel comics he depicted a lanky teenage girl immersed in postwar suburban life: cruising in hot rods to drive-in movie theaters and burger joints, attending school football games, negotiating with teachers at Watson Hill High School (about completing her homework), and managing diplomatic concerns with her parents (like the size of her allowance).

Mr. Holley, drawing on his own adolescent years, recognized a growing interest in teen humor comics at the time, perhaps best exemplified by the “Emmy Lou” and “Penny” strips and the “Archie” comic book franchise.

Photo

His “Ponytail” panels were windows on teenage sensibilities. In one scene his heroine tells her father why she is justified in watching a live performance by the Beatles: to stay on top of current events.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In another, she corners him on the couch to ask for money: “Daddy, I need five dollars … I’m in a hurry, so could you give me your lecture about money TOMORROW?!”

Photo

Many of Ponytail’s narratives revolved around dating, with her focus on her main beau, Donald Dawson. By high school hallway lockers she tells him: “Of course I’ll love you forever, Donald … well, at least until someone with a better CAR comes along!”An essayist, translator and prolific author recognized for breaking barriers between genres, Mr. Pitol was considered one of the great voices in contemporary Spanish literature. He received the most prestigious award for literature in the Spanish-speaking world, the Cervantes Prize, in 2005. At the awards ceremony, King Juan Carlos I of Spain said Mr. Pitol’s works had “seduced us with the truth.”

Mr. Pitol’s short stories, essays and crime novels merged fiction with memoir in an imaginative swirl of contemplation and reflection. He spoke seven languages, and his many translations brought the works of Jane Austen, Henry James and Joseph Conrad, as well as the Polish Nobel laureate Witold Gombrowicz, to Spanish-speaking readers.

Among his most acclaimed works is “Trilogy of Memory,” a collection of essays that amount to a fictionalized autobiography, a product of both his broad travels and his dreams — “the totality of my intelligence and literary ability,” he told the Mexican newspaper La Jornada in 2007.

Photo

In an essay in The Los Angeles Review of Books last year, Ignacio M. Sánchez Prado, a professor of Spanish and Latin American studies at Washington University in St. Louis, described the trilogy as a “set of three hybrid works that masterfully combine the memoir, the essay and fictional prose.” The books, he said, present Mr. Pitol’s “fascinating life as a traveler and diplomat, his literary ideas and his readings.”

The first the three volumes, “The Art of Flight,” was published in 1996. In the second, “The Journey” (2000), Mr. Pitol mixed accounts of his travels in Russia and Eastern Europe with his study of the region’s writers. The third, “The Magician of Vienna” (2005), “chronicles his life in a dialectic between real and false memories,” Mr. Sánchez Prado wrote.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Pitol reached a new readership when the trilogy was published in English in 2015.

“Lately,” he wrote in “The Art of Flight,” “I have been very aware that I have a past. Not only because I have reached an age when the greater part of the journey has been traveled, but also because I now know fragments of my childhood that until recently were off limits to me.”

In an interview for Literal magazine shortly before his 70th birthday, in 2003, Mr. Pitol called “The Art of Flight” “the most perfect, the most intense and most entertaining” of his works. He described it as a mix of “trivia, winks, gossip, dreams galore, digressions about Thomas Mann, but also about my dog.”

His work broke from the predominant styles of Latin American literature, like magic realism, Ms. Glantz said.

“He didn’t write the way that was expected from a Latin American writer, like García Márquez,” she said. “His work broke all those molds, and it is one of the reasons his literature was less read and translated to other languages.”

Writing in Granta magazine in 2013, the Mexican novelist Valeria Luiselli called Mr. Pistol “certainly the strangest, most unfathomable and eccentric” of Mexico’s writers.

“Perhaps it is the way he’s able to delicately tap into the most disturbing layers of reality and turn our conception of what is normal inside out,” Ms. Luiselli wrote. “Perhaps it’s because he’s always telling a deeper, sadder, more disquieting story while pretending to narrate another.”

Mr. Pitol was born on March 18, 1933, in the city of Puebla, about 80 miles southeast of Mexico City. His parents, Ángel Pitol and Catalina Demeneghi, died when he was 4 years old, and his sister, Irma, died about the same time. He and his brother, Ángel, moved further east to the city of Córdoba, in Veracruz, to live with their grandmother Catalina, who owned a sugar mill. No immediate family members survive him.

As a child Mr. Pitol contracted malaria and was bedridden with numerous health problems for long periods. His grandmother introduced him to the works of authors like Jules Verne and Charles Dickens. Reading, he told Spanish television in a 2002 interview, saved his life.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I am sure that if I had not read Verne, of which I read almost everything, I would have been consumed,” he said. “I would have died very quickly or would have stayed ill forever.”

He studied law at the National Autonomous University of Mexico in Mexico City and sat in on literature and philosophy classes, Ms. Glantz said.

He never practiced law. After he finished his studies, he began almost three decades of travel.

He joined the Mexican diplomatic service in 1960 and was sent to Beijing, where he worked as a translator in the brief moment of cultural openness before the Cultural Revolution.

In 1963 he was posted to Warsaw, where he met the leading intellectual figures of the time, including the writer Jerzy Andrzejewski and the film director Andrzej Wajda. He became one of the foremost foreign experts on Polish literature.

Mr. Pitol resigned from the diplomatic service to protest the Mexican government’s massacre of student protesters in 1968. He then worked for the Barcelona publishing house Tusquets Editores, directing an imprint of translated works.

Eventually rejoining the diplomatic corps, he served in Prague, Paris and Moscow before returning to Mexico in 1989 to teach at the Universidad Veracruzana in Xalapa and to write.

His first novel to be well received, “The Sound of the Flute,” was published in 1972.

As time went on, Mr. Pitol’s style evolved into what Ms. Glantz called a more “complex, ironic and extravagant phase, with a very accentuated element of humor that was rather unusual for a Mexican writer.” It was his 1984 novel “The Love Parade,” a historical detective story named after a 1929 Ernst Lubitsch film, that brought him widespread recognition at home.

Mr. Pitol became a mentor to a younger generation of Mexican writers.

“Sergio Pitol made a religion out of friendship,” one of them, Juan Villoro, wrote in the Spanish newspaper El País last week. “He reached out to others with an unusual gregariousness and fiercely believed in others.”O.K., back to this week, which was a tough one for Elizabeth. The episode’s two action (or action-like) sequences were failed missions. An elaborate operation to get her into the warehouse where the radiation sensors were kept resulted in three security guards dead or wounded but no sensor — Elizabeth was foiled by the swarming guards and layers of shrink-wrap. The situation was dire enough that Marilyn gave an unprecedented (I think) seven bursts on the walkie to send everyone else away, including Paige, who hesitated just a second before obeying the order. (A couple quibbles: The scripting and staging of the gunplay had a superficiality you’d expect from a lesser show. And what about Paige and her sensibilities? Wouldn’t three guards being shot at a warehouse holding military hardware make the news?)

Elizabeth’s second failure was less violent but just as frustrating. When Glenn Haskard announced that the Russian arms negotiator Nesterenko was indeed coming to an American home to watch the World Series (Game 6 between the Cardinals and Twins), Elizabeth got herself invited by suggesting that the bedridden Erica could attend if she had a professional nurse for company. More important, she, Marilyn and a K.G.B. seamstress managed to plant a wire in Glenn’s Yakult Swallows baseball jacket.

You could ask — which I did, in retrospect — why Elizabeth needed to be at the party when the wire was doing the work. And when Erica started vomiting, forcing Glenn to leave before Nesterenko could say anything interesting, you might conclude that it was a naked and fairly clumsy dramatic contrivance. But it was an effective scene on its own terms, as Elizabeth saw her plan instantly undone (and a genuinely concerned Nesterenko ran over to help).

I’ve ignored Philip so far, and really, how much is there to say about watching him agonize over balance sheets and pull on the cowboy boots for another night of country dancing. (This time to Eddie Rabbit’s “Drivin’ My Life Away.”)

To be fair, he also donned a couple of greatest-hits disguises and did some spy work, but even those scenes felt a little inconsequential. He had a second meeting with Oleg (who assured him, correctly as we found out, that he hadn’t been followed). After some preliminaries, Oleg got to the point — Elizabeth’s extreme loyalty to the Soviet Union “can be used,” and a downcast Philip grudgingly told him about Rennhull and the quest for the radiation sensor.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Second digression. Two questions for Elizabeth haters: Is she less admirable than the husband who stepped away from his duties, giving her the entire espionage workload, and is now informing on her? And if you watch a thriller in which a fictional American, most likely male, operative routinely murders Russians or Latin Americans or Arabs, do you react with the same kind of visceral moral repugnance?

Philip also paid a nostalgic visit to the Breland house, dressed up as hipster Jim and communing with his soul mate Kimmy, now a junior at Michigan. “You should have the job, the relationship, everything you want,” she said, unaware that he has those things and they’re not making him happy. The visit only contributed to his angst: When he had to report that Kimmy’s holiday trip to Greece meant no more recordings of her father before the arms summit, Elizabeth was not happy.

The Jenningses’ domestic war slowly heated up. First seen wearily eyeing each other from opposite sides of the kitchen, they later openly clashed in front of a highly uncomfortable Paige. Philip complained about the peril in which Paige is being placed, and Elizabeth reminded him that they had a deal — Paige is hers and Henry is his, with the private school and the hockey glory. But that’s just another in Philip’s own basket of worries, and in a painful scene he had to tell Henry that his senior year might not be at St. Edward’s. (This was balanced by Stan’s relatively carefree discussion of Matthew’s post-college plans, and his financial insouciance. In the soulless capitalist snake pit, having a government job gives him security.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The show gave us a moment of partial détente between Elizabeth and Philip, when she climbed into bed with him and his ever-present financial statements and asked, sympathetically, “You rich yet?” She was sad at the idea of Henry not being able to finish at St. Edward’s but not too sad. “Well, he’s your department,” she told Philip. They looked into each other’s eyes and kissed, but we know how this story ends — Elizabeth rolling over, Philip staring at the ceiling.

I’ve left for last what I suspect many will consider the episode’s most unsettling development: the possible beginning of Paige’s own career as a honey pot.

We were prepared for this when Paige told her mother about the cute guy in her sociology class who was also an intern for the Florida congressman Charles E. Bennett, a longtime member of the House Armed Services Committee. Elizabeth told Paige not to pursue the guy — she was a long way from being ready to cultivate a “source.” Elizabeth started to elaborate — “That takes …” — before looking down, playing with her hair and changing the subject.

But Paige is a self-starter. And when we saw her in a shoulder-baring top at a bar chatting up a young man who was presumably the unsuspecting intern, it was pretty clear that she knew what it takes. Or at least enough to get the process started. When she sat up in bed and looked around his apartment, her gaze stopping at the government I.D. hanging on a chair, it was completely unclear how prepared she was for the consequences, including her mother’s reaction.

The episode ended on a sandwich. Philip, in his big American house with his big American worries, looked at a big American sandwich he’d made himself and flashed back to his Soviet childhood when he lined up to lick the scraps from pots and pans. Six more episodes to see whether he eats the sandwich or stays true to his roots.WASHINGTON — The number of new monthly prescriptions for medications that treat opioid addiction nearly doubled over the past two years, according to new data, while prescriptions for opioid painkillers continued to decline.

The changing calculus reflects a stepping up of efforts among policymakers and the medical establishment to address the nation’s opioid epidemic, which is killing more than 115 people every day. But it also underscores questions about whether some pain patients are now being undertreated, and whether tightened prescribing over the last few years has contributed to the surge in overdose deaths from heroin and especially fentanyl.

Although the number of people taking medications to combat addiction is rising, it remains a small fraction of the roughly 2.6 million people believed to suffer from “opioid use disorder,” or addiction. The federal government has estimated that about 20 percent of them are getting some kind of treatment, but of those, only about a third are getting buprenorphine, naltrexone or methadone, the three medications approved by the Food and Drug Administration.

Prescriptions for opioid painkillers have been dropping since 2011, but the trend accelerated last year with a decline of 10 percent from January through December, according to the IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science, which studies prescription drug use and spending. The highest-dose prescriptions, equivalent to 90 milligrams or more of morphine daily, dropped even more sharply, by 16 percent. Over the course of 2016, high-dose prescriptions dropped by 14.3 percent and opioid prescriptions over all dropped by 1.5 percent.Advocates for development of marijuana-based treatments, and those pushing for better treatments of epilepsy, were pleased with the panel’s recommendation.

“This is a very good development, and it basically underscores that there are medicinal properties to some of the cannabinoids,” said Dr. Igor Grant, director of the Center for Medicinal Cannabis Research at the University of California San Diego. “I think there could well be other cannabinoids that are of therapeutic use, but there is just not enough research on them to say.”

The panel recommended approval of the drug to treat two rare forms of epilepsy — Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome. They are among the most difficult types of epilepsy to treat, with nearly all patients continuing to have seizures despite currently available medications, according to the F.D.A. The large number of seizures — experts say a person can have multiple episodes a day — puts children at high risk for intellectual and developmental disabilities, as well as death. Lennox-Gastaut syndrome usually appears between ages 3 and 5, and Dravet syndrome earlier.

There are an estimated 30,000 children and adults with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and fewer than that with Dravet syndrome. Because the conditions are so rare, GW Pharmaceuticals has received an orphan drug designation for Epidiolex.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“It’s very important that we have additional treatments because these patients have very, very difficult to control seizures,” said Dr. Jerzy P. Szaflarski, a neurology professor at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, who directs the university’s epilepsy division. “I get questions about cannabidiol almost every day.”

The briefing materials prepared for the committee by F.D.A. staff made it clear that the agency supports the application. The F.D.A. wrote that GW Pharma had submitted positive results of efficacy from three randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials conducted in patients with both diseases.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The statistically significant and clinically meaningful results from these three studies provide substantial evidence of the effectiveness of CBD for the treatment of seizures associated with LGS and DS,” the agency noted.

The briefing papers also reported risk of a potentially serious side effect — liver injury — but said it could be managed.

Epidiolex would be the first of a new class of drugs to treat epilepsy. The F.D.A. is not bound by advisory committee recommendations but often follows them.

Christina SanInocencio, a nurse and founder of the LGS Foundation, hopes it does.

“I have a brother with the disorder,” Ms. SanInocencio said. “I’ve met hundreds and hundreds of families who have kids living with it. It’s so devastating. Any new medicine that comes to the market is a really big win for our community.”“It’s a fast-moving outbreak,” she said. “We’re getting reports of new illness daily from our state and local health departments.”

Why is this outbreak so worrisome?

Escherichia coli is in our intestines, the environment, foods and animals, but most of the time it doesn’t make you sick. However, this particular strain — Shiga toxin-producing E. coli 0157:H7 — is particularly dangerous. The symptoms vary but can include severe stomach cramps, bloody diarrhea and vomiting. While the people affected range in age from 10 to 85 years, the median age is 34 — meaning the bug is making otherwise healthy, strong people really sick. The hospitalization rate for E. coli illness is typically around 30 percent, but this strain has put 67 percent of the cases in the hospital. Five people have developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. Given delays in reporting, those numbers are expected to grow.

The other concern is that unlike a recent multistate outbreak of salmonella in eggs, which resulted in a recall of a specific egg product, no specific grower, supplier or brand has been identified as the source of the romaine outbreak.

Where has the outbreak occurred?

Infections linked to the outbreak have been found in 16 states, illustrating how widely bags of romaine are distributed around the country. You can find a list of states where cases have been reported on the C.D.C. website. Most of the reported cases have come from Pennsylvania (12), Idaho (10), New Jersey (7), Montana (6) and Arizona (3). New York, Connecticut, Ohio and Michigan have had two cases each, with one case each in Alaska, California, Illinois, Louisiana, Missouri, Virginia and Washington state.

How do I know if the greens I’m eating contain romaine?

Most people can’t reliably distinguish romaine from other forms of lettuce, Ms. Halloran said. A head of romaine lettuce is more oblong than the round shape typical of iceberg. “It’s the one with the pointy football shape,” Ms. Halloran said. “When it’s chopped up you’re not going to see that. It’s a bit crunchier and chewier than bibb lettuce. The outer leaves are dark green and the inner leaves are yellow so color isn’t going to tell you. If you’ve had Caesar salad you’ve almost certainly had romaine lettuce.”

Why does the C.D.C. say it’s O.K. to eat heads and hearts of romaine, but not bagged?

The documented cases have been linked to bagged romaine eaten at home or in restaurants, not full heads or hearts of lettuce. The lettuce at the source of the outbreak is grown in Arizona for bagged use. The C.D.C. suggests that the contamination is limited to some part of the bagged lettuce supply chain.

Will washing my lettuce lower my risk?

It only takes a few cells of E. coli to make you sick, so while washing produce lowers the risk, it doesn’t eliminate it entirely.Friday

1) 2 p.m. HILLTOP HIGHS

To gain some perspective on Lisbon’s undulating terrain, ascend the city’s highest hill into the Graça district. Start at the Graça Convent, whose tiled chapel and Baroque cloister opened to the public for the first time after recent restorations (free). Then head outside to admire one of the city’s finest miradouros (viewpoints) that sweeps across the terracotta-tiled rooftops. Afterward, on the steep descent, peek inside Surrealejos, a closet-size atelier producing surrealist tiles — one series depicts an anthropomorphic panda — that are a cheeky twist on Portuguese azulejos (traditional painted tiles).

2) 5 p.m. PORTRAITS OF AN ARTIST

Getting to know Fernando Pessoa, the shape-shifting writer who is considered one of Portugal’s greatest poets, is no easy task. But that’s the goal of Casa Fernando Pessoa, a museum and cultural center in the residential Campo de Ourique neighborhood. Situated in the final home of the bespectacled author, the site is a treasure trove of Pessoa’s early 20th-century works — most published posthumously — including poems written under three well-developed heteronyms. Through interactive exhibits, engage with the poet’s language: “I’m beginning to know myself. I don’t exist.” There’s also a collection of portraits of Pessoa — fittingly, in diverse styles — including paintings by Júlio Pomar. Admission, 3 euros, or about $3.70.A welder by trade, he picks up work where he can and helps George out on weekends. I asked him how to access the grounds of the 704,000-acre national monument, which is roughly twice the size of Los Angeles. He told me I’m “about the second” person to ever make this request of him in the two years since President Obama signed an order protecting the land. Mr. Obama did so at the urging of the former Senate majority leader Harry Reid, a Democrat who represented Nevada, and in spite of vocal opposition from elected officials in Lincoln and Nye counties, where Basin and Range lies.

Senator Reid was reportedly smitten with “City,” a huge geometric sculpture that the renowned landscape artist Michael Heizer has been constructing from materials mined on-site for the past 45 years, at an estimated cost of more than $25 million. While “City” sits on private land, it is within Basin and Range’s boundaries, and the federal designation was actively supported by Mr. Heizer’s benefactors. (They hope that the artwork will be viewable to the public by 2020.)

In April, Basin and Range was among 27 national monuments that President Trump instructed Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to consider shrinking to accommodate fossil-fuel speculation and other private endeavors. In early December, however, it was announced that Basin and Range — unlike similarly designated lands in Nevada and Utah — had been spared manipulation (for now, anyway).“It’s nerve wracking,” said Mr. Tapper, sitting at his desk in his office, an elaborately decorated shrine to political losers that’s brimming with campaign posters (the oldest, he proudly notes, is from Henry Clay’s failed presidential run in 1844). “You tinker with it until the last possible second. I can’t pick it up without thinking, oh, I wish I could change this word.”

Photo

In about an hour, he would rush out to meet with writers and producers to plan the segments for his show, “The Lead With Jake Tapper,” knowing that by the time he went on air at 4, the days biggest news would likely be entirely different. At 6:58 that morning, Mr. Trump had savaged the network on Twitter, claiming that CNN only hires people who “are totally anti-Trump.” Mr. Tapper retweeted the message to his 1.7 million followers, adding, “This falsehood-filled tweet reminds me: @TheLeadCNN was No. 1 in cable news in the key demo for the month of March. Thanks for watching, tweeps!!!”

In other words, it was a fairly normal day for Mr. Tapper, 49, who’s become a quasi-celebrity, and occasional target, for his hard-nosed interviews and emotive forehead, which can cycle from a look of bafflement to dubious disdain and back during testy exchanges.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But while he’s used to absorbing criticism for his on-air work from anonymous Twitter trolls, his rivals at Fox News and occasionally the commander in chief, he’s surprisingly anxious about his fiction writing, which feels more personal than his broadcasts or his nonfiction books, he said.

“People are either going to like this book or they’re going to hate this book, and it’s all me one way or the other,” he said. “You write a story, you do a TV show, and if people don’t like it, well, you’re going to do it again tomorrow. This is years of work.”

Mr. Tapper has a better chance of breaking out than most debut novelists. It certainly helps to have your own TV show when you’re promoting a book, and Mr. Tapper will be plugging it far and wide, with planned appearances on Ellen DeGeneres, CBS This Morning, ABC’s The View, on late night with Jimmy Kimmel, Stephen Colbert, Seth Meyers and Conan O’Brien, and on CNN shows hosted by Wolf Blitzer and Fareed Zakaria.

He’s gotten a warm reception from some big name thriller writers, including David Baldacci, James Patterson, Alafair Burke and Harlan Coben, who called the novel “provocative and timely.”

Photo

But even with all the hype, Mr. Tapper faces a difficult hurdle: How can any work of political fiction, no matter how riveting, compete with the soap opera unfolding daily during one of the most scandal-packed epochs in American politics?

“We’re living through a bizarre era, it’s no question,” Mr. Tapper said. “What is actually going on seems so over the top that any producer would reject it.”

In some ways, writing fiction provided an escape from the melodrama of daily political news. “It was a relief from covering nonfiction, being able to control it, being able to make it up,” he said.

‘Speaking Truth to Crazy’

Before he was a cable news fixture, Jake Tapper wanted to be a filmmaker or a cartoonist.

He grew up in Philadelphia, the son of a pediatrician and a nurse, and went to Dartmouth, where he studied history and visual art. After graduating, he enrolled in film school in California, but dropped out and began working for a family friend who was running for Congress.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He quickly realized he hated politics, which he found ugly and dispiriting, and began working for a public relations firm and freelancing as a journalist, writing for The Washington Post, the Washington City Paper and The New York Times Magazine. He bounced around, and eventually got a job at ABC, where he covered politics and became the network’s senior White House correspondent after the 2008 election.

Along the way, he wrote three nonfiction books, including “The Outpost,” about American soldiers in Afghanistan.SMITH What are some of the possibilities you found for sustaining the engagement once you’re gone?

WOODSON I’m showing them how to start workshops. My first way in is to praise, so people feel safer. You meet so many people writing poetry or fiction, and they have no idea what the next step is. I’m trying to get them to not feel scared about gathering and talking about their work. I do Skype sessions after my visit, so they can take off from there. We’re also creating reading guides and suggested reading lists. A lot of times I hear, “I have young black boys, what are the books for them?” People don’t know if they’re not in this world of children’s literature. They could go to their public library and their librarian may not know. You go to rural Alabama, and the library is not even there.

Photo

SMITH I’m hoping to find something beyond just going and leaving, too. There are a lot of state poet laureates I’m meeting, and they talk about doing what Jackie is doing. I think there must be a way I can work together with them to foster something that won’t go away.

Has there been a children’s ambassador and a poet laureate who have worked together? Is there any possibility for that?

WOODSON Not that I know of, and Tracy and I like each other so much … [She laughs.]

SMITH Let’s do something!

I have a question about poetry. In children’s literature it’s front and center. There are books by Kwame Alexander and Elizabeth Acevedo on the best-seller list right now. Kids love them. Why isn’t it the same for adults?

SMITH I have this feeling it gets spooked out of us around the time we start feeling beholden to tests and performances. I think the way poems are taught to high school students is completely counterintuitive; it sets up this sense of being the poem’s adversary. The poem is sort of sneakily trying to outsmart you. Whereas children live in this sense of perpetual metaphor. We even use song and verse to teach kids. And then there comes a time when we somehow estrange them from that, without wanting to, perhaps.

WOODSON I completely agree. I mean it’s our first language — we put words together with all this white space and it gets figured out. And then that gets forgotten. I remember by fifth grade I was terrified of poetry. It was consumed not for joy, but to be tested on. But I don’t understand why readers aren’t buying poetry. They must still have that fear in them. Because if you can read a novel you can read a collection of poetry and have such a rich experience, if not a richer one.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

SMITH Listening to music and lyrics and watching movies, I think, uses a lot of the same muscles we use in reading and experiencing poetry — and yet we somehow forget that we have those when it comes to sitting down with a book of poems.

Photo

WOODSON One of the things I love about Tracy’s work is how accessible it is, how much it invites me in and makes me feel loved, really.

SMITH I feel that when I’m reading your work, Jackie, with my kids. Like you’re doing what August Wilson did, recording decades of black life and cycles. I remember growing up and learning the history of slavery and feeling —

WOODSON: Shame.

SMITH Yes. And guilt. Feeling bad that this piece of my history was making everybody uncomfortable. Your books tell these beautiful stories of survival and triumph.

WOODSON Growing up I felt so ashamed and guilty, but no one was talking about it as triumph, right? And as our country’s negative history, not our negative history. Even the way we said “slave” instead of “enslaved.” “Enslaved” takes the onus off us. Then the older I got the more I understood our history and the grace of our survival. Thank goodness for Mildred Taylor and Virginia Hamilton and Nikki Giovanni, the writers who came along and started putting black girlhood on the page in a way that felt relevant to me. And the fact that they’d once been black girls made it even more important.

SMITH The black history we got was just this little drop in February.

WOODSON I hated every time we got to pre-Civil War history. I was like, oh no, here we go. Harriet Tubman, Phillis Wheatley, the poet who learned to write from her nice white master. Nat Turner of course, because he died. Those were the biographies we got.

My daughter had an assignment where everyone in the class had to write a journal of someone from the 18th century. Her school has lots of kids of color, but everyone wanted to write from the white point of view. So I came in and said, I’ll write that! I wrote a journal of an enslaved girl. There was joy, there was playing, there was hard work, and there was resentment that she had to be enslaved to a white girl her same age. I wrote four journals that they still use. In my final one the girl finds out that the master’s daughter who she’s been enslaved to is her half sister. And then I was like, O.K. teachers, you can take it from there. [She laughs.]

Tracy, your new book, “Wade in the Water,” also takes the slavery narrative and makes it into something that feels new.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

SMITH All I really did was listen to the letters that were out there, this Civil War correspondence between black soldiers and their families, or letters by black veterans or descendants of deceased veterans. Those voices felt so current, as though they were almost whispering from yesterday. I couldn’t imagine wanting to do anything other than saying, let’s just get these voices together, and maybe somebody else will want to hear them in the same way. There’s one moment where the father of a soldier says, “I’m willing to sacrifice my son in the cause of Freedom and Humanity” — he capitalizes those nouns. I’m reading it and thinking, do we really understand: If you were enslaved, freedom and humanity are not these abstractions.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Have you ever written for children?

SMITH I haven’t.

WOODSON Please do!

SMITH I would love to, I just need to figure out how I would do it.

WOODSON Picture books are poems! I’m always so surprised that poets don’t write more picture books.

There’s also the visual aspect to picture books, the illustration, but maybe a poet has a good sense of that too.

SMITH How was the visual element for you, Jackie?

WOODSON It feels natural because when I’m writing, I see what I’m writing, it’s very visual. Line by line, from one line to the next, you’re just revealing more of what’s there to see.

SMITH You just explained something to me about line breaks.

WOODSON Do you get to wear a medal? I have one.

SMITH No, I don’t have anything like that. What’s yours like?

WOODSON It’s a coin-like medal, big and heavy, with the ambassador emblem on the front and my name on the back.

Why isn’t there one for the poet laureate?

SMITH I don’t know. Maybe I’ll get one at the end. For now I just get the satisfaction.Many of the 300 bottles or so on the list may indeed be distinctive and excellent, but they are also relentlessly obscure, with characteristics that some people may find surprising, and occasionally even appalling.

Rather than lard the list with expensive wines, as so many high-end restaurants do, Frenchette has devoted much of its lineup to the extremely reasonable $50- to $85-a-bottle range. That is still a lot to pay for wine, perhaps, but well below the Manhattan destination-restaurant norm, in which the wine list is often used as a cash cow to subsidize other parts of the operation.

In short, it’s a challenging list that may annoy some people who want recognizable names, yet is also brilliant. Mr. Riera, the wine director who came to Frenchette from Contra and Wildair, has built a list full of wonderful discoveries, great values and the sort of direct, unmediated experiences that characterize natural wines at their best. Almost all the wines are low in alcohol as well, 13 percent or less, and they go very well with the cuisine.

But Mr. Riera will have a lot of explaining to do, introducing producers and regions that will largely be unknown to people, no matter how well versed they may be in Burgundy, Barolo or Napa Valley.

“I did that on purpose,” Mr. Riera said. “It’s meant to stimulate a conversation about wine and go from there.”

Photo

The idea, he said, is to eliminate preconceptions that people may have about how a wine ought to taste, creating the potential for discovery and surprise.

“It’s the same thing I did at Wildair and Contra,” he said. “I was able to delve deeper in this list, expand in areas where I couldn’t before due to size and budget restrictions.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It’s an idealistic notion. When you don’t know exactly what to expect from a wine, you can experience it at an exhilarating level of intensity.

It reminds me a bit of dining at one of the temples of molecular gastronomy, like the now departed WD-50, where the chef Wylie Dufresne famously served an oyster flattened into something resembling a marble tile. To eat it was like mystery evolving into delight, as flavors long taken for granted were rediscovered, as if for the first time.

“We’ve worked with Jorge before, and we’ve been big fans of his as a natural wine Yoda,” Mr. Hanson said. “Personally, my best wine experiences are just sitting with him and drinking whatever he’s pouring.”

Mr. Nasr and Mr. Riera go back almost 30 years, to the late ’80s when they both worked at Park Bistro, a French restaurant on Park Avenue South that has long since closed. They went on in 1997 to open Balthazar, Keith McNally’s signature downtown restaurant. There, Mr. Riera was introduced to natural wines by Jonathan Nossiter, the sommelier, who went on to a career as a filmmaker and author.

Mr. Riera has become a key force in New York since then, promoting natural wines and building an audience for them, first at 360, an influential though brief-lived restaurant in Red Hook, Brooklyn, then at the Ten Bells, the Lower East Side wine bar, before moving on to Contra and Wildair.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Natural wines are no longer the furtive property of an insurgent group, as they were 15 years ago, when you essentially had to know the secret handshake to find them. Restaurants on the Lower East Side and Brooklyn and wine bars like the Ten Bells and Four Horsemen have built entire identities around natural wines. Eater.com has even published a map showing where you can drink them.

Acclaimed restaurants like Noma in Copenhagen and Joe Beef in Montreal have emphasized natural wines. But rarely, and never in Manhattan, has a restaurant as seemingly mainstream as Frenchette taken such a forthright, unequivocal stand in their favor.

For years, these wines have represented an easy button to push for anyone wanting to ignite a skirmish in the wine culture wars. Back in 2012, Steve Cuozzo, the restaurant critic at The New York Post, wrote a tirade assailing the restaurant Reynard, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for its list focused on obscure natural wines, of which, he said, he recognized not a single bottle.

That same year, mainstream wine critics were arguing that natural wines were foisting a scam on consumers. Nonetheless, the influence and importance of natural wines have grown as some of its favored genres, like pétillant naturel, have become, if not exactly mainstream, at least not uncommon.

Photo

For Frenchette, the decision to focus on natural wines had little to do with marketing or the bottom line, its principals say, and all to do with food and atmosphere.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“If we’re going to cook traditional food, slightly more contemporary, lightened up just a touch, it would pair better with a more contemporary, which is really to say a more ancient, approach to winemaking,” Mr. Nasr said. “I think it makes sense, and maybe people can get on board with a sense of discovery. It’s supposed to be fun and provocative to a degree, but in a pleasurable way.”

In both the food and the wine, Mr. Nasr said, the intent was to create a feeling of lightness: slightly smaller portions, clarity and precision, that will not leave guests waking up the next morning feeling hung over from either the food or the wine.

As for the prices, Mr. Nasr said it was a conscious decision to rein them in, particularly for the wine.

“We’re not building a trophy restaurant,” he said. “I’ve been a cook pretty much my whole life, and $200 bottles are not something I really purchase.”

Mr. Hanson said the selection of less expensive, lower-alcohol wines encourages a progression over the course of a meal, “a cocktail, maybe a couple of $50 bottles rather than one $200 power bomb.”

One area where diners can splurge if they choose is Champagne, where critically acclaimed producers like Vouette & Sorbée and Ulysse Collin happen to work naturally. You can drink a naturally made Cornas from Hirotake Ooka that is a lesson in clarity and purity, or a deliciously deep though obviously unfiltered St.-Aubin from Julien Altabar’s Domaine Sextant.

But more often, Mr. Riera has selected producers who, whether because of an independent streak or because their wines don’t conform to a perceived norm, work outside the appellation system. On this list, Cornas and St.-Aubin are the exceptions to the more frequent Vins de France, a catchall category that has gained credibility as more producers have come to rely on the reputation of their own names rather than their regions. He also has more wines from Auvergne, a mountainous region in central France not known for viticulture, than I have ever seen anywhere.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Likewise, outside France, Mr. Riera has chosen to work with small, little-known appellations rather than prestigious ones: Conca de Barberà in Spain rather than Rioja, grignolino and ruché from the Piedmont region of Italy rather than Barolo. And you can find an excellent range of eastern European natural wines, like Strekov 1075 of Slovakia, which makes Rozália, a superb, refreshing rosé pétillant naturel.

“They’re all family farms, working by hand, no herbicides or pesticides, low yields, minimal sulfur or none,” Mr. Riera said. “Farming is the most important thing, and I think what the vines produce, beautiful, positive mineral energy. It’s just a nutritious drink, the way wine should be.”

In a small grace note, Arnaud Erhart, the proprietor of the influential 360 restaurant, is working the floor at Frenchette. He closed 360 in 2007 and, with his wife, Tania Puell, moved to Vieques, P.R., to run a diving business. Vieques was badly hit by Hurricane Maria last year, and the area is still recovering. So Mr. Erhart, who said he still has to pay his bills there, will be at Frenchette for the foreseeable future.

It’s a long way from Red Hook for Mr. Erhart and for natural wines.

Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.So much of the story of food in the past decade is the story of covetousness. We cast longing glances at our neighbors’ tables and dream of the flavors of other childhoods. The humblest dish becomes a feverishly hunted object of desire, often to the bemusement of those who have eaten it their entire lives, in their homes and on the streets, without thought or fuss.

Consider the crowd huddled outside the exceedingly tiny East Village storefront of Ho Foods, which since opening in January has listed a single entree on its menu: Taiwanese beef noodle soup. For some of those waiting, the soup — lucid and almost delicate in flavor — is simply, profoundly a taste of home.

For the rest, it’s a ticket to elsewhere — perhaps too great a burden of expectation for an everyday dish meant to nourish, not set off fireworks.

The chef, Richard Ho, 33, grew up in the San Gabriel Valley east of Los Angeles, in an area once known as Xiao (Little) Taipei. An economics major at the University of California at Berkeley, he spent eight years working the front of the house at the Blue Ribbon Sushi restaurants in New York, which may explain his remarkable tranquillity as he corrals the crowd.Click on the slide show to see this week’s featured properties in New York City:

• In Turtle Bay, a one-bedroom, one-bath prewar co-op with beamed ceilings; a bedroom with built-in bookshelves and a desk; and a windowed kitchen with granite counters, in a doorman building with a gym.

• In the South Street Seaport area, a two-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath condo with a combined living and dining room with an exposed brick wall and small bar; and a washer and dryer, in a 19th-century elevator building with a virtual doorman.

• In Greenpoint Brooklyn, a three-story circa 1900 two-family house with a three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath duplex, and a two-bedroom, one-bath, top-floor apartment, with central air conditioning and heat, a gas fireplace and yard.“There are just the two of us in a 9,700-square-foot house,” he said.

The house has six en-suite bedrooms, plus a study that could be converted into a seventh bedroom, and three powder rooms, across 7,900 square feet. In addition to a 1,875-square-foot finished basement, it also has roughly 1,550 square feet of outdoor space, including an unfinished rooftop terrace off the penthouse and a rear garden with a limestone fountain, which, according to Mrs. Geller, “was inspired by the Bethesda Fountain” in Central Park.

Throughout the high-ceilinged home are numerous architectural flourishes and period antiques, painstakingly added by the Gellers over the years. The couple managed to locate sales materials put out by Mr. Noble, the builder, and sought to match some of the interior styles and materials used by his architect, Edward L. Angell. (Mr. Noble had built nine single-family houses, Nos. 241-249, along that Central Park West block; Col. Richard Lathers, a successful cotton merchant who was also involved in banking and insurance, bought No. 248 for $35,000, according to Mr. Sieger.)

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Various kinds of marble were brought in during the renovation, and the couple made lavish use of decorative ceiling patterns. The parlor-floor powder room, for instance, has a domed silver leaf ceiling. Quartersawed white oak is also prominent and can be found in the paneling, moldings and Parquet de Versailles patterned floors.

The couple also refurbished the exterior, hiring Building Conservation Associates to restore the bas-relief carvings and balcony grills, recreate a wrought-iron entrance gate and add curved windows, among other things.

“That’s what’s so special about this house: the architectural details,” said Mrs. Geller, a retired office manager. “I put my heart and soul into it for the last 14 to 15 years.”

The home’s main entry is on the parlor floor at the second level. A marble foyer, with an antique mirrored coat rack, opens to a formal parlor that is anchored by a fireplace with a white oak mantel and marble surround, one of four in the house. The space flows into an oak-paneled library with built-in shelves and a Putnam rolling ladder. A pocket door separates the library from the music room, which contains a late 1800s Steinway grand piano crafted from rosewood.

Photo

The third level is dedicated to dining. It features a formal dining room with a wood fireplace mantel obtained from Westland London, an architectural antiques dealer. A spacious eat-in kitchen is equipped with high-end appliances like a La Cornue Château gas and electric stove, and a long center island of Calacatta gold marble. Connected to the kitchen is a butler’s pantry with Caesarstone countertops.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The master bedroom suite, which has another Westland London fireplace mantel, takes up the entire fourth level and features dual dressing rooms and bathrooms. There is also a large sitting room/study with views of the park, one of Mrs. Geller’s favorite rooms. “I spend a lot of time here,” she said.

There are four more en-suite bedrooms on the top two levels, including a second master suite with a mechanical closet in the penthouse. Another en-suite bedroom is on the garden level, along with a second kitchen and dining area, and a screening room, outfitted with eight black velvet theater seats, that opens to the backyard.

In the basement is a lap pool, around 50 feet long and 6 feet wide, a gym, a laundry room and storage space.

“I come here every morning to work out,” Mr. Geller said. He also runs in the park, which has served almost as an extension to the couple’s home. “When there are concerts,” Mrs. Geller said, “we come up to the roof and listen.”Brooklyn renters experienced a fourth straight month of price drops in March, paying a median of $2,629 a month, or 6.3 percent less than a year before. In Manhattan, the median rent was $3,168 a month, 3.8 percent less than a year earlier — the lowest it has been since October of 2011.

Those figures reflect the net-effective rent — the median monthly rent, taking into account various concessions, including months of free rent and broker commissions paid by the landlord — according to the latest Elliman Report, prepared by the real estate appraisal and consulting firm Miller Samuel.

New York Rent Drop Manhattan 2017 2018 OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MARCH SEPT 0.6% 1% 0.2% 0 –0.4% –1% Change in net-effective rent over one year –2 –3 –2.5% –2.8% –3.6% –3.8% Brooklyn 2017 2018 SEPT OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MARCH 0.6% 1% 0 –1% –2 –1.8% –2.4% –3 –2.9% –3.1% –4 –5 –6 –5.6% –6.3% Manhattan 2017 2018 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. March 1% 0.6% 0.2% 0 –0.4% -1% Change in net-effective rent over one year -2 –2.5% -3 –2.8% –3.6% –3.8% Brooklyn 2017 2018 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. March 1% 0.6% 0 –1% –2 –1.8% –2.4% –3 –2.9% –3.1% –4 –5 –5.6% –6 –6.3%

Concessions played a big role in pushing down the net-effective rent in northwest Queens, where renters paid a median of $2,559 a month in March, or 6.4 percent less than a year earlier, and 63 percent of those leases included concessions, compared with 42.7 percent the year before.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Landlords have historically protected actual rents, enticing would-be renters with concessions first. “But it’s not enough,” said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel. “In the last year, we’re seeing actual rents decline in addition to concessions expanding.”

Overdevelopment of higher-end rentals is one reason for the trend, Mr. Miller said: “There’s so much low-cost capital dying for a home, and developers develop until they can’t develop anymore.”You typically review one book a week, so what does your week look like? Do you set goals for each day, and what kinds of notes do you take so that they’re helpful but not overwhelming?

I feel like I’m still settling into the rhythm of it, and my notes will usually err on the side of being too detailed. I’ll read something all the way through first to have a sense of the experience of it as a reader. While I’m reading, I’ll put marks in the margins, and then I’ll go through it again and I’ll write up quotes from the book that I think are interesting — or ones that I think are not very good.

In terms of the week, there’s one day that I devote to writing, and the rest of the time it’s pretty much reading.

It’s been a crazy year for news. Have you seen changes in the kinds of books people are writing and reading as a result?

The most obvious is the flood of Trump stuff. For instance, there have been a couple of books in the past six months or so on the issue of possible Russian involvement in the election, exploring ties between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. I’m guessing we’ll probably see more of those.

I’ve also noticed a number of books that try to situate the current political moment in a larger context. “How Democracies Die,” by Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, came out at the beginning of the year. Of course, there are a number of pro-Trump books too — though from what I can tell they seem to be written as if the Republicans are besieged, instead of controlling the legislative and the executive branches of government.

During your tenure as a Times book critic, what are your hopes for your readers?

Right now is such a fraught moment that I feel like people are often reacting to the latest outrage, which I think is totally understandable, considering everything that’s going on. One of the nice things about books, though, is that they take so much time to write that they offer a good chance to process what’s happening in a deliberate way. I guess I hope that my reviews introduce readers to different ways of thinking — to slow down, maybe, and to open up to new ideas, because otherwise I think it’s easy to fall into exhaustion or despair.

A lot of news stories also have roots that go way back. Over the last several years we’ve seen a number of books that get into the deep history of American race relations, and how what has often been depicted as a golden age in American history — the New Deal, for instance, and the middle-class postwar boom — was ultimately built on exclusion.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For people who feel overwhelmed by what’s happening right now, there’s something to be said for trying to understand how we got here. Learning these things isn’t necessarily comforting. But it’s bound to be a long conversation, and I hope that the reviews will in some way contribute to it.In the late 1950s, when artists started moving downtown, the area was a sprawling wasteland of low level buildings anchored by two largely industrial areas — what we now call SoHo and its neighbor immediately to the south, TriBeCa. Both had begun in the 1600s as colonial farmland; by the 19th century, both had transformed into a shopping and entertainment district, with large hotels, upscale department stores, theaters and hundreds of brothels. After the Civil War, the area became an important manufacturing center for textile firms and other industries, and the brothels were gradually replaced by clusters of cast-iron warehouses. By the 1950s, these warehouses were mostly being used for storage or sweatshops, and the neighborhood, increasingly decrepit, earned the nickname Hell’s Hundred Acres.

In retrospect, it seems destined that artists would colonize this place — for whom were these cavernous, empty spaces built if not for artists, like Donald Judd playing around with new and unwieldy ideas? — though it’s hard to overstate just how difficult it was to do. Living in these buildings, which were not zoned for residential occupation, was illegal, and the conditions were bleak: In some cases there was no working plumbing, water, heat or electricity. Artists were required by the city to post warning signs on the exteriors of these buildings that read A.I.R. — Artist in Residence — so that if there were a fire, the fire department would know to rescue them.

“It was almost like being in the country in the middle of the city,” says Richard Nonas, who moved to SoHo in the late ’60s and to TriBeCa around 1975. He is among a small group of artists who remain in this part of the city, some of whom T gathered for a photo shoot in the area in February. “It was only toward the ’80s,” he says, “that I knew anybody who made enough money to hire an architect or a plumber.”

Inconveniences and startling imagery aside — Red Grooms, who’s had a studio in TriBeCa since 1969, still recalls the day he found a chalk outline of a dead body in front of the door of his former apartment on Mulberry Street — the area’s transformation into an arts district truly began when a young woman named Paula Cooper opened the first major gallery here on Prince Street in 1968. She was followed in 1971 by Leo Castelli — the Upper East Side dealer of Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns and Andy Warhol — and a few other dealers, who opened branches downtown at 420 West Broadway, which became known as the SoHo Gallery Building. By the 1980s, SoHo was once again an important commercial center for the city, host to New York’s most influential galleries and the place where many artists lived and worked. (The mainstream art industry of this time often ignored artists of color, with the notable exception of Jean-Michel Basquiat, who was embraced by the SoHo galleries and had a studio nearby on Great Jones Street. Artists like Lorraine O’Grady, David Hammons and Senga Nengudi were left out of the narrative of SoHo’s heyday, though they did find a home at Linda Goode Bryant’s Just Above Midtown gallery, which opened in 1974 on West 57th Street and moved to TriBeCa in 1980.)The painter Francesco Clemente's daughter on buying her first pair of heels with artist Rene Ricard in 1980s New York.“I put the word out and asked them if they had any leads at all to send me,” Mr. Fritz said. He posted a note on Instagram and Facebook, where his friend list had topped out at 5,000, forcing him to open a second account.

People responded in droves. Some mentioned Facebook’s Gypsy Housing groups, where people post listings. “I joined every Gypsy Housing thing I could find,” he said.

One posting there looked right: a three-bedroom in East Flatbush with more than 1,000 square feet, for $2,200 a month. He contacted the agent, Chanel Clark, of the Cobble Hill office of Citi Habitats.

Photo

The apartment had been on the market for weeks, possibly because of its distance from a subway stop, Ms. Clark said. “Gary needed a lot of space because he was downsizing from a house,” she said. “I was surprised that one person could use all that space.”

Mr. Fritz liked it. “Even if I couldn’t set up my music the way I wanted to, I had room to put all the stuff I needed to move,” he said.

But his timetable was unclear. The closing for the house sale was postponed several times, and without cash in hand from the sale, he couldn’t proceed with his move.

In the meantime, he teamed up with Ms. Clark to hunt for a place. She started with apartments in the low $2,000s.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“They were pretty decent spaces,” Mr. Fritz said. “Some of these buildings were brand-spanking new. If you ended up with a headache, you ended up with a brand-new headache rather than a recycled headache.” But not all were big enough for his needs.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ground-floor or back units with yards were especially appealing, as he had tended a thriving garden behind his family house. “I’d go in my garden and come back inside and cook up a meal,” he said, adding that the overflow went to neighbors. “Everyone used to eat out of my yard.”

Ms. Clark urged him to increase his budget and to hunt farther afield.

A duplex on Pacific Street in Crown Heights, for $2,300, had three bedrooms covering 1,200 square feet, plus a backyard. But because Mr. Fritz was an independent contractor, the landlord was hesitant.

Photo

“Not everyone was willing to take a chance on him,” Ms. Clark said. “Some landlords prefer someone with a 9-to-5 job, a set salary and pay stubs.”

Another duplex in Bedford-Stuyvesant was the best of all. It had three bedrooms, three bathrooms, a cavernous finished basement and a backyard. The rent was $2,990.

Photo

At 2,500 square feet, it felt like a house “without all the maintenance hassle,” Ms. Clark said. “It is just massive. That apartment was for Gary.”

After viewing it, he said, “I looked up to the heavens and whispered to my daughter and my mom, ‘This one gets my vote.’”

Photo

The rent was on the high side, but Mr. Fritz decided the price was worth it. He was able to rent the garage, too — for a total of $3,100. The buyer of his family’s house gave him 90 days to clear it out, and he moved into his new home last winter.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Fritz paid a broker’s fee of 15 percent of a year’s rent, or just over $5,500. With the proceeds from the house sale, he was able to pay six months’ rent in advance.

As attached as he had been to the family homestead, it was falling apart, he said. While preparing to move, he was dismayed to find a basement leak that had damaged his beloved record collection. “The discovery nearly brought me to tears,” he said. He is salvaging what he can.

For the move, Mr. Fritz again turned to his many friends, who turned out en masse to help.

“It is people from all walks of life,” he said. “Those are my earth angels.”

Now Mr. Fritz uses the front bedroom as an office and one of the two back bedrooms for guests. The enormous basement, which has a washer-dryer, is his music studio, still a work in progress. And he has plans for a garden.

“It is a lovely space, and it’s the type of space that will make you a little bit envious,” he said. “Until you hear what I am paying for it.”SAN JUAN, P.R. — The major league baseball games this week between the Minnesota Twins and Cleveland Indians here had dual goals: to affirm the Puerto Rican government’s position that the island was open for business again after the devastation of Hurricane Maria seven months ago, and to showcase this American territory’s unique relationship with baseball.

And then lights across the island went out again.

The second and final game went on — the mayor of San Juan promised it would — but sitting in the stands on Wednesday, it was hard to miss the disparity: running on generators earlier in the day, Estadio Hiram Bithorn, the storied stadium where the games were played, was back on the power grid by game time, while across the highway, apartment buildings and businesses disappeared in the dark, save for a few lit windows.

Rather than anger, several people in and around the stadium, accustomed to months at home without electricity and perhaps feeling a bit of the baseball fever that the games have engendered, shrugged at the imbalance of power.

“We’ll see what the government’s priorities are,” said Sylma León, 60, who lives in the Eleanor Roosevelt neighborhood across from the stadium, where a capacity crowd of 19,537 people gathered for Minnesota’s 2-1 victory over Cleveland in 16 innings. She was one of nearly 1.5 million customers of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority to lose power on Wednesday morning when a crew working to help restore power in Puerto Rico accidentally knocked out electricity.Photo

Gregg Popovich did not coach Game 3 of the Spurs-Warriors N.B.A. playoff series on Thursday night after his wife’s death.

Erin Popovich died at 67, the Spurs announced on Wednesday. She had been married to Gregg for 40 years, and they had two children and four grandchildren. A cause of death was not reported, but she had been ill for some time. The Popoviches met when Gregg was an assistant coach at Air Force and Erin was the daughter of a team trainer.

Following a 110-97 loss to the defending champion Golden State Warriors, the Spurs are down three games to none and are one loss away from being eliminated from the playoffs. One of Popovich’s assistants, Ettore Messina, coached the team for Game 3 in San Antonio.

N.B.A. players rallied around Popovich on Wednesday and Thursday.

Popovich, 69, is one of the most successful and respected coaches in N.B.A. history. In addition to the five championships the team has won, he is known for his wry and combative style with reporters and his strong left-of-center political views.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Cleveland beat the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday night, the Cavaliers’ LeBron James reacted to the news: “I’m a huge Pop fan. I love Pop. That’s such a tragedy. My best wishes go out to Pop and his family. That’s devastating news.”

The interview with James drew criticism because many viewers, judging from James’s reaction, believed that the reporter, Allie LaForce, had sprung the news on him unexpectedly. But James posted a video later saying he had been warned before the interview that he would be asked about Erin Popovich’s death.

“It’s bigger than the game,” Kevin Durant of the Warriors said on Wednesday night. “It’s bigger than winning and losing. It’s about the brotherhood we built as N.B.A. players and everybody in the N.B.A. family."

Many other current and former players offered their sympathy and good wishes.

Steve Kerr, coach of the Warriors and a close friend of Popovich’s, declined to comment on Erin’s death, reportedly too shaken to do so.