“This is not a so-called Muslim ban,” he said. “If it were, it would be the most ineffective Muslim ban that one could possibly imagine.” It excluded, he said, “the vast majority of the Muslim world.”

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. added his own statistics.

“I think there are 50 predominantly Muslim countries in the world,” he said. “Five predominantly Muslim countries are on this list. The population of the predominantly Muslim countries on this list make up about 8 percent of the world’s Muslim population. If you looked at the 10 countries with the most Muslims, exactly one, Iran, would be on that list of the top 10.”

Neal K. Katyal, a lawyer for the challengers, rejected that analysis. “If I’m an employer and I have 10 African-Americans working for me and I only fire two of them” but retain the other eight, he said, “I don’t think anyone can say that’s not discrimination.”

Mr. Trump issued his first travel ban a week after he took office, causing chaos at the nation’s airports and starting a cascade of lawsuits and appeals. The case before the court, Trump v. Hawaii, No. 17-965, concerns Mr. Trump’s third and most concerted effort to make good on his campaign promise to secure the United States’ borders. The court had considered aspects of an earlier version of the travel ban, but this was the first time the justices heard arguments on any of the challenges.

Challengers to the latest ban said Mr. Trump’s campaign speeches and Twitter posts about Muslims were a clear indication that the ban was aimed at a particular religious group and not justified by security concerns.

The administration said the latest order was the product of careful study by several agencies into the security and information-sharing practices of countries worldwide. The president’s lawyers urged the courts to ignore Mr. Trump’s statements and Twitter posts, and to focus solely on the text of the proclamation and the process that produced it.

Listen: Justices Hear Arguments on Trump’s Travel Ban Audio

But several justices pressed Mr. Francisco to explain why the restrictions should not be seen as tainted by religious animus.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Justice Elena Kagan offered a hypothetical situation in which a future president who is “a vehement anti-Semite and says all kinds of denigrating comments about Jews” comes into office and bans entry to the United States from Israel.

“The question is, what are reasonable observers to think given this context?” Justice Kagan said, adding that she was asking about an “out of the box kind of president.”

Mr. Francisco acknowledged that “this is a very tough hypothetical.” But he said such a proclamation could be lawful.

“If his cabinet were to actually come to him and say, ‘Mr. President, there is honestly a national security risk here and you have to act,’ I think then that the president would be allowed to follow that advice even if in his private heart of hearts he also harbored animus,” Mr. Francisco said.

In addition to examining whether the travel ban was tainted by religious discrimination, the justices considered whether Mr. Trump had the legal authority to issue it.

Justice Kennedy pressed Mr. Katyal about whether judges should second-guess a president’s national security judgments. “That’s for the courts to do, not the president?” he asked, skeptically.

Mr. Katyal responded that presidents ordinarily deserve substantial deference. But he said the travel ban was so extreme that the Supreme Court should step in.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Justice Kennedy noted that the latest travel ban was longer and more detailed than proclamations issued by earlier presidents. He also appeared to speak approvingly of a part of the proclamation that called for periodic reports.

Chief Justice Roberts posed hypothetical questions to Mr. Katyal about the president’s power to thwart terrorist attacks.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We have 100 percent solid information that on a particular day, nationals from Syria are going to enter the United States with chemical and biological weapons,” the chief justice posited. “They could kill tens of thousands of Americans. In that situation, could the president ban the entry of Syrian nationals on that one day?”

Mr. Katyal said that presidents have the power to address emergencies but not to create sustained discrimination.

Video

The travel ban is not the only one of the Trump administration’s immigration policies under challenge. Several federal judges, including one on Tuesday, have blocked its efforts to end a separate program that shields some undocumented young adults from deportation. Those cases on the program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, are also likely to reach the Supreme Court.

Mr. Trump’s first travel ban, issued in January 2017, was promptly blocked by courts around the nation. A second version, issued two months later, fared little better, though the Supreme Court allowed part of it to go into effect in June when it agreed to hear the Trump administration’s appeals from two appeals court losses. But the Supreme Court dismissed those appeals in October after the second ban expired.

The current ban initially restricted travel from eight countries — Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad, Venezuela and North Korea — six of which were predominantly Muslim. Chad was recently removed from the list.

The restrictions vary in their details, but, for the most part, citizens of the countries are prohibited from immigrating to the United States, and many are barred from working, studying or vacationing here.

In December, in a sign that the Supreme Court may uphold the latest order, the court allowed it to go into effect as the case moved forward. The decision effectively overturned a compromise in place since June, when the court said travelers with connections to the United States could continue to travel here notwithstanding restrictions in an earlier version of the ban.

Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented from the December ruling.

Hawaii, several individuals and a Muslim group challenged the latest ban’s limits on travel from the predominantly Muslim nations; they did not object to the portions concerning North Korea and Venezuela. They prevailed before a Federal District Court in Hawaii and before a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The appeals court ruled that Mr. Trump had exceeded the authority that Congress had given him over immigration and had violated a part of the immigration laws barring discrimination in the issuance of visas.

In a separate decision that is not directly before the justices, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., blocked the ban on different grounds, saying it violated the Constitution’s prohibition on religious discrimination.

Toward the end of Wednesday’s argument, the questioning again turned to how much weight the court should assign to Mr. Trump’s campaign statements and how long they should haunt him.

Mr. Katyal said Mr. Trump and his advisers could easily have repudiated the earlier statements. “Instead they embraced them,” Mr. Katyal said.

The chief justice then asked whether Mr. Trump could immunize his order from constitutional challenge simply by disclaiming his earlier statements. “If tomorrow he issues a proclamation saying he’s disavowing all those statements,” the chief justice asked, “then the next day he can re-enter this proclamation?”

Mr. Katyal said yes.

In his rebuttal argument, Mr. Francisco pursued the point. Mr. Trump, he said, has already made clear that “he had no intention of imposing the Muslim ban.”

“He has made crystal clear that Muslims in this country are great Americans and there are many, many Muslim countries who love this country, and he has praised Islam,” Mr. Francisco said. “This proclamation is about what it says it’s about: foreign policy and national security.”Mr. Trump’s efforts to restrict immigration and increase deportations of undocumented immigrants began days after he took office when he signed the first temporary ban on travel from several mostly Muslim countries.

That ban was imposed with no notice and little discussion among federal agencies. A flurry of court rulings blocking the ban led Mr. Trump to abandon it in favor of a second version, which was also blocked by courts.

It wasn’t until the president’s third attempt that he found some legal success. While lower-court judges again sought to block the restrictions, the Supreme Court let the ban go into effect while it considered the case. And on Wednesday, the justices appeared inclined to uphold the president’s action, given his powers over immigration and national security, and to discount his campaign promises to impose a “Muslim ban.”

The president has also been fighting a legal battle over his decision to end the DACA program, which President Barack Obama put in place in 2012. The program allows young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children to live and work without the fear of deportation.

About 700,000 immigrants signed up for the program, which requires them to renew every two years.

As a candidate and as president, Mr. Trump said DACA was an unconstitutional abuse of presidential power and vowed to end it. In September, he followed through, saying he would end the program by March and was acting on behalf of “the millions of Americans victimized by this unfair system.”

Courts intervened to save the program much the same way judges had blocked Mr. Trump’s actions on the travel ban. Within weeks of the March deadline, judges ordered the president to continue renewing participation in the program for those who had already enrolled.

On Tuesday, Judge John D. Bates of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia went one step further, saying that government officials must also allow new applicants to sign up for protections offered by DACA.Did the administration provide enough detail to support its reasons for the travel ban?

JUSTICE SONIA SOTOMAYOR: I thought that the government had kept confidential and refused to share, either with the litigants or the courts, exactly what was done, how, what the evaluation and how —

The administration says the latest travel ban was the result of careful study. Justice Sotomayor pointed out that the underlying report has not been made public.

•

MR. FRANCISCO: First of all, I think that the proclamation is very transparent and lays out in great detail both the process and the substance upon which the proclamation is based. And I think that under the duty of regularity or good faith, or whatever you want to call it, that one branch of the government owes to another coequal branch of the government, there is a very strong presumption that what is being set out there is the truth.

Mr. Francisco responded that the administration had provided a great deal of information about the basis for the latest travel ban and was entitled to considerable deference.

Did the president’s order amount to a ‘Muslim ban’?

MR. FRANCISCO: The first is that the president’s cabinet, just like all of us here, is duty-bound to protect and defend the Constitution. So I would expect that if any cabinet member were given that order, that cabinet member would refuse to comply or resign in the face of a plainly unconstitutional order.

Mr. Francisco said that members of an administration would violate the Constitution by aiding a president in promulgating a discriminatory policy.

•

MR. FRANCISCO: And we are very much of the view that campaign statements are made by a private citizen before he takes the oath of office and before, under the Opinions Clause of the Constitution, receives the advice of his cabinet, and that those are constitutionally significant acts that mark the fundamental transformation from being a private citizen to the embodiment of the executive branch. So that those statements should be out of bounds.

Mr. Francisco urged the justices to ignore Mr. Trump’s campaign statements. The oath of office transformed Mr. Trump, his lawyer said.

•

MR. FRANCISCO: This is not a so-called Muslim ban. If it were, it would be the most ineffective Muslim ban that one could possibly imagine since not only does it exclude the vast majority of the Muslim world, it also omits three Muslim-majority countries that were covered by past orders, including Iraq, Chad and Sudan.

Had the administration really wanted to ban Muslims, Mr. Francisco said, it could have done a much better job.In a separate decision, the district court found similar flaws in several state legislative districts.

But the court did not issue an injunction compelling the state to do anything, and only instructed Texas officials to promptly advise it about whether they would try to draw new maps.

“What does the piece of paper say here?” Justice Stephen G. Breyer asked. “It seems to me the piece of paper says come to court. Now, if we’re going to call that a grant of an injunction, we’re going to hear 50,000 appeals.”

There was a second curious wrinkle: The district court itself had, for the most part, endorsed the maps in 2012, after the Supreme Court rejected earlier ones and told the court to try again. The 2012 maps, the panel later said, had been considered in haste in advance of pending elections.

On Tuesday, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. at one point seemed to agree. “It was preliminary, as opposed to permanent,” he said of the court-drawn maps.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In 2013, the Texas Legislature decided not to draw new maps and instead mostly adopted the one drawn by the court in San Antonio. Scott A. Keller, Texas’ solicitor general, said state lawmakers had adopted the maps after substantial debate and deliberation.

“There is absolutely no evidence in plaintiffs’ briefs that somehow the Legislature was trying to lock in discriminatory districts,” he said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Allison J. Riggs, a lawyer for the challengers, disagreed. The question for the justices, she said, was, “Did the Legislature adopt the interim plan for race-neutral reasons, or did it use the adoption of that interim plan as a mask for the discriminatory intent that had manifested itself just two years ago?”

Later in the argument, she answered her own question. “They wanted to end the litigation,” she said, “by maintaining the discrimination against black and Latino voters, muffling their growing political voice in a state where black and Latino voters’ population is exploding.”

After three election cycles that used the interim maps it had drawn, the district court ruled that they were flawed. “Although this court had ‘approved’ the maps for use as interim maps, given the severe time constraints it was operating under at the time of their adoption,” the court said that approval was “not based on a full examination of the record or the governing law” and was “subject to revision.”

The court concluded that Texas’ adoption of the interim maps was part of “a litigation strategy designed to insulate the 2011 or 2013 plans from further challenge, regardless of their legal infirmities.”

Edwin S. Kneedler, a lawyer for the federal government arguing in support of Texas, said it was a mistake to apply the flaws in the earlier map to the later one.

“The legal principle that went wrong,” he said, was that “the court basically said that the taint that it found with respect to certain districts in 2011 carried forward to 2013.”

Mr. Kneedler said the state deserved credit for trying to end the redistricting litigation by adopting the court-drawn map. “That’s something to be commended, when a state legislature proceeds in that manner,” he said.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor appeared unconvinced. “Are you ending a litigation,” she asked, “or are you ending the possibility of a court stopping you from discriminating?”

The two consolidated cases argued Tuesday, Abbott v. Perez, No. 17-586, and Abbott v. Perez, No. 17-626, had reached the Supreme Court once before.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Last year, state officials filed emergency applications in the Supreme Court, asking the justices to block the district court’s order until their appeal was heard. In a brief order, the Supreme Court agreed. The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative members in the majority.Photo

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the new head of President Trump’s legal team, met with the special counsel’s office on Tuesday as he tries to expedite the end of the far-flung inquiry into possible collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russian officials, three people familiar with the meeting said.

Mr. Giuliani declined to confirm whether a meeting took place. But the three people briefed on the sit-down — the first since the former New York City mayor joined the legal team last week — described it as a productive effort to reopen negotiations over a possible interview that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is seeking with the president.

News of the meeting was first reported by The Washington Post.

In an interview, Mr. Giuliani said that his goal in the coming days was to find out where Mr. Mueller stands, particularly as it relates to the credibility of James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director whom the president fired in April 2017. Mr. Comey has been interviewed by Mr. Mueller, and he has been deeply, personally critical of the president in his media tour promoting his new memoir.

“At this stage of an investigation, it’d be highly unusual to let an ordinary client testify,” Mr. Giuliani said. However, he added, “This isn’t an ordinary client. This is the president of the United States.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said that they were trying to assess whether Mr. Mueller “and his staff are truly objective,” particularly in terms of Mr. Comey. “Obviously, if they’ve already made up their minds, we’d be stupid to do that.”In January, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, said through a spokesman that she would use a prerogative given to home-state senators, the so-called blue slip, to try to block Mr. Berman’s confirmation if he were nominated by President Trump.

At the time, the spokesman, Glen Caplin, cited reports that Mr. Trump had personally interviewed Mr. Berman as part of the selection process. Mr. Caplin called those reports deeply disturbing because of conflicts of interest inherent in Mr. Berman’s “potential jurisdiction on matters that could affect the president personally.”

Ms. Gillibrand’s criticism was not directed at Mr. Berman but rather at President Trump “for conducting such an interview,” Mr. Caplin said.

On Wednesday, Mr. Caplin said in a statement: “The Court has acted responsibly within the law. It is troubling, however, that President Trump continues to attempt to undermine our institutions by doing an end-run around the U.S. Senate’s advise and consent responsibility for U.S. attorney nominations.”

Senator Chuck Schumer, a Democrat and the Senate minority leader, has also indicated opposition to Mr. Berman, having told the White House that he was “not supportive” of Mr. Berman’s potential nomination as United States attorney, The New York Times reported in January. Mr. Schumer’s office had no comment on Wednesday.

Mr. Berman, in a brief statement, said he had been notified of the appointment by the court’s chief judge, Colleen McMahon, and was grateful for the court’s action. He said he looked forward to “continuing the great tradition of this office to pursue justice without fear or favor.”

During his brief tenure, Mr. Berman has overseen several high-profile cases, including a trial that ended last month in the conviction of Joseph Percoco, a former senior aide to New York’s Democratic governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, on federal corruption charges.“The question calls for speculation,” Mr. Sessions said. “I am not able to do that.”

In stepping aside, Mr. Sessions cited his support for Mr. Trump during the presidential race as a potential conflict and said he was following Justice Department guidelines. But the president, who has said he viewed Mr. Sessions as a protector in his role as attorney general, has chafed about it since. The recusal helped lead to the appointment of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.

Mr. Sessions’s rare appearance on Capitol Hill came at a fraught time for the Justice Department’s top officials. After F.B.I. agents raided the office, home and hotel room of Mr. Cohen this month, the president and his allies in Congress ramped up their attacks on the department and its leaders.

Mr. Trump expressed regret that he chose Mr. Sessions as his attorney general, saying Mr. Sessions made “a very terrible mistake” in recusing himself. And House Republican leaders allied with Mr. Trump began making more onerous demands of Mr. Rosenstein for new versions of documents related to ongoing investigations, a move Democrats said was aimed at firing Mr. Rosenstein and undermining the Russia investigation.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

When asked by Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, whether he had recused himself from the Cohen investigation, Mr. Sessions said it was against Justice Department policy to discuss the matter because he could inadvertently “reveal the existence, scope or breadth or nature of a matter that would be inappropriate.”

Mr. Leahy, who also wrote to Mr. Sessions last week asking about his involvement in the inquiry, pointed out that the attorney general had originally told Congress he would recuse himself “from any existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for president.”

“I am honoring the recusal in every case and every matter that comes before the Department of Justice,” Mr. Sessions replied.

Justice Department policy also calls for officials who have a political relationship with the president to recuse themselves from matters that the president has taken a special interest in, Mr. Leahy noted. Mr. Trump has filed a request in federal court in Manhattan to intervene in Mr. Cohen’s case.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Sessions said he had sought advice on the Cohen investigation but had not met with the department’s top ethics official to discuss it. “But I can assure you I have not violated my recusal,” he said.

Mr. Sessions said he would recuse himself if a connection were made between the Cohen and Russia investigations. But he declined to say whether he had discussed his involvement in the Cohen case with anyone outside the Justice Department, including the president, or whether Mr. Trump or any other administration official had discussed pardoning Mr. Cohen.

Conversations with the White House “are the kind of communications that should not be revealed,” Mr. Sessions said. “I believe I have the right and the responsibility to maintain confidence in those. So I just am not able to go down that road.”

Mr. Sessions has appeared before Congress only a handful of times since his confirmation hearing in January 2017, and lawmakers on the subcommittee pressed him on a range of other topics including the opioid crisis, immigration and medical marijuana.

Perhaps in a nod to the rancorous political environment, Mr. Sessions deferred to the president in his remarks. He called the fight against the opioid epidemic “the president’s goal.” He cited Mr. Trump as a leader in the government’s efforts to combat crime, saying that the president and federal and local law enforcement leaders “are determined this crime rise will not continue.”A quick agreement would give the administration sufficient time to make the necessary notifications to Congress that are required under current law while still having the Republican-controlled Congress vote on the deal in a lame-duck session — after midterm elections that could allow Democrats to reclaim the House and potentially the Senate, but before newly elected lawmakers take their seats.

That may not be so easy. On Wednesday, lawmakers from both parties expressed skepticism about the Trump administration’s negotiations and whether any deal that Mr. Trump reaches could be approved by the current Congress.

“I think there is a real mixed feeling about trade and some of the things the president has said, most of all, on the Republican side,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. “They’re not comfortable with some of the talk on tariffs and trade wars and so forth, so I think all of us will look at it with some skepticism.”

Republicans have urged the president to drop many of his signature proposals for revising the deal, including adding a “sunset clause” that would allow Nafta to automatically expire, and getting rid of investment rules that the administration says promote outsourcing to other nations. Democrats, for their part, have urged the president to incorporate tougher provisions on labor rights in Mexico.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Canadian and Mexican negotiators say that the quickest path to reaching an agreement is for the United States to abandon some of its most controversial proposals, which major business and farmers also oppose.

In recent weeks, Mr. Lighthizer has told members of Congress that he could take a more aggressive and potentially painful approach to ensure that the president’s deal is passed. He has warned congressional Republicans about the possibility of withdrawing from Nafta altogether if they refuse to vote for it — which, until recently, the Trump administration had used to force concessions from Canada and Mexico.

Those warnings have not been well received among congressional Republicans. Farm and border-state Republicans are already deeply unsettled by the president’s tariff threats on China, which has resulted in a tit-for-tat by Beijing that would hurt exports from their communities, including agricultural products like soybeans, pork and wheat. They would probably rebel if he moved to undermine Nafta, which has become a crucial economic engine for those states.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Mr. Trump has frequently mused about ripping up Nafta without actually following through — so many lawmakers are reluctant to panic just yet. Some have urged the president to move prudently, reminding him how many of his voters live in agriculture states, but more of them are reluctant to confront him and simply hope he backs off those threats as he has on other issues.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas and majority whip, made clear that the Senate would not simply rubber-stamp any deal that Mr. Trump’s trade team strikes and lamented that the administration had kept lawmakers largely in the dark.

“I regret that the administration has not been communicating very well what they are negotiating and I hope they come up with something that we can pass out of here, because I think Nafta is pretty important,” Mr. Cornyn said.

If the president were to carry through on a threat to withdraw from the deal to force a vote in Congress, lawmakers could fight back, congressional aides said. Lawmakers could pass legislation that alters the president’s authority to impose tariffs and other trade measures — or create laws to more clearly define the process for the United States to leave trade agreements.

Top Republicans in the House also expressed trepidation on Wednesday about a Nafta resolution.

Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said that the likelihood of such a deal passing in the House “depends on the quality of the agreement.”

Mr. Brady, a staunch ally of Mr. Trump during the tax overhaul last year, has been critical of the president’s tariff threats. He said that he had encouraged Mr. Trump to deliver an agreement that bolstered American jobs, exports and economic growth.

“We’ve heard different summaries of where they might be headed and we’re weighing in,” Mr. Brady said. “We’re hopeful and cautiously optimistic.”Citing the Fifth Amendment in the Clifford case allows Mr. Cohen to avoid being deposed and revealing sensitive information in the more important criminal investigation. That investigation — which prosecutors say has been going on for months — became public in dramatic fashion on April 9, when agents from the New York office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided Mr. Cohen’s office, apartment and a room at the Loews Regency Hotel he had been using. The inquiry is said to be focusing on hush-money payments that Mr. Cohen made to — or helped arrange for — Ms. Clifford and Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model who has also said she had an affair with Mr. Trump.

For days now, prosecutors from the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan have been sparring with Mr. Cohen’s lawyers — and with lawyers for Mr. Trump — for the right to review the records first, a step that will shape the contours of how the government presses its investigation into whether Mr. Cohen tried to suppress negative news coverage of the president in the run-up to the 2016 election.

Lawyers for Mr. Cohen suggested on Wednesday that they were already taking steps to gird themselves for battle. In new court papers, they said that they were setting up “war rooms” to review the seized materials, testing and vetting “systems” to process them, and marshaling what seems to be a small legal army of “operations and technology personnel, paralegals, discovery experts, associates and senior reviewing partners.”

The martial tone of Mr. Cohen’s filing was in contrast to a similar letter submitted to the court by lawyers for the Trump Organization, who merely noted that they were “fully capable of processing and reviewing the materials.” In a third submission, Mr. Trump’s lawyers said that they would “consult closely with Mr. Cohen’s counsel to assist in identifying the seized materials that relate to the president.”

All of the papers were requested in advance by Judge Wood, who, in a hearing on April 16, put off a decision on how to resolve the conflict over the attorney-client privilege review, saying that she might appoint a special master to oversee the process. Two days later, the prosecutors and Mr. Cohen’s lawyers submitted to Judge Wood lists of potential candidates.“He’s a free thinker, is that not allowed in America?” Ms. West wrote. “Because some of his ideas differ from yours you have to throw in the mental health card? That’s just not fair.”

Still, those in the rapper’s orbit expressed concern for his well-being because Mr. West’s online interaction with the president came as he acknowledged that he had fired his manager, Scooter Braun, and his lawyers, writing on Twitter: “I no longer have a manager. I can’t be managed.”

Mr. West had been working since 2016 with Mr. Braun, the powerful music industry figure behind Justin Bieber and Ariana Grande. Though he is no longer on Mr. West’s team, Mr. West kept the door open for him to return: “I’d like Scooter Braun to be a part of this new platform we’re creating,” the rapper tweeted Wednesday afternoon. “Scooter is a genius.”

Mr. Braun declined to comment.

Last month, Mr. West parted ways with another member of his management team, Izvor Zivkovic, with whom he had worked since 2010.

“I’m nobody’s ‘client,’” Mr. West said Wednesday on Twitter, explaining that he had given his associates the option to work only with him full time or be let go. Responding to reports that called his behavior erratic, Mr. West added, “Please never use the word erratic to describe a person who is economically and psychologically empowered.”

Howard E. King, a lawyer who has represented Mr. West in business and litigation over the past two years, said, “He notified us over the weekend that he appreciated everything we had done for him and he was taking all of his legal work in-house.” Mr. King added that his firm would continue to assist Mr. West “in any way that he wanted us to help.”

Mr. West’s recent flurry of activity followed more than a year of public silence since an episode in November 2016, when he was hospitalized. Just prior, while on a tour that would soon be canceled, the rapper had begun expressing an affinity for Mr. Trump, and when he resurfaced the next month, it was to meet with the new president-elect.Sean M. Spicer, whose famously rocky tenure as press secretary to President Trump made him a household name, has kept a relatively low profile since he resigned last summer — a cameo at the Emmys aside.

On Wednesday, he turned up in Manhattan, at Madame Tussauds, the tourist-friendly waxworks temple, where he had been enlisted to help unveil the likeness of a former White House colleague: the first lady, Melania Trump.

“She’s a very caring and gracious woman, and our country is grateful to have her,” Mr. Spicer said, holding a microphone in front of a reproduction of the Oval Office, which featured a giant Madame Tussauds flag.

“Amazing!” replied his interlocutor, Christine Haughney, the regional marketing manager for Tussauds’s parent company, Merlin Entertainments.WASHINGTON — A person with a weapon was arrested Wednesday at a building that houses several foreign consular offices in Northwest Washington, Secret Service officials said.

About 10:45 a.m. Wednesday, Secret Service officials responded to reports of gunfire in a neighborhood that hosts restaurants, hotels, apartments and some diplomatic offices. Law enforcement officers determined that no shots had been fired, but they arrested and charged an armed person with assault, officials said.

Metropolitan Police in Washington are now handling the arrest, and Secret Service officials declined to comment further on the incident, citing an ongoing investigation.

It was unclear whether the person was in or just near the building, why the person was there and whether any specific foreign office might have been a target. Officials declined to say whether the person was intentionally near the foreign offices, or was unaware of their location.

The building houses several foreign consular offices, including for Mexico and India, as well as the Interest Section for Iran, which is hosted by the Pakistani Embassy.

The Interest Section, which exists in lieu of a formal Iranian embassy, serves as the de facto consulate to handle visa requests, travel questions and general information for Iranian citizens in the United States.Later, in a news conference before wrapping up his three-day visit to the United States — the first formal state visit of the Trump era — Mr. Macron told reporters that while he could not be certain, he expected that Mr. Trump would disregard his entreaties and withdraw from the nuclear deal after all, given that scrapping it was a campaign promise.

On Capitol Hill, Mr. Macron was greeted warmly with a three-minute standing ovation, and he drew several more ovations throughout his speech as he outlined his vision of global affairs and the alliance between the United States and France, in nearly flawless English.

He opened with a humorous nod to the much-discussed embraces he and Mr. Trump shared at the White House on Tuesday, comparing their interactions to those between the French philosopher Voltaire and Benjamin Franklin when they met in Paris in 1778.

“They embraced each other by hugging one another in their arms, and kissing each other’s cheeks,” Mr. Macron said, pausing for effect. “It can remind you of something.”

He spoke about the “unbreakable bonds” between the United States and France and their common values of tolerance, liberty and human rights.

But in substance, Mr. Macron’s address illustrated the degree to which the warm personal rapport between the two presidents contrasts with the stark divides between them on vital questions of policy.

Mr. Macron attacked nationalism and argued that it was up to the United States to preserve the international order it had helped to create.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We have to shape our common answers to the global threats that we are facing,” Mr. Macron said, calling for a new, “strong multilateralism.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The United States is the one who invented this multilateralism,” he went on. “You are the one now who has to help to preserve and reinvent it.”

Mr. Macron implicitly denounced Mr. Trump’s decision to impose steep tariffs on steel and aluminum, saying that the solution to the challenges of global trade was not “massive deregulation and extreme nationalism.”

“Commercial war is not the proper answer,” Mr. Macron said. “At the end of the day, it will destroy jobs, increase prices, and the middle class will have to pay for it.”

Problems should be solved, he said, by negotiating at the World Trade Organization, an institution that Mr. Trump recently called “a disaster” that enforces global trade rules.

“We wrote these rules,” Mr. Macron said. “We should follow them.”

He also railed against inaction in the face of global climate change, using what has come to be his catchphrase for why the Paris climate accord — from which Mr. Trump has withdrawn — must be preserved.

“Let us face it: There is no Planet B,” Mr. Macron said. “I am sure one day the United States will come back and join the Paris agreement.”

He played down his dispute with Mr. Trump on the climate pact as “a short-term disagreement” that should not prevent the United States and France from working to confront climate change challenges.

Borrowing a phrase from Mr. Trump, he said, “Let us work together in order to make our planet great again.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On the campus of George Washington University later in the day, Mr. Macron shed his suit jacket and fielded questions from students on a wide range of issues, drawing a vivid contrast with Mr. Trump in the process. Asked about what one student called the “mass migration” to Europe from the Middle East and Africa, and a corresponding increase in terrorist attacks and assaults — a linkage Mr. Trump often makes — Mr. Macron pushed back.

“I don’t believe these phenomena are directly linked to this current migration,” he said, to applause from the audience.

Speaking specifically about Muslims, whom Mr. Trump once proposed barring from the United States, Mr. Macron said: “The best answer is not just to reject these people. Not true. The proper answer is just to ask everybody in your country to respect the law of the country.”But when pressed, Ms. Sanders said she could not comment on the credibility of specific charges.

“These are new,” she said. “I can only speak to some of the personal accounts that those of us have, as well as the records that we have that are substantiated through a very detailed and thorough background investigation process.”

Among those new charges she did not address: During an overseas trip by the Obama administration in 2015, Dr. Jackson went out drinking, came back to the delegation’s hotel and began banging on the door of a staff member’s hotel room, according to an account shared with Mr. Tester. The noise was so loud that members of the Secret Service came to see what was happening and warned Dr. Jackson to be quiet so he would not wake the president, who was staying nearby.

The episode was first reported by CNN.

On another trip during Barack Obama’s presidency, White House staff members reached out to Dr. Jackson for medical reasons but found him passed out in his hotel room after a night of drinking, Tester aides said. The staff members took the medical supplies they were looking for without waking Dr. Jackson.

The document prepared by the Democratic staff of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee paints a picture of a medical office that was casual with the prescribing and distribution of drugs but terrorized by a mercurial boss, quick to anger. According to the summary, interviewed staff members described Dr. Jackson as “the most unethical person I have ever worked with,” “flat-out unethical” and “incapable of not losing his temper,” among other charges.

The document includes allegations that Dr. Jackson regularly distributed Ambien, a prescription sleep aid, to members of the White House staff and members of the news media flying on long overseas trips, as well as another prescription drug to promote wakefulness.

It says that the committee was told that physicians working with Dr. Jackson “felt uncomfortable and refused to be a part of the loose dispensing of drugs to current and former” White House staff members. It also states that Dr. Jackson “also had private stocks of controlled substances.”

The document says that the panel received testimony that the White House medical unit “had questionable record keeping for pharmaceuticals” and that the committee was told that Dr. Jackson would often account for pills only after distributing them.WASHINGTON — “This is my first and only book party, and I didn’t do the invites,” the former F.B.I. director James Comey said Tuesday night, peering out over a sparse crowd on the seventh floor of the Newseum. (This was easy for him to do as he is, famously, 6-foot-8.)

Mr. Comey, by now a bona fide bipartisan pariah, was sipping California pinot noir from a paper cup and celebrating the remarkable success of his juicy new memoir, “A Higher Loyalty,” with perhaps the last crowd left in town who will gladly have him: journalists.

In a city not known for snappy dressing, Mr. Comey cut a sharp figure in a bespoke blue plaid suit made by the haberdasher The Tailored Man of Alexandria, Va., and brown R.M. Williams Chelsea boots he says were given to him by friends from the Australian police force (not to be confused with the black Chelsea boots Mr. Comey wore for his prime time “20/20” interview, which earned him plaudits from Esquire and GQ).

As a late-April rain lashed the museum’s panoramic windows, the man of the hour cheerily recounted tales from his whirlwind media tour. “The clutch of people coming up to me in airports, that’s probably the hardest thing to get used to,” he said.“On the ethics, the thing I worry about most is this concerted effort to basically fire everyone who questioned him,” said Representative Frank Pallone of New Jersey, the leading Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The biggest concern I have, which runs across the whole spectrum, is science. He wants to put science under the rug, make decisions that are not scientifically based. Get rid of anyone who is scientifically oriented.”

Under Mr. Pruitt’s leadership, the E.P.A. has begun to systematically dismantle former President Barack Obama’s environmental legacy. Mr. Pruitt’s zeal to roll back climate change regulations and impose new rules that benefit fossil fuel industries has endeared him to Mr. Trump. The president also is said to enjoy his E.P.A. chief’s company.

But the spending controversies have proven to be a major distraction. Mr. Pruitt currently faces 10 investigations by the E.P.A.’s inspector general’s office, the congressional watchdog Government Accountability Office, and the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, among others. One White House official said support for Mr. Pruitt inside the White House was waning.

On Wednesday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the president’s press secretary, said a White House review of Mr. Pruitt’s ethics issues was “ongoing” but offered no details. “We’re evaluating these concerns and we expect the E.P.A. administrator to answer for them and we’ll keep you posted,” she said.

Hogan Gidley, another White House spokesman, offered an even more tempered defense in an interview with N.P.R.’s Morning Edition, saying on Wednesday, “We’ve seen the reports and it raises questions, and the E.P.A., quite frankly, and Mr. Pruitt, are going to have to answer those questions in short order.”

Against that backdrop, the hot topics document offers a window into how Mr. Pruitt views what both Democrats and Republicans say are serious ethical lapses.

The list is written in the first person and is structured around two dozen or so subjects, starting with sensitive issues like his travel and security spending, and whether he improperly maintained a secret email address, “sooner7@epa.gov.” The document also prepares Mr. Pruitt for questions on polarizing policy topics like why the E.P.A. removed climate change from its four-year strategic plan and restructured agency operations.“I can only say one thing,” Ms. Phillips said at a council hearing after the bill was rejected in June 1967. “That either you don’t read, and you are not sufficiently knowledgeable to speak to the subject, and that could well be — or you’re just afraid to speak, or you lack the courage to speak.”

Her frustration was mirrored by protesters who marched in the city for 200 consecutive nights beginning in late August 1967. The Rev. James Groppi, a Roman Catholic priest who organized the protests with the N.A.A.C.P. youth council, became the fiery ally Ms. Phillips needed to keep the housing issue alive.

Although initially hesitant to join the marchers — she had earlier refused to picket other aldermen’s homes — she believed she had to fight for her law.

Photo

“We intend to march, all of us, until we get some of the basic freedoms that are ours,” she told the council that September.

But the council barely budged. It passed a watered-down law in November, which she opposed.

“Thanks for nothing,” she told colleagues. “You are very much too late and very much too little.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The demonstrations eventually ended, but national events began to move the housing debate in Milwaukee in Ms. Phillips’s direction. The assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on April 4, 1968, was followed six days later by congressional passage of the Fair Housing Act of 1968.

Later that month, the Common Council, with several new members, including a second African-American, passed, by a 15-4 vote, a housing discrimination bill that had been strengthened by an amendment by Ms. Phillips.

“I think it’s a pretty great day for the city,” she said afterward.

Patrick Jones, author of “The Selma of the North: Civil Rights Insurgency in Milwaukee” (2009), said Ms. Phillips’s decision to join the protests was important to the housing fight because of her prominence as a lawyer, legislator and member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

Photo

“That was significant symbolically, and no doubt ensured support for those demonstrations by a broad array of Milwaukee’s African-American middle class,” Mr. Jones said in a telephone interview.

Velvalea Hortense Rodgers was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 18, 1923. Her father, Russell, was a restaurant owner and mechanic. Her mother, Thelma Payne Rodgers, was a homemaker who also helped out at the restaurant.

Velvalea, who was named for one of her aunts, won a scholarship to Howard University, where she earned a bachelor’s degree. She then became the first African-American woman to graduate from the University of Wisconsin Law School in Madison.

While in Madison, she and her husband, W. Dale Phillips, also a law student, moved out of their housing in protest after white residents circulated a petition against allowing other African-Americans to move in.

“That was quite a shattering experience, and it spoiled it for me,” she said in “Dream Big Dreams,” a documentary about her produced by Robert Trondson in 2015 for Wisconsin Public Television.

Photo

In 2011, the university renamed a dormitory in her honor.

After graduation, the Phillipses opened a law firm in Milwaukee.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Phillips lost her first political bid, for a seat on the Milwaukee school board, in 1953. She ran for the Common Council three years later. Needing money to campaign, she found out that her husband had saved up $3,600 to buy her a mink coat.

“So I said to him, ‘Dale, I’d rather run than have a mink coat,’ ” she told Milwaukee magazine in 2005. “ ‘And if it’s for me, I should do what I want with it.’ ”

She won the race but was not welcomed by her colleagues. No one wanted to share an office with her. She was not invited to join in the back-room dealing that was typical of the era. She was urged to join the aldermen’s wives club.

“Many nights — I wouldn’t let my husband know — I’d cry myself to sleep,” she said in “Dream Big Dreams.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Her party activism led to her election as a national committeewoman for the Democratic Party in 1958. Re-elected two years later, she was placed on the Democrats’ platform committee.

A few days after the party had nominated Kennedy in Los Angeles, Ms. Phillips resisted an appeal by Senator Spessard L. Holland of Florida to weaken the party’s proposed civil rights plank, which Southern delegations vigorously opposed as “government-enforced social equality.”

As recounted by The Associated Press, she asked Mr. Holland, “How, Senator, can you expect the nations of the world to respect us if we take a weak position on enforcing equality for all our citizens?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Holland insisted that the party could not win the presidential election if its civil rights position flouted Southern customs.

“Winning isn’t nearly so important as doing the right thing,” she responded.

The party, resisting the objections of Southern segregationists, went on to adopt the strongest civil rights platform it ever had.

Photo

Ms. Phillips stayed on the Milwaukee Common Council until 1971, when Gov. Patrick Lucey of Wisconsin, a Democrat, made her the state’s first black judge, appointing her to the children’s court for Milwaukee County. She served only briefly before losing an election to the position the next year.

Ms. Phillips then taught and practiced law until she was elected secretary of state in 1978, the first black candidate to win statewide office in Wisconsin.

In 1981, she was reprimanded by the state ethics board for taking fees for speeches and had to repay $8,000. When she sought re-election in 1982, she was defeated in the Democratic primary. “I never felt I did anything wrong,” she told Milwaukee magazine.

In addition to her son Michael, she is survived by four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Her son Dale died in 2005. Her husband died in 1988.

In recent years, Ms. Phillips started a foundation that provides scholarships for minority students, joined a grass-roots organization called the Community Brainstorming Conference and mentored politicians, among them Representative Gwen Moore, a fellow Wisconsin Democrat.

Ms. Moore, in a telephone interview, recounted the time in 2004 when Ms. Phillips called her to encourage her to run for a newly vacated congressional seat.

“ ‘Oh, my God, Gwen, we’re going to have so much fun!’ ” Ms. Moore recalled Ms. Phillips telling her. Ms. Phillips became chairwoman of her campaign.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Maybe,” Ms. Moore said, “this is what that meant to me in retrospect: Vel was not a poor African-American. She was middle class and engaged with the poorest people in the community around a cause, open housing, that was extremely important to us. And she was the first person to say to me, ‘Girl, go for it.’ She was the one on my side who wasn’t scared.”Among her latest career high points: On Saturday, she will be the featured entertainer at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, the annual, increasingly fraught Washington gathering of news media figures, politicians and celebrities.

Then on May 27, her new topical comedy series, “The Break With Michelle Wolf,” will make its debut on Netflix.

These are opportunities that Ms. Wolf sees as sources of both prestige and anxiety — the fruits of her hard work and obligations to make herself work even harder, while she waits for the bottom to drop out.

“I think I’m a good joke writer,” she said. “I’m also very scared that the last joke I wrote is the last joke I’ll ever write.”

On a Friday afternoon earlier this month, Ms. Wolf was in her office at the Midtown Manhattan studio where “The Break” is being produced. Stretched out on a velvet couch, she was explaining the sensibility that she is shooting for at the dinner and in her Netflix show.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Wolf is no fan of President Trump’s, and was relieved when it was announced that for the second year, he would not be attending the dinner.

“I thought, oh, thank God, I don’t have to hear him eat,” she said.

Still, she said there was limited value in standing in front of a crowd and cracking a bunch of knee-jerk jokes about Mr. Trump.

“The audience cheers, but that isn’t comedy,” she said. “It’s just a rally.”

Ms. Wolf said she was not interested in what she called “cool-teacher comedy — we’re going to learn and have fun at the same time.”

“You don’t want to say what people want you to say,” she added. “You want to say what people didn’t know they wanted you to say.”

Ms. Wolf, who grew up in Hershey, Pa., has been following her own muse since she quit her career in finance (where she’d worked at banks like Bear Stearns and JPMorgan Chase) to take improv classes at Upright Citizens Brigade Theater and the Pit in New York.

“Eventually people in improv were like, ‘You’re more of a stand-up,’” Ms. Wolf said. “I think they were gently trying to tell me I was selfish.”

In performance, Ms. Wolf can be her own harshest critic, then suddenly turn that scathing sensibility on her audience and its unexplored assumptions.

In a riff from her 2017 HBO special, “Nice Lady,” she takes aim at her least favorite qualities about herself — a speaking voice she says is shrill; her lackluster commitment to feminism — and mocks Hillary Clinton for losing the 2016 election “because no one likes her.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Ms. Wolf also laments the expectation that women must surrender their likability to attain power. “If you’re in charge of things and you think you’re a nice lady, no one else does,” she says in the set. “There are whole email chains about how much you’re not a nice lady.”

Her stand-up shows attracted the attention of producers at “Late Night,” where Mr. Meyers hired her when he became its host in 2014.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“She’s self-deprecating, yes, but very good at deprecating others,” Mr. Meyers said. “She’s either the meanest nice person I know or the nicest mean person I know.”

Though she was hired primarily to write comedy sketches and jokes for Mr. Meyers’s monologue, Ms. Wolf often appeared on camera, performing her own stand-up and playing characters like a grown-up version of Little Orphan Annie.

When “The Daily Show” hired her away in 2016, Mr. Meyers said he did not begrudge her departure.

“Her whip-crack of a cackle was a fun thing to hear when my jokes were bombing,” he said. “I wish she’d take more pleasure in my successes, but she really seems to enjoy when I fail.”

At “The Daily Show,” Ms. Wolf delivered riffs about Harvey Weinstein and the #MeToo movement, the implications of Hillary Clinton’s loss to Mr. Trump and the cultural impact of the “Wonder Woman” movie.

She also worked relentlessly on her stand-up outside the show, performing as many as 15 or 20 sets a week, by her estimate, at clubs like the Comedy Cellar and Village Underground.

Neal Brennan, the “Chappelle’s Show” co-creator who directed Ms. Wolf in “Nice Lady,” invoked her history as an athlete to describe her work ethic.

“She is competitive, without being competitive against specific people,” Mr. Brennan said. “She is competitive against the track and the time. And she really pushes herself. I know some very hard-working people, and you’re not going to outwork her.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The White House Correspondents’ Association dinner has previously been hosted by late-night stars like Mr. Meyers, Stephen Colbert and Jimmy Kimmel, but its M.C.s can expect to come under intense scrutiny and have their monologues picked apart on a joke-by-joke basis.

When Ms. Wolf was approached about the gig, she said she was ambivalent.

“It’s a weird time, if you’ve noticed,” she said with a laugh. That same day she sat herself down and wrote “a ton of jokes,” just to prove to herself that she could do it. The Correspondents’ Association dinner, she said, is “really a homework assignment.”

Having to prepare her set at the same time she is readying her Netflix show was “not the dream timeline,” Ms. Wolf said, but the side-by-side assignments were helping her to focus.It is also handmade to order, exists only as one-offs, and comes complete with prices that can run into the six digits. Mrs. Trump, for example, seems to have taken what was originally a jumpsuit from the Chanel spring 2018 couture collection and had it remade as a dress.

But in a world of Trumpian excess, where the first lady once wore a coat that cost $51,500, maybe such a willingness to spend should have been expected (besides, the dress can be donated to the national archive by the designer, which defrays the cost). Mrs. Trump has always been unapologetic about the price of her clothes, and this gown had a dual purpose.

As Louise Linton, wife of the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, said when she and her husband made their entrance, she was excited for “everything French!”

[Read more about President Trump’s first state dinner.]

There was something ironic about the fact she said that while wearing a silver beaded gown from Roberto Cavalli, an Italian brand designed by an Englishman, but it may not have occurred to her.

In any case, Mrs. Trump’s decision to wear Chanel was smart, given that her counterpart, Brigitte Macron, had her entire trip wardrobe — from stilettos to handbags to the ivory gown she wore to the dinner, embroidered with a lattice of gold chains across the arms and shoulders — made by Louis Vuitton. “It is a huge honor for me to see Brigitte Macron wearing my designs while on this trip,” said Nicolas Ghesquière, the artistic director of Louis Vuitton. “I love her style and fashion sensibility,” which now represents her country.He is one of three leading Republican contenders heading into the primary, even though he is lugging around enough political baggage to disqualify a candidate most anywhere else.

That Mr. Blankenship retains a political hope is a consequence of West Virginia’s sharp shift to the right, driven by seething hostility to the Obama presidency, both its social changes and its perceived “war” on coal. The emergence of a former coal boss with a criminal record as a potential Senate nominee seems partly an expression of many West Virginia voters’ desire to poke a thumb in the eye of the Washington establishment, Republicans very much included.

Mr. Blankenship offers no apology for his many contradictions and personal and business decisions, some of them previously undisclosed. Though he lives a baronial lifestyle thanks to a fortune built on coal scratched from West Virginia’s mountains, he says the size and origins of his wealth are no one’s business. He is the only candidate in either party in the Senate race who has not disclosed his personal finances as required by law to the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. There isn’t “much of a penalty” for flouting the law, he explained in an interview, justifying his refusal.

“I don’t personally think anybody should have to disclose private information,” he said while awaiting the start of a “meet the candidates” event last week in Cabin Creek, W.Va.

National Republican leaders are alarmed that Mr. Blankenship could emerge as the winner of the primary, which they fear would cost them a winnable seat in November against Senator Joe Manchin, a vulnerable Democrat.

In a highly unusual move, a super PAC linked to Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky senator and Republican leader, began saturating the West Virginia airwaves last week with an ad attacking Mr. Blankenship for poisoning local drinking water from his former coal mines. The nearly $745,000 campaign of TV and digital ads is meant to boost the chances of two conventional Republicans in the race, Attorney General Patrick Morrisey and Representative Evan Jenkins. A Fox News poll conducted last week found a fluid race, with Mr. Blankenship trailing his rivals but about one in four voters undecided.

On Monday, responding to the attack ads, Mr. Blankenship brought up Mr. McConnell’s marriage to Elaine Chao, the secretary of transportation, and questioned whether the majority leader faced a conflict of interest in foreign relations. Ms. Chao’s father is “a wealthy Chinaperson,” Mr. Blankenship said, speaking on a West Virginia radio show, adding, “And there’s a lot of connections to some of the brass, if you will, in China.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I read in books that people think he’s soft on China,” he said of Mr. McConnell.

China, as it happens, is a topic of personal interest to Mr. Blankenship. His fiancée, Farrah Meiling Hobbs, was born there. The two met on a flight from Atlanta to Las Vegas about eight years ago, Mr. Blankenship said. According to the website of an international trading company Ms. Hobbs founded, she is “a former Chinese professional basketball player and part-time model” who moved to the United States in 1996.

In 2016 Ms. Hobbs and Mr. Blankenship paid $2.4 million in cash to buy the palatial home near Las Vegas that Mr. Blankenship claims in court papers is his principal residence. It is a six-bedroom, eight-bath Spanish-style mansion with marble floors and a dolphin sculpture beside the pool, according to an online real estate site. (He also owns a residence in West Virginia.)

Photo

It was purchased just before Mr. Blankenship began a one-year prison sentence following his conviction on a misdemeanor count related to the 2010 explosion at Upper Big Branch mine, the deadliest mine accident in the United States in 40 years.

Though Mr. Blankenship stepped down that year as chief executive of the Massey Energy Company, he exited with his sumptuous earnings intact. Massey paid him $17.8 million in his last year. He gained an additional $86.2 million when the company was later sold, by one estimate.

Part of Mr. Blankenship’s assets are now paying for some $2 million of TV and digital ads — far more than his rivals — that seek to muddy the picture of his 2015 conviction by painting him as a victim of a politically driven “Obama judge” and “Obama prosecutors.”

Photo

Family members of the 29 Upper Big Branch victims said it was crushing to watch those ads, in which Mr. Blankenship portrays himself as a champion of safety and refuses responsibility for the loss of life.

“I want Mr. Blankenship to say he’s sorry, I want him to feel contrition, I want him to feel compassion,” said Dr. Judy Jones Petersen, whose brother Dean Jones died in the explosion. “People have to understand that Mr. Blankenship is a bad man. Your character doesn’t change.”

In his campaign, Mr. Blankenship positions himself as a West Virginia populist, an “American competitionist” who stands for unfettered capitalism. The heart of the government’s case against him at trial was that he rapaciously sought profit while ignoring mine safety.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Yet he identifies the new frontier of uninhibited capitalism as China. In a telephone conversation he recorded in 2009, introduced at his trial, Mr. Blankenship said he might move to Asia where governments enforce fewer regulations.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I’m actually considering moving to China or somewhere and being more like George Washington if I can get citizenship,” he said. “I can probably get citizenship in India. I’d rather be in China.”

In the interview, he repeated this sentiment and freely discussed his financial history in China, though he said foreign citizenship was no longer a priority for him — perhaps dual citizenship would be useful, he mused.

He expressed admiration for how Beijing exercises central control over its economy.

“Americans confuse the words communism and dictatorship,” he said. “The Chinese are running a dictatorial capitalism and it’s very effective. That’s the way corporations are run. Corporations are not a democracy.”

Before his foreign travel was restricted after his arrest in 2014, Mr. Blankenship was a frequent enough visitor to China that he opened a bank account there. “When I go over there I don’t have to carry a lot of money with me,” he said in the interview. “If you go over there and you spend some time, you can easily spend a good bit of money.”

Ms. Hobbs and Mr. Blankenship formed a business together in 2012, Generator World, to import home generators made in China. According to records from Panjiva, which tracks global trade, a shipment of 386 items was sent from Fuzhou, China, the next year to Ms. Hobbs’s company, Amerasia International.

“They arrived and we did sell them, but we didn’t grow the business or continue it,” Mr. Blankenship said. “I wasn’t in a position to do that.” It was a dry reference to his trial, sentence and one-year parole, which will end the day after the May 8 primary.

In the absence of much public polling, the clearest sign that Mr. Blankenship is a threat in the race is the hefty advertising budget of national Republicans who seek to disqualify him with voters.

Otherwise, signs of his support can be elusive. He draws sparse crowds to his events, and when he appears at multicandidate gatherings, he shows little knack for political skills. Rather than working a room, he keeps to himself, as he did at the Mineral County Lincoln Day dinner on Friday in Keyser.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I don’t think someone who’s on parole at this moment in time should be running for office,” Jessica Imes, a voter at the dinner, said.

Mr. Morrisey, the attorney general, moved easily among the party activists dining on stuffed chicken breast and mashed potatoes beneath a giant stuffed moose head at the local Order of Moose hall. His campaign has spent little time attacking Mr. Blankenship, in the belief that primary voters recognize that Republicans should not run a convicted criminal in the general election.

“I think he would get crushed in the fall, crushed,” Mr. Morrisey said.

“The hypocrisy runs deep in this race,” he added. “He’s a Nevada resident. He abandoned West Virginia when we really needed people to stand up to Barack Obama.”

Although Mr. Blankenship maintained in numerous court proceedings that his principal residence was Nevada, he still owns a home in West Virginia, in Mingo County not far from where he was raised. He said he paid property taxes in West Virginia but not income taxes.

There is nothing legally barring him from seeking a Senate seat from the state if he declares a primary residence elsewhere.

He scoffed at the notion that voters might regard him as an outsider, even a carpetbagger, because he lives mostly in Nevada.

“Many people have two homes,” he said. “Most coal miners now have one in Tennessee and one in West Virginia.”Employees with the air marshals view their jobs as crucial to overall efforts to protect airplanes and airports from terrorist attacks. But interviews with more than two dozen former and current federal air marshals describe an agency in crisis.

Burnout is high. Morale is low. Some of those interviewed said they were aware of colleagues who had committed suicide or attempted it. Nearly all described having a variety of job-related health problems; one marshal said he had depression, sleep apnea and dizzy spells.

“The conditions in the air marshals make it more likely that a FAM will not react to a threat than react to one,” said Clay Biles, a former air marshal, who resigned from the agency in 2013 after a five-year stint.

Most of the current and former air marshals spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss operations of the security agency; some said they feared retaliation for speaking out.



The Transportation Security Administration declined to respond to specific questions about the complaints, but said all allegations of misconduct are investigated.

“T.S.A. and the Federal Air Marshal Service leadership take the care of our people very seriously and vigorously dispute any indication otherwise,” said Thomas H. Kelly Jr., a spokesman for the air marshals.

Mr. Kelly acknowledged that alcoholism has been a problem for some air marshals — he said about 13 marshals had gotten D.U.I.s in the last three years — and he said that one marshal in the last five years had committed suicide. But he said neither issue represented systemic problems within the program.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The federal air marshals program was created in 1961, during the Kennedy administration, in response to an increase in airline hijackings linked to Cuba. It has since grown from about a dozen air marshals to a force that officials have said numbers about 3,000, with an $800 million annual budget to safeguard against terrorist attacks aboard domestic and international flights.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, the program was pulled into the newly created T.S.A. and under the umbrella of the Department of Homeland Security. Since then, it has been the focus of a number of congressional investigations, internal inquiries and news media reports documenting a series of scandals — including marshals hiring prostitutes and managers scheduling flights to meet up for sexual trysts.

Government reports have questioned the air marshals’ effectiveness and suggested that its budget be redirected to other counterterrorism programs.

A two-paragraph unclassified statement from the Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general last year said parts of the air marshals program could be “discontinued” and its “funds could be put to better use.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A report by the Government Accountability Office, also published last year, found that T.S.A. could not accurately describe the marshals’ ability to deter terrorist attacks. “T.S.A. does not have information on its effectiveness in doing so, nor does it have data on the deterrent effect resulting from any of its other aviation security countermeasures,” the auditors wrote.

Critics note other security measures — including fortifying cockpit doors and arming thousands of pilots — reduced in-flight threats and, in turn, made the protection provided by air marshals less necessary. T.S.A. has also enacted stricter passenger screening measures to prevent terrorists from boarding planes.

With a small work force, air marshals are able to protect only a small fraction of the more than 42,000 flights in the United States each day. There were no air marshals aboard the trans-Atlantic flight carrying the shoe bomber Richard C. Reid in December 2001, nor the one carrying the underwear bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab in December 2009. Both men were linked to Al Qaeda.

Representative John J. Duncan Jr., Republican of Tennessee and longtime critic of the air marshals program, said the agency averaged one arrest each year per 1,000 marshals. Most of those arrests were for rowdy passengers or immigration violations, according to several air marshals.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And instead of putting marshals on flights deemed to be the highest risk, they are spread across as many flights as possible, including on domestic regional 50-seat planes. The strategy has been ridiculed as “flights to nowhere” by the Air Marshal Association, a union that is pushing the Senate to approve a bill requiring that air marshals be assigned to higher-risk flights. (It has already passed the House.)

“Based on how the program is run now, most of what the air marshals do is just security theater — it serves absolutely no purpose other than showing that they are doing something,” said Robert MacLean, an air marshal who was fired by T.S.A. in 2006 after disclosing to an MSNBC reporter that the agency was planning to reduce the number of air marshals on overnight flights. He was rehired after a nearly 10-year battle that reached the Supreme Court.

Air marshals interviewed for this article said their biggest problem was the number of hours they were expected to fly. They are not allowed to sleep on flights, and back-to-back international trips involving prolonged periods of sitting awake take a toll. Several air marshals said they took medication or drank alcohol to stay awake — despite a policy prohibiting alcohol consumption within 10 hours before work.

The agency said it had begun an alcohol awareness program, but several air marshals said it has had little effect. One marshal who was a recovering alcoholic and featured in an awareness video later committed suicide, according to two employees. The agency declined to comment, and the employees said the video was not being released.

Air marshals blamed their lack of sleep for losing their weapons or leaving them where passengers could find them. It is unclear how often this has happened, but in one case last year, operations at Indianapolis International Airport were shut down for several hours after a marshal lost his weapon.

Air marshals also blame management, which they said had turned a blind eye to their concerns — including complaints about being subjected to sexist and racist behavior at work.

In recent court filings, Kristina Hickey, an air marshal in New Jersey who is suing the agency over claims of gender discrimination and a hostile work environment, said she was stalked by a supervisor who repeatedly sent her sexually explicit and threatening messages on a government-issued phone.

Ms. Hickey said she had reported the man to managers, but no action was taken. Instead, she said, managers expressed sympathy for her accused stalker, including at one point saying they did not want to lose their “best guy.” The supervisor, who was not identified in court documents, was later reprimanded for misusing a government phone and remains an air marshal. The lawsuit is pending.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Air marshals who are minorities said they had experienced similar problems, including hearing colleagues using racial slurs. But employees who report misbehavior describe retaliation by managers. Just 36 percent of air marshals said they felt that they could report a violation of law or misconduct without fear of reprisal, according to the 2017 federal employee survey.

Mr. MacLean said that not long after returning to work in 2015 he was taken off flight assignments and worked for six months in a remote office with no colleagues and no duties. He was eventually assigned to one of T.S.A.’s prevention and response squads to perform random security sweeps at transportation hubs across the United States.

Last October, Mr. MacLean said his badge and weapon were taken away, and he was ordered to submit to a psychiatric examination after he questioned security decisions. He was cleared to return to duty in November.

Several air marshals have asked Congress to remove the program from T.S.A.’s purview and entrust it to a different agency, like Customs and Border Protection or the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

“T.S.A. is just not capable of overseeing the federal air marshals because it’s not a law enforcement agency,” Mr. MacLean said. “The past 15 years or so have shown that.”Democratic energy has been on vivid display in a series of special elections since President Trump’s inauguration, including in strongly conservative areas where Republicans usually win elections easily, like Arizona’s Eighth District.

Republicans have fared far worse in recent special congressional elections compared with previous elections. Republican margin of victory Source: Offices of secretaries of state; Associated Press | Note: Data do not include races in which Republican candidates ran unopposed.

In a special House election on Tuesday, Debbie Lesko, a Republican, won the conservative Arizona district. But she won by less than six points, a much closer outcome compared to the victory margin of Trent Franks, who beat his opponent by 37 points in 2016.

In 2016, President Trump won the district in a landslide, but on Tuesday, Republican support dropped in nearly all precincts.

Shift from 2016 presidential election Tucson Phoenix Eighth Congressional District Source: Maricopa County recorder’s office

While Republican candidates like Ms. Lesko have mostly prevailed in the recent special elections, they have been winning by sharply reduced margins.

Congressional seats that Republicans defended easily in 2016 — in Georgia, South Carolina and elsewhere — have barely stayed in Republican hands.

Change in margins of victory for seats that stayed Republican

In one race, Alabama’s December special election for the Senate, allegations of child molestation doomed Roy S. Moore, the Republican candidate, and vaulted Doug Jones, a Democrat, into Congress.

A district in Pennsylvania that Mr. Trump carried by about 20 points flipped to the Democrats in March. Races for these seats have each had only one contested race in the last three general elections.

Change in margins of victory for seats that flipped to Democrats

Multiple forces are behind the swing: Republican voters appear demoralized while Democrats are fired up, and some voters who typically lean Republican have been shifting away from the party.

So far, Republicans have benefited greatly from being able to choose most of the spots they have been forced to compete in. Five of the eight special elections arose because Mr. Trump selected the sitting Republican lawmaker there for a position in his cabinet. (In the other three cases, Republicans resigned from Congress amid scandal or to join the private sector.)But after the previous representative, Trent Franks, resigned following revelations he had offered $5 million to an aide in exchange for carrying his child, Arizona Democrats rallied to Ms. Tipirneni. She outraised Ms. Lesko in what was the first high-profile congressional election since 2016 between two women.

National Democrats, however, stayed away from the race, deducing that a district that has sent only Republicans to Congress for four decades was out of reach. And any hopes Ms. Tipirneni had to win outside support may have faded this month when a local TV station reported that she had not practiced medicine since 2007 and had settled a malpractice lawsuit with a woman who blamed her for contracting tetanus.

In contrast, the Republican National Committee, the National Republican Congressional Committee and the Congressional Leadership Fund, the primary House Republican super PAC, each poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into the race. The investment proved critical in what became an unexpectedly close race.

“It’s a warning shot,” Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said of the results. “Anything below a 10-point margin is not good news.”

Photo

Mr. Trump sought to put a better face on the results Wednesday morning, writing on Twitter that it was a “big win” and asserting that the “press is so silent.”

Ms. Lesko, 59, ran as a dependable supporter of Mr. Trump and assailed Ms. Tipirneni for not backing White House priorities like the construction of a wall on the Mexican border. With help from the battery of outside Republican organizations, Ms. Lesko sought to polarize the district along traditional partisan lines, branding Ms. Tipirneni as a liberal and a puppet of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Rather than wait for the contest to tighten, the groups helped Ms. Lesko build an early advantage in a race in which the vast majority of voters cast their ballots early. Registered Republicans far outnumbered Democrats in the early voting period, and the median age was 67 among those voting before Election Day, an indication of a heavily conservative electorate.

Ms. Tipirneni, 50, found energetic support among some women in the district who were uneasy about Mr. Trump and had been roused to get active in politics. As Representative Conor Lamb of Pennsylvania did in a special election last month, she offered herself as a moderate who would not support Ms. Pelosi for House speaker.

But unlike Mr. Lamb’s Pittsburgh-area seat — which includes an array of vote-rich, upscale suburbs — the Arizona district is full of AARP-eligible snowbirds, reliably Republican Mormons and military families who work at nearby Luke Air Force Base. And this race was a head-to-head contest — there was no Libertarian on the ballot, as in Pennsylvania, who could have allowed Ms. Tipirneni to eke out a win had it proved closer.

This was not a district that was on either party’s list of seats that will determine control of the House. But the steps conservatives took to secure victory for a former officeholder illustrate just how much the anti-Trump energy on the left is putting Republicans on the defensive across the country.The Trump administration has abruptly decided that Washington’s pick for ambassador to Australia should instead become envoy to South Korea, filling a diplomatic void just as President Trump prepares to meet Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, officials said on Wednesday.

The shift involving Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., commander of the United States forces in the Pacific, is a diplomatic blow to Australia, a close American ally. Australia’s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, confirmed that Admiral Harris would not be taking the post in Australia.

“While we would have welcomed Admiral Harris here as ambassador to Australia, we understand that there are significant challenges for the United States on the Korean Peninsula,” Ms. Bishop said.

The Trump administration’s decision to nominate Admiral Harris for the posting in Seoul was confirmed by a recent member of the staff of the Pacific Command who discussed the matter on condition of anonymity.Just as her career was going “full speed” in 2015, she was attacked while on assignment by a group of North Korean migrant women workers who wrestled her camera out of her hand and severely injured her right thumb, she said. She was sidelined by the injury, and the publication that had given her the assignment did not cover her medical care, she said.

Two years of surgeries and physical therapy were “a bit of a wake up call” and gave her time to reflect on the work she wanted to do. The advantage of “thinking more and shooting less” has led her to projects that are not classical photojournalism.

The six photographers who previously received the Hondros award were all noted photojournalists covering news internationally. While Ms. Sim is successful in her editorial work, she is more known for her long-term projects. Though Mr. Hondros was among the most admired conflict photographers of his generation, the award honors photographers who show deep human engagement and rigorous thought about what they cover, said Christina Piaia, the fund’s founder, who was engaged to Mr. Hondros.

“This year, we definitely recognize that this work is different,” she said. “We were particularly struck by her intelligence and the rigor embedded in her work. Her keen sense and knowledge about the geographic locations, cultures and subjects she covers are akin to Hondros’s work and the immense preparation he undertook to learn not only about the current state of affairs, but the historical context of the people, conflicts and regions he covered.”

In addition, to the recognition for Ms. Sim, the Bronx Documentary Center received a $5,000 award in acknowledgment of its continuing community engagement and youth education programs.Mr. Ballen’s own artistic germination began after his mother’s death in 1973. After briefly studying painting at the Art Students League of New York, he decided to leave the United States behind and travel the world. Over the next five years, Mr. Ballen photographed everywhere from Cairo to Cape Town in the tradition of the street photographers he grew up admiring. His photographs of boys he encountered along the way became the subject of his first book, “Boyhood,” published in 1979.

Those photos are recognizably Ballen photographs, but the hallmarks of his aesthetic — the windowless rooms, the absurdist juxtapositions, the recurring cast of otherworldly characters — didn’t truly emerge in his work until the early 1980s, when he moved to South Africa to pursue a career in mineral exploration. As he traveled the countryside for his geological work, he became drawn to the country’s remote dorps, or small towns, and the marginalized white people who lived there.

One day, he finally gathered the courage to knock on the door of a home in Hopetown and ask to photograph inside. Stepping through that threshold, he said, was a “tipping point” in his career, the beginning not only of his documentation of outsiders, but of his attempts at probing his own psyche through his photography.

“That’s what my photography has been about all these years: defining Roger, and Roger’s relationship to the world, and the world’s relationship to Roger, and Roger’s relationship to deeper philosophical issues of the human condition,” he said.One way to prove himself, he said, was to accept the condition they have for outsiders who want to learn about the area: Newcomers have to share some bit of knowledge or help with a project. On his first trip, Mr. Vallejo made photographs for a catalog of traditional plants in the community’s herbarium.

Members of the community who had left to study have returned to apply their newly acquired skills and help preserve their culture and the environment. The financial settlement they reached with the government allowed them to set up a local bank, and they have also undertaken projects to provide each home with a solar panel that can power a light and radio.

And while they may be far from the city, they are not cut off. An administration building has a satellite internet connection and a generator, which attracts people who want to charge their phones, tablets or laptops (which, apart from connecting them to supporters and allies in the environmental movement, are also good for watching movies).

“This super global tool, you might think was a bad influence, but they use it for their campaigns,” Mr. Vallejo said. “It’s interesting how there is this influence of foreign culture, and the majority of people there, especially the young, have Facebook and Instagram accounts. They connect to the Western world and borrow some things. For example, when they have feasts, they paint their faces. Used to be they painted spirits. Now, one kid paints his face like a member of Kiss.”Photo

Sara Krulwich, a longtime theater photographer who has documented decades of Broadway history for The New York Times, is being honored for “extraordinary achievement” by the Tony Awards.

The awards administrators said Wednesday that Ms. Krulwich, who has been a staff photographer at The Times since 1979, would be among three recipients of this year’s Tony Honors for Excellence in the Theater, which are given to individuals, organizations and institutions that have contributed to the theater industry but are not eligible in any established Tony Awards categories.

The Tony Awards will also give honors for excellence to Bessie Nelson, a longtime costume beader, and to Ernest Winzer Cleaners, a 110-year-old business with a specialty in costume work.

Earlier this week, Tony administrators announced that this year’s lifetime achievement awards would go to the composer Andrew Lloyd Webber and the performer Chita Rivera, and that an annual award for volunteerism would go to Nick Scandalios, executive vice president of the Nederlander Organization, for his work as an advocate for gay parents and their children.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Krulwich, 67, became the first culture photographer for The Times in 1994, and gradually made theater into a beat as she successfully fought to win access from producers accustomed to relying on photographers they hired. “At first people wouldn’t let me in — why would they let someone in who wasn’t going to let them see the photo ahead of time?” Ms. Krulwich said in an interview. “It made no sense to people.”“This is not a so-called Muslim ban,” he said. “If it were, it would be the most ineffective Muslim ban that one could possibly imagine.” It excluded, he said, “the vast majority of the Muslim world.”

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. added his own statistics.

“I think there are 50 predominantly Muslim countries in the world,” he said. “Five predominantly Muslim countries are on this list. The population of the predominantly Muslim countries on this list make up about 8 percent of the world’s Muslim population. If you looked at the 10 countries with the most Muslims, exactly one, Iran, would be on that list of the top 10.”

Neal K. Katyal, a lawyer for the challengers, rejected that analysis. “If I’m an employer and I have 10 African-Americans working for me and I only fire two of them” but retain the other eight, he said, “I don’t think anyone can say that’s not discrimination.”

Mr. Trump issued his first travel ban a week after he took office, causing chaos at the nation’s airports and starting a cascade of lawsuits and appeals. The case before the court, Trump v. Hawaii, No. 17-965, concerns Mr. Trump’s third and most concerted effort to make good on his campaign promise to secure the United States’ borders. The court had considered aspects of an earlier version of the travel ban, but this was the first time the justices heard arguments on any of the challenges.

Challengers to the latest ban said Mr. Trump’s campaign speeches and Twitter posts about Muslims were a clear indication that the ban was aimed at a particular religious group and not justified by security concerns.

The administration said the latest order was the product of careful study by several agencies into the security and information-sharing practices of countries worldwide. The president’s lawyers urged the courts to ignore Mr. Trump’s statements and Twitter posts, and to focus solely on the text of the proclamation and the process that produced it.

Listen: Justices Hear Arguments on Trump’s Travel Ban Audio

But several justices pressed Mr. Francisco to explain why the restrictions should not be seen as tainted by religious animus.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Justice Elena Kagan offered a hypothetical situation in which a future president who is “a vehement anti-Semite and says all kinds of denigrating comments about Jews” comes into office and bans entry to the United States from Israel.

“The question is, what are reasonable observers to think given this context?” Justice Kagan said, adding that she was asking about an “out of the box kind of president.”

Mr. Francisco acknowledged that “this is a very tough hypothetical.” But he said such a proclamation could be lawful.

“If his cabinet were to actually come to him and say, ‘Mr. President, there is honestly a national security risk here and you have to act,’ I think then that the president would be allowed to follow that advice even if in his private heart of hearts he also harbored animus,” Mr. Francisco said.

In addition to examining whether the travel ban was tainted by religious discrimination, the justices considered whether Mr. Trump had the legal authority to issue it.

Justice Kennedy pressed Mr. Katyal about whether judges should second-guess a president’s national security judgments. “That’s for the courts to do, not the president?” he asked, skeptically.

Mr. Katyal responded that presidents ordinarily deserve substantial deference. But he said the travel ban was so extreme that the Supreme Court should step in.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Justice Kennedy noted that the latest travel ban was longer and more detailed than proclamations issued by earlier presidents. He also appeared to speak approvingly of a part of the proclamation that called for periodic reports.

Chief Justice Roberts posed hypothetical questions to Mr. Katyal about the president’s power to thwart terrorist attacks.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We have 100 percent solid information that on a particular day, nationals from Syria are going to enter the United States with chemical and biological weapons,” the chief justice posited. “They could kill tens of thousands of Americans. In that situation, could the president ban the entry of Syrian nationals on that one day?”

Mr. Katyal said that presidents have the power to address emergencies but not to create sustained discrimination.

Video

The travel ban is not the only one of the Trump administration’s immigration policies under challenge. Several federal judges, including one on Tuesday, have blocked its efforts to end a separate program that shields some undocumented young adults from deportation. Those cases on the program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, are also likely to reach the Supreme Court.

Mr. Trump’s first travel ban, issued in January 2017, was promptly blocked by courts around the nation. A second version, issued two months later, fared little better, though the Supreme Court allowed part of it to go into effect in June when it agreed to hear the Trump administration’s appeals from two appeals court losses. But the Supreme Court dismissed those appeals in October after the second ban expired.

The current ban initially restricted travel from eight countries — Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad, Venezuela and North Korea — six of which were predominantly Muslim. Chad was recently removed from the list.

The restrictions vary in their details, but, for the most part, citizens of the countries are prohibited from immigrating to the United States, and many are barred from working, studying or vacationing here.

In December, in a sign that the Supreme Court may uphold the latest order, the court allowed it to go into effect as the case moved forward. The decision effectively overturned a compromise in place since June, when the court said travelers with connections to the United States could continue to travel here notwithstanding restrictions in an earlier version of the ban.

Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented from the December ruling.

Hawaii, several individuals and a Muslim group challenged the latest ban’s limits on travel from the predominantly Muslim nations; they did not object to the portions concerning North Korea and Venezuela. They prevailed before a Federal District Court in Hawaii and before a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The appeals court ruled that Mr. Trump had exceeded the authority that Congress had given him over immigration and had violated a part of the immigration laws barring discrimination in the issuance of visas.

In a separate decision that is not directly before the justices, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., blocked the ban on different grounds, saying it violated the Constitution’s prohibition on religious discrimination.

Toward the end of Wednesday’s argument, the questioning again turned to how much weight the court should assign to Mr. Trump’s campaign statements and how long they should haunt him.

Mr. Katyal said Mr. Trump and his advisers could easily have repudiated the earlier statements. “Instead they embraced them,” Mr. Katyal said.

The chief justice then asked whether Mr. Trump could immunize his order from constitutional challenge simply by disclaiming his earlier statements. “If tomorrow he issues a proclamation saying he’s disavowing all those statements,” the chief justice asked, “then the next day he can re-enter this proclamation?”

Mr. Katyal said yes.

In his rebuttal argument, Mr. Francisco pursued the point. Mr. Trump, he said, has already made clear that “he had no intention of imposing the Muslim ban.”

“He has made crystal clear that Muslims in this country are great Americans and there are many, many Muslim countries who love this country, and he has praised Islam,” Mr. Francisco said. “This proclamation is about what it says it’s about: foreign policy and national security.”That all changed on Wednesday after she heard the news about the judge’s latest decision.

“I feel empowered. I am motivated again. I have to continue thinking positive,” she said.

For now.

What has this crazy roller-coaster ride been like for the 700,000 undocumented immigrants, brought to the United States as children, whose fate depends on DACA? Here’s a glimpse.

The Dream Begins

2010: Much of DACA had its seeds in a piece of legislation known as the Dream Act that would have given a path to citizenship to more than one million young immigrants brought illegally into the country as children.

More than 100 of them packed the Senate gallery. They held hands as the vote was taken, many of them praying. In the end, the bill passed the House but fell an excruciating five votes short in the Senate. The Dreamers were ushered out into the Capitol hallway, hugging and weeping. They began to defiantly chant: “What do we want? The Dream Act! When do we want it? Now!”

Something had changed. Until now, undocumented immigrants had stayed out of the spotlight, leaving others to speak on their behalf to avoid exposing their illegal status. No more.

“We were thinking no matter what, this vote doesn’t define us,” said Lorella Praeli, director of immigration policy and campaigns at the ACLU, who was then a Dreamer in Connecticut. Our lives will never be the same, because we’ve come out of the shadows.”

Ms. Praeli, then 23, and several other Dreamer leaders would play an instrumental role in persuading President Obama that young undocumented immigrants could be shielded from deportation even without congressional action.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We wanted to be everyday Americans,” recalled Gaby Pacheco, then 27, a leader of a fast-growing group of young immigrants called United We Dream. She arrived in the United States from Ecuador when she was 8 years old.

Ms. Pacheco, Ms. Praeli and their fellow activists campaigned for more than two years with marches and sit-ins, arguing that they were Americans in every sense but their birthplace.

Obama Steps In: DACA is Born

June 2012: Under pressure from the young immigrants and their allies, President Obama took executive action to create DACA, providing the young people with protection from deportation and work permits renewable every two years.

When Mr. Obama made the announcement in the Rose Garden, Dreamers around the country — many who had been glued to their televisions — were elated. They embraced and cried, this time in celebration.

“I received a call from a White House official telling me that I should turn on the TV,” recalled Juan Escalante, an activist who was working at his computer in Tallahassee, Fla. “When the president was speaking, my jaw dropped to the floor. I ran out of the office to call my mother crying, because I knew it was going to help me, my brothers and thousands of other Dreamers.”

Mr. Escalante and two younger brothers signed up for the program as soon as they could. “Our applications were among the first, I am sure,” Mr. Escalante said.

Thanks to DACA, his brother, Daniel, was able to work legally for the first time, pay for more college classes and afford a car. Mr. Escalante, 26, expects to graduate on April 30 from Florida International University and plans to become a high school teacher.

The same year DACA went into effect, attempts to end the program began to surface. They went nowhere.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Politics Intervene

Aug. 20, 2016: It was election season, and on the campaign trail, President Trump in Phoenix struck a hard line on immigration and reaffirmed his commitment to terminate the DACA program.

There would be “no amnesty,” Trump declared. “For those here illegally today who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and one route only. To return home and apply for re-entry like everybody else.”

DACA participants were heartsick, but consoled each other: Trump would never be elected, they said.

Jan. 20, 2017: Mr. Trump took office.

“Everyone was like, is he actually going to do it? We were biting our nails and worried he would end DACA in the first few days,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant advocacy group.

But then Trump did an about-face.

At a White House news conference on Feb. 26, 2017, President Trump said, “We’re going to deal with DACA with heart.” Dealing with the issue, he said, was “a very difficult thing for me. I love these kids. I love kids.”

Attorneys General Threaten to Sue

June 29, 2017: The attorney general of Texas, Ken Paxton, wrote a letter threatening to sue the federal government over DACA unless the administration phased it out. The notice was signed by nine of his counterparts in other states.

Trump’s attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and his chief of staff, John F. Kelly, met with the president and warned him that the DACA program was unconstitutional. You had better take action to end it, they advised him, according to administration staff members.

The End of DACA

Sept. 5, 2017: Sessions announced the administration’s decision to end DACA.

Later that evening, Trump called on Congress to pass a replacement. [Read our story about Trump calling on Congress to act.]

For participants in the program, the abrupt decision was stunning. DACA had enabled them to get jobs, attend college, obtain driver’s licenses and even get 401(k)s. Everything was at risk.

Photo

Heyra Avila, 22, who arrived in the United States from Mexico at the age of 4, donned a T-shirt emblazoned with “Here to Stay” and joined a DACA rally in Cincinnati outside the office of Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She was feeling defiant.

“No matter what the administration says and does, I am going to keep fighting for justice for thousands of immigrants here in the United States,” said Ms. Avila, who is a paralegal in Florence, Ky. “We’re not going anywhere.”

Democrats: We Have a Deal

Sept. 13, 2017: About a week after the announcement, Trump hosted a working dinner with top Democrats — the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, and the House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi of California — to discuss immigration.

Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi declared that they had a deal with President Trump to quickly extend protections for Dreamers, an announcement that led to widespread elation in the Dreamer community.

But then the president contradicted those statements.

The courts speak

In Congress, a number of bipartisan proposals that would protect Dreamers were either rejected by the White House or failed to gain enough support among lawmakers.

But the big action has been in the courts.

Jan. 9, 2018: A federal judge in San Francisco ruled that the Trump administration had ended the DACA program improperly and ordered the government not only to keep it in place, but to allow DACA participants to apply for renewals.

On the first day, legal-aid organizations were deluged. In Los Angeles, people started lining up at 2:30 in the morning at the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I wanted to take this opportunity while the window lasts,” said Mario Hernandez, 29, who was whisked across the Mexico-United States border when he was a 1-year-old, and then raised in Los Angeles.

Hours later, his sense of urgency seemed prescient. The Department of Justice filed a notice of appeal.

April 24, 2018: This week, in the biggest blow yet to the Trump administration’s move to kill the DACA program, Judge John D. Bates of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, found that the decision was “virtually unexplained.”

He gave the government 90 days to come up with sufficient legal justification, or be forced to begin accepting new DACA applications.

Yehimi Cambron, an art teacher in Atlanta and a DACA recipient, spread news of the latest court decision among students at her school, many of whom she believes are undocumented.

Some of them were celebrating; others were skeptical. All of them were exhausted by the breathtaking twists and turns of the past year or so.

“Any time there is one of these decisions, there’s a feeling of hope,” said Ms. Cambron, 25.

But maybe, she knows by now, not for long. “Even if there are small victories,” she said, “people are now in survival mode.”

She added: “We can’t continue living this way.”On Wednesday, the White House continued to defend Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, the White House physician and President Trump’s nominee to lead the Veterans Affairs Department, amid questions over his performance as the White House physician.“If he was on a roster right now, all this negativeness and divisiveness could be turned into a positive,” Philadelphia Eagles defensive lineman Chris Long said at the meeting.

Long said he did not wish to “lecture any team” on what quarterbacks to sign, but “we all agree in this room as players that he should be on a roster.” The owners’ responses were noncommittal. The Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said that fighting for social justice is not “about one person.”

The New England Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft pointed to another “elephant in the room.”

“This kneeling,” he said.

“The problem we have is, we have a president who will use that as fodder to do his mission that I don’t feel is in the best interests of America,” said Kraft, who is a longtime supporter of Mr. Trump’s. “It’s divisive and it’s horrible.”

The owners were intent on finding a way to avoid Trump’s continued criticism. The president’s persistent jabs on Twitter had turned many fans against the league. Lurie, who called Trump’s presidency “disastrous,” cautioned against players getting drawn into the president’s tactics.

“We’ve got to be careful not to be baited by Trump or whomever else,” Lurie said. “We have to find a way to not be divided and not get baited.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Buffalo Bills owner Terry Pegula sounded anguished over the uncertainty of when Trump would take another shot at the league. “All Donald needs to do is to start to do this again,” Pegula said. “We need some kind of immediate plan because of what’s going on in society. All of us now, we need to put a Band-Aid on what’s going on in the country.”

The Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shahid Khan countered that the worst was behind them. “All the damage Trump’s going to do is done,” he said.

The owners kept returning to one bottom-line issue: Large numbers of fans and sponsors had become angry about the protests. Boycotts had been threatened and jerseys burned and — most worrisome — TV ratings were declining.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Marc Stein He has covered Jordan. He’s covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.’s curtain with the league’s foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Pegula complained that the league was “under assault.” He unloaded a dizzying flurry of nautical metaphors to describe their predicament. “To me, this is like a glacier moving into the ocean,” he said. “We’re getting hit with a tsunami.” He expressed his wish that the league never be “a glacier crawling into the ocean.”

The Houston Texans owner Bob McNair was more direct. He urged the players to tell their colleagues to, essentially, knock off the kneeling. “You fellas need to ask your compadres, fellas, stop that other business, let’s go out and do something that really produces positive results, and we’ll help you.”

After the Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross raised the idea of a “march on Washington” by N.F.L. players and owners, Eric Reid, Kaepernick’s former teammate and the first player to kneel alongside him, brought the discussion back to Kaepernick.

Reid, who attended the meeting wearing a Kaepernick T-shirt over his dress shirt and tie, said that his former teammate was being blackballed.

Photo

“I feel like he was hung out to dry,” Reid said of Kaepernick. “Everyone in here is talking about how much they support us.” The room fell quiet. “Nobody stepped up and said we support Colin’s right to do this. We all let him become Public Enemy No. 1 in this country, and he still doesn’t have a job.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pegula offered that he thought the league was battling a perception and “media problem.” He said it would be great for the league to find a compelling spokesman — preferably a player — to promote all of the good things they were doing together. He suggested that the league could learn from the gun lobby in this regard.

“For years we’ve watched the National Rifle Association use Charlton Heston as a figurehead,” Pegula said. “We need a spokesman.”

Anquan Boldin, a former N.F.L. wide receiver who was at the meeting, said that owners needed to be spokesmen, too. “Letting people know it’s not just the players that care about these issues, but the owners, too,” Boldin said.

Pegula didn’t address Boldin’s point except to add that it would be important for the spokesman to be black. (None of the owners in the N.F.L. are black.)

“For us to have a face, as an African-American, at least a face that could be in the media,” Pegula continued, “we could fall in behind that.”

Kaepernick’s name was not mentioned again. He continues to pursue a labor grievance accusing the owners of colluding to keep him out of the league. He remains unsigned.

Before the meeting ended, owners had quoted Thomas Paine (the Falcons owner Arthur Blank), invoked Martin Luther King Jr.’s Selma march (Ross of the Dolphins) and expressed great hope for what they all could accomplish together (“We have a chance to do something monumental,” declared the Giants owner John Mara).

The meeting concluded with some participants saying how positive the session had been, and how they would all keep talking. Goodell told the group that another meeting was being scheduled. They planned to issue a “joint statement” to underscore their shared commitment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kraft said the statement should reflect how everyone had come together for a good cause. “It would be good if you could work in the word ‘unified’ or ‘unity’ in some fashion,” he said, referring to the joint statement.

“We could say simply, today we had a reset, and the players’ issues are our issues, and we recognize them and will work together,” Ross said.

“I like the language of ‘our issues,’” said DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the players’ union.

About an hour later, the league released its joint statement:

“Today owners and players had a productive meeting focused on how we can work together to promote positive social change and address inequality in our communities. NFL executives and owners joined NFLPA executives and player leaders to review and discuss plans to utilize our platform to promote equality and effectuate positive change. We agreed that these are common issues and pledged to meet again to continue this work together.”“If he was on a roster right now, all this negativeness and divisiveness could be turned into a positive,” Philadelphia Eagles defensive lineman Chris Long said at the meeting.

Long said he did not wish to “lecture any team” on what quarterbacks to sign, but “we all agree in this room as players that he should be on a roster.” The owners’ responses were noncommittal. The Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said that fighting for social justice is not “about one person.”

The New England Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft pointed to another “elephant in the room.”

“This kneeling,” he said.

“The problem we have is, we have a president who will use that as fodder to do his mission that I don’t feel is in the best interests of America,” said Kraft, who is a longtime supporter of Mr. Trump’s. “It’s divisive and it’s horrible.”

The owners were intent on finding a way to avoid Trump’s continued criticism. The president’s persistent jabs on Twitter had turned many fans against the league. Lurie, who called Trump’s presidency “disastrous,” cautioned against players getting drawn into the president’s tactics.

“We’ve got to be careful not to be baited by Trump or whomever else,” Lurie said. “We have to find a way to not be divided and not get baited.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Buffalo Bills owner Terry Pegula sounded anguished over the uncertainty of when Trump would take another shot at the league. “All Donald needs to do is to start to do this again,” Pegula said. “We need some kind of immediate plan because of what’s going on in society. All of us now, we need to put a Band-Aid on what’s going on in the country.”

The Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shahid Khan countered that the worst was behind them. “All the damage Trump’s going to do is done,” he said.

The owners kept returning to one bottom-line issue: Large numbers of fans and sponsors had become angry about the protests. Boycotts had been threatened and jerseys burned and — most worrisome — TV ratings were declining.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Marc Stein He has covered Jordan. He’s covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.’s curtain with the league’s foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Pegula complained that the league was “under assault.” He unloaded a dizzying flurry of nautical metaphors to describe their predicament. “To me, this is like a glacier moving into the ocean,” he said. “We’re getting hit with a tsunami.” He expressed his wish that the league never be “a glacier crawling into the ocean.”

The Houston Texans owner Bob McNair was more direct. He urged the players to tell their colleagues to, essentially, knock off the kneeling. “You fellas need to ask your compadres, fellas, stop that other business, let’s go out and do something that really produces positive results, and we’ll help you.”

After the Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross raised the idea of a “march on Washington” by N.F.L. players and owners, Eric Reid, Kaepernick’s former teammate and the first player to kneel alongside him, brought the discussion back to Kaepernick.

Reid, who attended the meeting wearing a Kaepernick T-shirt over his dress shirt and tie, said that his former teammate was being blackballed.

Photo

“I feel like he was hung out to dry,” Reid said of Kaepernick. “Everyone in here is talking about how much they support us.” The room fell quiet. “Nobody stepped up and said we support Colin’s right to do this. We all let him become Public Enemy No. 1 in this country, and he still doesn’t have a job.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pegula offered that he thought the league was battling a perception and “media problem.” He said it would be great for the league to find a compelling spokesman — preferably a player — to promote all of the good things they were doing together. He suggested that the league could learn from the gun lobby in this regard.

“For years we’ve watched the National Rifle Association use Charlton Heston as a figurehead,” Pegula said. “We need a spokesman.”

Anquan Boldin, a former N.F.L. wide receiver who was at the meeting, said that owners needed to be spokesmen, too. “Letting people know it’s not just the players that care about these issues, but the owners, too,” Boldin said.

Pegula didn’t address Boldin’s point except to add that it would be important for the spokesman to be black. (None of the owners in the N.F.L. are black.)

“For us to have a face, as an African-American, at least a face that could be in the media,” Pegula continued, “we could fall in behind that.”

Kaepernick’s name was not mentioned again. He continues to pursue a labor grievance accusing the owners of colluding to keep him out of the league. He remains unsigned.

Before the meeting ended, owners had quoted Thomas Paine (the Falcons owner Arthur Blank), invoked Martin Luther King Jr.’s Selma march (Ross of the Dolphins) and expressed great hope for what they all could accomplish together (“We have a chance to do something monumental,” declared the Giants owner John Mara).

The meeting concluded with some participants saying how positive the session had been, and how they would all keep talking. Goodell told the group that another meeting was being scheduled. They planned to issue a “joint statement” to underscore their shared commitment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kraft said the statement should reflect how everyone had come together for a good cause. “It would be good if you could work in the word ‘unified’ or ‘unity’ in some fashion,” he said, referring to the joint statement.

“We could say simply, today we had a reset, and the players’ issues are our issues, and we recognize them and will work together,” Ross said.

“I like the language of ‘our issues,’” said DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the players’ union.

About an hour later, the league released its joint statement:

“Today owners and players had a productive meeting focused on how we can work together to promote positive social change and address inequality in our communities. NFL executives and owners joined NFLPA executives and player leaders to review and discuss plans to utilize our platform to promote equality and effectuate positive change. We agreed that these are common issues and pledged to meet again to continue this work together.”Team owners, players and league executives held a confidential meeting in October, when they were under sharp criticism from President Trump over national anthem protests. During the three-hour session, the owners were particularly eager to find a way to avoid further public rebukes from Mr. Trump. [The full story on the private meeting is here.]

“The problem we have is, we have a president who will use that as fodder to do his mission that I don’t feel is in the best interests of America. It’s divisive and it’s horrible.”

— Patriots owner Robert Kraft​In an effort to address questions about fair play, track and field’s world governing body will publish regulations on Thursday that could force some elite female athletes with naturally elevated testosterone levels to lower the hormone with medication, compete against men in certain Olympic events or effectively give up their international careers.

The rules, scheduled to take effect in November, will initially be enforced in middle distance races of 400 meters to one mile. These distances, which synthesize the need for speed, power and endurance, are events in which raised testosterone levels can have the most profound influence on performances, the sport’s top officials say.

The regulations are certain to cause further controversy, and perhaps bring another legal challenge to the most elemental of sports, in which competition is divided into male and female categories, while biological sex is not nearly so neat and binary. Track and field has gone through contortions on this issue for years, most visibly regarding Caster Semenya of South Africa, a dominant middle distance runner and two-time Olympic champion at 800 meters.

Female track athletes with elevated levels of testosterone, a condition known as hyperandrogenism, will be required to lower the amount of the hormone circulating in their blood for six months before being allowed to compete from the quarter-mile to the mile in major international events like the Olympics and the world championships.If they do not, they will be faced with difficult choices — hormone therapy; restricting their performances to national meets; competing against men; entering events for so-called intersex athletes, if any are offered; moving to longer or shorter distances; or essentially giving up their chance to participate in the sport’s most prestigious competitions.

The regulations are meant to ensure “fair and meaningful competition within the female classification,” according to track’s governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations, known as the I.A.A.F.

Athletes will not be required to undergo surgery to lower their hormone levels, the I.A.A.F. said, adding that the regulations are “in no way intended as any kind of judgment on, or questioning of, the sex or the gender identity of any athlete.”

The regulations will affect female track athletes with naturally occurring testosterone levels above five nanomoles per liter. According to the I.A.A.F., most women, including elite female athletes, have testosterone levels from 0.12 to 1.79 nanomoles per liter, while the normal male range is 7.7 to 29.4 nanomoles per liter.

With testosterone levels between five and 10 nanomoles per liter, the I.A.A.F. said, women gain a clear performance advantage derived from a 4.4 percent increase in muscle mass, a 12 percent to 26 percent increase in muscle strength and a 7.8 percent increase in hemoglobin, which transports oxygen in red blood cells.

“To the best of our knowledge, there is no other genetic or biological trait encountered in female athletics that confers such a huge performance advantage,” the I.A.A.F. said in the regulations and supporting documents obtained by The New York Times.

The regulations follow a 2017 study, commissioned by the I.A.A.F. and published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine, which showed that women with elevated testosterone levels gained a competitive advantage from 1.78 percent to 4.53 percent in events such as the 400 meters, the 400-meter hurdles, the 800 meters, the hammer throw and the pole vault.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even a small edge can mean the difference between a gold, silver or bronze medal, or finishing off the podium entirely, in events decided by tenths or hundredths of a second, the I.A.A.F. said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The regulations represent an attempt by the I.A.A.F. to reinstate rules governing female athletes with elevated testosterone levels, which were suspended in 2015 by the Swiss-based Court of Arbitration for Sport, a rough equivalent of the Supreme Court for international sports.

The court ruled then that the I.A.A.F. had not sufficiently quantified the performance advantage gained by athletes with raised testosterone levels. That case involved an Indian sprinter named Dutee Chand. The new regulations would not affect her events, the 100 and 200 meters.

Many factors affect performance, and the I.A.A.F. has struggled to show conclusively that elevated testosterone provided women with more of a significant competitive edge than factors like nutrition, age, height, weight, access to coaching and training facilities, and other genetic and biological variations like oxygen-carrying capacity.

Even before being officially published, the new I.A.A.F. regulations have come under criticism.

Because the hammer throw and the pole vault, which showed the highest performance advantage for women with elevated testosterone in the 2017 I.A.A.F. study, are not included in the new rules, the regulations appear to be arbitrary and political and not based on solid science, said Katrina Karkazis, a bioethicist and visiting senior fellow at the Global Health Justice Partnership at Yale, who has written extensively on hyperandrogenism and athletic performance.

“Just when I thought it couldn’t get any worse, it has,” she said in a telephone interview on Wednesday.

She and others have argued that the I.A.A.F.’s rules will force some women to undergo hormone therapy that could adversely affect their health; will be humiliating; will disproportionately affect women from developing nations who do not conform to Western standards of femininity; and will ultimately lead to some elite women quitting the sport.

Female athletes with elevated testosterone levels will essentially face a “choice of no choice,” Ms. Karkazis said.

Much of the debate about female athletes and hyperandrogenism has focused on Semenya, winner of the 800 meters at the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympics.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the recent Commonwealth Games, held in Australia, where Semenya won the 800 and 1,500 meters, an Australian runner named Brittany McGowan expressed her frustration about competing against athletes with elevated testosterone, telling reporters, “It’s tough for a lot of women in the 800 meters, 400 meters and 1,500 meters at the moment to compare ourselves and be judged by our governing bodies on those times.”

But a study published in April in the Journal of Sports Sciences noted that Semenya’s average faster speed of 1.49 percent in the 800 fell far short of the 10 percent performance advantage that men generally have over women.

Paul Melia, the president and chief executive of the Canadian Centre for Ethics in Sport, said in an interview from Ottawa on Wednesday that because athletes with hyperandrogenism identify and live as females, and present physically as females, “they have a human right to participate in sport in the gender they identify with.”

Mr. Melia continued: “If the I.A.A.F. applies that policy and a woman whose naturally occurring testosterone falls outside that range, they’re going to say to her: ‘We’re not preventing you from competing. You can compete with males.’ I don’t think that’s right.”SACRAMENTO — It was a rash of sadistic rapes and murders that spread terror throughout California, long before the term was commonly used. The scores of attacks in the 1970s and 1980s went unsolved for more than three decades. But on Wednesday, law enforcement officials said they had finally arrested the notorious Golden State Killer in a tidy suburb of Sacramento.

Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, who was taken into custody outside his home on Tuesday and charged with six counts of murder, had been living undisturbed a half-hour drive from where the 12-year rampage began. He was described as a former police officer, and his time in uniform partly overlapped with many of the crimes he is accused of committing.

The case was cracked in the past week, Sheriff Scott Jones of Sacramento County said on Wednesday, when investigators identified Mr. DeAngelo and were able to match his DNA with the murders of Lyman and Charlene Smith in Ventura County in 1980.

“We found the needle in the haystack and it was right here in Sacramento,” said Anne Marie Schubert, the Sacramento district attorney, who helped organize a task force two years ago that included investigators from across the state as well as the F.B.I. A DNA database showed links to other murders in Southern California, the authorities said Wednesday.He became an infamous figure, sometimes known as the Golden State Killer and other times as the East Area Rapist and the Original Night Stalker. His planning was meticulous and he seemed to know precise details about his victims’ schedules. They described the gravelly, angry whisper that he used as he tormented them. He wore gloves and a mask and was a predator with quirks: As his victims lay terrified, he would pause for a snack of crackers after raping them. He placed a teacup and saucer on the bodies of some of his victims and threatened them with murder if he heard the ceramic rattle.

With communities panicking — at one point his assaults averaged two victims a month — the authorities hired a range of experts to help them break the case, among them a military special forces officer and a psychic.

Then, when the rapes and murders appeared to end in 1986, the case went cold.

National interest was reignited this year with the publication of an exhaustive investigation into the serial killer’s identity, “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” written by Michelle McNamara, a crime writer who died in April 2016. The book, published in February, was completed after her death by a journalist and researcher recruited by her husband, the comedian Patton Oswalt.

Photo

[Read about Mr. Oswalt’s quest to finish Ms. McNamara’s book after her death.]

Mr. Oswalt spoke about the reported capture on Wednesday in a video posted on Instagram. “I think you got him, Michelle,” he said.

Mr. DeAngelo, whom the authorities suspect of a total of 12 murders, was arrested by investigators using some of the same tactics employed by the suspect to stalk his victims — the police surveilled his movements, studied his routines and pounced when he left his house.

He was arrested on a warrant stemming from the murder of the married couple in Ventura County in Southern California, but the authorities said more charges were in the works. The Orange County district attorney’s office announced four additional charges late on Wednesday.

Residents of the neighborhoods stalked by the killer said he changed the way they lived their lives. A carefree California lifestyle of open doors and children riding their bicycles to school was forever changed with the knowledge that a rapist now lurked.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“One person can create a lot of fear,” said Tony Rackauckas, the district attorney of Orange County and one of the dozens of officials on hand in Sacramento to announce Mr. DeAngelo’s arrest. “It was like terrorism — not that it was done for the same reason — but it caused the same type of fear.”

The case had a profound impact not just on fear and public safety in California, but also on the way that rapes were investigated and how rape victims were treated, said Carol Daly, a detective in the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Office at the time.

Locks sold out at hardware stores and over 6,000 guns were sold, she said. Community safety forums would be packed with hundreds of people.

Rape victims were seen and cared for faster, and pubic hair, scratches and other evidence were examined and preserved, she said. Rape kits were standardized. “Every victim went through the process,” she said.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Bruce Harrington, whose brother Keith Harrington and sister-in-law Patrice Harrington were among the murder victims, joined law enforcement officers at the news conference. It was “time for the victims to begin to heal,” he said.

“Sleep better tonight, he isn’t coming in through the window,” he said. “He’s now in jail, and he’s history.”

One victim, Jane Carson-Sandler, who was raped in 1976, said on Wednesday that she was overwhelmed with emotion.

Ms. Carson-Sandler, 72, said she had always believed that her rapist was alive and that he would be caught. The hatred and anger she felt eventually faded, she said, but she continued to pray for two things each night: that he would be identified, and that she wouldn’t dream about the rape.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She never did dream about it, she said, and on Wednesday morning she turned on her phone to learn that a suspect had been arrested.

“I just feel so blessed that God has finally answered all of our prayers, that this monster would eventually be put behind bars,” she said.

Mr. DeAngelo, who has adult children, was twice employed as a police officer in two small California cities: In Exeter, in the Central Valley, from 1973 to 1976, and in Auburn, north of Sacramento, from 1976 to 1979, according to Mr. Jones.

He was convicted in 1979 for shoplifting a can of dog repellent and a hammer from a store in Sacramento County. The incident led to his dismissal from the Auburn police force. The arrest came amid the rash of rapes in the area.

Photo

One of the neighborhoods where the suspect repeatedly struck was Rancho Cordova, a Sacramento suburb of ranch houses, redwood and birch trees, trim lawns and rose bushes.

In one attack in 1978, Brian and Katie Maggiore, a couple living in the area, were walking their dog in their neighborhood around 9 p.m. After a “violent encounter” with the suspect, they tried to flee, ending up in a private yard, where they were fatally shot, the sheriff’s department said in February, appealing to the public for leads.

Diane Peterson, a retired teacher who lives in Rancho Cordova, said Wednesday that theories about who was behind the rapes and home intrusions had remained a topic of conversation in the neighborhood in the four decades since the attacks began.

“It never totally died down,” Ms. Peterson said. “People would have their own suspicions as to who it might be.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jean McNeill, a retired employee for the state board of equalization who lives near where one of the murders took place, said she was “elated” Wednesday morning when she heard that the suspect might have been captured.

She remembered the terror that the killer instilled in the neighborhood.

“I can remember thinking, ‘It’s getting dark and no one is home with me — I’ve got to be really careful,’” she said. “That’s what made it so frightening. We didn’t know when he was going to strike next.”

After the Maggiore murders, the attacker was not believed to have struck in the Sacramento area again. But in 2001, investigators using DNA evidence linked the crime to others committed in the Bay Area, and to murders in Southern California, the sheriff’s department said.

In June 2016, the F.B.I. announced at a news conference that it would offer a $50,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the “prolific serial rapist and murderer.”

“We came together to bring solace to the victims,” Sean Ragan, special agent in charge of the Sacramento office for the F.B.I., said Wednesday. “But we know the pain and anguish has never subsided.”Now that a suspect in the killings has been identified, Mr. Oswalt said he felt a strange mix of elation and impending sadness that Ms. McNamara wasn’t alive to witness it.

“There’s exhilaration, and I don’t feel it now, but I can sense that tomorrow or the next day there’s going to be a huge drop in serotonin and happiness when I realize she really isn’t here,” Mr. Oswalt said in an interview. “There were insights and angles that she could keep bringing to this case.”

“I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” which was published in February, helped reignite public interest in the decades-old cold case. It has sold around 150,000 copies and was optioned by HBO, which is adapting it into a documentary series.

Photo

At a news conference held by law enforcement agencies to announce the arrest, an official said that the book “kept interest and tips coming in” and kept the case in the public eye, but noted that information from the book hadn’t led directly to Mr. DeAngelo’s arrest.

When Ms. McNamara died, the book was half finished. Mr. Oswalt was determined to see the project through. He hired Billy Jensen, an investigative journalist, and Paul Haynes, who worked with Ms. McNamara on the book as a researcher, to piece together the story, using her handwritten notes and the roughly 3,500 files on her computer.

The resulting book is a chilling and vivid narrative of a serial killer’s crimes, and a revealing account of Ms. McNamara’s obsession with the case and the psychological toll it took on her. It ends with a letter from Ms. McNamara to the killer, in which she predicts his eventual capture: “This is how it ends for you.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“We have so many unsolved murders in America, and she was able to shed light on a few of them,” Mr. Jensen said.

Mr. Haynes said that after he heard a suspect had been arrested, he felt “excited, but also sad that Michelle’s not here.” Mr. DeAngelo’s name never appears in the book, and he wasn’t on their radar as a suspect, Mr. Haynes said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I finally had the name and the face that we’ve been seeking for seven years, the name and the face that Michelle died trying to uncover,” he said.

In a bizarre coincidence, Mr. Haynes, Mr. Jensen and Mr. Oswalt were all together at the book event in Chicago on Tuesday, and members of Ms. McNamara’s family were in the audience. A documentary film crew was shooting footage for the HBO series as the speakers speculated on how long it would take for a suspect to be caught, not realizing it had already happened.

At 4 a.m., Mr. Oswalt woke to a buzzing phone. Messages were pouring in with the news that there had probably been an arrest in the case.

Mr. Oswalt said that he hoped to visit Mr. DeAngelo and confront him with questions that Ms. McNamara planned to pose.

“It feels like the last task for Michelle, to bring him her questions at the end of her book — just to go, ‘My wife had some questions for you,’” he said.9 World

What Will the New Royal Baby Be Named?Mr. Batsh, who in 2013 co-wrote a paper on drone applications, had been sent there to research and acquire weapon systems and drones for Hamas, the intelligence officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss a classified program.

Mossad has been particularly interested in Hamas’s advances in unmanned aerial and underwater vehicles, the officials said, which could be used to attack Israeli targets more effectively than the rockets Hamas used during its last wars with Israel.

Israel has distanced itself from allegations that it was responsible for Mr. Batsh’s death. Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman blamed the assassination on internal rivalries within the Palestinian leadership.

Photo

The Malaysian Connection

The killing of Mr. Batsh, 34, in the Kuala Lumpur suburb of Gombak, known locally as Little Arabia, is bringing to light not only the increasing presence of Hamas and other groups here, but also Malaysia’s emergence as an epicenter of international intrigue.

This was the second high-profile assassination in the Malaysian capital in little more than a year. In February 2017, Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, was killed at Kuala Lumpur International Airport by two women who prosecutors said smeared a deadly nerve agent on his face. The women, from Indonesia and Vietnam, are on trial for his death, but at least seven North Koreans suspected of being linked to the killing escaped or were allowed to leave the country, officials said.

Malaysia is also known as a port for contraband, ranging from North Korean weapons to endangered animal products and illegally felled trees.

“It has been a permissive environment for many rogue actors, as long as their focus was not directed within Malaysia,” said Zachary Abuza, a professor at the National War College in Washington who studies Southeast Asian security issues.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Malaysia’s government has for decades been sympathetic to the Palestinian cause: It has no diplomatic relations with Israel, and Prime Minister Najib Razak visited Gaza in 2013 at the invitation of Hamas, which governs the territory. The intelligence officials said that Hamas, in recent years, had begun seeing the country as an ideal place to incubate its research ambitions.

In another case, in 2010, Palestinians who had been sent to Malaysia trained in paragliding as a potential tool for attacks, according to a statement from the Israeli secret service. Malaysian officials denied any involvement in such a plot.

The United Malays National Organization, or UMNO, the dominant party in the coalition that has ruled Malaysia since independence, has maintained relations with an unusual array of political organizations around the world. Until Mr. Kim’s assassination last year at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport, for instance, UMNO sustained a formal relationship with North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party. Malaysia was one of the few nations in the world that North Koreans could enter without a visa.

The relationship between UMNO and Hamas is even more overt. Representatives from Hamas are invited every year to UMNO’s party conference.

Photo

A Kind Professor

Colleagues and students of Mr. Batsh in Malaysia, where he lived with his wife, Enaas al-Batsh, and their three young children, characterized him as a kind professor who was dedicated to improving life in his native Gaza. His public research focused on renewable energy, and he spoke about wanting to bring abundant electricity to a Palestinian territory always short of power.

Mr. Batsh won scholarships from a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund, the first Arab to earn such an honor. In 2016, Mr. Najib, the Malaysian prime minister, presented Mr. Batsh with an award.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“I don’t know about his politics back at home, but I know that he was a very big inspiration for all of us for making it out of Gaza and succeeding in Malaysia,” said Jailani Othman al-Kathery, a Yemeni English teacher who attended a mosque in Gombak where Mr. Batsh taught Quran classes and served as an imam.

Mr. Batsh told friends in Malaysia that he had narrowly avoided an attempt on his life while still living in Gaza. In 2014, his uncle, Tayseer al-Batsh, the Gaza police chief, was nearly killed by Israeli airstrikes. Eighteen members of the Batsh family died in those raids.

But Mr. Batsh did not dwell on his family’s tragedy, his friends in Malaysia said, though he wrote social media posts criticizing Israel over the conflict with Gaza. “Most everyone in Gaza has lost a member of the family,” said Hafidzi Mohammed Noor, chairman of Humanitarian Care Malaysia, a charity that provides humanitarian assistance to Gaza. “For him, for all the Palestinians here in Malaysia, this is normal.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, a mourning tent was set up in the Jabaliya refugee camp in Gaza, where Mr. Batsh grew up. Ten masked members of the Qassam Brigades, Hamas’s armed wing, were stationed in front of the tent, a positioning that usually denotes the death of a top fighter.

Banners hung in the tent described Mr. Batsh as an “engineer commander” for the Qassam Brigades and “our martyr to God.” Another relative of Mr. Batsh’s was said by family members to be a commander in Islamic Jihad, a separate militant group that operates in Gaza.

On the day he was killed, Mr. Batsh was supposed to travel to Istanbul to attend an academic conference. One Middle Eastern intelligence official, however, said that Hamas’s efforts to cultivate its scientists living abroad were directed from Istanbul, and that Mr. Batsh was scheduled to meet with the head of the unit, Maher Salah, upon arrival in Turkey.

Western and Middle Eastern intelligence officials said that Mr. Batsh may have been involved in negotiating North Korean arms deals through Malaysia. Egypt recently seized a shipment of North Korean communications components used for guided munitions destined for Gaza, they said. One intelligence official said that Mr. Batsh had helped mediate the deal.

Although such weapons are under international sanctions, the United Nations said in a report last year that a shell company run by North Korea’s intelligence agency had been hawking military-grade communications systems from Malaysia.

Malaysian officials rejected that report. And this week, officials here would not comment on the claims that Mr. Batsh had been researching or trying to buy weapons systems.

Photo

Hamas Abroad

Mr. Batsh is not the first Hamas-linked engineer to be targeted abroad.

In 2011, a Palestinian electrical engineer named Dirar Abu Sisi was abducted in Ukraine and ended up in an Israeli jail more than a week later. He was sentenced to 21 years in prison for aiding Hamas in its manufacture of missiles, among other convictions.

Photo

In 2016, Mohammed Zawahri, a Tunisian scientist and Hamas military commander who was said to be developing aerial and underwater drone warfare technology, was shot dead in the Tunisian city of Sfax. In January, a car bomb injured Mohammed Hamdan, a Hamas operative who was said to be building a workshop to produce missile parts and drones in Sidon, Lebanon.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Wednesday, the Malaysian police said that the motorcycle used in Mr. Batsh’s murder had not been stolen. They released a photograph of one of the suspects, a pale-skinned man with a beard, and said he was probably still in the country.

Mr. Batsh’s body was released by the Malaysian authorities on Wednesday, and a funeral prayer was held at the Gombak mosque where he served as an imam.

At a news conference on Tuesday, his widow said she would return to Gaza with their three children. She added that she would continue her own Ph.D. studies through an online course: Education, she said, was her husband’s passion.“Every year, it takes more money, millions of dollars more, to serve the same number of households,” Mr. Carson told reporters Wednesday in a conference call. “It’s clear from a budget perspective and a human point of view that the current system is unsustainable.”

The proposal, geared at streamlining the agency and cutting the deficit, was intended to start the conversation and should not be regarded as final, Mr. Carson said.

Housing advocates and congressional Democrats immediately condemned it. “What pretends to be a hand up is really a foot in the back,” said Shamus Roller, the executive director of the National Housing Law Project.

On Wednesday, even as Mr. Carson was promoting the plan, department officials acknowledged that it would probably be superseded by a somewhat scaled-back set of rent increases and work requirement proposals House Republicans plan to unveil next month. And the new plan stands little chance of being passed in the Senate, where moderate Republicans like Senator Susan Collins of Maine are likely to reject it.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The proposed cuts would also appear to run counter to Mr. Carson’s behind-the-scenes efforts to prevent the sweeping reductions proposed in Mr. Trump’s first budget. Mr. Carson told friends this year that he would quit if the president did not restore proposed cuts to programs aiding the disabled and the elderly proposed by Mr. Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget and the most powerful advocate for small government inside Mr. Trump’s governing circle.

Mr. Mulvaney has encouraged the new HUD rules as well as similar work rules being enforced in Medicaid and food assistance programs.

They are intended to shift the debate over safety net programs sharply to the right by redefining “welfare” to encompass programs beyond direct cash assistance, like housing subsidies, that have long been regarded as quasi-entitlements, several administration officials said.

Mr. Trump, aides said, refers to nearly every program that provides benefits to poor people as welfare, a term he regards as derogatory. Historically, welfare has been defined as direct cash assistance to the poor, programs that have been consistently shrinking since bipartisan welfare overhaul in the 1990s.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Advocates for poor people say that the rent increases, which seem small to those living above the poverty line, will create great hardships for families struggling to get by in areas where jobs are scarce and barriers to higher income are steep.

“It is part of a larger assault on the entire social safety net — proposing to take away limited benefits for health care, food and housing from struggling families just months after giving massive tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires is the height of cruel hypocrisy,” said Diane Yentel, the president and chief executive of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, a Washington-based advocacy group.

“This proposal would inflict unimaginable hardships on Americans living life on the brink of financial instability and significantly increase the risk of homelessness and hunger among children and at-risk populations,” said Representative Joseph Crowley, a Democrat of New York who serves as chairman of the House Democratic caucus.The commission proposed allowing regulated contact between athletes and agents to give players access to more information about their prospects as professionals. It recommended overhauling summer basketball, requiring the shoe and apparel companies that run the showcase events to assume far more “transparency and accountability.” It even raised the possibility of eliminating the companies from the crucial July evaluation period, when coaches attend the events to scout recruits. It also noted the widespread public support for plans to pay players.

The commission also recommended eliminating the so-called one-and-done rule, which requires players to be 19 years old or a year removed from high school to be eligible for the N.B.A. draft, though that rule will not change without the N.B.A. and the National Basketball Players Association changing it.

“Everybody that we’ve talked to, at every school, every place I’ve been, agrees that action has to be taken,” Mr. Emmert said on Wednesday.

“There’s no debate about whether the status quo is acceptable,” he added. “Nobody finds it acceptable.”

In an interview at N.C.A.A. headquarters here, Ms. Rice described the proposals as essential to rescuing the most popular college sport other than football and the one that provides the vast majority of the N.C.A.A.’s revenue.

“We believe this is an opportunity to put the college back in college basketball,” she said.

But Ramogi Huma, the president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for more rights for athletes, said the commission dodged the main issues.

“The root cause of the F.B.I. investigation are the N.C.A.A. rules limiting — actually, prohibiting — compensation for players,” he said. “And none of the recommendations speak to them — none of them.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The last time a scandal of this nature and scope hit college basketball may have been in the early 1950s, when revelations of point shaving by several top teams knocked the sport on its back.

The federal charges, which were followed by indictments, introduced the risk of criminal prosecution into a well-known part of college basketball. The allegations made a mockery of N.C.A.A. amateurism rules and painted a black mark on several of the most prominent basketball programs. Documents obtained by Yahoo Sports in February seemed to implicate players at a dozen other blue-chip programs.

Eliminating one-and-done would produce a noticeable difference in how the sport has operated for more than a decade. The most talented players play only their freshman season, attend college for less than a year and mainly congregate at a few programs, notably Kentucky and Duke. The commission said that if the N.B.A. and its players’ union did not change the rule, it would reconvene to consider unilateral alternatives such as freshman ineligibility.

In a joint statement, the N.B.A. and the players’ union pledged only to continue assessing the rules, but no changes are expected before the 2020 draft.

Photo

The commission, which included former players (Grant Hill, David Robinson), former coaches, university presidents, the heads of the Association of American Universities and U.S.A. Basketball, and others, called on the N.C.A.A. to establish a new system for summer basketball, so central to the recruitment process, that could diminish the influence of the three main apparel companies. Adidas, Nike and Under Armour sponsor not only summer basketball but also most of the college teams that high school prospects aspire to play for.

Specifically, the commission envisioned allowing coaches as soon as next year to attend only N.C.A.A.-administered regional events during the crucial July evaluation period. It was not clear what role the three main sneaker companies would or would not have at those events. Each of them currently sponsors gigantic events in July that are unmissable for top prospects and coaches.

Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have said that an Adidas executive and several others with ties to the sneaker giant were central to schemes to bribe players’ families and college basketball coaches to coax top prospects to commit to colleges that Adidas sponsored, like Louisville, Miami and Kansas, and later sign with Adidas. Narratives outlined by prosecutors strongly suggest that similar behavior is conducted in the name of Adidas’s rivals.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The corruption we observed in college basketball has its roots in youth basketball,” Ms. Rice said in her statement.

In a statement, Adidas said it “welcomes the commission’s recommendations and will continue to work with the N.C.A.A. and other stakeholders in a collaborative and constructive manner.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The commission suggested allowing players to have limited contact with agents, starting in high school, to help make decisions about the N.B.A. And it proposed permitting players who declare for the N.B.A. draft but are not selected to return to college. It also recommended increasing the severity of penalties for teams and coaches who violate rules, to five-year postseason bans for teams and lifetime suspensions for coaches. In addition, it said people outside the organization should be involved with the penalties process and serve on the N.C.A.A.’s board.

And yet throughout the report the commission performed a delicate dance — acknowledging that the very corruption it sought to eliminate arose in part because players generate substantial sums for high school teams, agents, money managers, college teams, coaches and shoe companies but can’t take money beyond a scholarship and related costs of attending school.

“Millions of dollars are now generated by television contracts and apparel sponsorship for the N.C.A.A., universities and coaches,” the report said. “The financial stake in success has grown exponentially; and thus, there is an arms race to recruit the best talent — and if you are a coach — to keep your job.”

In fact, many of the commissioners endorsed providing athletes with a cut of the revenue they helped generate, according to Ms. Rice.

“Most commissioners believe that the rules on name, image and likeness should be taken up as soon as the legal framework is established,” she said in her statement.

Ms. Rice went further in an interview: “I’ll speak for myself personally,” she said of compensating athletes further. “I think there’s room for something.”

She said the commission declined to address this topic because of pending litigation. Plaintiffs in the so-called Jenkins case want a federal court to strike down the N.C.A.A. ban on player compensation on antitrust grounds.

A lawyer representing the Jenkins plaintiffs, Jeffrey Kessler, said that his case concerned a different nuance.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It looked to me like there was a political decision made not to recommend what she seemed to indicate a majority of the members believed,” Mr. Kessler said of Ms. Rice.

Ms. Rice’s remarks, along with things Mr. Emmert has said and sentiments athletic directors have expressed recently, have lent momentum to the sense that there will be more payments to players, of some kind, in the not-too-distant future.

“There is an embarrassment of riches,” said Dan Beebe, a former commissioner of the Ohio Valley and Big 12 Conferences, “and a lot of the profiteers are administrators and coaches, and I think it’s become unsustainable to have that and not have those producing the revenue earn some money.”

Seasoned observers dismissed both the notion that the proposals would solve all of college basketball’s problems and the notion they would accomplish essentially nothing.

Gabe Feldman, director of Tulane’s sports law program, said allowing contact with agents was provocative. “That was completely taboo for a very, very long time,” he said, adding that any major changes to N.C.A.A. rules would take time. “It’s a big ship to move.”MONTGOMERY, Ala. — In a plain brown building sits an office run by the Alabama Board of Pardons and Paroles, a place for people who have been held accountable for their crimes and duly expressed remorse.

Just a few yards up the street lies a different kind of rehabilitation center, for a country that has not been held to nearly the same standard.

The National Memorial for Peace and Justice, which opens Thursday on a six-acre site overlooking the Alabama State Capitol, is dedicated to the victims of American white supremacy. And it demands a reckoning with one of the nation’s least recognized atrocities: the lynching of thousands of black people in a decades-long campaign of racist terror.

At the center is a grim cloister, a walkway with 800 weathered steel columns, all hanging from a roof. Etched on each column is the name of an American county and the people who were lynched there, most listed by name, many simply as “unknown.” The columns meet you first at eye level, like the headstones that lynching victims were rarely given. But as you walk, the floor steadily descends; by the end, the columns are all dangling above, leaving you in the position of the callous spectators in old photographs of public lynchings.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The magnitude of the killing is harrowing, all the more so when paired with the circumstances of individual lynchings, some described in brief summaries along the walk: Parks Banks, lynched in Mississippi in 1922 for carrying a photograph of a white woman; Caleb Gadly, hanged in Kentucky in 1894 for “walking behind the wife of his white employer”; Mary Turner, who after denouncing her husband’s lynching by a rampaging white mob, was hung upside down, burned and then sliced open so that her unborn child fell to the ground.MONTGOMERY, Ala. — In a plain brown building sits an office run by the Alabama Board of Pardons and Paroles, a place for people who have been held accountable for their crimes and duly expressed remorse.

Just a few yards up the street lies a different kind of rehabilitation center, for a country that has not been held to nearly the same standard.

The National Memorial for Peace and Justice, which opens Thursday on a six-acre site overlooking the Alabama State Capitol, is dedicated to the victims of American white supremacy. And it demands a reckoning with one of the nation’s least recognized atrocities: the lynching of thousands of black people in a decades-long campaign of racist terror.

At the center is a grim cloister, a walkway with 800 weathered steel columns, all hanging from a roof. Etched on each column is the name of an American county and the people who were lynched there, most listed by name, many simply as “unknown.” The columns meet you first at eye level, like the headstones that lynching victims were rarely given. But as you walk, the floor steadily descends; by the end, the columns are all dangling above, leaving you in the position of the callous spectators in old photographs of public lynchings.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The magnitude of the killing is harrowing, all the more so when paired with the circumstances of individual lynchings, some described in brief summaries along the walk: Parks Banks, lynched in Mississippi in 1922 for carrying a photograph of a white woman; Caleb Gadly, hanged in Kentucky in 1894 for “walking behind the wife of his white employer”; Mary Turner, who after denouncing her husband’s lynching by a rampaging white mob, was hung upside down, burned and then sliced open so that her unborn child fell to the ground.“So, who is your daddy’s mama?”

“I don’t know my grandmother on my daddy’s side,” he said.

“When did granddaddy and grandmama get married?”

“I don’t know when my parents got married.”

Higginbottom knew little because his mother and extended family fled Mississippi after the lynching. They raised E.W., the eldest, and his siblings, Flora and Willie Wade, in Forrest City, Ark., and later in Memphis. Higginbottom’s mother told the children their father had been hanged but didn’t share many details. And she almost never spoke of her dead husband’s character, habits or looks — the stories of his life. Maybe grief kept her quiet. Or fear. Either way, Higginbottom knew better than to mention his daddy. Sometimes he asked his cousins Dorothy and Olivia about him, but they told him to leave it alone. Don’t mess around in that, they said. You might get hurt.

Higginbottom had occasionally returned to Oxford when he was younger, chaperoned by uncles who wanted to visit relatives or take in a service at the family’s former church. But it had been a long time. He stared at the fields consumed by kudzu, the gravel drives, the hardwoods lush with summer growth, and saw only a foreign country. “I was trying to see something I recognized around here, but I don’t,” he said. “It don’t look like I ever lived down here.” As they sped closer to Oxford, he kept gazing out the window, scanning the landscape for even a spark of memory.

What does it mean to confront the past? This is a question that has dogged Washington and her family their whole lives, but also one that’s increasingly urgent for a country that has yet to achieve the equality many thought would follow the civil rights movement. African-Americans lag behind white Americans in almost every conceivable measure of well-being: educational attainment, homeownership rates, income, health outcomes, life expectancy. Black men are far more likely than their white counterparts to fall into poverty, to be incarcerated, to be shot to death by the police. “Black and brown people are still presumed dangerous and guilty,” said Bryan Stevenson, a civil rights attorney and founder of the Equal Justice Initiative, a legal-aid organization in Montgomery, Ala., that has led recent efforts to re-examine the lynching era. “There are these terrible disparities in quality of life for people of color, and you begin asking questions about why these things persist, and I think it inevitably leads to wanting to talk more concretely about history.”

Washington’s grandfather was one of at least 4,100 African-Americans who were lynched between 1877 and 1950 in 12 states clustered along the curve from Virginia to Texas. Although racially motivated lynchings also took place in other states, they were far more common in the South. Black men accused of violent crimes — many of whom were very likely innocent — were frequent targets. But other black men, and women and even children, too, were lynched for insisting on their rights, or for minor violations of the racial caste system, like failing to step off a sidewalk to make way for a white person. On April 26, Stevenson’s organization will open the country’s first memorial to lynching victims, alongside a museum to racial injustice, in Montgomery.

E.J.I.’s National Memorial for Peace and Justice will feature 800 suspended columns — one for each county where documented lynchings occurred — engraved with victims’ names. The design is intended to convey scope but also, more ambitiously, to reshape a Southern landscape awash in Confederate symbols by asking each of those 800 counties to claim a duplicate marker and erect the six-foot monolith on its home soil. “In Berlin, you can’t go anywhere without seeing stones and markers dedicated to the Jewish and Roma residents who were forced from their homes and taken to the concentration camps,” Stevenson said. “And that iconography creates a consciousness of what happened that I think is necessary for that society to recover. In the American South, we’ve done the opposite. We’ve actually created symbols designed to make us feel great about our history, about the 19th century, about the good old days of the early 20th century.”

Photo

Stevenson has advocated fuller acknowledgment of the impact lynching had on African-Americans, both in terms of the trauma sustained and the concrete ways lynching disadvantaged communities. In some places, lynchings were accompanied by mob destruction of black business districts, adding economic devastation to sorrow. And African-Americans who migrated north or west to escape the threat of violence had to start over. Many left social networks, homes and businesses, making it extraordinarily difficult for families to build intergenerational wealth.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

E.J.I.’s point of view stems from earlier scholarship and activism that tried to foster lasting conversations about lynching and puncture popular myths about the practice, like the notions that lynchings were isolated aberrations, pioneer justice or the work of social outsiders like the Ku Klux Klan. The unsettling “Without Sanctuary” exhibit, for example, made its debut in New York in 2000 and featured graphic photos of burned and mutilated black bodies surrounded by jubilant white crowds, some of which swelled into the thousands. Among the most disturbing images were those of white children in the crowds, some with expressions of smug delight on their faces. “If you want to talk about what stands in that place of distrust between blacks and whites, that’s part of it — not that there are just individuals, but hundreds or thousands of white witnesses who might stand beside and fail to stop this,” said Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel of the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the author of “On the Courthouse Lawn: Confronting the Legacy of Lynching in the Twenty-First Century.” “This is powerful, to unpack the complicity of those who remained silent and stood by and watched. That always has to be reckoned with, and we have to deal with that today.”

The gruesome nature of lynchings, Ifill noted, was the main point; they were meant to haunt and intimidate, and to thus ensure the continuation of white supremacy. Stevenson makes a point of calling them “racial terror lynchings.” The killings rippled beyond individual victims and their families to shroud entire communities in fear and shame. In some places, lynching memories suppressed black voter participation for decades. Even today, Ifill and Stevenson said, memories of racial violence can be so traumatic that survivors, witnesses and inheritors stay locked in silence — much like Higginbottom’s mother, who took her husband’s memory to her grave. “There are thousands of African-American families with histories of horrific victimization and racial oppression that have never openly talked because it hasn’t felt safe or healthy to have those conversations,” Stevenson said. “We’re just finding our voice, many of us, to insist on truth telling. And my view on truth and reconciliation is that it’s sequential. You can’t get to reconciliation until you first get to truth.”

Washington — and her five siblings — wanted to get to the truth about their family long before they ever imagined returning to Oxford. When they were kids, their father was too angry to talk about his father at length, and other relatives spoke only hesitantly, if at all, about the killing. So the children spun their own stories, embroidering fragments of truth with scenarios lifted from movies and books. Over the years, the theories hardened into beliefs. Wright felt certain that someone — maybe her mother? — had said that white men lynched her grandfather because he protested when they tried to force his wife to work the cotton fields. Her brother, David Higginbottom, worried that his grandfather might have been murdered for having an interracial romance. Washington thought about her grandmother’s light skin and wondered if she had been the object of a dispute. “We grew up thinking that maybe somebody liked my grandmother and maybe it had something to do with her,” Washington said a few days before returning to Oxford. “Maybe it was her fault — you know, not her fault. But maybe somebody liked her and tried to get to her, and my grandfather tried to protect her.”

The trip to Oxford’s Winter Institute, which was housed inside a Brutalist hulk of a building on the University of Mississippi campus, marked the culmination of a monthslong unraveling of their grandfather’s story. Earlier in the year, a Northeastern University law student named Kyleen Burke emailed Washington’s cousin Tyrone Higginbottom, who then put her in touch with the rest of the family. She told them that she had done extensive research on their grandfather’s life and death as part of Northeastern’s Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, which investigates Jim Crow-era cold cases, and she shared some of what she learned so far. As Washington settled into the Winter Institute’s high-ceilinged meeting room, she — and her sister, father, brother-in-law and children — were still processing Burke’s avalanche of new information and wondering what else might be revealed.

A few interested community members, black and white, trickled into the room to listen. Tyrone, a son of E.W.’s brother, Willie Wade, who died in 2005, also joined them. Framed photographs of the civil rights leader Fannie Lou Hamer and the Memphis sanitation workers’ strike hung on the walls, and the leaves of an enormous magnolia tree could be seen fluttering through a window. A tiny woman in her 40s introduced herself as April Grayson, the Winter Institute’s community-building coordinator. Grayson, who is white, grew up in Rolling Fork, Miss., and has done reconciliation work in some of the state’s most divided places, including Neshoba County, where she helped grass-roots activists who pushed to reopen the cases of the Freedom Summer volunteers Michael Schwerner, James Chaney and Andrew Goodman, who were abducted and murdered in 1964. In 2005, a ringleader and former Klansman who had escaped justice, Edgar Ray Killen, was finally convicted and sentenced to 60 years for the crimes. Grayson read a poem by the Senegalese poet Birago Diop, “Those Who Are Dead Are Never Gone,” and then she invited the family members to introduce themselves.

“I’m glad to be here, and so excited about learning information, having never met my grandfather,” Wright began. Wright, who is 55, has a beautiful singing voice and an outgoing nature despite the grief she has experienced. Her first husband and her eldest son died young; the son was shot and killed before he turned 30. Sometimes she thinks about her grandfather and wonders if a curse hovers over the family’s men. “I’m just ready to get some information so I can talk to my grandkids, because I have seven,” she said.

Burke was there, too, in the form of a disembodied voice emanating from a phone speaker. Grayson asked her to provide an overview of the lynching, and everyone turned to face a beige landline propped on a chair. Irven Wright aimed his cellphone camera at the room, so he could stream video for family members who couldn’t be there. From his home in Killeen, Tex., David, a 56-year-old Army and Marine Corps veteran, watched and listened. He scrutinized his father, a man who dropped out of school in seventh grade and picked cotton so his mother and siblings could eat, who fought in the Korean War and who for decades worked backbreaking jobs to support Morline Lowe, the Arkansas beauty he married in 1955, and their children. The older man had removed his newsboy-style cap and sat apart from his daughters and grandchildren. “I try to put myself in his shoes,” David said. “I try to be him. I thought, What would my heart feel right now?” As Burke began to speak, David’s father sat bolt upright in his chair, as if braced for a blow.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Higginbottom’s father, Elwood Higginbotham, was around 28 in 1935, working as a sharecropper in the Woodson Ridge area northeast of Oxford’s city limits. (It’s unclear how father and son came to spell their surnames differently, but the family believes Higginbotham’s widow may have changed the spelling to cover their tracks after fleeing.) Higginbotham shared a three-bedroom house with his 22-year-old wife, Melissa, and their three children. The youngest, Willie Wade, was still a baby.

In the 1930s, Oxford and the surrounding areas of Lafayette County remained, in many ways, hardly different from the time of Reconstruction. Cotton reigned as the dominant crop. The county’s population was around 20,000. But change was afoot. Main streets gleamed with pavement rather than dirt. Men found work, even during the Great Depression, building a government-funded dormitory at the University of Mississippi campus, which remained segregated until James Meredith began attending in 1962 amid notoriously violent protests. The town’s most famous literary son, William Faulkner, had already written “The Sound and the Fury,” and he lived a short walk from the busy town square. Nearby, African-Americans nurtured a middle class in a vibrant Freedmen Town that offered taxis, grocery stores and a Rosenwald School; one former resident described the neighborhood as “a black man’s city in a white man’s town.”

But Oxford was still a white man’s town, as Higginbotham would discover. Archival documents offer differing accounts of the killing, as is the case with many lynchings. Often newspapers document that a lynching occurred but otherwise prove unreliable. Reporters frequently omitted key facts or filed sensationalized tales of black criminality. Some explicitly sanctioned lynching, even going so far as to announce killings in advance. The Oxford Eagle delivered lackluster coverage of Higginbotham’s death. As recorded in the papers of the civil rights worker Jessie Daniel Ames, an editor at The Eagle later explained to an anti-lynching investigator that “he had to live in Oxford and that he wanted to get along with the people there, and that the race situation made it practically impossible to carry the facts about the killing.”

Those facts began on the night of May 21, 1935, months before Higginbotham was killed, according to an investigation by the Commission on Interracial Cooperation, an anti-lynching organization founded in Atlanta in 1919. Higginbotham and his wife, the commission reported, were in their bedroom that spring evening when a white farmer and neighbor named Glen Roberts arrived. He had at least one other man, his brother, in tow, and according to other records, he was armed. The sharecropper and Roberts had quarreled earlier; Higginbotham had objected to Roberts’s running cattle over his rented field. Now Roberts wanted to whip him for it. When Higginbotham refused to open the door, Roberts broke down an exterior shed room with an ax. Then he chopped his way into the hallway. Higginbotham, the investigators wrote, warned Roberts to stop. Roberts crashed into the bedroom next, at which point Higginbotham shot and killed him.

Photo

The gravity of that moment must have registered with Higginbotham immediately. Roberts was a prominent member of the Oxford community: He enjoyed a reputation as a crack fox hunter, he played fiddle at local celebrations and he was white. Higginbotham fled, and the sheriff rallied hundreds of men to pursue him. They trailed bloodhounds across forests and fields, arrested another black man on suspicion of helping Higginbotham escape and severely beat one of Higginbotham’s sisters. Higginbotham evaded them for two nights before the searchers found him submerged in a creek across the county line.

The search parties might have lynched Higginbotham right then and there, but the Pontotoc County sheriff sent him to Jackson, Miss., 150 miles away, for safekeeping. A district attorney and the county attorney, who was Roberts’s nephew, arrived at the Jackson jail the next day. They left, boasting of having obtained a written murder confession from Higginbotham despite the fact that, according to census records, he could neither read nor write. “We have a clear-cut case of coldblooded murder against the Negro,” the district attorney told a reporter. “The Negro is a vindictive type.” They sought the death penalty.

Although he had supposedly confessed, Higginbotham pleaded not guilty when he returned to Oxford three months later for trial on Sept. 17. Melissa testified, an act that would have exposed her to possible retribution and that undoubtedly influenced her decision to leave. The hearing lasted a mere afternoon, but records suggest that some jurors doubted the prosecution’s story. The judge issued careful instructions to the jury, advising them that if they believed that Roberts had entered the home in “a rude, an angry manner, and then and there held a pistol pointing toward the defendant,” that they should find Higginbotham not guilty. Hours later, the jury had yet to reach a verdict, and two jurors were rumored to be holding out for acquittal.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

What might have become a victory for Higginbotham and for the rule of law instead devolved into an extrajudicial killing. Not far from the white courthouse at the center of Oxford’s square, a mob formed early in the evening outside the jail. Estimates put the crowd at as many as 150 men. Anyone walking to or from the heart of town would have witnessed the lynching party. They would have seen the killers enter the jail, where, through force or persuasion, they bypassed three sheriff’s deputies and the jailer before pulling Higginbotham from his cell. They would have seen the men force Higginbotham into a car and begin driving up North Lamar Boulevard. The caravan swept by the grand homes of Oxford’s wealthy, then past the edge of town and the lonely Three-Way intersection, before stopping in the woods off old Russell Road. Higginbotham, one newspaper reported, stayed quiet during the ride. The men took the sharecropper out of the car, hanged him from a tree and shot him.

As Burke summarized Higginbotham’s story — his fateful encounter with Roberts, the “ridiculously quick trial” and the lynching itself — his elderly son remained dry-eyed. His mother never told him about his father’s desperate escape or about the trial. Higginbottom’s stoicism didn’t surprise his son David, and it didn’t fool him either. “He taught us that men don’t cry,” David said. “But I can tell when he’s emotional.” He saw pain registering on his father’s face. “It would look like he kind of just left the room,” David said. “He looked like he sort of just left the room, and then he’d come back in.” Wright didn’t weep, either. She was still trying to grasp the meaning of everything she was learning. “I may have been in a little bit of shock,” she said. “Like, really? This is what really happened?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Washington, for her part, had already read Burke’s written report and was more familiar with the story than her siblings. But there was one revelation she never tired of hearing about: that before his death, her grandfather might have been a labor activist. “It’s possible,” Burke said, “very possible, that Elwood Higginbotham was actually involved in union organizing within a Communist labor group, trying to build power among the local sharecroppers, particularly the black sharecroppers in the area.” Lynchings to eliminate African-Americans who advocated political, social and economic reforms peaked in the early 20th century, and a union affiliation provided an additional motive for Higginbotham’s lynching — perhaps he had been targeted before the argument with Roberts. But Washington cared more about what a labor role suggested about her granddaddy’s character than what it said about his killers. The image of her grandfather as a labor organizer, a man fighting for his people, made her think of Cesar Chavez. “Here he was, only 20-something years old,” she said. “To be that brave and young in the South? Brave.”

Burke’s research brought David Higginbottom great relief. His grandfather, it turned out, hadn’t cheated on their grandmother, as in the tale his young mind had invented. “You sort of feel a little proud, in a crazy sort of sense,” he said. “Proud that he’s not the guy that you perceived that he had been.” The chronology, horrible as it was, also helped David better understand his own father. E.W. Higginbottom’s hatred of Mississippi was family legend, and that antipathy made sense now that the family was talking more openly about the killing. So did other things. As an adolescent, David spent what felt like every waking moment at his father’s side, traversing Memphis in a red 1964 Malibu, going from one lawn-mowing job to the next. He hated it; he felt smothered. But the more he thought about his grandfather’s death, the more he saw his father’s behaviors — the angry flashes and the hovering — as fear for a black son in a hostile world: “His thoughts were, If I can keep you around me working, I don’t worry.”

Wright asked Burke about her family tree. “Kyleen, you said his family was big? How many?” she asked. “I’m wondering how many siblings my grandfather had.” Burke read nine names: Dela, Hosey, Rella, Jumilla, Walter, Bee, Hulette, Queen and Evelena. She also knew the name of Wright’s great-grandparents: Robert and Katie.

Conversation flowed toward the future. Lafayette County has two Confederate soldier statues, erected in 1906 and 1907, standing in prominent locations. One faces south behind the courthouse. The other statue — whose creators conceived it as a monument to “heroes not forgotten” — looms above a grassy circle on the University of Mississippi campus. It’s now accompanied by a “contextualization plaque” installed in 2016 at the insistence of student activists and faculty, who observed that the statue’s creators wanted not merely to remember the dead but to extol white Southern nationalism and reframe the Civil War as a defense of states’ rights. Not long before the Higginbottoms’ visit, the Lafayette County board of supervisors heard public comments about the Confederate statue on the square, some of which called for removal. “There is a growing movement of people in the state who seem very committed to bringing this up,” Grayson said. “As we’re in conversation about Civil War memorials, Confederate memorials, how do we broaden that discussion to memorializing people like Elwood Higginbotham?”

There’s no marker to him or to the six other men who were lynched in the county, one of whom remains unidentified. John Ashworth, the project manager for the Lynching Sites Project of Memphis, which is trying to partner with E.J.I. to erect markers to 37 lynching victims in Shelby County, said that remembering men like Higginbotham is delicate work. He has researched cases in which family members had no idea their relative was lynched or didn’t wish to revisit the traumatic story, and he has seen others in which the killing grounds have been obliterated by parking lots or office buildings. But for descendants who can and do participate in memorialization efforts, he said, the process can be healing. “It is a validation of their humanity,” Ashworth said. “At least somebody cares about what happened.”

Washington was thinking about hearing those family names — Robert and Katie — for the first time. “That’s my great-grandparents,” Washington said. She and her family followed Grayson downstairs to a rear parking lot and climbed into a rented blue van. Another cousin, a brother of Tyrone’s, had arrived late, which brought the total of Elwood Higginbotham’s gathered children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren to eight. They represented just a fraction of Higginbotham’s direct descendants, and in the months to come, Washington and Wright would describe for many of the others — their four siblings who couldn’t attend that day, as well as children and grandchildren, nieces and nephews and cousins — the places they were about to see.

The inhumanity of lynching is hard enough to fathom, but the culture of impunity that allowed the killings to continue for so long is perhaps even more mind-boggling. Seventeen years before Higginbotham died, for example, a lynching party dragged another black man, Nelse Patton, from the Oxford jail. Afterward, a former Mississippi representative and senator, William Van Amberg Sullivan, boasted about his involvement to The New York Times: “I directed every movement of the mob, and I did everything I could to see that he was lynched. ... I saw his body dangling from a tree this morning, and I’m glad of it.”“So, who is your daddy’s mama?”

“I don’t know my grandmother on my daddy’s side,” he said.

“When did granddaddy and grandmama get married?”

“I don’t know when my parents got married.”

Higginbottom knew little because his mother and extended family fled Mississippi after the lynching. They raised E.W., the eldest, and his siblings, Flora and Willie Wade, in Forrest City, Ark., and later in Memphis. Higginbottom’s mother told the children their father had been hanged but didn’t share many details. And she almost never spoke of her dead husband’s character, habits or looks — the stories of his life. Maybe grief kept her quiet. Or fear. Either way, Higginbottom knew better than to mention his daddy. Sometimes he asked his cousins Dorothy and Olivia about him, but they told him to leave it alone. Don’t mess around in that, they said. You might get hurt.

Higginbottom had occasionally returned to Oxford when he was younger, chaperoned by uncles who wanted to visit relatives or take in a service at the family’s former church. But it had been a long time. He stared at the fields consumed by kudzu, the gravel drives, the hardwoods lush with summer growth, and saw only a foreign country. “I was trying to see something I recognized around here, but I don’t,” he said. “It don’t look like I ever lived down here.” As they sped closer to Oxford, he kept gazing out the window, scanning the landscape for even a spark of memory.

What does it mean to confront the past? This is a question that has dogged Washington and her family their whole lives, but also one that’s increasingly urgent for a country that has yet to achieve the equality many thought would follow the civil rights movement. African-Americans lag behind white Americans in almost every conceivable measure of well-being: educational attainment, homeownership rates, income, health outcomes, life expectancy. Black men are far more likely than their white counterparts to fall into poverty, to be incarcerated, to be shot to death by the police. “Black and brown people are still presumed dangerous and guilty,” said Bryan Stevenson, a civil rights attorney and founder of the Equal Justice Initiative, a legal-aid organization in Montgomery, Ala., that has led recent efforts to re-examine the lynching era. “There are these terrible disparities in quality of life for people of color, and you begin asking questions about why these things persist, and I think it inevitably leads to wanting to talk more concretely about history.”

Washington’s grandfather was one of at least 4,100 African-Americans who were lynched between 1877 and 1950 in 12 states clustered along the curve from Virginia to Texas. Although racially motivated lynchings also took place in other states, they were far more common in the South. Black men accused of violent crimes — many of whom were very likely innocent — were frequent targets. But other black men, and women and even children, too, were lynched for insisting on their rights, or for minor violations of the racial caste system, like failing to step off a sidewalk to make way for a white person. On April 26, Stevenson’s organization will open the country’s first memorial to lynching victims, alongside a museum to racial injustice, in Montgomery.

E.J.I.’s National Memorial for Peace and Justice will feature 800 suspended columns — one for each county where documented lynchings occurred — engraved with victims’ names. The design is intended to convey scope but also, more ambitiously, to reshape a Southern landscape awash in Confederate symbols by asking each of those 800 counties to claim a duplicate marker and erect the six-foot monolith on its home soil. “In Berlin, you can’t go anywhere without seeing stones and markers dedicated to the Jewish and Roma residents who were forced from their homes and taken to the concentration camps,” Stevenson said. “And that iconography creates a consciousness of what happened that I think is necessary for that society to recover. In the American South, we’ve done the opposite. We’ve actually created symbols designed to make us feel great about our history, about the 19th century, about the good old days of the early 20th century.”

Photo

Stevenson has advocated fuller acknowledgment of the impact lynching had on African-Americans, both in terms of the trauma sustained and the concrete ways lynching disadvantaged communities. In some places, lynchings were accompanied by mob destruction of black business districts, adding economic devastation to sorrow. And African-Americans who migrated north or west to escape the threat of violence had to start over. Many left social networks, homes and businesses, making it extraordinarily difficult for families to build intergenerational wealth.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

E.J.I.’s point of view stems from earlier scholarship and activism that tried to foster lasting conversations about lynching and puncture popular myths about the practice, like the notions that lynchings were isolated aberrations, pioneer justice or the work of social outsiders like the Ku Klux Klan. The unsettling “Without Sanctuary” exhibit, for example, made its debut in New York in 2000 and featured graphic photos of burned and mutilated black bodies surrounded by jubilant white crowds, some of which swelled into the thousands. Among the most disturbing images were those of white children in the crowds, some with expressions of smug delight on their faces. “If you want to talk about what stands in that place of distrust between blacks and whites, that’s part of it — not that there are just individuals, but hundreds or thousands of white witnesses who might stand beside and fail to stop this,” said Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel of the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the author of “On the Courthouse Lawn: Confronting the Legacy of Lynching in the Twenty-First Century.” “This is powerful, to unpack the complicity of those who remained silent and stood by and watched. That always has to be reckoned with, and we have to deal with that today.”

The gruesome nature of lynchings, Ifill noted, was the main point; they were meant to haunt and intimidate, and to thus ensure the continuation of white supremacy. Stevenson makes a point of calling them “racial terror lynchings.” The killings rippled beyond individual victims and their families to shroud entire communities in fear and shame. In some places, lynching memories suppressed black voter participation for decades. Even today, Ifill and Stevenson said, memories of racial violence can be so traumatic that survivors, witnesses and inheritors stay locked in silence — much like Higginbottom’s mother, who took her husband’s memory to her grave. “There are thousands of African-American families with histories of horrific victimization and racial oppression that have never openly talked because it hasn’t felt safe or healthy to have those conversations,” Stevenson said. “We’re just finding our voice, many of us, to insist on truth telling. And my view on truth and reconciliation is that it’s sequential. You can’t get to reconciliation until you first get to truth.”

Washington — and her five siblings — wanted to get to the truth about their family long before they ever imagined returning to Oxford. When they were kids, their father was too angry to talk about his father at length, and other relatives spoke only hesitantly, if at all, about the killing. So the children spun their own stories, embroidering fragments of truth with scenarios lifted from movies and books. Over the years, the theories hardened into beliefs. Wright felt certain that someone — maybe her mother? — had said that white men lynched her grandfather because he protested when they tried to force his wife to work the cotton fields. Her brother, David Higginbottom, worried that his grandfather might have been murdered for having an interracial romance. Washington thought about her grandmother’s light skin and wondered if she had been the object of a dispute. “We grew up thinking that maybe somebody liked my grandmother and maybe it had something to do with her,” Washington said a few days before returning to Oxford. “Maybe it was her fault — you know, not her fault. But maybe somebody liked her and tried to get to her, and my grandfather tried to protect her.”

The trip to Oxford’s Winter Institute, which was housed inside a Brutalist hulk of a building on the University of Mississippi campus, marked the culmination of a monthslong unraveling of their grandfather’s story. Earlier in the year, a Northeastern University law student named Kyleen Burke emailed Washington’s cousin Tyrone Higginbottom, who then put her in touch with the rest of the family. She told them that she had done extensive research on their grandfather’s life and death as part of Northeastern’s Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, which investigates Jim Crow-era cold cases, and she shared some of what she learned so far. As Washington settled into the Winter Institute’s high-ceilinged meeting room, she — and her sister, father, brother-in-law and children — were still processing Burke’s avalanche of new information and wondering what else might be revealed.

A few interested community members, black and white, trickled into the room to listen. Tyrone, a son of E.W.’s brother, Willie Wade, who died in 2005, also joined them. Framed photographs of the civil rights leader Fannie Lou Hamer and the Memphis sanitation workers’ strike hung on the walls, and the leaves of an enormous magnolia tree could be seen fluttering through a window. A tiny woman in her 40s introduced herself as April Grayson, the Winter Institute’s community-building coordinator. Grayson, who is white, grew up in Rolling Fork, Miss., and has done reconciliation work in some of the state’s most divided places, including Neshoba County, where she helped grass-roots activists who pushed to reopen the cases of the Freedom Summer volunteers Michael Schwerner, James Chaney and Andrew Goodman, who were abducted and murdered in 1964. In 2005, a ringleader and former Klansman who had escaped justice, Edgar Ray Killen, was finally convicted and sentenced to 60 years for the crimes. Grayson read a poem by the Senegalese poet Birago Diop, “Those Who Are Dead Are Never Gone,” and then she invited the family members to introduce themselves.

“I’m glad to be here, and so excited about learning information, having never met my grandfather,” Wright began. Wright, who is 55, has a beautiful singing voice and an outgoing nature despite the grief she has experienced. Her first husband and her eldest son died young; the son was shot and killed before he turned 30. Sometimes she thinks about her grandfather and wonders if a curse hovers over the family’s men. “I’m just ready to get some information so I can talk to my grandkids, because I have seven,” she said.

Burke was there, too, in the form of a disembodied voice emanating from a phone speaker. Grayson asked her to provide an overview of the lynching, and everyone turned to face a beige landline propped on a chair. Irven Wright aimed his cellphone camera at the room, so he could stream video for family members who couldn’t be there. From his home in Killeen, Tex., David, a 56-year-old Army and Marine Corps veteran, watched and listened. He scrutinized his father, a man who dropped out of school in seventh grade and picked cotton so his mother and siblings could eat, who fought in the Korean War and who for decades worked backbreaking jobs to support Morline Lowe, the Arkansas beauty he married in 1955, and their children. The older man had removed his newsboy-style cap and sat apart from his daughters and grandchildren. “I try to put myself in his shoes,” David said. “I try to be him. I thought, What would my heart feel right now?” As Burke began to speak, David’s father sat bolt upright in his chair, as if braced for a blow.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Higginbottom’s father, Elwood Higginbotham, was around 28 in 1935, working as a sharecropper in the Woodson Ridge area northeast of Oxford’s city limits. (It’s unclear how father and son came to spell their surnames differently, but the family believes Higginbotham’s widow may have changed the spelling to cover their tracks after fleeing.) Higginbotham shared a three-bedroom house with his 22-year-old wife, Melissa, and their three children. The youngest, Willie Wade, was still a baby.

In the 1930s, Oxford and the surrounding areas of Lafayette County remained, in many ways, hardly different from the time of Reconstruction. Cotton reigned as the dominant crop. The county’s population was around 20,000. But change was afoot. Main streets gleamed with pavement rather than dirt. Men found work, even during the Great Depression, building a government-funded dormitory at the University of Mississippi campus, which remained segregated until James Meredith began attending in 1962 amid notoriously violent protests. The town’s most famous literary son, William Faulkner, had already written “The Sound and the Fury,” and he lived a short walk from the busy town square. Nearby, African-Americans nurtured a middle class in a vibrant Freedmen Town that offered taxis, grocery stores and a Rosenwald School; one former resident described the neighborhood as “a black man’s city in a white man’s town.”

But Oxford was still a white man’s town, as Higginbotham would discover. Archival documents offer differing accounts of the killing, as is the case with many lynchings. Often newspapers document that a lynching occurred but otherwise prove unreliable. Reporters frequently omitted key facts or filed sensationalized tales of black criminality. Some explicitly sanctioned lynching, even going so far as to announce killings in advance. The Oxford Eagle delivered lackluster coverage of Higginbotham’s death. As recorded in the papers of the civil rights worker Jessie Daniel Ames, an editor at The Eagle later explained to an anti-lynching investigator that “he had to live in Oxford and that he wanted to get along with the people there, and that the race situation made it practically impossible to carry the facts about the killing.”

Those facts began on the night of May 21, 1935, months before Higginbotham was killed, according to an investigation by the Commission on Interracial Cooperation, an anti-lynching organization founded in Atlanta in 1919. Higginbotham and his wife, the commission reported, were in their bedroom that spring evening when a white farmer and neighbor named Glen Roberts arrived. He had at least one other man, his brother, in tow, and according to other records, he was armed. The sharecropper and Roberts had quarreled earlier; Higginbotham had objected to Roberts’s running cattle over his rented field. Now Roberts wanted to whip him for it. When Higginbotham refused to open the door, Roberts broke down an exterior shed room with an ax. Then he chopped his way into the hallway. Higginbotham, the investigators wrote, warned Roberts to stop. Roberts crashed into the bedroom next, at which point Higginbotham shot and killed him.

Photo

The gravity of that moment must have registered with Higginbotham immediately. Roberts was a prominent member of the Oxford community: He enjoyed a reputation as a crack fox hunter, he played fiddle at local celebrations and he was white. Higginbotham fled, and the sheriff rallied hundreds of men to pursue him. They trailed bloodhounds across forests and fields, arrested another black man on suspicion of helping Higginbotham escape and severely beat one of Higginbotham’s sisters. Higginbotham evaded them for two nights before the searchers found him submerged in a creek across the county line.

The search parties might have lynched Higginbotham right then and there, but the Pontotoc County sheriff sent him to Jackson, Miss., 150 miles away, for safekeeping. A district attorney and the county attorney, who was Roberts’s nephew, arrived at the Jackson jail the next day. They left, boasting of having obtained a written murder confession from Higginbotham despite the fact that, according to census records, he could neither read nor write. “We have a clear-cut case of coldblooded murder against the Negro,” the district attorney told a reporter. “The Negro is a vindictive type.” They sought the death penalty.

Although he had supposedly confessed, Higginbotham pleaded not guilty when he returned to Oxford three months later for trial on Sept. 17. Melissa testified, an act that would have exposed her to possible retribution and that undoubtedly influenced her decision to leave. The hearing lasted a mere afternoon, but records suggest that some jurors doubted the prosecution’s story. The judge issued careful instructions to the jury, advising them that if they believed that Roberts had entered the home in “a rude, an angry manner, and then and there held a pistol pointing toward the defendant,” that they should find Higginbotham not guilty. Hours later, the jury had yet to reach a verdict, and two jurors were rumored to be holding out for acquittal.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

What might have become a victory for Higginbotham and for the rule of law instead devolved into an extrajudicial killing. Not far from the white courthouse at the center of Oxford’s square, a mob formed early in the evening outside the jail. Estimates put the crowd at as many as 150 men. Anyone walking to or from the heart of town would have witnessed the lynching party. They would have seen the killers enter the jail, where, through force or persuasion, they bypassed three sheriff’s deputies and the jailer before pulling Higginbotham from his cell. They would have seen the men force Higginbotham into a car and begin driving up North Lamar Boulevard. The caravan swept by the grand homes of Oxford’s wealthy, then past the edge of town and the lonely Three-Way intersection, before stopping in the woods off old Russell Road. Higginbotham, one newspaper reported, stayed quiet during the ride. The men took the sharecropper out of the car, hanged him from a tree and shot him.

As Burke summarized Higginbotham’s story — his fateful encounter with Roberts, the “ridiculously quick trial” and the lynching itself — his elderly son remained dry-eyed. His mother never told him about his father’s desperate escape or about the trial. Higginbottom’s stoicism didn’t surprise his son David, and it didn’t fool him either. “He taught us that men don’t cry,” David said. “But I can tell when he’s emotional.” He saw pain registering on his father’s face. “It would look like he kind of just left the room,” David said. “He looked like he sort of just left the room, and then he’d come back in.” Wright didn’t weep, either. She was still trying to grasp the meaning of everything she was learning. “I may have been in a little bit of shock,” she said. “Like, really? This is what really happened?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Washington, for her part, had already read Burke’s written report and was more familiar with the story than her siblings. But there was one revelation she never tired of hearing about: that before his death, her grandfather might have been a labor activist. “It’s possible,” Burke said, “very possible, that Elwood Higginbotham was actually involved in union organizing within a Communist labor group, trying to build power among the local sharecroppers, particularly the black sharecroppers in the area.” Lynchings to eliminate African-Americans who advocated political, social and economic reforms peaked in the early 20th century, and a union affiliation provided an additional motive for Higginbotham’s lynching — perhaps he had been targeted before the argument with Roberts. But Washington cared more about what a labor role suggested about her granddaddy’s character than what it said about his killers. The image of her grandfather as a labor organizer, a man fighting for his people, made her think of Cesar Chavez. “Here he was, only 20-something years old,” she said. “To be that brave and young in the South? Brave.”

Burke’s research brought David Higginbottom great relief. His grandfather, it turned out, hadn’t cheated on their grandmother, as in the tale his young mind had invented. “You sort of feel a little proud, in a crazy sort of sense,” he said. “Proud that he’s not the guy that you perceived that he had been.” The chronology, horrible as it was, also helped David better understand his own father. E.W. Higginbottom’s hatred of Mississippi was family legend, and that antipathy made sense now that the family was talking more openly about the killing. So did other things. As an adolescent, David spent what felt like every waking moment at his father’s side, traversing Memphis in a red 1964 Malibu, going from one lawn-mowing job to the next. He hated it; he felt smothered. But the more he thought about his grandfather’s death, the more he saw his father’s behaviors — the angry flashes and the hovering — as fear for a black son in a hostile world: “His thoughts were, If I can keep you around me working, I don’t worry.”

Wright asked Burke about her family tree. “Kyleen, you said his family was big? How many?” she asked. “I’m wondering how many siblings my grandfather had.” Burke read nine names: Dela, Hosey, Rella, Jumilla, Walter, Bee, Hulette, Queen and Evelena. She also knew the name of Wright’s great-grandparents: Robert and Katie.

Conversation flowed toward the future. Lafayette County has two Confederate soldier statues, erected in 1906 and 1907, standing in prominent locations. One faces south behind the courthouse. The other statue — whose creators conceived it as a monument to “heroes not forgotten” — looms above a grassy circle on the University of Mississippi campus. It’s now accompanied by a “contextualization plaque” installed in 2016 at the insistence of student activists and faculty, who observed that the statue’s creators wanted not merely to remember the dead but to extol white Southern nationalism and reframe the Civil War as a defense of states’ rights. Not long before the Higginbottoms’ visit, the Lafayette County board of supervisors heard public comments about the Confederate statue on the square, some of which called for removal. “There is a growing movement of people in the state who seem very committed to bringing this up,” Grayson said. “As we’re in conversation about Civil War memorials, Confederate memorials, how do we broaden that discussion to memorializing people like Elwood Higginbotham?”

There’s no marker to him or to the six other men who were lynched in the county, one of whom remains unidentified. John Ashworth, the project manager for the Lynching Sites Project of Memphis, which is trying to partner with E.J.I. to erect markers to 37 lynching victims in Shelby County, said that remembering men like Higginbotham is delicate work. He has researched cases in which family members had no idea their relative was lynched or didn’t wish to revisit the traumatic story, and he has seen others in which the killing grounds have been obliterated by parking lots or office buildings. But for descendants who can and do participate in memorialization efforts, he said, the process can be healing. “It is a validation of their humanity,” Ashworth said. “At least somebody cares about what happened.”

Washington was thinking about hearing those family names — Robert and Katie — for the first time. “That’s my great-grandparents,” Washington said. She and her family followed Grayson downstairs to a rear parking lot and climbed into a rented blue van. Another cousin, a brother of Tyrone’s, had arrived late, which brought the total of Elwood Higginbotham’s gathered children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren to eight. They represented just a fraction of Higginbotham’s direct descendants, and in the months to come, Washington and Wright would describe for many of the others — their four siblings who couldn’t attend that day, as well as children and grandchildren, nieces and nephews and cousins — the places they were about to see.

The inhumanity of lynching is hard enough to fathom, but the culture of impunity that allowed the killings to continue for so long is perhaps even more mind-boggling. Seventeen years before Higginbotham died, for example, a lynching party dragged another black man, Nelse Patton, from the Oxford jail. Afterward, a former Mississippi representative and senator, William Van Amberg Sullivan, boasted about his involvement to The New York Times: “I directed every movement of the mob, and I did everything I could to see that he was lynched. ... I saw his body dangling from a tree this morning, and I’m glad of it.”1. New allegations emerged against Dr. Ronny Jackson, the president’s physician and nominee to lead the Veteran Affairs Department. Dr. Jackson is said to have given large amounts of Percocet to a colleague, and to have gotten drunk at a Secret Service party and “wrecked” a car.

The Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee has heard testimony from 23 current and former colleagues of Dr. Jackson. Democrats circulated a summary that paints a picture of prescription drug misuse, a hostile work environment and drunkenness.

But White House officials have ratcheted up their public defense of Dr. Jackson. We discussed his prospects on our podcast “The Daily.”

On Thursday, Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, is set to testify before Congress amid a series of ethics investigations. We obtained an internal document that appears to lay out his talking points. It suggests he may blame his staff for many of the decisions that have put a cloud over his tenure.• The leaders of North and South Korea will meet tomorrow in an almost inconceivable moment of face-to-face diplomacy after 70 years of bitter rivalry.

There will be a lot on the table when Kim Jong-un, the North’s supreme leader, meets President Moon Jae-in at Panmunjom, the so-called truce village, including issues that have bedeviled the Korean Peninsula for much of the 20th century. Our veteran correspondent explains.

Amid hurried preparations, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has been working overtime to make sure his country is not forgotten by its allies. (Tokyo even demanded that the South rethink a mango mousse it plans to serve that features a map with islands claimed by Japan.)

Former President Jimmy Carter, one of the few Americans to have gone to North Korea, also weighed in.• Gavin Newsom, the front-runner in the governor’s race, admitted to a drinking problem a decade ago. Now he says alcohol isn’t a problem: “A little wine” is fine. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• California’s state government is flush with cash. The state’s income tax revenue has continued to far exceed both projections and last year’s totals. In the current fiscal year taxes have totaled over $82 billion, nearly $4 billion ahead of projections and over $9 billion ahead of this point last year. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• In the latest blow to local journalism in California, The Sacramento Bee laid off 14 journalists on Tuesday. [Sacramento Business Journal]

• Oakland is struggling to attract women and underrepresented minorities into its police academies. The city’s 179th police academy will add as many as 21 new officers to the city’s streets when it wraps up in July, but there won’t be any women or African Americans in the graduating class. The attrition rate for women in the last three police academies was 62 percent, compared with 33 percent for men. [East Bay Express]

• A Latino activist organization, Hermandad Mexicana, on Tuesday announced a statewide campaign of noncooperation with all police authorities. [Orange County Register]

• A developer wants to build a 260-unit housing complex in Berkeley. Native American groups say the site was once part of an Ohlone settlement that included large mounds of seashells that may have also been a burial ground. [Berkeleyside]

And Finally ...“It’s a humbling experience to have people digging out your life in front of you,” said Curtis Skene, the owner of the house who narrowly escaped the mudflows by taking shelter behind an olive tree in his garden. “I’m humbled – and grateful.”

Photo

A day later Oprah Winfrey came to document the dig-out with a camera crew. In a community filled with celebrities, her estate is one street over.

The bucket brigade has dug out both mansions and modest bungalows. They are also trying to save oak trees from suffocation.

Among the diggers is Carol Bartoli, 73, a chef and caterer, who has outlasted some of the younger volunteers. After the mudslide, “the attitude was if the mud is on your property it’s your responsibility,” she said.

“I just thought, I’m going to help.”

With the rainy season all but over, the group works under bright blue skies. But in the hills above Montecito, boulders are perched precariously as if waiting for their cue to tumble.

“If you live between the mountain and the ocean it’s almost par for the course,” said Josiah Hamilton, a real estate agent and a leader of the bucket brigade. “It’s something you have to be prepared for.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

California Online

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)

Photo

• How Devin Nunes turned the House Intelligence Committee inside out. [The New York Times]

• A parade of big-name California Republican lawmakers including Kevin McCarthy, Devin Nunes and Mimi Walters have contributed to the campaign to repeal the gas tax. [Sacramento Bee]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Home prices in the Bay Area have reached a new record – a median of $820,000 in March, up 9.3 percent from February and up 14.7 percent from a year ago. It’s no surprise that tech jobs are helping push up the prices; the median annual pay at Facebook is $240,430. [San Francisco Chronicle]

Photo

• Long Beach has long struggled to revive its downtown. Now three dozen projects are underway or in the pipeline in one of the country’s largest downtown redevelopments. [The New York Times]

• Gavin Newsom, the front-runner in the governor’s race, admitted to a drinking problem a decade ago. Now he says alcohol isn’t a problem: “A little wine” is fine. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• California’s state government is flush with cash. The state’s income tax revenue has continued to far exceed both projections and last year’s totals. In the current fiscal year taxes have totaled over $82 billion, nearly $4 billion ahead of projections and over $9 billion ahead of this point last year. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• In the latest blow to local journalism in California, The Sacramento Bee laid off 14 journalists on Tuesday. [Sacramento Business Journal]

• Oakland is struggling to attract women and underrepresented minorities into its police academies. The city’s 179th police academy will add as many as 21 new officers to the city’s streets when it wraps up in July, but there won’t be any women or African Americans in the graduating class. The attrition rate for women in the last three police academies was 62 percent, compared with 33 percent for men. [East Bay Express]

• A Latino activist organization, Hermandad Mexicana, on Tuesday announced a statewide campaign of noncooperation with all police authorities. [Orange County Register]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A developer wants to build a 260-unit housing complex in Berkeley. Native American groups say the site was once part of an Ohlone settlement that included large mounds of seashells that may have also been a burial ground. [Berkeleyside]

And Finally ...

Photo

In her late 50s Katherine Morrow turned to a life of meditation. She whittled down her possessions and rented a small bungalow by a creek in Montecito. But after mud crashed through the house in January, blowing the front door off its hinges, there was one item she hoped to retrieve: a portrait of her late mother drawn by a Canadian artist, Frederick Varley.

Four days after the mudslide she returned with a sheriff’s deputy, wading through thigh-deep mud that was as sticky as peanut butter. Among tree roots and shards of glass, Ms. Morrow spotted the corner of the picture frame. She slipped it out of the muck and brought it to a shop in Santa Barbara that specializes in restoring damaged art. A woman working at the shop entered the piece into the computer as “Mother.” The frame looked like a “mud sandwich,” the restorer said.

Ms. Morrow has now put her possessions into 12 small boxes and is contemplating her next move. She keeps the image of her mother pressed in between sheets of packing foam. “She was a very good mother, very nurturing,” Ms. Morrow said.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Research has shown that we humans are generally pretty awful at assessing our own competence and abilities, which in turn leads us to overestimate them — a phenomenon called the Dunning-Kruger Effect.

The effect creates a vicious loop that boils down to this: The less skilled you are at something, the less likely you are to recognize how unskilled you truly are, and thus you overestimate your abilities. Worse still, because you can’t see your errors, you’ll never know you need to correct. (If this all sounds familiar, you’ve probably heard of the classic study in which 80 percent of surveyed drivers ranked their driving skills as “above average.” Noodle on that one.)

Conversely, the better we get at something, the likelier we are to see how much more we can improve, which can sometimes lead us to underestimate ourselves. Similarly, those who are exceptionally skilled at something can sometimes think everyone else is at that level, making them unaware of how exceptional their abilities are. Think: Impostor syndrome.

We all do this! It’s simply in our nature, so it’s not a behavior meant to deceive others or to unreasonably prop up our own ego. In the influential study that first examined this phenomenon in 1999, researchers found that once people realize how bad they are at something, they’ll readily cop to it and want to improve.

So what can we do to stop embarrassing ourselves with, say, our awful French if we don’t know how awful it is? Research suggests two routes to enlightenment.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Smarter Living Newsletter A weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

First, ask for feedback. It’s not easy, and it can sometimes be tough to hear, but outside input is crucial to shining a light on your blind spots. Here are some tips for getting and giving better feedback.

Second, keep learning. The more knowledgeable you are about something, the more you’re able to identify the gaps in your own understanding of it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Now excuse me while I go ask for feedback about writing newsletters. (Here’s a leap of faith: Tell me on Twitter at @timherrera how I’m doing!)

Have a great week!

—Tim

P.S — The Times is launching a new newsletter called The Week in Good News, written by Des Shoe. It’s focused on — wait for it — good news! It will come out every Saturday morning, sending you into the weekend with a smile (or at least a lighter heart). Subscribe here!

Best of Smarter Living

How to Tell a Story The stories we tell are how we know who we are. And sharing a tale with an audience can be immensely rewarding. Here’s how to do it right.

Following the Trail of Online Ads, Wherever It Leads The Times’s advertising reporter talks about how she tracks the online ads that track us.

What to Do When Your Old Boss Won’t Let Go A worker escapes a bad supervisor by changing departments — but the old boss is still holding on tight. What is to be done?

A Beginner’s Guide to Taking Great Video on Your Phone Everyone from pro photographers to amateur shutterbugs is using phones to shoot video projects. Here’s how you can get started.

Why You Should Hire a Financial Planner, Even if You’re Not Rich Now that tax time has passed, give yourself a financial fresh start and get some help to make the right money moves for next year.

Mother’s Day Gift Guide Not sure what to get mom this year? We’ve got you covered.

What We’re Reading

• The best, and last, thing you’ll ever need to read about picking a career.

• Looking for a job? Get your social media in order.

• Is science hitting a wall?

• New brain maps!

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Use the Paper Clip Strategy to stick with good habits.Send your workplace conundrums to workologist@nytimes.com, including your name and contact information (even if you want it withheld). The Workologist is a guy with well-intentioned opinions, not a professional career adviser. Letters may be edited.

I recently managed to hire someone for a position that was very hard to fill, because of the type of professional license needed and my organization’s location. Unfortunately this new hire, despite an exceptional amount of support and training for the past two months, is struggling. He has a good grasp of the job’s content, but can’t keep up with its pace, volume or administrative requirements. I talked to my boss about this, and was advised to monitor and manage the new hire’s work even more closely, signing off on everything he does until he’s mastered the basics. After that talk, I met with my new hire for a routine one-on-one. When I asked to review the work he’d done that day, he blew up: raised his voice, glared at me and waved his arms, complaining that he didn’t want to be “distracted” by my presence and expected to work with “autonomy.” I’m known for my ability to be diplomatic and respectful with employees; this was an absurd overreaction. I think it’s essential that I give him a formal warning. The problem is my boss, who has been known to turn a blind eye to employee misconduct for fear of affecting our bottom line. I know my boss really hopes this hire will work out because we had such a tough time finding qualified candidates. I feel like I’m walking a tightrope. If I don’t write him up, I won’t be able to manage him and my boss will see me as weak. If I do write him up, he may lose motivation to improve and my boss will see me as harsh. MARY

If your boss is worried about the bottom line, you should be able to use that to your advantage. Allowing a new hire who hasn’t figured out his job to run amok, brush off useful supervision and act like a diva without delivering results is definitely not good for business. You need to send the new colleague a message — but you’d be wise to recruit your boss into some kind of agreement on that decision first.

Start by giving the boss credit: You agree with the advice to monitor the new guy closely until he gets the hang of things. In fact (you can continue), you believe this person can, over time, work out, if he’ll accept direction and learn on the job. Even if you have doubts about this, channel your inner optimist and come across as being focused on achieving solutions, not pointing out problems.

Now tell the boss that the new guy was resistant to the suggested supervision — and you need to say that this is not acceptable. That’s the best (and really only) way to make this new colleague work out in the long run, and you want to make sure you have your boss’s support.

Having buy-in from your boss will make the subsequent conversation with your troublesome newcomer easier. But hang on to that optimism: Tell the new guy that you look forward to granting him the autonomy he seeks — but that getting there is going to require some management.BANGKOK — “ Anywhere they play in Bangkok, I’ll be there,” said Warin Nithihiranyakul , 73 , a dedicated fan of the Sai Yong Hong Chinese Opera troupe for more than 10 years. While waiting for his friends to arrive, he helps out by starting to set up plastic red chairs for the audience to watch the evening’s performance in an area just south of Bangkok’s Chinatown .

A devotee of 11 years, Wandee Tengyodwanich, 62, unwraps several small plates of Chinese dough sticks and cake , passing them around to her friends in front of the stage before the show. She sa ys that Sai Yong Hong is the best Chinese opera in Thailand because it invests in very elaborate costumes. She and her friends go to see the group a couple of times a year. They eat and catch up as they reminisce about the first time they saw Chinese opera as children.A day after The Times informed Facebook of its findings, the company removed all 96 impostor Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg accounts on its Facebook site. It had left up all but one of the 109 fakes on Instagram, but removed them after this article was published.

Photo

“Thank you so much for reporting this,” said Pete Voss, a Facebook spokesman. He could not say why Facebook had not spotted the accounts posing as its top executives, including several that appeared to have existed for more than eight years. “It’s not easy,” he said. “We want to get better.”

Facebook requires people to use their authentic name and identity. Yet the company has estimated that perhaps 3 percent of its users — as many as 60 million accounts — are fake. Some of those accounts are disguised as ordinary people, some pretend to be celebrities such as Justin Bieber.

In congressional testimony this month, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook was improving its software to automatically detect and remove such accounts. Facebook officials have said the company blocks millions of fake accounts trying to register each day and analysts said the social network has improved its efforts to remove the accounts.

“Fake accounts, over all, are a big issue, because that’s how a lot of the other issues that we see around fake news and foreign election interference are happening as well,” Mr. Zuckerberg told lawmakers, adding that Facebook is hiring more people to work on reviewing content.

But major holes remain. Interviews with a half-dozen recent victims — and online conversations with nine impostor accounts — showed that the Facebook lottery deception is alive and well, preying particularly on older, less educated and low-income people.

The Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg impostor accounts typically use the executives’ pictures as profile photos and list their Facebook titles. Some post manipulated images of people holding oversize checks. The names of Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg are sometimes misspelled, or use parentheses and middle names (Elliot for Mr. Zuckerberg and Kara for Ms. Sandberg) to evade Facebook’s software.

Photo

Many of the impersonators had dozens to hundreds of followers; several had thousands. They are aided by a network of other sham accounts with generic names, such as Jim Towey and Mary Gilbert, which purported to be “Facebook claim agents.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The scammers seek victims who, based on their Facebook and Instagram profiles, seem vulnerable, said Robin Alexander van der Kieft, who manages several Facebook groups that track the scams. The various fake accounts share information about successful shakedowns and continue pouncing on those victims, he said. He has traced many of the internet protocol addresses of these fake accounts to Nigeria and Ghana.

The pitch often begins with an unsolicited “Hello. How are you doing?” on Facebook or Instagram. The fake accounts then proceed, sometimes in broken English, to inform people of their enormous Facebook lottery prize.

After several messages between The Times and a fake Sheryl Sandberg account on Instagram last week, the impostor offered $950,000 and a new car via the “Facebook splash promotion 2018.”

When asked for proof the account was Ms. Sandberg, the scammer sent a Photoshopped identification. “I want you to know that this Promo is 100% Real and Legitimate and the Government are aware of this Promo you don’t have to be skeptical all you just have to do is to follow all instruction giving to you okay,” the account added.

Three days later, the account said it needed a $100 iTunes gift card to process and activate the winning A.T.M. card. (iTunes gift cards can quickly be redeemed and traded on the black market for cash.)

After initially resisting, the sham Ms. Sandberg agreed to a phone call, adding “I’m not the one that will be speaking to you O.K.” Seconds later, a call arrived from a number with a 650 area code — Silicon Valley.

“You have to be careful, there are lots of scam artists,” a man said in accented English after he was informed that he was speaking with The Times. He added, “All I’m trying to do is get your winning package.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Times reached out to more than 50 impostor accounts. Most messages went unreturned. None that replied broke character.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The charade has ensnared people like Donna Keithley, 50, a stay-at-home mom with four children in Martinsburg, Pa. In March 2016, an account with the name Linda Ritchey messaged Ms. Keithley “on behalf of the Facebook C.E.O Mark Zuckerberg” to pass on word of her good fortune: $650,000 in lottery winnings. Ms. Keithley wired $350 — a delivery fee — the next day.

That began a monthlong saga. According to a 28,000-word transcript of a Facebook Messenger conversation between Ms. Keithley and the account, the scammer repeatedly played on Ms. Keithley’s Christian faith to get her to send more money.

“Are you good Christian with god fears?” the Linda Ritchey account asked. “Can you trust me and also have believe in me?”

Donna Keithley’s Messages With ‘Linda Ritchey’ An exchange Donna Keithley had with an account that purported to belong to an employee of “the Facebook social Network Inc.” Messages from the account suggested that Ms. Keithley charge $500 to her credit card. Linda Ritchey I will contact you once this is posted and I make this payment. Donna Keithley Good Donna. Linda Ritchey Did you get message from Mr Mark yet? Yes. Good Donna. Are you told about $500 that will enter your second card huh? Yes Good Donna. You can see am trying my best as a Good Christian with God Fearing huh? I am only human. God made me the way I am. Amy human would ask questions and doubt things. Do you realize there are many people that take people for granted and then people get leery because it's publicly made aware. I put my trust in the Lord. Okay Donna. I also put my trust in God too Well I got to get work done so I can spend time with my girls when they get home. Okay Donna, But did you still have trust in me huh? I trust you. Same here too

Over the next month, Ms. Keithley received not only Facebook messages but a call from a Mr. Zuckerberg impostor who assured her the lottery was real. She even heard from a Facebook account masquerading as Eileen M. Decker, the former United States attorney in Los Angeles, asking for $205 to process her winnings.

The Times found at least five Facebook accounts posing as Ms. Decker and advertising government grants, another known scam. Ms. Decker told The Times that she has tried to get Facebook to remove the accounts, but the site wanted a picture of her government-issued identification to do so. She refused. “To me, they’re not a trusted source,” she said. She added that she had contacted the F.B.I. and hired a lawyer.

Ms. Keithley’s scammer ordered her to open new credit cards and bank accounts, and even to get a loan using her husband’s 2001 Ford Taurus as collateral. Midway through the month, she said she had a minor stroke from the stress.

By April 2016, she had used her family’s tax refund and loans from relatives to pay the scammer $5,306.43 — much of it in money transfers to the name Ben Amos in Lagos, Nigeria.

“It just devastated the whole household,” said her husband, Tim Keithley, a security guard who was making $10 an hour at the time.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The ordeal was so costly, Ms. Keithley said, the family’s telephone service was shut off. They also had to go to a food bank.

While Ms. Keithley still gets messages from accounts claiming to work for Facebook, she said she is now wiser. “Lord as my witness, no one’s getting any more money from me,” she said.

After they are duped, victims may struggle with what to do next. Mr. Bernhardt, the retired forklift driver, said he didn’t know how to report the scammers to Facebook. Ms. Keithley said she had called a number for Facebook she had found online, though she was not sure the number was authentic. She also reported the scam to local police, who said they couldn’t help, and the Pennsylvania attorney general. A spokesman for the Pennsylvania attorney general said the office did not have a record of Ms. Keithley’s report, but that it planned to contact her.

Others said they regularly report scammers to Facebook, but the company can be slow to act.

Kathryn Schwartz, 55, from Lodi, N.J., said she has been in credit-card debt since she lost $1,742 trying to claim bogus Facebook lottery winnings in 2016. She said she has since been barraged by scammers and regularly reports them, including in messages to the real Mr. Zuckerberg.

One Facebook account named Mary Williams recently messaged Ms. Schwartz, saying it would help her claim her winnings. A review of the account showed that in March it had renamed itself, purporting to be a Boise, Idaho, native who works at Facebook. Years of posts before that depicted a man in Nigeria.

When Ms. Schwartz posted on Facebook last week that Mary Williams was a con artist, the account left a comment: “You think you are smart but you are not. If you were smart why were you scammed.” The emojis tacked at the end of the message were crying with laughter.

Mr. Bernhardt said that since he wired his last payment to the Mr. Zuckerberg masquerader in January, he has heard from two other Mark Zuckerbergs, one Sheryl Sandberg and other accounts promising him winnings in return for more cash.

Gary Bernhardt’s Messages With ‘Sheryl Sandberg’ An exchange Gary Bernhardt had with someone he believed to be Facebook’s chief operating officer, who promised him lottery winnings if he first paid $500 in fees. sandsheryl Once you get the fee just get back to me so that I can update the delivery agent so that they can be ready to delivery you're winnings to your home door step sandsheryl Well I guess I’m not going to be able to get the money Gary Bernhardt Why Because I have a friend or family to give me any money What do you mean Because they know that I been scammed before Oh I see What are you going to do now To get this fee Are you there? Yes I’m here So now what is going on about your winnings now So you mean you are not interested in your winnings I'm interested in the winnings Then just get this fee send so that you can get your winnings without any delay I try to get a loan Okay When are you going to do that It could take a couple days to see if I can get a loan Make sure you did not tell them about your winnings news Is that understood I will try today

No conversations have gone as deep as with his original scammer. “I thought we were getting real close,” Mr. Bernhardt said. “He started calling me Mr. Gary and I started calling him Mr. Mark.”

He said he had told his scammer about growing up in a foster home and his dream of owning a house on a lake.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“They sucked me in because they knew my dreams,” he said.A recent Elon University poll of residents in the finalist cities found that while relatively few residents outright oppose Amazon moving to their city, only 43 percent strongly supported such a move. Residents in many cities said they were concerned that Amazon’s arrival would increase the cost of living and opposed offering special incentives to attract the company.

In Nashville, the debate over HQ2 has gotten caught up in a broader discussion of gentrification, race and the consequences of growth. Residents long described Nashville as a small town disguised as a big city. But over the last decade, the city’s tourism industry has taken off, and some of those tourists liked Nashville enough to stay. For years, the Nashville metropolitan area grew by more than 100 residents per day, with many of them moving into newly built downtown apartment complexes.

As in other cities that have experienced such booms, the growth has led to tensions. Longtime residents, many of them African-American, have been displaced, and the city’s homeless population has grown. A recent study commissioned by the mayor’s office found that the city had lost 18,000 affordable housing units since 2000. That gap could grow to 31,000 units by 2025 if current trends continue — without taking Amazon into account.

“There are many neighborhoods in Nashville where the fight is lost,” said James Fraser, a Vanderbilt University professor who has been active in the city’s affordable-housing movement.

Adriane Harris, who leads housing policy for the Nashville mayor’s office , said concerns about gentrification were legitimate. But she said there were two sides to the affordability equation: housing costs and income. Nashville’s tourism economy depends heavily on low-wage service workers. The promise of HQ2 is that it could be the foundation of a new, more lucrative industry.

“If we’re only addressing housing, then I don’t think we’re getting to the root of the issue,” Ms. Harris said. “Wage growth is critical in this conversation.”

Affordable-housing groups, however, worry that current Nashville residents won’t be, for the most part, the beneficiaries of the high-paying jobs that Amazon promises. Fabian Bedne, a Nashville City Council member, said the city should ask the company to help mitigate its impact, perhaps by financing affordable-housing programs.A recent Elon University poll of residents in the finalist cities found that while relatively few residents outright oppose Amazon moving to their city, only 43 percent strongly supported such a move. Residents in many cities said they were concerned that Amazon’s arrival would increase the cost of living and opposed offering special incentives to attract the company.

In Nashville, the debate over HQ2 has gotten caught up in a broader discussion of gentrification, race and the consequences of growth. Residents long described Nashville as a small town disguised as a big city. But over the last decade, the city’s tourism industry has taken off, and some of those tourists liked Nashville enough to stay. For years, the Nashville metropolitan area grew by more than 100 residents per day, with many of them moving into newly built downtown apartment complexes.

As in other cities that have experienced such booms, the growth has led to tensions. Longtime residents, many of them African-American, have been displaced, and the city’s homeless population has grown. A recent study commissioned by the mayor’s office found that the city had lost 18,000 affordable housing units since 2000. That gap could grow to 31,000 units by 2025 if current trends continue — without taking Amazon into account.

“There are many neighborhoods in Nashville where the fight is lost,” said James Fraser, a Vanderbilt University professor who has been active in the city’s affordable-housing movement.

Adriane Harris, who leads housing policy for the Nashville mayor’s office , said concerns about gentrification were legitimate. But she said there were two sides to the affordability equation: housing costs and income. Nashville’s tourism economy depends heavily on low-wage service workers. The promise of HQ2 is that it could be the foundation of a new, more lucrative industry.

“If we’re only addressing housing, then I don’t think we’re getting to the root of the issue,” Ms. Harris said. “Wage growth is critical in this conversation.”

Affordable-housing groups, however, worry that current Nashville residents won’t be, for the most part, the beneficiaries of the high-paying jobs that Amazon promises. Fabian Bedne, a Nashville City Council member, said the city should ask the company to help mitigate its impact, perhaps by financing affordable-housing programs.On Wednesday night Meghan Markle finally walked down the wedding aisle, resplendent in a lacy, sparkling white dress. It was, of course, the “Suits” season finale, and she was marrying her on-show fiancé.

But it was also a mere three weeks or so before Ms. Markle herself — biracial American, now former actress, divorcée, United Nations women’s advocate — will walk down the aisle in Windsor Castle to to marry her real fiancé, Prince Harry (beloved royal soldier and hell raiser turned mental health activist). That made for a digital frenzy about what may be coming, which is only going to grow as the days wind down.

After all, the drip-drip-drip of details has already sped up. The betting is closed. On what? The still outstanding question: What will she wear? There are economic and cultural repercussions riding on the answer.

And you thought it was just a dress. Pshaw.

First, odds were on Ralph & Russo, makers of Ms. Markle’s official engagement dress. Then Erdem Moralioglu. After all, he is a Canadian — Ms. Markle lived in Toronto while she filmed “Suits” — who has become a stalwart of London Fashion Week, famous for his way with a romantic lace dress, and Ms. Markle told Vanity Fair she had been wearing his clothes for years. Then Burberry became a favorite, because — well, Britishness. (It probably won’t be the Anne Barge “Versailles” gown Ms. Markle wore in “Suits,” though that extravaganza did have a princess vibe.)Photo

In a strange twist of art and life imitating each other, the final episode of “Suits” features Meghan Markle walking down the aisle in a wedding dress. Awaiting her is not a British prince, but rather the lawyer Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams), the romantic interest of Rachel Zane, a character that Ms. Markle imbued with a mix of charm, conscientiousness and grace over the show’s seven-year run on USA.

The appearance doubled as the capstone on Ms. Markle’s career. She has said she has given up acting to be a full-time royal, which will become official with her marriage to Prince Harry on May 19.

At first glance it seems like a scant acting legacy. But, as Rachel, she was a subtly influential force on a pulpy legal drama that quietly had one of the most diverse casts on television. Debuting in the role of the ingénue, Ms. Markle actively repositioned Rachel out of the eye- candy slot, and by the end, her character had become the show’s moral conscience.

With the departure of Rachel and Mike, gone to start a do-gooder firm in Seattle, “Suits” not only loses a fan favorite (Ms. Markle) and one of its leads (Mr. Adams, who is also leaving the show), it also risks sacrificing the nuanced themes of class, race and corporate outsiders that their characters came to represent.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Keeping in line with USA’s former “blue skies” motto, “Suits” never billed itself as a political show. Rather, it built itself around a surreal plot: Mike is a brilliant, scrappy, upstart lawyer at one of New York’s most elite firms who pretends to have graduated at the top of his class at Harvard Law School. Despite this implausible premise, the show’s lasting appeal for me was something equally unbelievable: “Suits” rarely called attention to the prominent roles that its African-American actresses played on the show.

Photo

Debuting in 2011 — a full year before “Scandal” — Jessica Pearson (Gina Torres), decked out in exquisitely tailored, textured dress suits, appeared as the managing partner at Pearson Hardman, and the African-American mentor of Harvey Specter (Gabriel Macht). Over time, she would eventually shepherd Rachel, the firm’s hardworking paralegal, into becoming a lawyer, making them part of a small group of women of color operating in the high echelons of corporate law on TV. And while “The Good Wife” (another legal drama I watched until the very end), would eventually address the absence of African-Americans in both its fictional Chicago law firm and its real cast in its final two seasons, “Suits” began with Ms. Torres and Ms. Markle as two of its three female leads. (USA is currently developing a “Suits” spinoff for Ms. Torres.)No one knows for certain how they know to do this — or why. But this vertical migration — especially the one completed every day by some of the ocean’s smallest creatures — may be making big waves.

Half a century ago Walter Munk, a renowned oceanographer and geophysicist at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, described what we accept today about this mixing: that the wind and tide help. In one paper, he also briefly mentioned that vertical migrations could play a role.

Dr. Dabiri would later discover in an email exchange with Dr. Munk that he had said this in jest: Animals can’t kick up much more water than the amount directly around their bodies.

Around the same time, it was deemed impossible that tiny animals, even collectively, could create enough power in their movements to stir up a layered ocean.

“These animals are individually small, and the ocean is enormous,” said Dr. Dabiri. “It sort of defies intuition that such small organisms could have a major impact in the oceans.”No one knows for certain how they know to do this — or why. But this vertical migration — especially the one completed every day by some of the ocean’s smallest creatures — may be making big waves.

Half a century ago Walter Munk, a renowned oceanographer and geophysicist at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, described what we accept today about this mixing: that the wind and tide help. In one paper, he also briefly mentioned that vertical migrations could play a role.

Dr. Dabiri would later discover in an email exchange with Dr. Munk that he had said this in jest: Animals can’t kick up much more water than the amount directly around their bodies.

Around the same time, it was deemed impossible that tiny animals, even collectively, could create enough power in their movements to stir up a layered ocean.

“These animals are individually small, and the ocean is enormous,” said Dr. Dabiri. “It sort of defies intuition that such small organisms could have a major impact in the oceans.”“This has always been popular with residents,” said Mr. Levine, a Democrat whose district includes Morningside Heights and Hamilton Heights. “And their frustration now is boiling over.”

Mr. Levine added that he has received more complaints in recent years from residents who are increasingly competing for free curbside parking with commuters from New Jersey and Westchester County. “For one reason or another, they are dumping their cars uptown and that’s crowding out neighborhood residents,” he said.

Both bills, if approved, would charge the city’s Department of Transportation with developing the details of a residential parking program — where and when the permits would be required, how much they would cost and any penalties for violations — with input from community boards and elected officials.

Under the proposals, a residential permit system would exclude parking spots that are metered or in commercial zones used for deliveries. It would apply to residential streets, including side streets, at certain times such as rush hours.

Photo

A spokeswoman for Council Speaker Corey Johnson said the speaker was reviewing the bills. A spokesman for Mayor Bill de Blasio said the mayor would review the bills when they were introduced.

But state legislative leaders and city transportation officials emphasized that any residential parking program would still require the approval of the Legislature, though Mr. Levine said he believed the city had the authority to act without Albany. At least 20 localities, including Albany and Buffalo, have received state legislation authorizing some form of residential parking, but not New York City.

“We haven’t seen the details of the proposals and we would have to review the issue with our members,” said Michael Whyland, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Carl E. Heastie, a Democrat from the Bronx.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In 2011, the City Council pushed residential parking permits, spurred by concerns that the soon-to-open Barclays Center in Brooklyn would draw heavy traffic that would pose a danger to pedestrians, worsen pollution and make parking even more difficult to find. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s 2008 plan for congestion pricing also included residential parking permits. Neither effort got much traction in Albany.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rodriguez said he has been talking to state legislators to build support for residential parking permits, and would also be looking at other legal options. He said he would be holding a hearing on the bills in the next few months. Both Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Levine said they would work together and viewed their separate bills going hand-in-hand to create a comprehensive parking policy for the city.

The proposals drew criticism from nonresidents like Oscar Lopez, 28, who drove his white BMW with New Jersey plates off the George Washington Bridge on Tuesday and immediately began looking for parking. “This is a public street, and if I spend an hour looking for a parking space, I have just as much right as anyone to have it,” he said.

Other drivers opposed what they saw as an effort by the city to regulate parking. Kevin Sacco, 66, a commercial artist in Morningside Heights who had parked in the neighborhood Tuesday, said that securing parking spots was a vital part of New Yorkers’ hustle, and government should not get involved.

Richard Weigel, 73, a retired history professor who lives in Kentucky but spends weeks at a time in Manhattan, said that finding one’s own parking space was a longstanding city tradition, “and I don’t see it working any other way.”

“I know some people feel that New Yorkers have more of a right to New York City parking spaces,” he said. “But New York thrives by having people who drive into the city to work, too.”

But Mr. Richiez, the building superintendent, said residential parking permits were just what neighborhood drivers needed. In fact, he and his neighbors have already begun to “team up” to keep parking local. One neighbor preparing to pull out will wait until another gets into position to take the spot.

“A lot of suburban areas have their own resident parking permits, so why can’t we have them in New York City,” he said. “Out-of-towners see my neighborhood as free parking in Manhattan. I say it should be kept for the locals.”Some of the convicts probably deserved it. But walking among Port Arthur’s dead, it was hard to escape the sanctimonious rigidity of the English class system, made even more extreme by the culture of 19th-century incarceration.

I found myself imagining a prisoner who had arrived young, grinding out a 10-year sentence under the harsh condescension of British soldiers. He’d depart with a skill — Port Arthur was basically an industrial labor camp — but how could he not also leave with a deep disgust for class distinctions and authority?

Here, I thought, lie the roots of Australia’s egalitarian ethos, traced back to a visceral rejection of the hierarchy that defined prison settlements like Port Arthur.

This, after all, was the place for castoffs. Delinquent boys as young as 9 and troubled men with wives and children (not to mention a few meddlesome Irish and American activists) were all shipped off in former slave ships and put to work here in a country that was not easy to tame.

The challenges of the land required camaraderie. The British system enforced divisions, putting a small elite above a mass of rebels and rogues. No wonder that those who stayed in Australia preferred to see themselves as “mates” more than gentlemen.

Nick Dyrenfurth, a historian who wrote “Mateship: A Very Australian History,” has argued that convicts were the first to embrace the concept.

“The convicts brought with them from Britain the term ‘mate,’ and they used it amongst themselves,” Mr. Dyrenfurth said when his book was published. “They even rather provocatively termed their jailers ‘mate’ and the basic message was, ‘You’re no better than us.’”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

American culture bears a similar imprint. We like to see ourselves as revolutionaries who defeated British pomp and monarchy with guerrilla war tactics and demands for equality.

But, of course, history is a forever struggle. What we choose to promote and overlook often changes, and reveals more than we may intend.

The United States continues to grapple with the legacy of slavery; It took until 2016 for the country to create and open The National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington.

Tasmania’s convict past was also sidestepped for decades, with Port Arthur left in ruins before becoming what it is today: an impressive apparatus for remembering, complete with a ferry, interactive exhibit for children and well-trained guides.

Photo

But seeing Port Arthur transformed raises additional questions. (The mass shooting that happened here in 1996 is a subject for another day.)

Richard Flanagan, the Tasmanian novelist, laid out the challenge better than I could in a recent speech to the National Press Club, in which he asked why the “state-funded cult of Anzac will see $1.1 billion spent by the Australian government on war memorials between 2014 and 2028.”

His critique was not with remembering the Great War’s heroes, but rather with the lack of investment in other elements of the country’s past — one glaring blind spot in particular.

“We could ask why — if we were actually genuine about remembering patriots who have died for this country — why would we not first spend $100 million on a museum honoring the at least 65,000 estimated Indigenous dead who so tragically lost their lives defending their country here in Australia in the frontier wars of the 1800s?” he said. “Why is there nowhere in Australia telling the stories of the massacres, the dispossession and the courageous resistance of these patriots?”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His full argument goes beyond questions and critique (though there are plenty of both). He also offers a path forward and a measure of hope even for those who disagree with him.

And it’s rooted in what I observed on Dead Island, in the way that the rigidity of one era had given birth to something more fluid, more equal and new.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“We pretend that our national identity is a fixed, frozen thing,” Richard said. “But Australia is a molten idea.”

In other words, history matters not just because it never disappears, but also because it does not dictate. It can prompt change.

The question is: How?

I’d love to hear about your views on that — and about your experiences with Australian history.

When did you connect with the past in a way that felt real and revealing? Or when have you thought the process of remembering needed to evolve?

You know how to find me: Email nytaustralia@nytimes.com. Join our Facebook group while you’re at it.

And if you like what we’re doing with this newsletter, forward it, and tell your friends to sign up to receive it in their inbox every week.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Now for some of my favorite stories this week, and a recommendation we know you’ll love.

______

Photo

Speaking of England and rebellion, check out this feature on Grimsby, the English town that voted heavily in favor of Brexit in part to protect a dying industry (fishing) at the expense of one that’s growing (fish processors).

Does the past hold too much sway for all of us, or just those who romanticize a rugged cruel occupation?

______

Photo

Now here’s an interesting opener for a story about the new global economy: “China’s vibrant technology scene is searching for people like Shen Yue. Qualifications: Must be attractive, know how to charm socially awkward programmers and give relaxing massages.”

Hats off to the writer, Sui-Lee Wee, who pitched this story at our correspondents meeting in Hong Kong a few months ago.

______

Photo

• Damage to Great Barrier Reef From Global Warming Is Irreversible: A huge heat wave killed 30 percent of the reef’s coral in 2016, and continuously high temperatures are preventing its recovery.

• Trump Decides American Envoy Headed to Australia Will Go to Seoul Instead: The decision to nominate Adm. Harry Harris as the ambassador to South Korea is seen as a diplomatic blow to Australia, a close American ally.

• Diary of a Song: Watch how Australian songwriter Sarah Aarons and her producing team made “The Middle,” which started as a voice memo and ended up being an international hit.

• This Man Doesn’t Star in Every Australian TV Show. It Just Seems That Way. Patrick Brammall, an award-winning actor who appears in some of Australia’s most prominent recent series, is all over Netflix, Hulu and Amazon.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• For These Characters, Foreign Cultures Are Just Another Consumer Good: The globe-trotting cosmopolitans in Michelle de Kretser’s satirical new novel, “The Life to Come,” make a fetish of travel and prepare exotic meals with an eye to Instagram.

• Road Trip to Nowhere: The search for a new botanical garden that might as well have been a mirage.

• Kangaroo Pelted With Rocks Dies in Chinese Zoo, and Fury Flies: Attacks on the animals in southeastern China have unleashed anger and bafflement about the behavior of visitors.

______

Around the Web

Time to mix it up: Here are a few things I’ve been reading beyond The New York Times …

Richard McGregor offers a level-headed response to questions about whether China will punish Australia for its focus on Communist Party interference in Australian politics, arguing that China has neither the time nor inclination. [The Interpreter]

Emily Nussbaum manages to cut the “Roseanne” boosters off at the knees with her deconstruction of The Joke, you know, the one Roseanne made about “all the shows about black and Asian families.” [The New Yorker]



James Bennet, our Opinion editor, opens up in a lengthy Q. and A. with his friend John F. Harris, explaining his attempt to create a space for civil discourse, and the difference between reporting for Opinion and reporting for the newsroom. [Politico]

______

... And We Recommend

We noticed that you like our monthly guides to Netflix Australia (here’s April’s) so we’ve decided to experiment with some additional movie assistance.

Here’s our list of what movies to see (or skip) in Australian cinemas this month, with summaries, release dates and links to reviews from our New York Times critics.

“A Quiet Place” seems to be a local and international favorite.He had sworn he knew where it was... “Let’s go to the new botanic gardens,” he said. It had sounded like a good idea.

We never found the botanic gardens. They are out there somewhere, miraged and wilting.

Instead we found something else entirely: Gol Gol fisheries. They offered a tour of Murray cod breeding cycles, but we were too late in the day for that.

Outside the fish farm he said, “I take you on the best dates.”

I huffed hot air out my nostrils.

We paid 15 dollars apiece to wander through hot brown dust, staring into square concrete ponds gluggy with muck.

I went from pond to pond looking hard into that dark slick as though trying to decipher something. I got a little desperate and found a stick to poke into one.

A man in tiny shorts and thongs appeared out of nowhere and cleared his throat loudly. I dropped my stick.Charleston is nice — “the jewel of the Lowcountry,” a travel writer recently proclaimed. But can a place so nice become too precious? There’s a point on the third or fourth visit when the perfection and elegance of the “Holy City’s” streetscapes, its meticulously restored and uniformly classical houses, begin to close in on your brain’s right hemisphere.

You may find yourself craving a moment of weirdness, modernism or merengue. And with the real estate stakes so high — the median sale price of a home on the lower peninsula was over $850,000 in January — whimsy, experimentation and indolence seem to struggle for a foothold. The dazzling restaurant scene is so competitive, dining out on a Friday or Saturday can be as premeditated as a trip to the moon .

Those of us who live here may feel these limitations most acutely. Some recall a time in the last century when things were a little less battened-down, almost beachy, the pace decidedly slower. True, Charleston may have been even more formal and less sophisticated in many ways then — a Heineken and a platter of fried shrimp was the best you could hope for in the average restaurant — but Charleston fundamentally lived up to its billing as a hub of Southern adventure.

Fortunately, anyone — local or visitor alike — who chafes at Charleston’s stateliness and decorum today can find an instant remedy: its beer, served fresh from the tank in a largely industrial neighborhood two miles north of the city’s tourist center.You were the president during the Cold War. Who’s the greater threat: the Soviet Union then, or Russia now? I think the Soviet Union then was more of a threat. Both Brezhnev and I, when in office, faced the immediate prospect of conflagration that would deteriorate into a nuclear exchange.

Jimmy Carter is the 39th president of the United States. His latest book, “Faith: A Journey for All,” is now available from Simon & Schuster. Age: 93 Occupation: Former president, author Hometown: Plains, Ga. $10.2 million: The amount Carter raised privately during the primaries for his 1976 presidential campaign. That’s the equivalent of about $46 million in today’s dollars.

You helped broker one of the only Middle East peace deals that has actually worked — the agreement between Egypt and Israel. Do you think Jared Kushner has a shot at finishing the job in the Middle East? I don’t have any confidence in it. I obviously hope that he can make some breakthroughs, but the prospect of it has been damaged, I believe, by Trump’s declaration that he wants to move the embassy to Jerusalem.

As one of the few Americans to have met with North Korea’s leaders, what advice do you have for President Trump when he meets with Kim Jong-un? I’ve shared my advice with Trump’s national security adviser. The North Koreans want a binding agreement that the United States will not attack them so long as they stay at peace with their neighbors and with other countries. If they can get that and the insurance and proof of it, then I think that they might very well give up that nuclear program.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How do you think that meeting will go? I don’t have any way to predict what will happen when they get together. They’re both apparently kind of brash people who speak off the cuff without careful consideration or without adequate advice from their own responsible associates.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Has Trump done anything as president that you support? Well, yeah, he has. Of course. I disagree with much that he’s done, but there’s some things along the way he’s done that I approve of.

Would you care to single out any of them? Well, I don’t want to get into a delineation of the things that I either strongly approve or strongly disapprove.

Every year, historians release their rankings of American presidents. Do you ever check to see where you’re ranked? Yeah, I look. I don’t worry about them. I think, in the long term, the presidents who have taken our country to war are looked upon as stronger and more able than the ones who tend toward peace. But that doesn’t bother me.

How do you think you would fare running for president in 2020? I wouldn’t have a chance. When I ran, I didn’t have any money.“Listen,” she said, on a break from lunch-lady duty at her kids’ school, “it’s super annoying to cook dinner with two boys running around. They’re jerks in the car. They’re jerks at the store. And they start destroying the house the minute we get home.” So the big, existential culinary decisions in her household aren’t between homemade mayonnaise and store-bought? “No, for us, the question is, are we going to cook, or are we going to eat takeout every night?” she said.

I don’t have children, but I can relate. My own green goddess recipe is a commitment, and the first ingredient it calls for is lots of time. It starts with puréeing herbs into olive oil, then whisking that fragrant oil into a stiff mayonnaise with avocado, garlic and anchovy. Since the mayonnaise is unseasoned, it requires so much tinkering and tasting to get the right balance of salt and acid that by the time the dressing is right, I can’t stomach having more of it on a salad. Between the blender, bowl, ladle and whisk, I’m left with a sink full of dirty dishes and a wall splattered with green herb oil. I’d never think to make it on a weeknight.

In contrast, Jessica’s version comes together quickly in a food processor. When I texted her with surprise at how simple the recipe is, she modestly responded, “You learn to do everything twice as fast when you have two kids.” Mayonnaise and full-fat Greek yogurt give the dressing richness and tang, while parsley, tarragon and basil lend the springtime perfume of fine herbs. Two anchovy fillets offer salt and a rumor of umami. The recipe is so mouth-smackingly perfect that it doesn’t require any adjusting.

The second time I made Jessica’s dressing, I took it to a friend’s house for brunch. In a big bowl, I used my hands to coat romaine, avocado and cucumber with the dressing. The adults could barely stop snacking on the salad before we sat down to eat. But the real triumph was watching a highly opinionated 4-year-old eat an entire plate and then, very politely, ask for seconds.

The next day, I let Jessica know I was a convert. “Sure, you could make the salad with homemade mayo,” she offered, “but would it be that much more delicious? Probably not. If you’re going to spend your energy somewhere, spend it somewhere that matters.”

Jessica concedes that there are times when it really is worth it to whisk oil into an egg yolk, drop by painstaking drop. She even offers a recipe for her own aioli a few pages later, gently guiding the reader through the process. “A dollop of aioli,” she writes, “improves many things — fried potatoes, steamed vegetables and canned tuna.” I’d add a summer tomato salad, grilled or chilled shrimp, artichokes cooked any way and leftover roast chicken, straight from the fridge. But save the task of making your own mayonnaise for a dinner party or a late-night dinner after you’ve put the kids to bed. And in the meantime, listen to Jessica: Pull out the jar of mayo when simplicity matters, and double down on home cooking. Everyone — even the most discerning 4-year-old — will appreciate the effort.

Recipe: The Greenest Green Salad | Green Goddess DressingAt this point you have to ask: Just what do job postings for the Trump administration look like? Surely they must stipulate that relevant experience isn’t a plus, but that a flexible notion of ethics is. They must demand references who can recount specific instances of demonstrated incompetence. How else to explain the sheer number of poorly prepared or careless or sticky-fingered officials crammed into this careening clown-car of an administration?

Consider the Trump appointees who have been in the news lately.

Let’s start with Dr. Ronny Jackson, the White House physician whom President Trump nominated to run the Department of Veterans Affairs, which provides health care to more than nine million vets and is the second-largest federal department, after the Pentagon. More than 20 people who have worked with Dr. Jackson told senators either that he was drunk on the job, handed out sleeping pills, and even opioids, like Skittles, or screamed at his staff. The latest allegation is that he reportedly got drunk and wrecked a government car.

Maybe, maybe, you could overlook all that if he had impressive qualifications to run one of the country’s largest and most important health systems — like management experience. But as best as anyone can tell, Mr. Trump picked Dr. Jackson because he is in the military, looks like a grown-up Doogie Howser and gave the president a glowing bill of health, including saying that the president has great genes and could have lived to 200 if he had had a better diet.

The White House has pressed ahead with Dr. Jackson even though several senior Republican senators did everything they could to signal that it should cut bait.

No one should have expected the lack of qualifications to matter to Mr. Trump. That wasn’t an obstacle to his decision to give his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a portfolio that includes negotiating peace in the Middle East, reforming the criminal justice system and making the government more tech-savvy. Mr. Trump also considered appointing his personal pilot to head the Federal Aviation Administration.If necessary, members of Congress could unilaterally release classified information on the floor of the House or the Senate. The Constitution’s speech and debate clause would protect them from criminal prosecution and civil lawsuits. If Mr. Trump attempted any legal action, courts would almost certainly dismiss it on separation-of-powers grounds. With bipartisan support, Congress could even pass a new statute specifically to declassify key documents, overriding a presidential veto if necessary.

If individual whistle-blowers know what to ask for, they can also litigate. To force the government to release specific classified documents, they can follow administrative declassification procedures and sue under the Freedom of Information Act. Any Justice Department official who destroyed documents during litigation would be violating multiple criminal statutes. In such a high-profile case, it’s hard to say how successful such litigation would be, but in other matters, journalists have quite often won such lawsuits against the government.

Mr. Mueller could also write an article describing what he learned, and submit it to the Department of Justice for prepublication review for classified material. If the department insists on redacting even one word, Mr. Mueller could sue to enforce his own First Amendment rights to communicate with the American people on matters of public concern. Courts have sometimes ruled favorably in less-prominent cases.

President Trump and the Justice Department could certainly try to make these whistle-blowers’ lives difficult. They could drag the cases out for lengthy periods of time or even seek to prosecute the whistle-blowers based on various legal theories. The president himself could even personally file civil defamation lawsuits against whistle-blowers. But to win he would have to prove that they were deliberately spreading falsehoods, which would be quite difficult.

These mechanisms are imperfect and would produce uncertain results. And they’re still risky. A whistle-blower giving a media interview could inadvertently disclose classified information and wind up in prison.

But these mechanisms are lawful. It’s hard to imagine Mr. Mueller’s staff members deliberately leaking classified information, which would expose them to criminal prosecution while undermining the rule of law they seek to uphold.

As you read these words, it is likely that a handful of civil servants are out there, sitting on evidence of official lawbreaking that none of us know about. They swore oaths to the Constitution and want to do the right thing. But they are terrified and alone. Could they lose their jobs? Could they go to prison? Could they be publicly vilified?

We don’t yet know their names. But if we enter a constitutional crisis, they could play a special role in defending the Republic. They are national heroes waiting to be born.Right now you’re probably asking yourselves — How is Mitt Romney doing?

You know he’s running for the Senate in Utah, right? It’s going to be one of the really big races this fall.

O.K., possibly not as riveting as the Republican primary in West Virginia, which features a former coal mining executive who hopes voters will be so enamored with his pro-business platform they’ll ignore his role in a fatal mine explosion, the poisoning of local drinking water and the fact that he actually seems to live near Las Vegas.

But a Romney comeback would still be pretty darned interesting. True, the world was totally sick of him after those two terrible presidential campaigns in 2008 and 2012. Remember when he claimed he’d only been pro-choice when he ran for governor of Massachusetts because he didn’t understand what an embryo was? Or when his position on the wealth gap was, “There’s no question it’s not good being poor”?

Then he moved to Utah, and we forgot all about Mitt until he popped up in 2016 as a never-Trumper, tossing out the worst slams his little entrepreneurial heart could think of. (“He inherited his business. He didn’t create it. And what ever happened to Trump Airlines?”)My grandfather’s parents came west from Arkansas, looking for healthier climes after a malarial disaster, and the family never had much money and always voted Democratic. Today their middle-class equivalents would likely be making the same migration in reverse (or at the very least lighting out for rural, Trumpier parts of the West Coast, as a Californian uncle of mine did), having been priced out of what was once their promised land. And the fact that many of these migrants might be natural Trump constituents is a good example of the futility of reducing Trump’s appeal to an either-or of racism or economic grievance. Is an ex-Californian who’s doing O.K. economically but lives in a hotter, flatter, less glamorous and ocean-breeze-kissed part of the country than his parents, and who gripes that what was once his middle-class hometown is now all immigrants speaking Spanish and the liberal superrich, worried about ethnic or socioeconomic displacement? The answer really can be both.

So the same trends that have made California so uniformly liberal have also encouraged Trumpism elsewhere — and not only elsewhere, since as Jason Willick and James Hitchcock pointed out in 2016 in The American Interest, Trumpism-the-ideology is very much a made-in-California affair. Not many members of the right-wing intelligentsia backed Trump, but the writers and thinkers who did — from mainstream conservatives to the alt-right fringe — were heavily Californian: the Claremont Institute’s West Coast Straussians, Michael “Flight 93 Election” Anton, Mickey Kaus, Victor Davis Hanson, Ron Unz, Steve Sailer, Scott Adams, Curtis “Mencius Moldbug” Yarvin … and of course the one and only Peter Thiel.

This clutch of internal dissidents doesn’t pose a threat to liberal hegemony in California. But the state’s larger exile population does present a problem for the “make America California” project, because while you can displace Republican-leaning voters from one state, you can’t do the same for the country as a whole. There will be no white-middle-class out-migration to, say, Hungary to ease the path to a Democratic supermajority. A fully ascendant liberalism would have co-opt or crush groups that in California politics simply diminished or disappeared.

And ambitious liberals will have to do so while evangelizing on behalf of a social-political model that right now looks nothing like the ideal egalitarian society liberalism claims that it can build. Under one-party liberal rule, California is presently as unequal as a Central American republic, with one of the highest poverty rates in the country once you control for its exorbitant cost of living. Its educational performance is lousy and its racial gaps are stark — which is why it’s not only lower-middle class whites moving back to red America, and why black complaints about white liberal gentrifiers in SoCal or the Bay Area can resemble the complaints of Trump-leaning ex-Californians. As in other enclaves where Democrats are dominant, its ruling party has proved itself pretty good at rentier-friendly environmentalism and kicking social conservatives while they’re down, O.K. enough at redistribution, and completely terrible at figuring how to build an information-age middle class.

To visit the West Coast, now and always, is to be overwhelmed by its beauty — the blue water and blue skies, the temperate air and the beaches and the looming mountains not so far away. But to imagine America remade in California’s image is to imagine the state’s social and political order, its upper class-service class-underclass hierarchy, expanded to landscapes that lack the balm of all that beauty, and lack an easy exit for the discontented as well.

Such an expansion might be in our future; as went California after Pete Wilson and Ah-nuld, so might America after Trump. But I suspect a new order along these lines would be uglier and more unstable, its ruling party far more easily undone or overthrown, than in the sun-kissed aristocracy that liberals have built for themselves in what was once, but no longer, the proving ground for the American dream.From the bottom of a gentle grassy slope a hundred feet away, the rusted steel columns look like nothing remarkable. Lined up in rows under an open-air shed, they could be abandoned I-beams or castoffs from an old railroad bridge. Then, before you know it, you’re among them. Hundreds of reddish-brown hulls, each maybe six feet tall, surrounding you. Each bolted to a thick metal post anchored not to the floor but to the ceiling. Each — you imagine, feeling a bit crazy — watching.

You’d turn and run right out of there if you could.

Then you see the names. Simon Jenkins. 7.17.1877. Frank Harrell. 02.09.1893. Unknown. 08.08.1883. Stenciled into the face of each column, the names of the men and women hanged, shot, drowned, beaten and burned because of the color of their skin. The columns — more than 800 — are the heart of the stunning new National Memorial for Peace and Justice, which opens on Thursday in Montgomery, Ala. They represent the counties throughout the South and across America where lynchings were carried out with impunity. So far researchers have documented more than 4,400 killings starting from the end of Reconstruction in 1877, a campaign of racial terror by white people against black and brown people lasting more than seven decades.

If the memorial were simply an accounting of all those names lost to history, it would be devastating enough. But as you walk among them, two things happen: The wooden path under your feet begins to descend and the columns appear to rise. They rise until they are suspended above your head, unreadable and unreachable, a forest of scarred brown figures. There are no more names, only a growing pressure on your chest as you try to absorb the scope of it all.The carnivals of death where African-American men, women and children were hanged, burned and dismembered as cheering crowds of whites looked on were the cornerstone of white supremacist rule in the Jim Crow-era South. These bloody spectacles terrified black communities into submission and showed whites that there would be no price to pay for murdering black people who asserted the right to vote, competed with whites in business — or so much as brushed against a white person on the sidewalk.

The lynching belt states looked away from this history, even as they developed now-popular tourism programs that attract visitors to churches, schools, courthouses and other landmarks associated with the civil rights movement. The long-neglected chapter of this story becomes breathtakingly visible on Thursday in Montgomery, Ala., where the nonprofit Equal Justice Initiative will inaugurate two institutions focused on racial-terror lynching as the practice manifested itself between the late 19th and mid-20th centuries.

The Legacy Museum, which is not far from the place where enslaved African-Americans entered Alabama’s capital city in chains, frankly explores how lynch mobs sought to preserve slavery and how the contempt for black life exemplified by extralegal hangings took new forms, like the death penalty and mass incarceration.A common refrain among conservatives is that black people should get over slavery. Even though conservatives refuse to.

Last week, the Tennessee legislature withheld $250,000 from Memphis’s bicentennial celebration budget, punishing the majority-black city for removing three Confederate monuments. Memphis had circumvented a state law prohibiting the removal of historical monuments by selling the parks that held statues of Nathan Bedford Forrest, the first head of the Ku Klux Klan; Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederacy; and Capt. J. Harvey Mathes, a Confederate soldier, to a nonprofit that took the monuments down last year.

The legislature’s move to rebuke Memphis for honoring the wishes of its people continues an ugly tradition of mostly white Southern state legislatures yanking power away from cities with multiracial or majority-black leadership or voters when those cities act in ways meant to benefit their minority residents.

In 1917, the Georgia legislature established the county unit system, which operated until 1962 and allotted votes by county in primary elections instead of allowing the popular vote to decide those elections. So candidates could win the county unit vote without winning the popular vote.A lifetime ago, Anne Frank’s family applied for visas to the United States to escape Hitler, but we rejected the Franks and other desperate Jewish refugees. We thought: This is Europe’s problem, not ours, and we don’t want to be overrun by “those people.”

Today President Trump is again slamming the door on desperate refugees. Indeed, the Trump administration is going a step further by wrenching children from the arms of asylum-seekers, apparently as a way of inflicting gratuitous cruelty to discourage new arrivals.

José Demar Fuentes, a 30-year-old college graduate, arrived in November with his 1-year-old son, Mateo, from El Salvador, where Fuentes was on a gang’s execution list, according to his lawyer, Noreen Barcena. Father and son entered the United States legally, presenting themselves to an immigration officer, providing birth certificates and other documentation, and requesting asylum to save their lives.

Several days later, immigration officers came and took Mateo.

“They basically pried my client’s son from his arms and told him that he had to give up his son,” Barcena told me. “They were both crying.”Seoul and Pyongyang have a long history of this. In 1992, there were the Agreement on Reconciliation, Nonaggression and Exchanges and Cooperation between the South and the North and the Joint Declaration of the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. At the historic 2000 summit, there was the South-North Joint Declaration, after which President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea famously declared: “There is no longer going to be any war. The North will no longer attempt unification by force, and at the same time we will not do any harm to the North.”

And in October 2007, there was the so-called “peace declaration” in the eight-point agreement signed by Kim Jong-il and President Roh Moo-hyun. “The South and the North both recognize the need to end the current armistice regime and build a permanent peace regime,” it read.

Not to put too fine a point on it: All of these deals were then trash-canned. The North Korean promises in them were worthless, indeed deceitful. These agreements only seemed to hold force until, well, they no longer did, when Pyongyang unilaterally decided to ignore, violate or repudiate them.

This behavior is wholly of a piece with North Korea’s nuclear discussions with the United States, and with its performance in the Six-Party Talks. In its negotiating playbook, situational ethics rule. Accepting foreign constraints on North Korean power is regarded not only as foolish, but also as positively unpatriotic.

Alas, the South Korean government now seems eager to swallow another order of sucker-bait. Ahead of this week’s planned summit, in return for a peace bridge to nowhere, it has already agreed to leave human rights off the table. (President Trump, for his part, gave his “blessing” to these misbegotten talks.)

Why, given the precedents? Because the Sunshine Policy is something of a secular religion in South Korea — at least among its adherents, who include main players in the current government — and, like all faiths, it is immune to empirical falsification. Sunshiners also seem to be convinced that only they can coax the North onto the path of common sense.

And let’s not underestimate the political psychopathology of appeasement: People grow weary of the prospect of endless conflict with an implacable enemy and want to believe in solutions even if there are none. (Western Europe suffered a similar condition regarding the Soviet Union in the 1970s and ’80s.)

The problem is that North Korea can walk away from its peace promises at any time. And when it eventually does, it will be able to blame whomever it wishes for this tragic result — potentially polarizing politics in South Korea, igniting tensions in Seoul’s alliance with Washington or fracturing the loose coalition of governments that rallied around sanctions against it. In the meantime, Pyongyang will hold the other parties hostage to the fear that if any of its new demands aren’t met, it will quit the peace process.The good news is that more and more cities are deciding to wrest control of their streets back from the tyranny of the automobile — and to put people, and other modes of transportation, on a par with the auto.

London now has 15 years of experience with a stiff “congestion charge” that discourages many drivers from entering the city center. In a virtuous cycle, the money goes to better public transit and more bike lanes. Early legislative discussions are underway about trying the same thing in Seattle and in some of California’s more congested cities. New York has just turned down such a plan for the second time in a decade, but the idea is not going to die — the city needs it too badly.

In the crowded cities of Asia, people are not allowed to get a car just because they want one. Shanghai residents must buy license plates that have gone for up to $13,000 at auction, and Beijing residents have to enter a lottery for a plate. Such measures might seem extreme, but they are sensible in a country that endured a 60-mile traffic jam in 2010 requiring 11 days to unsnarl.

As we write these words, we can sense the bile rising in some drivers. Americans have such a sense of entitlement about cars that any attempt to limit them can provoke a fight, as New York has discovered.

Yet the truth is that people who drive into a crowded city are imposing costs on others. They include not just reduced mobility for everyone and degraded public space, but serious health costs. Asthma attacks are set off by the tiny, invisible soot particles that cars emit. Recent research shows that a congestion charge in Stockholm reduced pollution and sharply cut asthma attacks in children.

The bottom line is that the decision to turn our public streets so completely over to the automobile, as sensible as it might have seemed decades ago, nearly wrecked the quality of life in our cities.

We are revealing no big secrets here. Urban planners have known all these things for decades. They have known that removing lanes to add bike paths and widen sidewalks can calm traffic, make a neighborhood more congenial — and, by the way, increase sales at businesses along that more pleasant street. They have known that imposing tolls with variable pricing can result in highway lanes that are rarely jammed.The college admissions process in the United States can be confusing and frustrating. As we enter the period when high school seniors who have received acceptance letters are deciding where to enroll, we want to hear from them or their families. Tell us what the admissions process was like for you or your child. Some submissions may be selected for publication and presentation at The New York Times's upcoming higher education conference. You must be at least 13 to submit a response.

Tell us about one day in the admissions process this year that you'll remember forever. You have words left.

The pressure to get into college can be intense. What is something extreme that you did to compete, even if you're not proud of it?

What aspect of the admission process do you find the most confusing or unfair?

Who or what got you through the admissions process this year?

How much did you spend on the admissions process? Please be sure to describe your expenses.Tom Bianchi, Photographer

My building, a brown brick on East Ninth Street between University Place and Broadway, was like all the others built at that time. It wasn’t extravagant by any means, so I set about making adjustments to it. I plate-mirrored one wall of the living room and turned it into an art gallery. Egon von Furstenberg came for a party one night and said, “One would never imagine an apartment like this in a building like this!” I said, “Well, I’ll take the left-handed compliment.” Then Donald Sterzin [the art director of GQ] picked up on it and organized a story on the space for GQ. I knew when that happened that I was going to have to come out publicly. As one friend said to me, “Tom, who’s going to look at those pictures and see the bowl of tulips on the pedestal under a perfect down spot and not know?”

Image A bill for production work completed by Eric Goode in 1979. Inset: Goode in his 49 Walker Street loft, circa 1979. Credit Courtesy of Eric Goode

The Day Jobs They Worked

Rosie Perez, Actress

I started working when I was about 10 years old. I was back and forth from the group home in upstate New York, and I would do people’s lawns, clean out their garages, babysit, really anything. I used to do well. I would make $10 for babysitting, $5 for raking leaves. My first major job was at Wyckoff Hospital, and I didn’t like it. I was hired to transcribe medical records via Dictaphone. I could type really fast in high school — 90 words per minute. I wish I still had my first paycheck, because I was so proud. Going to the bank to cash it, I felt like such a grown-up. I was a hustler even back then.

Thurston Moore, Musician

At this point in my life I knew I wanted to make records, but I didn’t know how to make them. I found a job in the back of the New York Post asking for a shipping clerk. I went up there and it was Masterdisk, a place that cut records — people like Frank Zappa or Bryan Ferry would come in. So I got to see how it worked. I’d take the acetates of the records and deliver them to different places in midtown, like RCA Studios. The more I got involved with my band, the Coachmen, and then Sonic Youth, though — well it prohibited me from having a very cogent day job. I kept not going to work. And there was no way to contact me, because I couldn’t afford a telephone. Eventually I would go in and sheepishly say, “I’m sorry.” They kind of liked me and would let it go, but at some point they let me go. Then, by maybe the third or fourth Sonic Youth album, we had a good enough profile where we could actually use a really good mastering studio: Masterdisk. It was kind of like, welcome back.

Eric Goode, Entrepreneur

My roommate, Shawn Hausman, and I worked for Steve Mass, designing different spaces in the Mudd Club. We’d have these absurd hours: painting a Renaissance ceiling in the basement at 4 in the morning. We also worked on movies, because Shawn’s father was in the industry. We’d stay out all night and then go and do location scouting or production work on different films. When there wasn’t film work we would do what you would call art directing work for other nightclubs, including Studio 54 and Danceteria, before starting our own. The motivation in those days was definitely not money. We were just barely surviving.

Andre Walker, Fashion Designer

I made quite a few friends selling T-shirts outside of my mom’s store in Brooklyn, pulling kids off the street to participate in my fashion shows. I was selling T-shirts from 11 years old. I would hand-paint them, cut them, fringe them — what I would see people in the Village doing when I was much younger. Then I started cutting fabric and gluing it together with Magic Stitch and, eventually, sewing. We had a big house, so it was very, “Let’s go to my house and get dressed up, wear clothes and take photos.” That would be an after-school activity, listening to everything from Polyrock to Gang of Four to LiLiPUT to Siouxsie and the Banshees, Echo & the Bunnymen, you name it. I was making $100 on a slow day, because usually I’d sell at least 10 or 15 T-shirts, so I always had money on me. My mom used to hide money everywhere. I was definitely doing research at the homestead, looking for the places she was putting extra cash.D.B.: How did the process help you to think differently about global warming?

P.H.: We constantly hear that global warming is an energy problem, that the solutions are solar, wind and electric vehicles. For the individual, that message sounds like I hope “they” do it. There’s a belief that there’re only a few things individuals can do beyond recycling, riding a bike and eating less meat. In fact, there’s an extraordinary diversity of solutions to global warming that are at hand, being implemented and scaling. I don’t think people, politicians and businesspeople know that. Clean energy is the crucial solution to be sure, but there’s much more we can do.

D.B.: Like what?

P.H.: Two of the top four solutions individuals can practice every day. No. 3 is reduced food waste, which particularly applies to America, where we waste 133 billion pounds of food a year — close to a third of the food supply. That is a conservative estimate. In our model we didn’t include the methane emissions caused by landfilling our food because we couldn’t get the data — and methane is 28 to 36 times more powerful in global warming potential than carbon dioxide.

The No. 4 solution is a plant-rich diet. This means reducing overconsumption of protein to a healthy level — about 50 to 55 grams a day instead of 90 to 100 or more, and shifting a proportion of that reduced intake to plant proteins. It doesn’t mean being a vegan or vegetarian; it means more plants. You choose which diet you want. Levels of protein that are medically healthier for you are healthier for the planet and atmosphere, too.

D.B.: Can you talk about the No. 1 solution? I was surprised to see that it was “‘refrigerant management.”

P.H.: We were, too. The hydrochlorofluorocarbon gases (HFCs) used in refrigerants that replaced chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which were destroying the ozone layer, are anywhere from 146 to 12,500 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in their global warming potential. Poorly maintained air-conditioners and refrigerators leak HFCs. When air-conditioners and refrigerators are disposed of or recycled, the refrigerants can escape into the air. We do a pretty good job preventing this in the United States, and the European Union does even better, but in Asia and Africa, HFCs are allowed to escape and have a huge impact.

D.B.: What else caught you by surprise?

P.H.: Over all, we were surprised that the largest sector was food. Agriculture, food waste and diet, food production and distribution of food, holistic grazing. We didn’t see that coming. It’s larger than the electrical generation sector.

And the overall ranking of the solutions shocked us. If you had asked every person at COP21 in Paris (us included) to name the top 10 solutions in any order, I don’t believe anyone would have gotten it even close. That is still true. After 50 years of global warming being in the public sphere, we didn’t know the top solutions to reversing it. And there’s a reason: We never measured and modeled the top solutions. Instead, sincere, well-meaning people profess their beliefs. You have a prominent scientist asserting that if we don’t go all in with nuclear power, we’re toast. Vastly untrue. You have journalists assuring us that if we go 100 percent solar, we’ll stabilize emissions. That’s a scientific howler, too. People who are earnestly guiding us to climatic stability have not done the math. That’s all we do at Project Drawdown: math.Why do you look so angry? This article hasn’t even begun and already you disapprove. Why can’t I ever win with you? I see it in your face.

If this sounds unfamiliar, good for you. You don’t need this.

For the rest of us, it may be helpful to know that some people seem to have outsize difficulty with reading neutral faces as neutral, even if they are exceptionally accurate at interpreting other facial expressions. Over the past decade psychologists have been piecing together why this occurs.

A study published in March in the Journal of Social and Personal Relationships suggests that some people who grew up with parents who fought a lot never learned to properly read those in-between faces, perhaps because they spent so much time watching out for signs of conflict.I grew up in the small businesses my parents owned and operated. My mom worked her final shift in the restaurant they managed together two days before I was due. After surviving a grueling, anesthesia-free 42 hours of labor (a number I am not allowed to forget), my mother returned home and within a month was back to work. Since she and my father worked at the restaurant that they owned together, they were able to trade off to keep both the business and their new baby thriving, swapping day shifts and nights with each other, one of them always tending to me while the other managed the restaurant. Paid leave was not really considered: In my mom’s case, the ability to continue to work, often with her newborn swaddled against her chest, was both a luxury and a necessity for keeping her family afloat.

When she was pregnant again, seven years later with my sister Zoe, my parents had sold the restaurant and were building a small housecleaning business. I spent every day after school in their company headquarters, after the business finally outgrew the home office that also doubled as my childhood bedroom. I would study for spelling tests as their all-female staff bustled around me, returning for the day with totes full of cleaning supplies and dirtied rags, rolling industrial-strength vacuum cleaners past my makeshift desk.

On my sister’s due date, I returned to the company office after school, disappointed my mother hadn’t had the new baby, thus ruining my chance to be dramatically pulled from my second-grade classroom. That afternoon I watched as my mother stood with her swollen stomach hanging over her desk, issuing instructions to the employees surrounding her. Every 15 minutes or so she would pause, clench her fists and Lamaze-breathe through contractions.

I was thrilled, terrified and in awe, watching this league of women — most of them working mothers themselves. They stood around my mother, nodding and taking notes, waiting patiently for her instructions, knowing their boss would be out of commission for, well, the rest of the week at least. She eventually made it to the hospital, and after an easy, anesthesia-aided two-hour labor (there is a clear favorite in our sibling rivalry), my sister was born, and within two weeks she was nursing above that same desk. My mother’s workplace was newborn-friendly because she made it that way, for herself and her employees.

Now senators, too, can enjoy a workplace that accommodates working mothers, and with an unprecedented number of women running for Congress (as of earlier this month, according to The Associated Press, 309 from the two major parties have filed papers to run for the House, and 29 will be on ballots in Senate races), the House of Representatives ought to follow their example.

There are lots of conversations to be had about how, after these female candidates win, they can contribute to making life better for working mothers in this country. These range from how to improve family leave policies to why American mothers still don’t have the right to breast-feed at work. We can and should have these discussions.Photo

Barely 3 percent of the American work force bikes or walks to work with any frequency, despite the obvious virtues: decreased risks for obesity and diabetes, environmental benefits and lower transportation costs. Ask people why they eschew what’s known as active commuting, as many surveys have, and the primary reason cited is time. Those things take too long, most say.

They’re probably wrong. A new study published in a journal called Transportmetrica A: Transport Science shows that people often overestimate the time required to commute actively, a miscalculation especially common when someone has secured a parking permit near the office.

For the study, researchers at Penn State solicited the school’s faculty, staff and students to complete an extensive series of online questionnaires about their fitness, health, commuting and parking habits, comfort and ability on a bike or as pedestrians, distance from home to their main workplace on campus and how long they thought it would take them to either bike or walk that distance. Only a few of the 505 respondents went by foot or bike; most of them were students. Estimates of commuting times were then compared with the corresponding route times calculated by Google Maps. The researchers independently timed some of the routes by walking or riding them.

The survey participants — faculty and staff members above all — proved to be generally poor at guessing active-commuting times. About 90 percent of their estimates were too long by at least 10 minutes. The few assessments close to Google’s were almost always made by riders or walkers. Parking availability and distances affected the estimates. Those with parking permits, a fiercely sought-after campus amenity, tended to overestimate active-commuting times significantly; the closer someone lived to the workplace, the better the guesses. Confidence had an outsize effect, too. The people surveyed, especially women, who had little bicycling experience or who did not feel physically fit thought that active commuting would require considerably more time than the Google calculations.

The study is limited, of course, because it relies on an insular, self-selected group of respondents to provide information about themselves, a topic on which people can be surprisingly unreliable. The published results also did not delve into such pressing active-commuting concerns as hygiene, showers or the logistics of carrying changes of clothes. But the study’s results do indicate that time may be less of a barrier to active commuting than many might anticipate, says Melissa Bopp, an associate professor of kinesiology at Penn State and the study’s senior author.

“I’d urge anyone who is considering biking or walking to work to do a test run,” she says, perhaps on a weekend (although the traffic patterns will be different from those during the week). Ask colleagues for route suggestions. “Google is good at finding bike paths,” she says, but it emphasizes brevity and directness over scenery for walkers.Everyday users might not intend to participate in online outrage, much less lead it. But the incentive structures and social cues of algorithm-driven social media sites like Facebook can train them over time — perhaps without their awareness — to pump up the anger and fear. Eventually, feeding into one another, users arrive at hate speech on their own. Extremism, in other words, can emerge organically.

We saw this firsthand in the small town of Digana, Sri Lanka, a week after anti-Muslim mobs had torn through.

One of the posts seen as inspiring the attacks was a Facebook video posted by Amith Weerasinghe, who has gained a large online following. Just before the mob arrived, he’d filmed himself walking Digana’s shops, warning that too many were owned by Muslims and calling on Sinhalese to take the town back.

But Mr. Weerasinghe’s online stardom was newfound and, according to neighbors, a mere persona.

“He’s from the area, he went to school here,” Jainulabdeen Riyaz, a member of the local Muslim community, said, laughing at the absurdity of this standoffish local boy posing as a crusading outsider. “His father is a carpenter. He’s a normal person.”

When Mr. Weerasinghe began assuming his angry online persona, Mr. Riyaz said, some Muslims in town approached his father to ask him to intervene. It didn’t work.

We met Mr. Riyaz at a gathering for the family of another young man, Abdul Basith, who was killed by the mob. These three men had grown up side by side, only to have one of them, Mr. Weerasinghe, become a social media celebrity who helped pull the online world into the real Digana. When it was over, a man who had known him his entire life was dead.

Though each individual’s story has its own unique turns, there are some common points that have to do with how social media can amplify certain elements of human nature.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Facebook’s news feed, for instance, runs on an algorithm that promotes whatever content wins the most engagement. Studies find that negative, primal emotions — fear, anger — draw the most engagement. So posts that provoke those emotions rise naturally.

Tribalism — a universal human tendency — also draws heavy engagement. Posts that affirm your group identity by attacking another group tend to perform well.

Finally, social media platforms use color and sound to reward engagement, which humans naturally seek out. Comments and likes are presented like a set of diamonds clicking into place on a slot machine. That delivers a little dopamine boost, training you to repeat whatever behavior wins the most engagement.

Photo

These are hardly the only things driving Mr. Weerasinghe or others like him. But that path to attention, praise and a sense of importance and agency can appeal to anyone — even a carpenter’s son railing against his own neighbors.

“It’s disturbing. The radicalization is happening at a very young age,” said Sanjana Hattotuwa, a researcher at the Colombo-based Center for Policy Alternatives, which tracks online hate speech.

“They’re kids; they’re schoolchildren,” he said of the users on Facebook groups prone to extremism. “The parents don’t have a clue that they’re participating. The schoolteachers don’t have a clue that they’re participating. So this is their initiation into communal relations. And it’s hate. It’s really, really bad.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

This dynamic, far from unique to developing countries, bears similarities to the rise of the “alt-right” movement in the United States. Elements of that movement first gained prominence among young people — mostly men — on sites like Facebook and Reddit, which is also driven by an algorithm meant to surface the most engaging content.

The alt-right, for all its origins in old hatreds, took a distinctly modern route out of the margins of society, according to a recent paper by Jessie Daniels, a sociologist at Hunter College. Algorithm-driven platforms, she wrote, “amplify and systematically move white supremacist talking points into the mainstream.”

Studies have found that people tend to shut out ideas when they believe society has deemed them extreme. But they become much more open to ideas that they believe are considered mainstream.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Traditionally, someone hearing an extremist idea for the first time might have encountered it through friends or relatives, who might also convey that the idea is outside the mainstream. Ideas are now delivered through news feeds governed by raw, engagement-driven popular will.

This leads to an ideological flattening. To the algorithm, the content of an idea is irrelevant. Whether it’s extremist or mainstream doesn’t matter; only its ability to draw engagement counts.

In 2014 and 2015, for instance, critical masses of users on Reddit promoted hate against feminists and against people they deemed overweight. Such ideas can naturally proliferate on social media algorithms, by indulging anger against vulnerable targets and us-versus-them tribalism.

Once those ideas had popped to the top of the user-driven algorithm a few times, they quickly became perceived as mainstream and were adopted — and even angrily defended — by much of the site, which is one of the most widely used on the internet. Many users pushed that extremism into the real world, harassing their targets on and offline.

Reddit was able expel those ideas, a study found, only when it went much further than banning a handful of extremists. Instead, it began heavily regulating online discussion — imposing a degree of social control far beyond what other platforms like Facebook and Twitter have done.

Anyone who regularly uses Twitter will recognize the way that it inadvertently trains users — by providing bursts of affirmation when a post goes viral — to win plaudits from fellow travelers by putting down users on the other side of any argument and, if no such argument exists, to start one. It is akin to Facebook’s inadvertent promotion of anger and tribalism with a less active algorithm but on a far larger scale.

Online outrage can sometimes be a necessary way to channel popular opposition to, say, the injustices of systemic racism or other forms of discrimination. It’s not always bad.

The problem arises when negative, tribal emotions begin to permeate social media, which increasingly dominates users’ lives and therefore shapes their perceptions of the world offline. Like in Sri Lanka, that can have real-world consequences, albeit more subtle ones, by deepening the social and political polarization that is one of American democracy’s toughest problems at the moment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And by contributing to the sense that every issue is just a way to keep score in a zero-sum game between political tribes, that dynamic can make serious problems more difficult to solve.

That sort of process is not typically considered to be a form radicalization — or at least the label is not applied as easily as it might be to Sri Lankan Buddhists spinning up anger against Muslims. But the dynamics and platforms bear similarities.

As Mr. Hattotuwa put it when describing how online hate had spread in Sri Lanka: “The cancer has grown such that you’re looking at ordinary people.”On Tuesday, the head of Germany’s Central Council of Jews, the largest umbrella Jewish organization in the country, warned Jews against openly wearing skullcaps. The official, Josef Schuster, urged them to “wear a baseball cap or something else to cover their head instead.”

The comment triggered an angry response from international Jewish groups, who decried it as an indication of failure on the part of German authorities.

“The fact that the head of the Central Council of Jews in Germany has advised against wearing a kipa in public must serve as a final wake up call for German and European society to take action,” said Moshe Kantor, resident of the European Jewish Congress.

The assailant was arrested and detained and charged with attempting serious bodily injury.

Despite the demonstrations on Wednesday, many among the more than 100,000 Jews who now call Berlin home worry that the outward display of solidarity will remain largely symbolic. They do not expect it to change the threats they face daily, in a political climate in which the far-right has been resurgent and incidents of anti-Semitism and racism have increased, even in a city that celebrates diversity as key to its modern identity.

“It’s nice, it’s meaningful, to see people stand up and say that Jewish life should be here,” said Andrew Mark Bennet, a doctoral law student in Berlin and member of its youngest Jewish Orthodox community. He came to Berlin from Maryland, by way of Israel. “But at the end of the day, tomorrow I’m still putting a cap over my kipa, because it’s not safe to walk the streets of Berlin with it.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Berlin has seen a flourishing of Jewish life. An Orthodox community was founded in 2013. Kosher stores and restaurants have sprouted, and young Jews and artists have arrived from Israel. But even as Berlin has welcomed the return of a culture the Nazis sought to eradicate, Jews living in Berlin say discrimination, both subtle and violent, is part of daily life.

The government has sought to respond. Felix Klein, the newly appointed commissioner for anti-Semitism, plans to establish a national network to help identify causes of discrimination and racism targeting Jews as a key first step in combating the problem. “We need to quickly establish a system where victims can turn to to report incidents,” Mr. Klein said. “Because in order to develop an effective strategy to combat anti-Semitism, we need to know exactly where it lies.”

Many point to the arrival of more than 1 million migrants and refugees, many of them from the conflict-ridden Middle East, who have been taught to hate Jews and seek Israel’s demise. However, police statistics from 2017 show that of 1,453 anti-Semitic crimes, nine out of 10 were attributed to members of far-right or neo-Nazi groups. Anti-Semitism has also become more prevalent in pop culture.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Germany’s Music Industry Association announced on Wednesday that it was scrapping its annual music prize, the Echo, after outrage over its decision to award a trophy to a rap duo whose album included a song about how their bodies are “more defined than Auschwitz prisoners,” and another, in which they vow to “make another Holocaust, show up with a Molotov.”

Numerous internationally recognized musicians, including the orchestra director Daniel Barenboim, have been handing back their prizes in protest in recent weeks, apparently prompting the organization to backtrack on its original assertion that the song lyrics, while problematic, were protected as artistic expression.

Along with the arrival of the refugees, Germany has also recently experienced the rise of a far-right political party, the Alternative for Germany, whose leaders have for the first time questioned the country’s post-World War II culture of remembrance. Together, these forces have caused a shift in what is acceptable in German society.

Michal Friedlander, a curator at the Jewish Museum, said she recently found herself seated in a first-class train carriage next to a German man reading a newspaper article about the anti-Semitic attack in Berlin. Without being asked, the man turned to her, and explained what he would do to all of the Jews and Arabs living in Germany, demonstratively drawing his finger across his throat. “This is the shift,” said Ms. Friedlander, who has lived in Berlin for 17 years. “People are not ashamed to say these things out loud.”

In such a climate, many fear, shows of solidarity will go only so far. The demonstration of support in Berlin was held on a street cordoned off by police. As they left the area and passed the police line, many demonstrators could be seen taking their skullcaps off.But tech is different. Unlike factories or airlines, tech companies live and die on their ability to attract and retain top talent. A shortage of skilled workers has led to lucrative bidding wars, tipping the balance of power in workers’ favor. Because many of them are attracted to altruistic missions — and unhappy or morally conflicted workers can easily find other jobs — executives are compelled to listen to them.

“Tech workers are the only point of leverage on these big companies,” said Maciej Cegłowski, the founder of the social bookmarking service Pinboard.

Mr. Cegłowski, who has started an advocacy organization called Tech Solidarity, said that the typical instruments used to rein in corporate misbehavior — customer boycotts, shareholder activism and outside regulation — aren’t likely to work on the largest Silicon Valley companies.

Instead, change at these companies will need to come from the inside.

“Even a couple hundred employees working in concert could bring a site like Google to its knees,” Mr. Cegłowski said.

Some tech workers are already starting to flex their muscles. Employees from large tech companies led an effort to oppose the travel ban announced by President Trump last year. And employees of Facebook, Google, Intel, Cisco and Stripe attended a demonstration at the headquarters of Palantir to protest the company’s development of surveillance technology for federal immigration enforcers. Just this month, more than 3,000 Google employees signed a letter objecting to the company’s involvement in a Pentagon program that could use artificial intelligence to improve the accuracy of drone strikes.

But these are just warm-up skirmishes. For maximum impact, tech workers will need to scrutinize not just their employers’ government ties, but their products, business models, and basic standards. And they’ll need to do it in public.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech? The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Recall what happened at Uber. Women inside the company complained for years about the problematic behavior of Travis Kalanick and other company leaders. But it wasn’t until Susan Fowler, a former Uber engineer, published her story of sexual harassment that things changed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Without Ms. Fowler’s brave disclosure — and her colleagues’ willingness to back her up after she went public — it’s entirely possible that Mr. Kalanick would still be Uber’s chief executive and the company would still be run by boorish bros.

Typically, when workers speak out or organize, it’s because they want higher wages, better working conditions or stronger job security. Those aren’t your problems. You probably work manageable hours in tastefully decorated buildings with free food, ergonomic desk furniture and plentiful amenities. Your compensation is generous. And you’re in little danger of being fired or retaliated against, especially if you’re part of a large group.

The possibilities for you are so much greater. What if Facebook employees publicly took their executives to task for neglecting the real-world violence their products are causing in places like Myanmar and Sri Lanka? What if Google or Twitter employees threatened to walk unless their executives took major action against radical extremists and hate speech? What if Apple employees insisted that the company stop parking billions of dollars in offshore tax shelters, or Amazon engineers threatened to quit unless the company paid its warehouse workers higher wages?

And that’s before we even get to the thorny ethical debates surrounding technologies like artificial intelligence, in which companies’ goals — amass huge amounts of data to help train increasingly sophisticated machine learning models — may be at odds with what’s good for society.

There are few signs that Washington is capable of policing the use of emerging technologies. And while companies like Google have formed their own A.I. ethics groups, those groups are ultimately powerless if executives decide to ignore their advice.

That leaves an opening for you.

“It’s not clear where the pressure’s going to come from otherwise,” said Leslie Berlin, a Stanford historian who has studied Silicon Valley’s labor culture.

Some tech workers are already making noise about unionizing, and service workers at several tech companies have already joined unions. But even if traditional labor unions don’t take hold in Silicon Valley, there are still plenty of avenues for influence. The Tech Workers Coalition, a group of hundreds of concerned industry employees, has chapters in San Francisco, Seattle and San Jose, and a group called Tech Action began meeting in New York this year. The Center for Humane Technology, a group of ex-tech workers, has been pushing for ethical product development.

These groups are still small, and none has produced concrete results yet. But they are early signs that greater political consciousness is stirring in the industry.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a tech-dominated world, when the decisions made by a handful of Silicon Valley executives have the ability to reshape nations and transform billions of lives, there’s no better time to stand up. Together, you can encourage your employers to behave in ethical and humane ways, and blow the whistle publicly when they fall short.

Organizing yourselves to push for change isn’t just a viable option — it might be the only way out of this mess.

Godspeed,

KevinOne of the matters involving Mr. Bolloré now under scrutiny is connected to Alpha Condé, a Guinean politician who is believed to have befriended Mr. Bolloré while he lived in political exile in Paris in the mid-2000s.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Mr. Condé returned to Guinea to seek the presidency in 2010, an international Havas unit helped guide his campaign, and then allegedly underbilled him for its services. After Mr. Condé won, the Guinea government transferred an agreement to run the container-port terminal at Conakry, Guinea’s capital, to the Bolloré Group from a French rival.

The deal, first reported by the French newspaper Le Monde, added a strategic jewel to the Bolloré Group’s network of assets in West Africa, where it has a virtual stranglehold on much of the transporting of billions of euros worth of cargo. A map of the group’s holdings shows a web of Bolloré-run roads, railways, waterways, airports and ports that covers two-thirds of the continent and employs more than 25,000 people.

A similar pattern emerged in Togo, another former French colony. There, the same Havas unit was said to support, with below-market-rate services, the re-election of President Faure Gnassingbé in 2010.

Photo

A few months before Mr. Gnassingbé, who has close ties to Mr. Bolloré, won a second term, his government awarded a contract for the container port at Lomé, the country’s capital, to the Bolloré Group.

In its statement on Tuesday, the Bolloré Group said it had originally gotten a contract to operate the port in 2001, long before Havas was doing business in Guinea. In 2013, Havas stopped doing political consulting for French and African figures after some of its clients, including the former International Monetary Fund director Dominique Strauss-Kahn, became ensnared in scandals.

The Bolloré Group has routinely sued French and African media outlets for defamation over reports on its business dealings on the continent. Journalists at Canal+, a French television channel owned by Vivendi, have accused Mr. Bolloré of using his influence to try to suppress an investigative report about a popular revolt against Mr. Gnassingbé in Togo. Two producers were fired after the report aired in December.

The suits have challenged the media outlets France Inter, France 2, Rue89 and Mediapart, among others. Those reports included investigative pieces alleging that workers at the company’s Socapalm and Safacam units, which operate palm oil plantations in Cameroon, were being exploited.

Since 2009, the Bolloré Group has brought more than 20 defamation suits involving over 40 reporters and nongovernmental organization activists in France, according to Sherpa, a French anticorruption organization that pursues humanitarian abuses by corporations. “Because of their systemic nature, we regard these legal actions as ‘gag suits,’” Sherpa said in a statement.

The Bolloré Group has said the suits were meant to combat what it described as biased reporting.

The judges will now decide whether Mr. Dorent and Mr. Alix should also be placed under formal investigation in France, the next step toward a possible trial. The case could still be dropped if the evidence is found lacking.Photo

YouTube Kids, which has been criticized for inadvertently recommending disturbing videos to children, said Wednesday that it would introduce several ways for parents to limit what can be watched on the popular app.

Beginning this week, parents will be able to select “trusted channels” and topics that their children can access on the app, like “Sesame Workshop” or “learning,” that have been curated by people at YouTube Kids and its partners. The Google-owned app said in a blog post on Wednesday that parents would also have the option to restrict video recommendations to channels that have been “verified” by YouTube Kids, avoiding the broader sea of content that the app pulls from the main YouTube site through algorithms and other automated processes.

YouTube Kids was introduced in 2015 for children of preschool age and older, and it says it has more than 11 million weekly viewers. But parents have discovered a range of inappropriate videos on the app, highlighting the platform’s dependence on automation and a lack of human oversight. The New York Times reported in the fall that children using the app had been shown videos with popular characters from Nick Jr. and Disney Junior in violent or lewd situations, and other disturbing imagery, sometimes set to nursery rhymes.

More recently, Business Insider reported that the app was suggesting conspiracy theory videos to children, including claims that the world is flat and that the moon landing was faked. YouTube Kids had previously relied primarily on parents to report troubling videos, a practice that was criticized because children are often the only ones watching the content on tablets or phones.

Photo

Later this year, parents will be able to handpick every video and channel that children can view through the app, YouTube Kids said in its blog post, even restricting them to, say, 10 videos or a single channel.

Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The changes announced Wednesday provide “a more robust suite of tools for parents to customize the YouTube Kids experience,” James Beser, product director for the platform, said in a statement. “From collections of channels from trusted partners to enabling parents to select each video and channel themselves, we’re putting parents in the driver’s seat like never before.”Photo

Considered on its own, as a single, nearly 2-hour-40-minute movie, “Avengers: Infinity War” makes very little sense, apart from the near convergence of its title and its running time. Early on, someone menacingly (and presciently) says, “You may think this is suffering. No: It’s salvation.” That’s a bit overstated either way. It’s puzzlement and irritation and also, yes, delight. But of course this film, the 19th installment in a series, was never meant to be viewed or judged in isolation. In that respect it shouldn’t really be thought of as a movie at all, at least in the ways people with jobs like mine are accustomed to using the word. Which poses a few difficulties, for me and also, I would argue, for you.

Directed by Joe and Anthony Russo, scrappy fraternal climbers up the 21st-century Hollywood ladder, “Infinity War” is a chunk of matter in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, a vast entity that long ago expanded beyond the usual boundaries of sequelization and brand extension. This synergistic expression of the corporate interests of Marvel Studios and the Walt Disney Company — which now include 19 feature films and much else besides — has come to be less a creative or commercial undertaking than an immutable fact of life, like sex or the weather or capitalism itself.

Video

That makes the franchise hard to criticize. You can’t really be for or against Marvel (in spite of the conspiracy theories of some DC fans), and you can’t quite opt out of it either. They don’t call it a universe for nothing: Where else are we going to go? So we make our zigzagging ways, picking out our favorite planets and solar systems, accepting a baseline of tedious, standardized dead space that makes the brighter constellations seem disproportionately fresh and surprising. “Guardians of the Galaxy” was so funny and weird. Not like a superhero movie at all. Same with “Thor: Ragnarok.” Captain America is such a complicated guy. “Black Panther” gave audiences so much to root for and talk about.

Those interesting, unusual specimens — what we used to think of, in simpler times, as “good movies” — aren’t exactly accidents. They are carefully planned exceptions that uphold a rule (meaning a regime as well as a norm) of passive acceptance disguised as enthusiasm. This universe is engineered for variety and inclusiveness, within certain strict parameters. Above all, the Disney-Marvel combination is a giant machine that manufactures maximum consent. The cosmos is theirs. The rest of us just live in it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I’m not complaining, but rather pointing out how pointless, how silly it sounds when anyone bothers to venture a complaint. Who wants to be a hater? Still, it’s worth noting that the ascendance of Marvel (and of other, not quite as universal entities like it) has narrowed the parameters of criticism. I’m supposed to tell you, in this review, how much fun you’ll have at “Infinity War.” (Yes, you will have some. Will you have enough? Almost.) But I’ve probably already gone too far in trying to think about what it means. The Marvel movies and others of their kind often produce an illusion of profundity, a slick, murky overlay of allegorical suggestiveness. This provides grist for the kind of think pieces that spar with one another — “Infinity War” is liberal; no, it’s conservative; but don’t you see that it’s a protest against Trump; actually, it’s an attack on the tyranny of political correctness — until they catalyze the inevitable anti-intellectual backlash. It’s just a movie! Don’t spoil the fun!

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Watching Get the most out of your screen time with movie and TV recommendations, news and commentary from New York Times experts. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

And of course it is with respect to “spoilers” that the policing of discourse is most ruthlessly and effectively practiced. Reviewers who attend advance screenings take a vow of silence about plot details that will be widely known within a week and all but forgotten a week after that. Government secrets are guarded with less care, and requests from public officials to go off the record are addressed with more skepticism. But if I mention which superhero dies, or which one has an unexpected relationship with someone else — well, I wouldn’t dream of it. Not because I’m afraid of Disney executives. It’s the wrath of their obedient, weaponized minions I fear. In other words: you.Into this debate plunge the members of three new radical groups: the Diggers, the Ranters and the Levellers. Ms. Churchill’s play picks up from there. It takes its title from a Digger pamphlet titled “More Light Shining in Buckinghamshire,” which included this line: “You great Curmudgeons, you hang a man for stealing, when you yourselves have stolen from your brethren all land and creatures.” It’s a play about bravery and optimism.

Ms. Churchill did not compose this play in remote isolation. Instead she ran a three-week workshop with the actors during which, she has written, “through talk, reading, games and improvisations, we tried to get closer to the issues and the people. During the next nine weeks I wrote a script, and went on working on it with the company during the six-week rehearsal period.”

This collaborative method is part of what appeals to James C. Nicola, the longtime artistic director of New York Theater Workshop, about Ms. Churchill’s writing. He calls “Light Shining in Buckinghamshire” perhaps his favorite play of all time.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Some playwrights are temperamentally suited to sitting alone at a desk, imagining a world, and they find it hard to hand the work over,” Mr. Nicola said. “Caryl is a writer but she’s also a theatermaker at heart. She says, I am going to put these things on the page, they are a scenario, a provocation, a challenge. I want to see what we come up with.”

Ms. Chavkin, too, likes Ms. Churchill’s process, but she was particularly drawn to this play’s urgent politics.

“In the run up to the 2016 election, I remember discussing with Jim the possibility of doing Ionesco’s ‘Rhinoceros,’ ” she recalled. “But suddenly it was too late. The Rhino was in the White House. I began going to organizing meetings and I wanted to feed that fire, not rub salt in the wound.”

Photo

Ms. Chavkin continued: “Although this play is about a revolution that did not quite happen, there was so much profound hope in the moment. All these individuals were saying things are unjust, and they wanted to change that.”

Ms. Churchill cooked dinner for Ms. Chavkin last summer in London. At 79, the playwright is still vital and working. Her most recent plays, “Here We Go,” about faith and mortality, and “Escaped Alone,” which envisions a dystopian future, appeared in 2015 and 2016.

She was born on the cusp of World War II. Her mother was a fashion model, her father a political cartoonist. After the war ended the family moved to Montreal. She went to college at Lady Margaret Hall, a woman’s college at Oxford University, where she began writing plays.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

After college she wrote radio dramas for the BBC, married a barrister and had three sons. She later told an interviewer: “I was fed up with the situation I found myself in in the 1960s. I didn’t like being a barrister’s wife and going out to dinner with other professional people and dealing with middle class life. It seemed claustrophobic. Having started out with undefined idealistic assumptions about the kind of life we could lead, we had drifted into something quite conventional and middle class and boring. By the mid-1960s, I had this gloomy feeling that when the Revolution came I would be swept away.”

Her early plays included “Owners” (1972), about landlords and greed, which had its premiere at the Royal Court, and “Buckinghamshire.” Her breakthrough arrived with “Cloud Nine” (1979), a play in which one act is set in Victorian times in colonial Africa and the other in a present day London park. It’s a ferocious work that employs cross-gender casting and is about, among other things, sexual stereotypes.

Ms. Churchill won the first of her five Obie Awards in 1982 for “Cloud Nine.” She would win as well for “Top Girls,” “Serious Money” and “A Number,” in addition to one for lifetime achievement.

Photo

“Buckinghamshire” is not universally beloved. Writing in The Guardian in 2008, on the occasion of Ms. Churchill’s 70th birthday, the English playwright Mark Ravenhill declared: “It is a play that is rich in language: prayer, debate, ecstatic meetings, the stumbling attempts of the newly empowered to find a voice.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When the play was staged at London’s National Theater in 2015, however, the critic Lloyd Evans, writing in The Spectator, used it as an occasion to drop an incendiary bomb on her entire oeuvre.

“The play is hopelessly ineffective on every level,” Mr. Evans wrote. “Churchill must be the most overrated writer the English theater has produced. She has virtually no dramatic skills. She can knock out humourless preachy rhetoric by the yard but as for the rest of it she hasn’t a clue.” He was just getting going.

Some Churchill plays are, for sure, easier to consume than others. One of her merits as a playwright is that she tends to divide people. You leave her plays mentally ablaze, eager to argue.

“Buckinghamshire” is a waterfall of antique language, and Ms. Chavkin wants to make sure that language is heard. “We’re working to make the language chewy rather than floaty,” she said. “We want it to sound not like Shakespeare, but like something you could hear in a bar in Bushwick.”

The production features several actors with disabilities. “This is a play about collective liberation, and features a slew of characters who are fighting for acknowledgment, equality, and liberty,” Ms. Chavkin explained. “So the humans in the cast should reflect and embody that as powerfully as possible.”

Another unusual feature of her production is a captioning board, visible at the back of the stage, for the hearing-impaired. Others may also find it useful at times, like supertitles during an opera. The language is indeed chewy, but it is a lot to bite off.

At the Royal Court, Ms. Churchill’s language lingers in the air. To stand in that theater is to be reminded of something the playwright said about “Buckinghamshire,” which is that if the men and women in it are historically remote, “their voices are surprisingly close to us.”France in 1429 is something of a rowdy high school, at that. When we meet the teenage Joan as she begins her crusade to rout the English, her country is a collection of squabbling dukedoms, with the runty Dauphin, the late king’s despised and uncrowned son, holed up in Touraine. (In Jane Greenwood’s witty costumes, Adam Chanler-Berat looks like Little Lord Fauntleroy after a mugging.) To fulfill her vision of unification, Joan must first work her way into his court, then around his reluctance to take action.

Shaw structures “Saint Joan” as a picaresque chronicle: six scenes and an epilogue that mark turning points in Joan’s life and reputation. The play is also picaresque as to genre, sampling theatrical styles along the way. It begins with light comedy, as Joan outwits or browbeats squires, soldiers, courtiers and even an archbishop into letting her have her way.

Photo

In these arguments — the whole play is argument — Ms. Rashad’s Joan is always relaxed, never riled or cowed. She stares straight into the faces of her superiors, even the military captain (Patrick Page) who stands bare-chested in front of her, trying to intimidate her with machismo. He fails miserably as Joan twists his words to prove her points, all the while gesturing with just one hand as if using both would be wasteful.

But as is often the case with Shaw, fidelity to his intentions is not unequivocally good for productions of his plays. So although it’s a relief to experience a phlegmatic instead of a violent Joan, it’s also a perplexity because the choice robs her of psychology. A hero and genius she may be, but somehow also inert: not much different from a statue if it were blessed with leadership abilities.

That blank quality in Ms. Rashad’s Joan leaches the play of drama as the scenes darken from comedy to adventure (she helps raise the successful Siege of Orléans) to pageant (the crowning of the Dauphin) to legal procedural. And if her calm perseverance suggests well enough how she manages to convince the king and the generals, it provides little evidence of how she could inspire the troops and, beyond them, the populace.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Still, when the play reaches its tragic sixth scene — Joan’s trial and burning — all that withholding pays off.

By now we know that this Joan is sound, faithful and temperate. This makes the trial more dangerous, not less, because the ridiculous charges against her are so easily dismissed. We can take it as mere comic relief when the spectacularly dimwit assessors played by Robert Stanton and Maurice Jones keep saying that she is a witch, that she stole the Bishop’s horse and, worst, that her voices speak in French instead of English.

As a result, her complete vulnerability to the graver charges of sedition, idolatry, disobedience, heresy and pride is more harshly revealed. She is fatally unprepared by her sincere innocence to understand the moral danger that the presiding Bishop (Walter Bobbie) and Inquisitor (Mr. Page, again) instruct her to acknowledge and that even her most sympathetic supporter, a liberal Dominican played powerfully by Max Gordon Moore, must beg her to resist.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That danger is, in essence, presumption: “What other judgment can I judge by but by my own?” Joan asks, casually assuming supremacy over churchmen and kings. From this idea comes not only the necessary sentence of a perfectly fair proceeding but also, in the fullness of time, Protestantism, nationalism, individualism and, as Shaw would have it, the Great War, which had recently concluded as he started writing the play.

The brilliant scene in which he winds all of these ideas into a noose can hardly fail if it is done properly, and here it is a marvelous highlight. Mr. Page, never better, makes of his rumbling basso something that is somehow both terrifying and loving; he uses every theatrical trick in his arsenal to convince Joan to spare herself by recanting. And Ms. Rashad, as if the weight of her fate were only now hitting her, along with the weight of the play itself, finally explodes in emotion. It’s devastating.

Photo

I can’t tell whether the withhold-and-release effect is deliberate; not much else about the production suggests a focus on the big picture. Certainly not Scott Pask’s set, a phalanx of cheap-looking organ pipes that regroup to indicate different locales. Worse, they lead you to hope for thrilling toccatas and fugues when all you get from Bill Frisell’s music is misty watercolor pop.

Nor does much that’s thrilling emerge from most of the cast save Ms. Rashad and Mr. Page. Not that the characters aren’t neatly defined — notably John Glover as the tart archbishop, Daniel Sunjata as Joan’s comrade Dunois and Jack Davenport as the wheedling Earl of Warwick. But they all seem strangely conflict-averse as they promote or subvert the Maid among them. By the time you get to the surreal epilogue, it’s as if they were in a low-stakes sitcom called “Oh That Joan!”

Mr. Sullivan’s deference to Shaw’s anti-theatrical style is somewhat surprising from the director who gave us a blisteringly reframed (and successful) “Merchant of Venice” in 2010. But it does have the salutary feminist effect of highlighting competence instead of hysteria. If the production as a whole made up for the diminished dramatics with ample attention to its intellectual grandeur — as it does in the trial scene — it might even have seemed bracingly modern.

Instead it just seems modest: surely the last thing any one ever accused Shaw or “Saint Joan” of being.The last year has been difficult for Time magazine.

In November, it was sold with its corporate siblings People, Sports Illustrated, Entertainment Weekly and In Style to the Meredith Corporation in a $2.8 billion deal. Then in March 2018, the Meredith Corporation declared that it was selling the magazines that don’t fit its “main portfolio” — Time chief among them.

That made Time 100 Gala on Tuesday night, which celebrated its 100 Most Influential People issue, more than just another party. It was to show that Time was still relevant.

And there were big gets. In the cocktail area at the Time Warner Center, Leslie Jones was rocking a flat top, a white blazer and a pair of black sunglasses that gave her a Grace Jones by way of a Supreme drop vibe. Nearby was Maxine Waters, the California congresswoman whose ability to throw shade at Donald Trump and the Republicans earned her a place among the Time class of 2018.

How much longer did Ms. Waters think Mr. Trump would be in office for her to kick around?

“Not long,” she said. “I hope.”Now Marvel says it wants to clear the table it has spent the last 10 years arranging and make way for something new.

“Telling a great story requires a great ending,” Kevin Feige, the Marvel Studios president, said. “When you dedicate yourself to that, it shifts the way you think.”

Audiences are about to find out what finality looks like for a motion-picture money-minting machine: Will the story actually come to a conclusion? Will characters die, and will actors leave the series?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever the answers, they have already been reached with the help of the Russo brothers, two of Marvel’s most consistent and diligent — if not widely recognized — filmmakers.

When they finish their “Avengers” movies, which they shot back to back over 18 months, the Russos will complete their own improbable arc, from indie-cinema oddballs to TV comedy moguls to directors of possibly the biggest franchise in movie history.

The brothers — Anthony, 48, the bespectacled brainstormer, and Joe, 46, the square-jawed pragmatist — have contrasting but complementary energies. As Mr. Downey described them, Anthony is “a bit more reflective, a yin guy,” while Joe is the intense yang of the partnership: “Bitcoin was invented to keep Joe Russo from killing himself during the last 20 percent of the shoot,” Mr. Downey said.

When they’re together, Mr. Downey added, “It’s like the two of them make a third thing that’s better than any one person could be.”

The Russos grew up in Cleveland, where their father, Basil M. Russo, served as Democratic majority leader of the City Council. When the city went into an economic tailspin in the 1970s and ’80s, the brothers immersed themselves in movies and learned to appreciate their creative isolation.

As Anthony Russo explained it, “The virtue of growing up in the industrial Midwest is you have nothing to rub up against you and no one to tell you that you can’t do what you want to do, because nobody’s doing anything. You can just be a dreamer.”

Photo

They spent three years and $30,000 writing and directing an independent feature, “Pieces,” about three brothers — also named the Russos — who dabble in crime. Despite some withering reviews — Variety called it an “unabashed vanity project” — “Pieces” caught the attention of Steven Soderbergh at the 1997 Slamdance Film Festival.

With his help, the Russos made their first studio movie, a comic crime caper called “Welcome to Collinwood,” with George Clooney, William H. Macy and Sam Rockwell. But it flopped at its release in 2002.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the next several years, the Russos focused on directing television shows, including “Lucky,” a short-lived FX series, and “Arrested Development,” the rapid-fire satire that became a cult hit on Fox.

Despite critical acclaim, “Arrested Development” got notoriously low ratings. But the Russos said this lack of attention was a blessing in disguise, allowing them to experiment with narrative, tone and pacing, unencumbered by interfering network executives.

“They so didn’t get the show that they really didn’t care what you did,” Anthony Russo said, adding, “It was a huge creative upside.”

The Russos used NBC’s “Community,” another well-reviewed comedy with a meager viewership, to stage elaborate tributes to “Star Wars” and the spaghetti westerns of Sergio Leone. It was here that their work caught Marvel’s attention.

At the time, the studio was generating hits with its earliest superhero offerings, made by established filmmakers — “Iron Man,” directed by Jon Favreau; “Captain America: The First Avenger,” directed by Joe Johnston. But Marvel wanted to expand its portfolio rapidly and bring in TV directors.

Marvel also wanted to shift the tone of its “Captain America” movies, starting with the 2014 sequel, “The Winter Soldier.”

“The first one was a fairly patriotic, gung-ho World War II movie,” said Christopher Markus, who wrote the “Captain America” films with Stephen McFeely. “You can’t make a string of those before you get slightly nauseous.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Watching Get the most out of your screen time with movie and TV recommendations, news and commentary from New York Times experts. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The goal of “The Winter Soldier,” Mr. Markus said, was to show Captain America “losing faith in all the institutions that had made him, giving you a way to see him as relevant in the modern era.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Russos envisioned “The Winter Soldier” as a modern-day upgrade of espionage thrillers like “Three Days of the Condor,” and the studio responded strongly. When the movie sold $714 million in tickets worldwide, Mr. Feige said the Russos “redefined the franchise — not just the Cap franchise but all the Marvel movies going forward.”

“They found a way to keep the wonder, keep the spectacle, but ground it even more in realism,” Mr. Feige said. “Which is a word I use lightly when it comes to our movies.”

The Russos succeeded again with “Captain America: Civil War,” an overstuffed 2016 sequel in which the Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman) and a new incarnation of Spider-Man (Tom Holland) were introduced, and the adventurers took sides in a conflict between Cap and Iron Man.

Even before “Civil War” became a $1.15 billion global smash, Marvel had already started putting the pieces in place for what Mr. Feige called “the big finale of the initial story line we were developing.”

The plan was ambitious: Mr. Markus and Mr. McFeely would write two “Avengers” movies, generated from a 60-page manifesto they started working on in 2015. All the major Marvel heroes had to be accommodated, and still more characters would be introduced. “Not every scene can be 25 people in a room,” Mr. McFeely said. “You’re going to have to make kickball teams and then have a tournament.”

With scripts in hand, the Russos would film these movies consecutively. In Mr. Feige’s mind, there were no other directors who could handle the task of doing “three straight years of filmmaking.”

Mr. Feige said, “There are two of them, which helps. But their individual stamina is unmatched.”

The Russos moved from Los Angeles to Georgia for two years, where “Avengers: Infinity War” and its sequel were shot, principally at Pinewood Atlanta Studios. (They estimate that they took a break of about three weeks between filming the two movies.)

They said making the movies this way was an irresistible challenge — one that has been attempted by very few directors, including the Wachowskis (“The Matrix” series) and Peter Jackson (the “Lord of the Rings” and “Hobbit” franchises) — and a test of their fortitude.

Photo

Describing the process, Anthony Russo said, “You’re a really good marathon runner and you know how to train for it. All of a sudden, you’re running a double marathon. You can’t really understand it until you do it.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Russos acknowledge that the films were made this way, in part, for economic reasons: it’s cheaper for Marvel to hire actors — dozens of them, some of whom are very costly — for months at a time, rather than make individual deals for each movie.

Though they must serve many corporate masters at Disney and Marvel, and Mr. Feige is known for having a strong hand in his films, the Russos say they were given the latitude to make the movies they want to make.

“It’s no different than making any kind of narrative in a medium where capitalism thrives,” Joe Russo said. “You have to have a Zen resilience about what it is that you want to do, and then do a really good job at it. And everybody stays out of your hair.”

Mr. Downey, who first worked with the Russos on “Civil War,” said they were well served by their TV training, which has taught them to be quick and collaborative.

At any given moment on these films, Mr. Downey said, “we’ve got 80 things that are going to blow up, collide — story points that are all about to happen at once.” When one of the Russos had a new idea, he said, they would approach him with a gentle query: “Let me pitch you this.”

“No one takes it personally, and then the idea emerges,” Mr. Downey said. “It ends up an amalgam of everything that didn’t hit the floor.”

The Russos aren’t revealing much about how, exactly, their “Avengers” movies will bring closure to this phase of the Marvel cinematic saga. (They wouldn’t even disclose the title of the movie that follows “Infinity War,” protesting that even this much information would be a spoiler.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Ultimately,” Joe Russo said, “what you’ll see by the end of the movies is, what does it cost to be a hero in a world where there are no easy answers? I think that’s the world we live in.”

Photo

Death is a staple of comic books. Beloved characters are killed off all the time, sometimes replaced by successors who inherit their costumes and identities: Bucky becomes the new Captain America; Jane Foster the new Thor. There’s no reason to believe that their motion-picture counterparts aren’t similarly mortal and similarly interchangeable.

Mr. Evans has made no secret of his desire to move beyond the “Captain America” movies. Meanwhile, Mr. Downey — who introduced himself in a phone interview as “Robert Downey Jr., retired film actor” — is already working on his next prospective tentpole movie, “The Voyage of Dr. Dolittle.”

He talked about his time with Marvel in retrospective tones, and reflected on an encounter with Keanu Reeves, who at the time had just finished making the first “Matrix” movie.

“I was like, ‘Hey, dude, how’d it go?’” Mr. Downey recalled. “He said, ‘I’ve been on another planet.’ Right now, I’ve been on the planet Dolittle for a while. Being detached from it has given me a lot of warmth, affection and objectivity about this past decade.”

Of course, the Marvel engine will keep chugging away. “There will be more movies with some of these characters,” Mr. Feige said, “and with lots of new characters.”

Disney’s pending acquisition of Fox would add even more familiar heroes to Marvel’s toy chest, including the X-Men and Fantastic Four. But Mr. Feige said it was “way too soon” to make plans for these properties.

“We’d love to have all the characters back,” Mr. Feige said. “It’s a dream. But we’re plenty busy with the next five films.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Russos, too, are preparing for their post-“Avengers” lives. They have established their own production company, Agbo Films, whose executives include Mr. Markus and Mr. McFeely and which has already secured $250 million in private Chinese funding.

The brothers are elliptical about whether there are more Marvel movies in their future. “We wanted to maximize our options as storytellers and artists,” Anthony Russo said. “We’ve structured our business life in a way to support that. It can be, or it can’t be. We’ve kept all options open.”

Joe Russo said there are still some “very personal projects we want to make,” adding that he and Anthony want to nurture up-and-coming filmmakers just as Mr. Soderbergh did for them. “We owe a karmic debt to the universe because of what Steven did for us,” he said.

The reality, though, is that the Russos are not even finished with “Avengers.” Once “Infinity War” is released, there is still a whole additional movie for them to construct from untold hours of raw footage, a task that they estimate will take them at least until the end of the year. “There are months of work left on it,” Anthony Russo said. “It will be very cathartic for us to come out the other end. That’s when our brains can open up to what’s next.”The film centers itself in this corporate feminist landscape. Renee works as a peon at a fictional cosmetics company, and as she rises through the ranks thanks to her I-think-I’m-hot-now pluck, she convinces the brand to incorporate self-acceptance into its marketing strategy.

Back in the real world, Dove shops the most saccharine version of this corporate feminist fairy tale, but the sentiment has become a staple of the beauty — uh, “wellness” industry. Weight Watchers has pivoted to offering “lifestyle” solutions instead of “diet” tips, though with the same (now unspoken) goal of becoming thinner. And SoulCycle, prominently featured in “I Feel Pretty,” frames the fitness craze as a moral imperative: “With every pedal stroke, our minds clear and we connect with our true and best selves.”

SoulCycle’s philosophy is a hair away from Renee’s own delusional body transformation. As Ms. Widdows notes, the beauty ideal is so pervasive that it is internalized in many women, who are haunted by idealized visions of their own bodies — fantasies of how they might look after undergoing extreme diets or cosmetic procedures. But because nobody can ever achieve perfection, we instead begin to fetishize the striving for it — spinning on bikes and slathering on lotions. So even after Renee experiences her awakening to self-acceptance, she ends up right back at SoulCycle, this time having completely swallowed the “I’m doing this for me” line.

Photo

“Shallow Hal” — the 2001 comedy in which Jack Black falls in love with Gwyneth Paltrow-in-a-fatsuit after being hypnotized into thinking she looks like Gwyneth Paltrow not-in-a-fatsuit — located extreme beauty standards in the minds of bad men. “I Feel Pretty” places the blame on women. The truth is that the locus of responsibility is maddeningly elusive. Social media, though, serves as a pretty apt approximation for the Panopticon.

Along with YouTube makeup tutorials and Instagram fashion influencers, beauty-standard denialism has exploded online. In an increasingly visual culture, we are all spokesmodels for our own brands. Social media puts ever more pressure on appearances, but also on projecting politically correct politics, including promoting concepts like body positivity, self-acceptance and “expanding” the beauty ideal to incorporate diverse bodies. Points of resistance — celebrity #nomakeup selfies, the rise of a few select plus-size models like Ashley Graham — function as feel-good distractions from the body conformity overwhelmingly prized on the platforms. Ultra-slim models like Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid parrot lines about how they “didn’t mean” to lose weight even as they post images to Instagram that appear edited to make them look even thinner. Women are expected to perform femininity and feminism at once.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Internetting With Amanda Hess A video series in which our critic discusses everything that’s wrong, weird and sad about the internet. Sign up to be notified about the new season, coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Consider the model Emily Ratajkowski (17 million Instagram followers), who plays Ms. Schumer’s “hot friend” in the film. Last year, she appeared in a video for Love Magazine wearing lingerie and mittens and writhing in a pile of spaghetti. Love published the clip alongside what it called an “amazing polemic on female empowerment” written by Ms. Ratajkowski herself. “To me, female sexuality and sexiness, no matter how conditioned it may be by a patriarchal ideal, can be incredibly empowering for a woman if she feels it is empowering to her,” she wrote, adding: “My life is on my terms and if I feel like putting on sexy underwear, it’s for me.”

But part of the conditioning of the “patriarchal ideal” is to make women feel empowered by it on their “own terms.” That way, every time you critique an unspoken requirement of women, you’re also forced to frown upon something women have chosen for themselves. And who wants to criticize a woman’s choice?

Photo

It’s notable that beauty-standard denialism is being pushed by “I Feel Pretty” and by its critics, too. When the trailer was released, a backlash brewed among feminist commentators who rejected the idea that the white, blond, ultrafeminine Ms. Schumer had been cast as somehow less than traditionally gorgeous. “She IS society’s beauty ideal,” the comedian Sofie Hagen wrote.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The implication is that because Ms. Schumer and, say, Ms. Ratajkowski share certain demographic privileges, the beauty differential no longer applies. But I was raised as an American girl; I’m hyper-attuned to even small distinctions in the appearances of other women. And yet: It’s become taboo to admit that the societal ideal is a highly specific standard that hardly anybody can live up to.

As it happens, the only black women in “I Feel Pretty” — the SoulCycle employee Sasheer Zamata and the beauty executive Naomi Campbell — are representatives of the hot-girl faction. That casting dodges the reality that Hollywood beauty standards remain highly racialized. Vaulting a few women of color to the top gives the beauty standard a progressive sheen that helps inure it from criticism.

Ms. Schumer herself has denied that the film re-enacts any particular bodily ideal. “In the scene after the head injury, the assumption is that the woman I see when I look in the mirror is skinny, but I’m just seeing my same self and perceiving my body as beautiful,” she told Vulture. It’s a ludicrous claim: Of course she thinks her body has changed; she’s convinced that her closest friends can’t even recognize her in her hottened state. Besides, all the women representing standard-issue beauty in the movie — including Ms. Ratajkowski, Ms. Campbell and Michelle Williams — are incredibly thin.

Photo

Photo

Ms. Schumer’s own career is evidence of these punishing standards. In her comedy she maintains her position by continually acknowledging and deflecting her perceived physical deficiencies, most notably with the masterful “12 Angry Men” parody from “Inside Amy Schumer” (in which the jurors argue over whether they’d have sex with her or not) and her late-night couch banter about winter weight gain. If the way Amy Schumer looks was truly normalized in Hollywood, it wouldn’t bear comment.

Watching the controversy around “I Feel Pretty” unfold, I was reminded of a fascinating document published by Vulture that charts how female characters are described in the screenplays of famous films. What struck me was how many of the women hailed as “strong female characters” are nevertheless required to hew to the same physical requirements as the eye candy — beautiful, young and small. To take just one example, the “Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” protagonist Lisbeth Salander is specified as “a small, pale, anorexic-looking waif in her early 20s.”

What’s more, these women are meant to be naïve to their own looks, like the heroine of “Brooklyn”: “open-faced pretty without knowing it.” These descriptors poke at another lie in “I Feel Pretty”: that all regular women need to succeed is a healthy dose of confidence. That new beauty mantra mirrors corporate messaging around “impostor syndrome” and “leaning in” — the idea that women’s lack of confidence is holding them back from professional success, not discrimination. In fact, our culture’s ideal woman is beautiful and modest.

Photo

Why is it so hard to talk about this? Ms. Widdows has a few theories. Feminists don’t want to pose as killjoys bent on confiscating mani-pedis. Besides, striving for beauty is ultimately a rational choice in a world that values it so highly, and converting that pressure into fun or communal experiences is its own form of resistance.

I suspect it’s also simply too painful to address head-on. The amount of brainpower I spend every day thinking about how I look is a monumental waste. The sheer accumulation of images of celebrity bodies in my browser history feels psychopathic. I like to think of myself as a pretty smart person, but the truth is that I can’t seem to think my way out of this. The only way I’ve found to banish momentarily that shadow of the idealized self is to pay for it to go away — with a Sephora shopping spree or a spin class.Eugene O’Donnell, a former city police officer who now teaches at John Jay College, said the information contained in arrest reports is indispensable to investigators because it can help them track patterns, determine affiliations and examine particular crime spikes.

“It’s a treasure trove of information for investigators, whether you’re talking about street crime, terrorism or more sophisticated investigations,” said Professor O’Donnell, who was also a prosecutor in Brooklyn and Queens. “It’s not something you want to put out of your reach.”

Even though a sealed case did not result in a conviction, he said, that does not always mean a person did not commit a crime or other egregious act.

“If you want to hire someone for a position of trust, do you want to be blind to that or see what was on file?” he said. “There are very clear cases where someone got away with a very serious crime for whatever reason.”

Narrow exceptions in the sealing statutes allow access to someone’s sealed case records for prosecutors, parole and corrections agencies, gun licensing authorities, and employers that hire peace officers and police officers. For instance, prosecutors may see the sealed records of someone to whom they are considering offering a deal to dismiss a subsequent case if the person stays out of trouble for a certain period of time. In another example, police departments are permitted to access the sealed arrest records of people who apply to become officers.

But the process for the police to obtain a court order for individuals’ records can be burdensome, Professor O’Donnell said, and the lawsuit could spur the Legislature to amend the statutes, which lawmakers expanded last year to include nonviolent criminal convictions more than 10 years old. Or, he said, it might prompt a streamlining of the process to obtain court approval for sealed records, much as the process for getting warrants has been simplified.

The Police Department’s use of sealed records has attracted a legal challenge before, and it agreed to scrub that kind of information from a database of street stops as part of a settlement with the New York Civil Liberties Union in 2013.For all that rhetoric, however, it was not clear that Mr. Cuomo, or other Democrats, had enough leverage to convince Mr. Felder that he would pay a political price, and even if so, whether they would use it any time soon. Indeed, the governor’s letter was met with a polite shrug from Mr. Felder — “I look forward to productive conversations with the governor and respect his position,” he said on Wednesday — and little, if any, immediate follow-up.

The leader of the Senate Democratic Conference, State Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who was cc’d in the governor’s letter, had not spoken to Mr. Felder on Wednesday, nor had Mr. Cuomo.

The state Democratic Party, meanwhile, seemed to have no plans to revoke Mr. Felder’s membership, a move that would end its mathematic majority. Mr. Felder does have a primary challenger, Blake Morris, but his campaign would seem to be a long shot in a district in which Mr. Felder runs on multiple party lines, and won unopposed in 2016.

One group, however, was undeniably happy about Mr. Felder’s recent decision to continue to caucus with the Republicans. Before a brief legislative session on Wednesday in Albany, John J. Flanagan, the Long Island Republican who leads the Senate, addressed his Republican colleagues, with Mr. Felder in attendance, and thanked him for staying. The Republican conference then gave Mr. Felder a round of applause.

Mr. Felder, a lifelong registered Democrat who represents a large Orthodox Jewish population in Brooklyn, has long embodied some of the perplexing horse-trading and politicking that are hallmarks of Albany.

His reason for his defection, he said, is simple and consistent: He claims no loyalty to any party, but believes that the Republicans offer him more support for causes he cares about, including religious schools in his district, and is unapologetic about getting whatever he can for his constituents.

“I may be crazy, but I’m not stupid,” Mr. Felder said, in an interview on Wednesday morning in his office in Albany. “I understand the opportunity for leverage, the situation, and I’m proud to do what I believe any colleague of mine would do if they had the opportunity.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Felder, who crossed party lines just days after he was elected in 2012, is not the only Democrat to stray during Mr. Cuomo’s seven-plus years in office. The Independent Democratic Conference, a group of renegade Democrats who collaborated with the Republicans, formed shortly after Mr. Cuomo was inaugurated in 2011 and helped to wrest control from the mainline Democrats in the Senate for years.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The I.D.C. schism had infuriated and frustrated many Democrats, as well as Cynthia Nixon, who is challenging Mr. Cuomo in a Democratic primary. Ms. Nixon said on Wednesday that the governor had made it “really very comfortable and very cozy” for Democrats like Mr. Felder to vote with Republicans.

“He has created this climate,” Ms. Nixon said at a campaign appearance in Buffalo on Wednesday. “And it’s not surprising that we’re in the situation we’re in with Simcha Felder right now.”

Earlier this month, the I.D.C., in a deal announced by Mr. Cuomo, agreed to dissolve its coalition with the Republicans. And on Tuesday night, two more Democrats joined the ranks of the Senate, after winning special elections in Westchester County and the Bronx.

But even before the polls closed, Mr. Felder had already announced his intention to remain allied with the Republicans, at least for now, citing a desire to “prevent an unprecedented and uncertain late-session political battle.” A Democratic takeover of the Senate now would probably plunge its leaders into a morass of questions about how to allocate funding and staff for the final weeks of the session, which ends in June.

Mr. Cuomo’s office had vowed not to take no for an answer. Yet the letter sent to Mr. Felder by the governor — no stranger to political hardball — seemed to be banking on his power of persuasion, rather than more pointed threats.

“Usually an executive is warned to avoid ‘interference’ with the legislative branch of government,” the governor wrote. “Through the years, governors have been criticized for meddling with Senate or Assembly leadership decisions as it violated the separation of powers policy,” read the letter. “These are not usual days.”

The letter may have seemed like an uncharacteristically gentle nudge from the governor, who is usually known more for strong-arm tactics than coaxing. But Douglas Muzzio, a professor of political science at Baruch College, said there was still time for more aggressive persuasion.

“You don’t threaten yet,” Mr. Muzzio said. “You start with carrots before you move to sticks.”

Mr. Cuomo himself said as much during the news conference, joking that he was “not a pressure kind of guy,” to laughter from the crowd.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I’m a charm, circle them with love, kind of guy,” he said.It was already clear that Mr. Stoppard was a dramatist of a singular intellectual stripe, with his academic antics and cascading epigrams, suggesting a genius prankster run amok in an Oxbridge library. But nothing prepared his audience for “Travesties,” which made comic hay of the writings of three of the most eminent and complex minds of Western civilization. (Make that four, since the play also borrows copiously from Oscar Wilde’s “The Importance of Being Earnest.”)

When the show transferred to Broadway in 1975, it won both the Tony and New York Drama Critics’ Circle awards for best play. But theatergoers were walking out on it in exasperated droves and writing angry letters to The New York Times, which had happily endorsed the production.

The current “Travesties” — which originated at the Menier Chocolate Factory in 2016, before transferring to the West End — is the product of several subsequent decades of Mr. Stoppard’s revision and condensation. (If I tried to track those changes for you, I’d wind up as addled as poor Carr.)

I would venture that this latest incarnation is the clearest and surely one of the liveliest on record. It should prove ridiculously entertaining for anyone with even a passing knowledge of its central characters, and a stroll through the groves of Wikipedia should offer adequate preparation for anyone else.

Photo

Because what makes “Travesties” so deeply engaging — and hilarious and touching — isn’t its flashy erudition but its author’s rapt fascination with the workings of the human mind and its enduring relationship with art. Mr. Stoppard possesses the enthusiasm of an eternal student, both arrogant about what he knows and humble about what he doesn’t.

This sensibility is filtered through the backward-looking perspective of good old Carr (based on a real person), a thoroughly middle-class British consul who claims to have been in Zurich at a magic moment when Joyce (Peter McDonald), Tzara (Seth Numrich) and Lenin (Dan Butler) were all in residence. Carr is in his dressing gown and his dotage when we first meet him, thinking up ways to transform this improbable slice of history into a book.

Joyce — who is working on his novel “Ulysses” — and Lenin — nearing the end of his exile from Russia — can be found in the Zurich library, along with Lenin’s wife, Nadya (Opal Alladin). Tzara, chief exponent of the art of poetic anarchy, is there, too, because he has a crush on Joyce’s assistant, Gwendolen (Scarlett Strallen). Overseeing, and regularly shushing, the others is a librarian, one Cecily Cardew (Sara Topham).

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Gwendolen and Cecily are the names of the rivalrous heroines of Wilde’s “Earnest.” And much of the dialogue in “Travesties” takes its cues from that masterpiece of elegant absurdism. You see, Joyce is involved in a local production of “Earnest.” He recruits Carr to appear in it as Algernon. The collaboration ends badly, because of an altercation over the cost of Carr’s costumes.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The elderly Carr doffs his bathrobe to become his younger self to participate in his encounters with the others, who also include his manservant, Bennett (Patrick Kerr), who harbors revolutionary sympathies. Many of the scenes are enacted in several variations, as history stops and starts and never exactly repeats itself.

Our leading men face off in duels of words about the purpose and nature of art. Carr, a Gilbert and Sullivan fan, takes the conventional bourgeois view of it as a collection of worthy monuments. Lenin has no use for art, though his wife describes him as being unnervingly moved by a Beethoven sonata. Tzara, the Dadaist, is a desecrater of traditional art, and is seen cutting up a sonnet by Shakespeare into a bowler hat, the better to randomly reassemble its words.

The hat belongs to Joyce, who later pulls a rabbit out of it. That bit of magic may give you a clue as to where the playwright’s sympathies lie.

Abstract considerations are rendered with an extravagantly theatrical zeal that never flags. The first-rate design team includes Tim Hatley (costumes and a set that suggests a ransacked library of the mind) Neil Austin (lighting) and Adam Cork (sound and music).

The cast couldn’t be much better. Among the singular pleasures they provide: Mr. Numrich’s physically ferocious Tzara acting out the Darwinian chain of evolution; Mr. McDonald’s Joyce talking (and singing) in Irish limericks; Mr. Butler’s straight-faced modeling a blond wig as a disguise for Lenin’s return to Russia; Ms. Alladin singing an ode to the motherland in Russian; and Ms. Strallen and Ms. Topham blissfully reinterpreting the tea party scene from “Earnest” to the tune of the vaudeville ditty “Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean.”

Then there is Mr. Hollander, who was so delectably vicious in AMC’s “The Night Manager.” Here, standing amid a scattered wreckage of books and loose papers, he is both an affecting emblem of bewilderment and a tower of preening vanity. And he leads us with seamless clarity not only through his character’s segues between youth and old age but also through the decomposing labyrinth that is Carr’s mind.

“Take no notice,” he says companionably, after describing the Lenin he remembers as a gnomic, anemic blond. It will, he reassures us, “all come out in the wash, that’s the art of it.” What emerges from the churning wash of “Travesties” is one of the sweetest, sauciest and strangest defenses of art ever to land on a stage.

Travesties NYT Critic’s Pick American Airlines Theater 227 W. 42nd St. Midtown West 212-719-1300 website Find Tickets Category Broadway, Play, Comedy/Drama Runtime 2 hrs. and 30 min. Credits Written by Tom Stoppard; Directed by Patrick Marber Cast Tom Hollander, Peter McDonald, Seth Numrich, Dan Butler, Scarlett Strallen, Sara Topham, Opal Alladin and Patrick Kerr Preview March 29, 2018 Opened April 24, 2018 Closing Date June 17, 2018 Upcoming Shows Thursday April 26 8:00 pm Friday April 27 8:00 pm Saturday April 28 2:00 pm Saturday April 28 8:00 pm Sunday April 29 3:00 pm This information was last updated: April 25, 2018“What we are seeing is the crime scene, but also what their daily lives were like.”

In one house they uncovered an older man, perhaps in his sixties, whose pelvis bones were charred. Either before or after he died, his body fell over a fire pit. But what was most striking about this man, who the team said may have been a chieftain or religious leader, was that someone had shoved a handful of sheep teeth into his mouth.

“We think they tried to humiliate this person beyond death,” Dr. Victor said.

It was customary during this time period to bury the dead with coins so they could pay their way into the afterlife. The deliberate placement of sheep teeth, Dr. Victor said, suggested the attackers wanted to thwart any chance the person had of making the passage.North America was once a loose, sprawling conversation between landscapes. Soft boundaries linked prairie, savanna, shrubland, forest and marsh. During a dry spell, lightning might spark a fire that burned for miles and days on end, relenting only when it hit a lake or river.

Remove fire, and this dialogue gets interrupted. Weedy scrub accumulates, stifling the earth.

“Ruderal junk — that’s what happens without fire,” said Bill Kleiman, project director at Nachusa Grasslands, a 3,600-acre preserve in Franklin Grove, Ill., operated by the Nature Conservancy.

Today, development and fragmentation have disrupted natural cycles of restoration in these landscapes. That’s why Mr. Kleiman’s team and many others across North America run controlled burns every spring and fall, helping sustain ecosystems that have been shaped by fire for millenniums. Here’s a glimpse into one such burn in April 2017 and the life that sprung up a few weeks later.While keeping that busy schedule, Mr. Oh, who died on April 4 in Los Angeles at 85, worked to broaden the types of roles available to Asian-American actors, first through East West Players and later through other theater troupes that he founded or guided.

The actor and producer Chil Kong, who confirmed Mr. Oh’s death and said the cause was Alzheimer’s disease, recalled how Mr. Oh took him under his wing in 1994 during a production in Boston of “The Woman Warrior,” a stage version of a pair of memoirs by the Chinese-American writer Maxine Hong Kingston.

Mr. Kong, an understudy in a cast that included Mr. Oh, was still a student at the Boston Conservatory and largely unaware of the history and heritage he was a part of, until Mr. Oh schooled him.

“I began to understand that my story was a small strand in a rich tapestry of Asians in America,” Mr. Kong wrote in a tribute posted after Mr. Oh’s death. “I began to understand that my struggle as an artist of color was a small trail off of a well-traveled highway forged on the shoulders of passionate people before me, people like Mr. Oh.”

Soon-Tek Oh was born on June 29, 1932, in Mokpo, a city in what is now South Korea. (At the time, it was under Japanese occupation.) He graduated from Yonsei University in Seoul in 1959 and then, like many other young Koreans, went to the United States to study. He enrolled at the University of California, Los Angeles, and received a master’s degree in acting and playwriting there.

Photo

His list of television credits began in 1965 with small roles on “I Spy.” The bit parts he played early in his career hit pretty much all the stereotypes of the time — a houseboy on both “The Invaders” and “The Wild Wild West” in 1967, a servant on “It Takes a Thief” in 1969, and so on.

But from the beginning he was looking for more substantive projects, if not on the screen then onstage. He and others mounted a production of “Rashomon” that coalesced into the founding of East West Players in 1965. The founders included, in addition to Mr. Oh, the Japanese actor Mako and the Chinese-American actors James Hong and Beulah Quo.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The company, now in its 52nd season, started out playing to largely Japanese-American audiences. But it gradually expanded its vision and appeal, staging not only traditional repertoire from throughout Asia but also new works addressing the experiences of second- and third-generation Asian-Americans, as well as Western classics with Asian-American casts.

Mr. Oh wore other hats besides actor; for instance, he wrote “Have You Heard,” a bilingual work about Korean immigrants that the company staged in 1982.

In 1978, Mr. Oh formed the Korean American Theater Ensemble, a bilingual company, also based in the Los Angeles area, that he hoped would help introduce second-generation Korean-Americans to Korean culture. In 1992, concerned about the societal divisions revealed by the riots in Los Angeles that year, he reconstituted that company as the Society of Heritage Performers, with a new sense of urgency.

In the late 1990s, Mr. Oh sought to hand that troupe off to a younger generation, and a group that included Mr. Kong took it on and turned its framework into the Lodestone Theater Ensemble, which promoted innovative works for the next decade.

Mr. Oh’s theater career also included a notable Broadway appearance in “Pacific Overtures,” the 1976 Stephen Sondheim musical. He worked steadily in film and television for four decades.

Mr. Oh appeared in multiple episodes of “M*A*S*H,” “Charlie’s Angels,” “Hawaii Five-O,” “Magnum, P.I.,” “Touched by an Angel” and other series. He was in the James Bond movie “The Man With the Golden Gun” in 1974, the Chuck Norris film “Missing in Action 2” in 1985 and the Chris Farley comedy “Beverly Hills Ninja” in 1997. And he was the voice of Fa Zhou, the title character’s father, in the animated “Mulan” in 1998.

Mr. Oh’s survivors include a son, James, and a sister, Onjah.

Tim Dang, who recently stepped down after leading East West Players for 23 years, reflected on the progress made since Mr. Oh and the others created the company more than a half-century ago. Four generations of artists — about 5,000 in all — have come through the company, he said by email, and many other theater troupes have followed the Players’ model.

“Soon-Tek was a masterful storyteller,” Mr. Dang wrote, “both as an actor and a writer, in English and in Korean, navigating the challenging terrain of Hollywood yet never compromising the culturally rich community he came from that was constantly underrepresented and, when represented, was often misinterpreted.

“His legacy lives on in all of us, in all the stories we tell, and the places we tell them.”In 1926, when Samuel S. Epstein was born in Yorkshire, an English baby boy’s estimated life span was about 60 years. Dr. Epstein lived to be 91, after devoting his career to preventing cancer and heeding his own advice. He died of cardiac arrest on March 18 in Chicago.

In his own way, Dr. Epstein seemed to be getting the last word in an argument he first ignited four decades ago, when he blamed greedy manufacturers, lax regulators, misguided researchers and complicit charitable groups for what he saw as a coming cancer epidemic.

A widely read author and widely heard lecturer, Dr. Epstein was venerated by some as an environmental prophet and reviled by others as an overzealous toxin avenger. He outlived many of his critics, perhaps because he had practiced what he preached about prevention in his own life.

Dr. Epstein did not live his life in a bubble, but he sought to avoid tobacco, X-rays, pesticides, saccharin, talcum powder, cyclamates used as preservatives, hair spray with vinyl chloride, hot dogs dyed with nitrites, milk from cows injected with genetically engineered growth hormones and pajamas treated with a certain flame retardant — all of which he considered carcinogenic.I’m going to rule it not a spoiler to tell you that June does not die in the opening minutes of the season. Because “The Handmaid’s Tale” is a series, it tests out both possibilities of the novel’s ending — destruction or salvation — while putting off a resolution.

Instead much of the new season focuses on how Gilead, a fundamentalist Christian tyranny that arose after a worldwide fertility crisis, keeps its hold in large and small ways.

June, carrying a child for Commander Fred Waterford (Joseph Fiennes) and his wife Serena (Yvonne Strahovski), is called “Offred,” taking her name from the family patriarch. Her own daughter — separated from her but still alive, somewhere — is called only “your first pregnancy.” June is not allowed her present or her past, and she only matters to the future as a vessel for it.

Being pregnant affords her temporary leverage, which she wields in small ways with Serena, who herself is bound by Fred’s quiet paternalism and answerable to the same religious minders, like Aunt Lydia (an imperious Ann Dowd), who discipline the handmaids.

Photo

Inevitably, given the feminist anti-Trump protests and #MeToo movement, “The Handmaid’s Tale” will continue to be seen as an allegory of politics today. But you can also take it as less a specific prediction than as a diagram of how systems of oppression work.

Born out of fear, Gilead keeps handmaids in line, but also wives, intellectuals and less-powerful men, and it thrives by pitting each against another.

Given more space (the new season is 13 episodes) the series sketches that system further outward. June’s dissident friend Emily (Alexis Bledel) is exiled to the Colonies, a radioactive zone where “unwomen” (among them a new character, played by Marisa Tomei) labor until they die.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Colonies could be another planet, hazy and blasted, the unwomen overseen by guards in masks and brimmed hats that make them look like robot inquisitors. While Gilead’s back story remains sketchy, the art direction and costume design make the world feel immediately realized. (While the original director, Reed Morano, has left, her successors have retained her heaven’s-eye shots and portrait-like intimacy.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The first half of the new season back-burners the Canadian exile of June’s husband, Luke (O.T. Fagbenle), still one of the weaker parts of the series. It has a better handle on its tone now; gone, mostly, are the ironically upbeat soundtrack choices, like Tom Petty’s “American Girl.”

Often, though, “The Handmaid’s Tale” feels so determined not to be misread, to treat its subject with gravity, that its storytelling is heavy-handed and its peripheral characters stiff.

Fortunately, the central performance is anything but. The essential image of “The Handmaid’s Tale” is the crimson dress — the red of menses and childbirth — but its favorite visual is Ms. Moss’s face, framed in tight close-up. It is mask, shield and vulnerable portal; it shows her defiance and conceals it at the same time. She’s wary and tired and seething — heroic on a very human scale.

Without someone as expressive as Ms. Moss, “The Handmaid’s Tale” might not pull off its balancing acts: to be morally urgent but not didactic, harrowing but with flickers of hope and grace. But that may be more challenging as it stretches out, maybe for years, a story of a protagonist sentenced to systematic rape.

In the novel, June’s entering the van was not the absolute end. In an epilogue, we learn that her memoirs were recovered by “Gileadean Studies” scholars far in the future. The time between the van doors closing and the fall of the tyranny, it suggests, might have been very long.

For TV purposes, maybe it shouldn’t be. “The Handmaid’s Tale” is dystopian sci-fi, but it plays like horror, from its constant sense of menace to its ominous score. Horror is a hard genre to sustain in serial TV. Stretch it out too long, as in the very different “The Walking Dead,” and you create an endless circuit of frying pans and fires that becomes desensitizing or unendurable.

Not knowing the producers’ plan, I can’t say if the right length for “The Handmaid’s Tale” is two seasons or five or more. But sometimes the best testament to a story’s effectiveness is that it makes you hope for it to end.NORRISTOWN, Pa. — Jurors in the Bill Cosby sexual assault retrial began their deliberations Wednesday, sifting through evidence they heard during 12 days of testimony and arguments in an effort to determine whether Andrea Constand had been molested by the once-popular entertainer.

Last summer jurors spent six days deliberating that question at the Montgomery County Courthouse before Judge Steven T. O’Neill agreed they were hopelessly deadlocked and sent them home.

Judge O’Neill, who is presiding at this retrial, charged the jury Wednesday morning. Deliberations began around 11 a.m. and dragged into the night as the 12-member panel considered the presentations by prosecutors and defense lawyers.

The latter argued that Ms. Constand, a former Temple University employee who viewed Mr. Cosby as a mentor, had a consensual sexual encounter with Mr. Cosby at his home near here in 2004. But they said she later concocted a story about having been assaulted to pressure him into a financial settlement.The first time Ms. Danler, the show’s creator, an executive producer and a service industry veteran, walked through the space, “It was like waking up in my own dream,” she said. “Totally surreal.”

And yet “Sweetbitter,” which begins a six-episode first season on May 6, isn’t really a show about a restaurant. The reason is simple: “People try restaurant shows every year, on network, on cable,” the showrunner Stuart Zicherman explained. “They never work.”

(Mr. Zicherman exaggerated that frequency, but the network version of “Kitchen Confidential” was canceled after four episodes and last year’s “Feed the Beast” was nixed after a single season, so he has a point.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Audiences aren’t interested in whether a restaurant can wrangle the best seafood supplier or whether the steak arrives on the table perfectly black and blue. “It’s like, blah blah blah,” Mr. Zicherman said, speaking at a latte shop near his home. Even a visit from a food critic isn’t enough to drive an episode.

“Sweetbitter” isn’t about that, he said. “It’s about someone who has never belonged to anything in her life wanting to belong.” The day boat scallops, the chicken liver mousse — they are just the side dishes to a slow-burn coming-of-age story.

So come for the food. Stay for the existential journey.

It’s a journey Ms. Danler, 34, has mapped herself. The book and the show aren’t autobiography. Ms. Danler isn’t Tess, a 22-year-old newcomer thirsty for experience and Beaujolais and bar-bathroom hookups. She was never that naïve, never that reckless. When she moved to New York right in 2006, the same year as Tess — in those gritty, halcyon days just before smartphones — restaurants were a way to make money until she could sell a novel. But then they became her world. “I fell absolutely head over heels in love,” she said. “I thought, ‘I found my people. This is it.’”

Ms. Danler, briefly in town from Los Angeles where she now lives, was speaking at Via Carota, a West Village trattoria. Via Carota doesn’t take reservations, but even on a seething Saturday night, with a line stretching out the door, a prime table had been conjured for her instantly. Blond and kittenish, she is so effortlessly charismatic that the couples on either side kept leaning over to suggest new delicacies for her to order.

She already knew the menu; she’d worked at Buvette, a sister restaurant. So after a quick perusal, she asked for a few vegetable plates — leeks, carrots, the first ramps of the season — and a sunset-tinged Americano, garnished with a daredevil swoop of orange peel.

Food matters to Ms. Danler, and even if “Sweetbitter” is a restaurant-set show that’s not about a restaurant, food matters there, too. The episodes don’t try to compete with what Mr. Zicherman calls the “food porn” of reality TV. But since taste is central to Tess’s awakening, the camera lingers seductively on an oyster or a glass of wine and then shows how that bite or that sip affects Tess, played here by Ella Purnell, an expressive British ingénue with the eyes-to-face ratio usually found in a giant squid and a seeming ability to soak up the whole world. Ms. Danler calls this quality a “reckless absorbency.”

For the most part, the show doesn’t fake the food (the grape-juiced and food-colored drinks are obviously another story), and in terms of hospitality it doesn’t fake much else. “That’s for the restaurant people,” Ms. Danler said. “I couldn’t show my face anywhere if I’d cheated.”

Photo

The producers hired a front-of-house consultant, Justine Slattery, the woman who trained Ms. Danler at Union Square Café, to give a crash course to the main actors on proper server etiquette — posture, place settings, the dreaded three-plate carry. The background actors playing the kitchen staff spent two weeks at the Institute of Culinary Education learning food prep.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I think on our first day of waitress training we broke something like 15 bottle openers,” said Caitlin FitzGerald, who plays Simone, the longtime server and Downtown sophisticate idolized by Tess. But now everyone is handy with a wine key. Ms. Purnell struggled, just as Tess does, with the three-plate carry and was surprised to discover how physically demanding the work is. “Carrying heavy plates, three of them, all day and kicking the door open, everything hurts,” she said.

Tess earns her own aches and bruises, some from her culinary education, some from her sentimental one. But what’s maybe most radical about “Sweetbitter” is that not much happens, not in each half-hour, not in the whole first season.

These first six episodes unfold over the two weeks of Tess’s probationary period at the restaurant. Her desire for the brooding bartender Jake (played here by Tom Sturridge), her tentative friendship with Simone, her coaching by the restaurant’s manager Howard (Paul Sparks) — the relationships that undergird the book — are only thinly outlined. This season is more or less a “three-hour-prologue,” Ms. Danler said.

Photo

Ms. Danler admitted that “manufactured drama” is hard for her, and in her initial scripts, Tess was almost entirely passive. A first-time television writer who learned the form by locking herself indoors with a stack of pilot scripts, Ms. Danler had to push herself to provide action. The first six episodes build to what she calls “our explosive moment,” and that moment is a brief and silent look between two characters.

Slowing down the story is a way to capture some of the imagism that made the book so distinctive, to give the viewer time to appreciate the sights and sounds that mark the world of the restaurant as a seductive space. It also acknowledges that while sometimes people grow up all at once, more often, like Tess, we become ourselves subtly, incrementally, taste by taste.

“Sweetbitter” Ms. Danler said, is about a moment when “you’re waiting for your life to start and it has already started.”Two doses a year of an antibiotic can sharply cut death rates among infants in poor countries, perhaps by as much as 25 percent among the very young, researchers reported on Wednesday.

Their large study — of nearly 200,000 children in three African countries — raises the exciting possibility that deploying antibiotics as doctors do vaccines could rapidly reduce deaths among newborns and infants. Death rates in this age group have remained stubbornly high in poor countries even as deaths among all children under age 5 have dropped by half, thanks to vaccines against childhood diseases.

As a result of the study, the World Health Organization is considering whether to recommend routinely giving antibiotics to newborns.

“Our independent expert panel says this holds a lot of promise,” said Dr. Per Ashorn, a W.H.O. expert in maternal and child health. “But we will review it with very rigorous procedures.”Patients at Memorial Sloan Kettering who received the Codman pump lived about two years longer than those who did not, Dr. Kemeny and her colleagues reported last year, in the Journal of Clinical Oncology. They looked at 2,368 consecutive patients with colorectal cancer who had surgery to remove tumors that had spread to the liver. They were treated from 1992 to 2012.

Those who received pumps (785) survived a median of 67 months, compared with 44 months for patients who did not get them (1,583). The result was especially striking, Dr. D’Angelica said, because patients who got pumps were sicker to begin with.

The report was not based on the strongest type of evidence, which would come from a controlled study with patients picked at random to receive one treatment or another. But the researchers said the evidence was the strongest that could be obtained without a randomized study.

Dr. Kemeny began recommending the pump in the 1980s, and Memorial Sloan Kettering has been a leader in its use. Other centers also used it, but many stopped in the mid-to-late 1990s, thinking that improved chemotherapy would make it unnecessary. But there were still patients who needed the pump. Now, just as the device is being phased out, medical interest in it has started to rebound.

Dr. Kemeny never gave it up. She said patients came to Sloan Kettering from all over the United States and from overseas for the treatment, referred by doctors or based on their own online searches for help.

Peter Beckerman, 69, a carpenter from Holbrook, N.Y., said that after surgery for colon cancer, his doctor told him his liver was covered with tumors and he had about 20 months to live. But the surgeon also urged him to consult Dr. Kemeny.

That was 10 years ago. Mr. Beckerman received the pump as part of a clinical trial. Gradually, over about a year, his tumors disappeared, and for the last eight years he has had no sign of cancer.In an emailed statement, Juul Labs said it agreed with the F.D.A. “that illegal sales of our product to minors is unacceptable.”

“We already have in place programs to identify and act upon these violations at retail and online marketplaces, and we will have more aggressive plans to announce in the coming days,” the company’s statement said. “We are working with the F.D.A., lawmakers, parents and community leaders to combat underage use, and we will continue working with all interested parties to keep our product away from youth.”

The vaping industry has long challenged the argument that the devices are addictive and that flavorings appeal to youth, saying the evidence does not support this.

But on Tuesday, the F.D.A. came down firmly about the risks. “The nicotine in these products can rewire an adolescent’s brain, leading to years of addiction,” Dr. Gottlieb said in his statement. He acknowledged that e-cigarettes “may offer a potentially lower risk alternative for individual adult smokers,” he added. “But the viability of these products is severely undermined if those products entice youth to start using tobacco and nicotine.”

Dr. Gottlieb said Tuesday’s announcement was the first of several steps the agency would be taking as part of a new Youth Tobacco Prevention Plan to get manufacturers to stop marketing e-cigarettes to young people. It has already convinced eBay to stop listing the products. It also asked Juul to turn over documents related to promotional games and contests, as well as anything related to product design and the appeal or addictive potential for youth.

But while the moves pleased some public health advocates and school administrators concerned about the popularity of “Juuling” among adolescents, other groups say they do not make up for the tremendous break Dr. Gottlieb cut the e-cigarette industry last July, when he allowed manufacturers a five-year extension on a rule that would have required them to prove that their products are a safe alternative to traditional cigarettes.

The vaping industry had lobbied hard against the rule, arguing that the cost of complying with such regulations would have deterred manufacturers from introducing new products that help adults to quit smoking.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Schools and public health advocates contend that the vaping industry is the latest incarnation of Big Tobacco, developing and promoting its products to create new markets for a younger generation. Juul comes in kid-friendly flavors like mango and crème brûlée. The labels on other e-cigarette flavorings resemble popular candy brands like Jolly Rancher and Blow Pops.

Photo

The e-cigarette industry’s political clout has grown as the tobacco giants have taken over the business, which was once limited to small shops and manufacturers. Altria, British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco, Philip Morris International and Reynolds American all produce e-cigarettes now. In 2017, according to The Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks federal disclosure reports, the tobacco industry spent nearly $22 million on lobbying.

Juul, which was started by Pax Labs in 2015 and spun off into an independent company last year, is one of the biggest players, increasing its revenue by nearly 700 percent in 2017 to $224.6 million, according to a November report from Nielsen/Wells Fargo. The total e-cigarette market grew by 40 percent last year, to $1.16 billion.

Juul Labs told CNBC in October that while it was producing 20 million devices and flavored pods, it could not keep up with demand. Late last year, it raised more than $110 million in private funding, and hired a new chief executive officer from Chobani, manufacturer of the popular Greek yogurt.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

According to Monitoring the Future, an annual survey done for the National Institute on Drug Abuse, part of the National Institutes of Health, in 2017, 19 percent of 12th graders, 16 percent of 10th-graders and 8 percent of 8th graders reported vaping nicotine in the past year.

Juul has come under increasing pressure over the last several weeks as parents and schools have become alarmed over how prevalent the devices are.

A coalition of medical and public health advocacy groups led by the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids sued to reverse the F.D.A.’s July extension of the regulations for e-cigarette companies. A group of United States senators led by Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, sent a letter to Juul last week asking questions about marketing and ingredients for the devices and asking the company to do more to prevent minors from buying the devices.

On Tuesday, the health advocacy groups and lawmakers commended the F.D.A.’s moves, but said the agency must go further and require e-cigarette companies to eliminate flavorings that clearly appeal to youth. They also pushed the F.D.A. again to reverse its July decision.

According to the Juul website, the devices create an aerosol rather than using a flame to activate the ingredients. The company says the product produces a level of nicotine similar to a traditional cigarette in order to satisfy cigarette smokers who switch to vaping.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Medical researchers say this makes the Juul more addictive for youth.

“This is the definition of a double-edged sword,” said Michael Siegel of Boston University, who studies tobacco use.

Because Juul delivers nicotine in a more effective manner, it is appealing for adult smokers who are trying to give up tobacco cigarettes, he said. “The first time they use it, they feel the nicotine, they’re more likely to stick with it.” But for teenagers, “it’s a bad thing because it really does create the addiction potential that you don’t have with normal electronic cigarettes.”

“What we used to see is kids would vape together in social settings, it was showing off who could blow the biggest rings,” he said. “Now we’re starting to see kids who literally are showing signs of addiction: They’re using it alone, we’re seeing kids who have to sneak off to the bathroom during the day.”

School health officials say students do not realize how much they are smoking because they “microdose” all day. And many do not realize the chemicals in the devices.

“They think of it as being just not that big a deal,” said Timothy Hayes, the assistant superintendent for student services at New Trier, the large public high school in the Chicago suburbs. “It’s not smoke, I’m not inhaling, it’s just water vapor, that’s their thinking.”

The F.D.A. crackdown, he said, could help make the risks clearer. “It makes public, and makes Juul be public, about the health consequences.”A new spirit infuses a once-neglected Louisville neighborhood about five miles from Churchill Downs, home to the annual Kentucky Derby, this year on May 5 . The New Louisville district (NuLu for short) is a five-block stretch of East Market Street, just past the Interstate 65 Overpass. Lined with eclectic Victorian-era buildings, the upbeat district is buzzing lately with cool eateries, shops and thriving local businesses. Two new additions are bolstering NuLu’s renaissance, just in time for Derby season. With its launch on May 5, Rabbit Hole Distilling, the latest in Louisville’s urban distillery revival, joins dozens of establishments along the city’s Urban Bourbon Trail bar and restaurant circuit, and the 152-room AC Hotel by Marriott is set to open May 2. ZeroBuses — free, all-electric public transit buses — and LouVelo shareable bikes connect the lively zone to Louisville’s downtown core less than two miles away.

Feast BBQ

On weekdays, this former truck repair shop serves as a meeting place for local entrepreneurs and construction workers who gather around picnic tables to nosh on hearty Southern comfort food elevated by locally sourced ingredients. Offerings at the three-year-old hot spot include juicy pulled pork cakes, creamy hand-cut slaw, tater tots and spicy collard greens drizzled with sweet Kentucky sorghum. On weekends, the quick service joint draws a long line of fans from across the city, thirsty for a Country Boy Brewing Cougar Bait ale, one of many local brews on tap, or a bourbon slushy.

909 East Market Street; feastbbq.comAt first glance, King’s new book looks like it will recount another one of McCall’s fervid campaigns to incarcerate a black man for a crime he didn’t necessarily commit. “Beneath a Ruthless Sun” begins in December 1957, when Blanche Bosanquet Knowles, the wife of a Lake County citrus baron, reported a rape. Her husband was out of town and she was at home, alone with their three children, when, she said, a “husky Negro” with “bushy hair” attacked her in the middle of the night. McCall told his deputies to round up every black man they could find.

Image Gilbert King Credit Gilbert King

A week and a half later, McCall and the state attorney, Gordon Oldham, announced they had found the rapist and were holding him in custody. The alleged culprit? Jesse Delbert Daniels, an impoverished, mentally impaired 19-year-old with a fifth-grade education. Daniels was also white. Oldham explained that the house was so dark at the time of the rape that Knowles had misidentified her assailant’s skin color.

Was this a case in which justice was actually served? Or was something more confounding — and insidious — at work? McCall had held two black men in custody for several days; Knowles stated that a black man attacked her, and now McCall, who once declared that black men had a “barbarous animal instinct” that “a white man don’t have,” was suddenly saying a white man did it.

As a local journalist named Mabel Norris Reese put it at the time, this was a puzzling turn from an office “that gloats over the ‘crime record’ of Negroes.”

If McCall is the villain of King’s book, Reese is clearly the hero, doggedly trying to find out what happened to Blanche Knowles while teaming up with Daniels’s mother, Pearl, to advocate on his behalf. At a hearing that lasted barely five minutes, Truman G. Futch — the same judge from the Groveland case — deemed Daniels “insane and incompetent,” and had him committed to the Florida State Hospital at Chattahoochee without a trial. Daniels, who still slept with a teddy bear, would spend the next 14 years there, confined to the criminal ward.

Reese got ensnared in a tangled web of promising leads and dead ends — as does King’s book, which can get bogged down in the morass of Lake County’s unrelenting racism and squalid corruption.Ferrari is often remembered solely as cold and calculating, with his trademark trench coat and dark sunglasses. But Mr. Dal Monte wants readers to see the genius that Ferrari possessed. Yes, he was stubborn, but he was driven and determined to be successful. He used his charm and intelligence to get others to invest in him, said Mr. Dal Monte, who saw these qualities in Ferrari’s personal correspondence and his relationship with his sons, Alfredo “Dino,” who died in 1956 at the age of 24 from muscular dystrophy, and Piero, who was born out of wedlock to Ferrari’s longtime mistress, Lina Lardi. (Ferrari’s wife, Laura, suffered severe depression her entire life, and though he had affairs with other women they remained married until she died in 1978. Ferrari never remarried and died in 1988.)

Photo

“In Italy, there was the pope and then there was Enzo,” Mr. Dal Monte said as we drove north on New York Route 22, which hugs the state’s border with Connecticut and offers amazing views of the Kensico Reservoir. The GTB’s V12 engine screams with sophisticated mellifluous authority as revs climb, but Mr. Dal Monte is used to speaking over mechanical commotion.

“When I was in middle school I became fascinated with Enzo.” He remembers as a teenager in the late 1970s taking an hourlong train ride from his hometown, Cremona, to Modena early one morning with his brother, just to catch a glimpse of Ferrari having his morning shave at a barbershop. Ferrari stared out at them staring in at him, and smiled.

“Even then he was the Grand Old Man, not just of motor racing, but also of the country. You could hear him call in on some of the early TV automotive racing shows and discuss to the point of shouting with the talk show host in order to defend his cars and his drivers — more the cars than the drivers, actually.”

Mr. Dal Monte has always loved sports cars, but his fascination with Ferrari goes beyond that. “It was his lifelong struggle to succeed, to become someone, to beat the odds, to go down in history that intrigued me,” he said.

What the book doesn’t capture is the circuitous route Mr. Dal Monte took going from Cremona to wrangling reporters in America, the world’s largest market for Ferrari, or how he came to write this comprehensive book.

Photo

Mr. Dal Monte said it all goes back to his second great love (after cars and Ferrari): all things American. When he was a senior in high school, he spent a year as an exchange student in Kentucky and later attended the University of Kentucky, majoring in United States history while writing for the student newspaper, The Kentucky Kernel.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Though his first impulse was to become a journalist after graduating from college, when he returned to Italy, he was offered a plum job as a top executive in Peugeot’s Italian press office. Mr. Dal Monte said that his fluency in English and his knowledge of American culture helped him professionally at an early age and eventually got him the job at Ferrari.

Mr. Dal Monte had met Antonio Ghini, Ferrari’s spokesman in Italy, while visiting the company’s archives to research his first book about Formula One racing, which came out in Italy in 1999. In spring 2001, Mr. Dal Monte remembers, Mr. Ghini asked him: “‘How would you like to go back home? How would you like to go back for Ferrari?’ And what do you think my reply was? ‘When can I start?’”

Photo

His duties grew to include overseeing the American relaunch of the Maserati brand, owned by this time, like Ferrari, by Fiat. But more the historian and journalist at heart than a marketing man, Mr. Dal Monte liked writing. His position with Maserati, which brought him back to Italy, gave him access to a wide range of primary materials. “One of the greatest assets in my research was the Alfa Romeo archives in Arese, near Milan.” There he found Enzo Ferrari’s personnel file from when Ferrari managed the company’s race team. These files documented Ferrari’s importance to Alfa Romeo, the great Italian racing power.

Mr. Dal Monte’s sense of history, however, was not solely grounded in dusty file folders and old racing scorecards. In addition to archival research, he moved to Modena, where Ferrari remains based, a working city that to this day also serves as a living shrine to the man and his automobiles. There he met and befriended many figures from Ferrari’s life over the course of the eight years it took him to write this book.

Still, “American politics is my real passion, and American history,” Mr. Dal Monte confessed. In Italy, his book is titled “Ferrari Rex,” a reference to Edmund Morris’s three-part well-regarded biography of Teddy Roosevelt, “Theodore Rex.” “My aim was high, to do for Ferrari what Morris did for Roosevelt.”And then there is Jacqueline Rose’s own new book, “Mothers: An Essay on Love and Cruelty,” a sort of Rosetta Stone for the moment that examines the particular mix of fascination and dread that mothers engender.

Photo

Rose is a calm and stylish writer whose rangy essays in the London Review of Books on violence and identity, #MeToo, the trial of Oscar Pistorius and other subjects have become indispensable reading during the current reckoning around power and sexuality. She has written at length about Sylvia Plath, Hannah Arendt and Marilyn Monroe, as well as several books on Zionism and the conflict in the Middle East. Her specialties are personalities and philosophies that attract (sometimes court) extreme idealization and revulsion. These larger-than-life figures bear our projections and our fears, she says, and allow us to maintain a fantasy of innocence in our own lives.

How appropriate, then, is this turn to motherhood — that site in the culture “where we lodge, or rather bury, the reality of our own conflicts, of what it means to be fully human,” Rose writes. “It is the ultimate scapegoat for our personal and political failings, for everything that is wrong with the world, which it becomes the task — unrealizable, of course — of mothers to repair.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These aren’t original points; this scapegoat argument in particular is one that has been made about every minority group you can imagine (it’s also the premise of Toni Morrison’s superb “Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination”). But “Mothers” is a useful synthesis and loving engagement with many of the writers who have shaped our thinking on motherhood — Morrison, Simone de Beauvoir and Adrienne Rich, whose unsurpassed “Of Woman Born” (1976) is a template for Rose. “Mothers” follows the same arc, arguing for the radical potentialities in motherhood, how women’s initiation into the relentless, often invisible labor of caretaking produces not the solipsistic, bourgeois creature of myth but something close to the ideal citizen — more responsive to the community and naturally inclusive.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mothers “are not in flight from the anguish of what it means to be human,” Rose writes. She quotes Julia Kristeva: “To be a mother, to give birth, is to welcome a foreigner, which makes mothering simply ‘the most intense form of contact with the strangeness of the one close to us and of ourselves.’”

Isn’t it pretty to think so? Recent books on motherhood, however, frequently and sometimes unwittingly, illustrate a different phenomenon: how motherhood dissolves the border of the self but shores up, often violently, the walls between classes of women.

“Some problems we share as women, some we do not,” Audre Lorde wrote in an essay addressed to white feminists in 1984. “You fear your children will grow up to join the patriarchy and testify against you, we fear our children will be dragged from a car and shot down in the street, and you will turn your backs upon the reasons they are dying.”

Rose acknowledges this issue: “Solidarity among mothers, across class and ethnic boundaries, is not something Western cultures seem in any hurry to promote.” But so many of these books (almost all of them are by white, middle-class women) seem wary of, if not outright disinterested in, more deeply engaging with how race and class inflect the experience of motherhood. Thrillers and horror, the genres that serve as our cultural unconscious, are left to pick up the slack; “mom thrillers” so often hinge on the anxieties of child care and racial privilege.

These omissions are especially troubling because the rift between mothers is only growing. The fastest growing pay gap is between black women and white women. And research shows that regardless of class, black mothers and babies are more than twice as likely to die than their white counterparts — a gulf that has grown since slavery, and which researchers attribute to the lifelong stresses of enduring racism.

“Look at me,” the author of every new book on motherhood asks us. We should — and how could we not? Each testimony is valuable. But it’s with a strange pleasure that the reader will realize that so many of the taboos these writers hope to shatter — about the ambivalence of motherhood, for example — are, by now, familiar. The real work, the daring work, might be for these mothers to look at each other.Is Noma serving sea horse and starfish?

Both are decorative items in the collage, like the polished rocks, although the test kitchen gave ground starfish the old college try. “We did not enjoy it,” Mr. Redzepi said, emphatically. Instead cooks paint a starfish on the plate with a pearlescent sauce of egg yolks and pumpkin-seed oil and cover it with wild Danish trout roe. Studded with tiny flecks of dried fermented plum, it is wonderful to eat, although you could see trompe l’oeil plating as a small betrayal of the all-natural ethos that animates most of Noma’s cooking.

What is the black-and-white shell, the size of a soapdish, in the bottom-left corner of the collage?

A horse mussel. Horse mussels are almost never eaten, not even by horses. After throwing away the nondelicious parts, which Mr. Redzepi estimates at roughly two-thirds to three-quarters of the animal, Noma’s cooks stew the rest with chanterelles they preserved in oil last year. It tastes meaty, a bit like lamb, or at least more like lamb than anything else on the menu, and its flavor is considerably perked up by some tart foraged mirabelle plums, salted and dried before the winter.

Photo

Should I start eating horse mussels?

If you can get them the way Noma cooks them, sure.

Are regular blue mussels not on the menu?

They are, and they must be among the best mussels on earth. Four or five of their stout bellies have been joined together after being separated from the stringier bits, which are ground up in a smoked butter sauce that is insanely good.

Photo

Does the all-seafood menu get monotonous?

Not for a minute. At around two hours, the meal skates along briskly and pulls a greater variety of flavors out of the Nordic waters than another restaurant would get by importing seafood from around the world.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How do all these courses get to my table?

Mr. Redzepi will bring one or two, stopping to chat about, say, snails and starfish. Others will be brought by cooks. You will probably be served by Lars Korby, who helps herd the wine collection; James Spreadbury, a kindly Australian who manages the restaurant; Mette Soberg, who as head of Noma’s research and development department works out the first drafts of many dishes. There is no discernible hierarchy in the service staff, although Mr. Redzepi is obviously the boss.

Photo

What happened to the famous fermentation laboratory?

The laboratory and its director, David Zilber, used to work out of a shipping container outside the old restaurant. Now both have moved indoors, and have been given a walk-in refrigerator stacked with various garums and “peaso,” a relative of miso made with yellow peas. Something fermented turns up in every course on the current menu, including the esoteric juices — saffron and Arctic thyme is a typical example — that can be had in place of a wine pairing. The restaurant’s work with fermentation is so extensive that it fills a book, “The Noma Guide to Fermentation,” by Mr. Zilber and Mr. Redzepi, to be published this year.

I neither know nor care how fermentation works. Will I still appreciate the food?

If you can enjoy wine or cheese without understanding their metabolic underpinnings, you will be fine. But when you are eating something at Noma that tastes like much more than the sum of its parts, when you realize that few of the restaurant’s many imitators load as much depth and complexity into their cooking, when you start to lose your bearings and can’t quite figure out what is happening, it can be helpful to recall that just out of sight is an entire room full of special sauce.

Photo

Does fermentation make everything at Noma taste great?

You may reach an answer in the negative if you drink the green liquid of plankton and raw pumpkin-seed milk thinned with yogurt whey. And then you may find yourself reflecting that to explore the boundaries of deliciousness it is sometimes necessary to go beyond them.

Will I avoid plankton if I get the wine pairing?

Not necessarily. One current dessert is a plankton mousse under a toasted-milk crumble. It does not taste weird at all. Neither do the two desserts made with kelp, but none of them is as likable over the short term (and probably the long term, too) as the icy cloudberry soup with snowdrifts of frozen yogurt and tiny candied pine cones, as chewy as jelly beans.

All these small portions look as if they’d been put on the plate by a team of synchronized hummingbirds. Will I get enough to eat?

Just before the finale of desserts, when you may be second-guessing Mr. Redzepi’s decision not to serve any bread with this menu, something close to perfect happens. It is a dish called “head of the cod.” It is not an entire head, but the meatiest chunks on sharp blades of bone that have been as carefully trimmed as any Frenched rack of lamb. The fish has been brushed with seaweed and mushroom glazes reminiscent of soy and miso and then grilled, something like the way yellowtail collar is cooked in an izakaya. There are four cuts and three garnishes, so you have the option of, say, dipping the cheek in horseradish oil and dredging the tongue in a tart pesto made from ground Danish wood ants. The fish is soft, extravagantly rich, and by the time you have found the last shred of flesh you are ready for something sweet.

Photo

What is Noma all about?

The cod-head dish sums it up. Noma’s strategy in all things is to get rid of any received notions of luxury in restaurants and replace them with something seen as more humble (pottery spun on a wheel instead of Bernardaud porcelain), eccentric (natural wines rather than blue-chip Bordeaux), overlooked (horse mussels instead of no horse mussels), or undervalued (cod heads for lobster). Mr. Redzepi and his colleagues have rebuilt the template of high-end, destination dining piece by piece with stuff that has been thought about, considered and chosen for a reason. Sometimes the cook or dining-room worker bringing the food to your table tells you the reason, but even when you’re not told, you can still sense that everything has a purpose. That’s what Noma is about as a business serving food. As an aesthetic project, it is also about questioning received hierarchies of value. The stray plant in your backyard or window box is a weed only if you pull it out. Let it grow and it could be a wildflower, or a tasty addition to tonight’s salad.

How much does it cost?

About $375 for lunch or dinner without drinks, paid in advance when you reserve on the restaurant’s website. Wine pairings cost about $166 and the slate of juices runs about $133. Each night four students, randomly chosen from a waiting list, are seated and charged about $165 a person, including wine or juice pairings.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Isn’t $375 a lot of money?

Yes. Noma is redefining luxury, not abolishing it.

Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.In 2017, the Macks entered into a partnership with the Utah restaurant development company Four Foods Group to standardize their business operations and grow the brand nationally. (Four Foods says it holds a 50.1 percent stake in the chain.)

Andrew and Shauna Smith, the group’s founders, said they were impressed by the economics of the restaurant. “You get so much food for your money, but the food cost is lower than average in the industry,” Mr. Smith said. There are also not many Hawaiian restaurants in Utah to compete with Mo’ Bettahs.

The plan is to open six more Utah locations starting this summer, with a branch in Idaho — which also has a large Mormon population — to follow next year. After that, Mo’ Bettahs plans to expand to states like Nevada and Missouri, in cities where housing costs are low and incomes are high.

Four Foods has gotten Mo’ Bettahs onto Instagram and Twitter, and expanded its presence on Facebook, which the Mack brothers had all but stopped using once they realized their fellow Mormons provided a much more powerful social platform.

“We’ve got this network of people from all over the world just because of the connectivity of the church,” Kimo said. “They have become our customers, our business partners, our insurance guys, our graphic design team.”

It helps that the teriyaki steak inspires devotion, too.

“This food is the next big thing,” said Mr. Vernon. “It’s going to be better than Chipotle and Panda Express.”

Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.But the tax cut is having its biggest impact with small craft distillers, most of which turn out less than 100,000 gallons a year and struggle to compete with larger companies. And it is evidence of their growing political clout as distilling becomes a significant source of jobs and tax revenue in every state.

Photo

The backing for the move attested to that geographical and political reach. By the time the amendment — introduced by a bipartisan group of lawmakers from Minnesota, Missouri, Oregon and Wisconsin — was adopted in a final version by Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, it had collected 304 co-sponsors in the House and 56 in the Senate.

“This is a tremendous change from where we were in the past, fighting tax increases,” said Frank Coleman, a senior vice president of the Distilled Spirits Council, a trade association representing American producers and marketers. “Up until recently, the efforts on taxes at the federal level were entirely defensive.”

The victory was not achieved without a great deal of legwork. Dozens of distillers joined in a multiyear effort to win over Congress members to the idea. The Distilled Spirits Council estimated it organized thousands of visits to the Hill.

“We encouraged our members small and large to invite their local officials at all levels of government to take a tour,” Mr. Coleman said. “Many have done so, in the process learning about how spirits are made, how they fit into the agricultural economy.”

In two visits to Washington, Christian Krogstad, the founder of House Spirits, spoke with several lawmakers during appointments and what he called “drop-ins.”

“I was surprised by how accessible senators and congressmen are,” he said.

The bill brings federal taxes on spirits into line with those for the wine and beer businesses, which won similar reductions. To achieve that, the three industries — normally rivals — combined their lobbying forces.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“This was an unprecedented collaboration by spirits, wine and beer producers,” said Mark Gorman, a senior vice president of the Distilled Spirits Council.

Photo

In response, New York Distilling Company, in Brooklyn, has done something just as unusual: lowering prices.

Allen Katz, a founder, wanted to get Perry’s Tot, its “Navy strength” gin, into more bars and consumers’ homes. The tax cut allowed him to reduce the wholesale price, per bottle, to $18 from $29. With by-the-case discounts, the wholesale price drops further, to $14, and some merchants have cut retail prices to as low as $23.

“I would say the reaction from our industry peers has been jaw-dropping,” Mr. Katz said. “ ‘You’re offering it at what price?’ ” In March, sales of Perry’s Tot doubled. (The company has also hired its first full-time salesman.)

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The excise-tax break for spirits is set to expire after two years. Because it may not be renewed, few distillers have gone so far as to lower prices. “I think that’s reckless,” Mr. Winters said. “If the tax break goes away, than the price break goes away.”

Mr. Katz doesn’t see it that way. “The driving force will be increased sales,” he said, “and from that revenue, we will further invest in equipment and other aspects in our business.”

There is a chance, however, that the break will be made permanent. In May, the lobbying campaign will begin anew, with distillers flooding Capitol Hill once more.

“We’re going to go to D.C. to show them all the good stuff we’re doing,” said Paul Hletko, the founder of Few Spirits.

Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Gail Bichler, design director: “In this week’s cover story on Janelle Monáe, Jenna Wortham describes how the singer, who long performed under an alter ego, now wants to express herself more authentically. So we decided to show Monáe emerging from a pink fog — as if she’s stepping forward, finally becoming clear.”

Read the cover story, “How Janelle Monáe Found Her Voice.”When I asked Cespedes about the Mets batting order, he mentioned Stanton and Bryant. Then he said, “I will hit wherever the manager asks me to.” After 10 games this season, Cespedes had three home runs and 10 runs batted in while hitting second. The Mets, as it happened, won nine of those games. That represented the best start in the 57-year history of the franchise.

As long as baseball has been played, managers have tried to use information to predict the future. Earl Weaver, who won four pennants with the Baltimore Orioles between 1968 and 1986, tracked how his hitters fared against every opposing pitcher. He used the results to help decide when to employ a pinch-hitter or rest a starter. Tony LaRussa, who began a 33-year managerial career in 1979, kept charts that recorded where batters hit each ball, enabling him to move a center fielder or a shortstop a few steps in one direction or another. He figured if a player did something often enough in a certain situation, there was reason to believe he would probably do it again.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those were rudimentary analytics. Mostly, the information that managers relied on came from spending time in a dugout, one inning after the next, for 30, 40, even 50 years. “When you watch baseball, you see something new every day,” Pete Rose once told me when he was managing the Cincinnati Reds. “And I’ve been watching baseball for a lot of days.”

Over the past decade, the information available to managers has grown significantly. Much of it comes in the form of computer printouts. Every club now employs a squadron of analysts, at the cost of millions of dollars, which basically makes those years of accumulated baseball smarts a lot less valuable. So it’s understandable that executives spending all that money would want managers adept at receiving that kind of input and passing it along to his players. “The past few years, you’ve seen managers weeded out of this game,” Brian Cashman, who runs the Yankees, told me recently. “They weren’t willing to embrace the information that was providing better decision-making. Those guys died off like dinosaurs. The days of ownership, general managers and front-office personnel turning over their entire operation to a manager to run a 25-man roster for six months? Those days are over.”

Last October, the Houston Astros, probably the team that relies most on gathering and interpreting data, won the World Series by beating the Los Angeles Dodgers, who rely on it nearly as much. By the time the off-season began, five managers who had combined for 8,946 games of experience over 58 seasons were let go. The casualties included Joe Girardi, who guided the Yankees to within a game of the World Series. The Boston Red Sox and Washington Nationals won their divisions, yet their managers lost their jobs. Collins was two seasons removed from winning the National League pennant with the Mets in 2015, but that didn’t matter either. And if anyone needed more evidence that the value of managerial intuition was plummeting, none of the men hired to replace them had managed a single day in the majors. Three of the five, Callaway, the Yankees’ Aaron Boone and Washington’s Dave Martinez, hadn’t managed at any level, from Little League to the high minors.

In December, at baseball’s annual winter meetings, each of the novice managers — the others are Philadelphia’s Gabe Kapler and Boston’s Alex Cora — sat before an arc of digital recorders in a ballroom of an Orlando hotel for question after question about analytics and their applications. It was as though the reporters were interviewing currency traders. But an aptitude for analytics isn’t what distinguishes these managers from their predecessors, all of whom were at least conversant in the latest metrics, and it no longer differentiates the various franchises. Everyone generates pretty much the same numbers these days, making it clear enough when to shift the third baseman into short right field for a left-handed hitter, or how much each pitcher’s effectiveness diminishes the third time through a lineup. Many decisions that managers previously made by instinct, from filling out lineup cards to choosing relievers, are now worked out at 10 in the morning, if not the previous week, in an office that probably doesn’t even have a view of the field.

These days it’s the back end of the process that matters, the translating of those decisions into wins through some combination of teaching, coaxing and encouraging. “The information you have might be terrific information,” Callaway explained when we discussed his approach. “But no matter how good it is, if they’re not going to buy into it and have confidence that it will help them? You might as well throw it out the window.”

Callaway pitched in the majors for parts of five seasons, compiling a bloated 6.27 earned run average that made it clear why he didn’t pitch longer. His struggles made him receptive to anything that might lengthen his career, including stints in both Taiwan and Korea. “I didn’t make $50 million,” he says. “I wasn’t the best pitcher in the world. Maybe if I had been, I would have a different view. Maybe I would say: ‘I’m not going to listen to that. I don’t need new information. I’m going to do what I want.’ ”

For the past five years, he worked as the Cleveland Indians’ pitching coach. During his tenure, he gained a reputation as an uncanny communicator. “His ability to connect with people stood out right away,” says Derek Falvey, who supervised Callaway from various executive positions in Cleveland and is now the chief baseball officer of the Minnesota Twins. “When you hear him talk,” the Indians pitcher Josh Tomlin says, “you buy into it.” But Falvey isn’t only referring to conversations with players. Callaway also was skilled at receiving and assimilating information that came from above, even if it was provided by someone who hadn’t ever played the game. That set him apart from the previous generation of managers, many of whom still divide the world into baseball people and everyone else. “He didn’t have the ego that said, ‘I can handle this,’ ” Falvey says. “He’d say: ‘That guy has something that can really help our pitching staff. How can I understand and embrace what he’s telling me and then translate that to a player?’ ”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In Callaway’s second season in Cleveland, the previously obscure Corey Kluber, who accumulated just 13 wins in the majors through age 27, won the Cy Young Award. Two years ago, the Indians reached the World Series, though two of their starting pitchers were out with injuries. Last year, they won 22 straight games and led the league with a 3.30 E.R.A. “After that,” says Terry Francona, the Indians’ manager, “we knew we were going to lose him to somebody.”

The Yankees, Mets, Red Sox, Nationals and Phillies all sought the same kind of manager. It’s hardly surprising that each compiled a similar list of candidates. “I had five calls asking me to interview,” Cora, who got along well with both players and management as the Astros’ bench coach last year, told me. “I couldn’t even get to all of them.” In an effort to find different names, the Mets’ general manger, Sandy Alderson, a former Marine with a Harvard Law degree who has been a G.M. on and off since the 1980s, even called baseball writers for their suggestions. He eventually asked six prospective hires to have preliminary discussions. He envisioned a two- or three-tier process, a series of interviews that would winnow down the candidates until a clear choice emerged.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To prepare, Callaway wrote a 7,000-word manifesto outlining his managerial vision. “Collaboration and communication,” he stressed, “will be the biggest key to our success.” As manager, he promised, he would utilize every possible resource, “whether it be a coach ... with 40 years’ experience or an analytics intern that we just hired out of college.” He would nurture relationships with players, but he rejected the traditional notion of the “player’s manager.” “I will always be good about having the front office’s back when it comes to players,” he wrote. He listed books that he recently read, including Carol Dweck’s “Mindset,” which preaches the doctrine of dedication triumphing over innate talent. The manifesto was not something that Earl Weaver or Pete Rose could have written.The diversity — there are sizable numbers of Hispanic, Filipino and Orthodox Jewish residents — has also been a welcoming feature. “For us, this feels like home in the sense that it’s similar to Queens,” Ms. Suero said. “Our children continue to learn about their Hispanic culture, and others. We were at the St. Patrick’s Day parade, and it was great to see the whole community, whether Irish or not, come down to support it.”

Jonathan Schick, recently arrived from Dallas, has found Bergenfield comfortable and “unassuming,” a place where he can walk around the track at the high school and meet a client for coffee at a diner that has been in business for 50 years.

Mr. Schick, 50, a consultant for nonprofit organizations, and his wife, Marla, 47, who works for a social service agency in New York, relocated to Ms. Schick’s native Bergen County for family reasons and for Jewish schooling opportunities for the youngest of their five children. Choosing Bergenfield over other towns with an Orthodox Jewish presence, they paid $715,000 for a five-bedroom, three-bath colonial in 2015.

Photo

“My impression is there’s a sense of safety here, of families living the American dream, trying to make good lives for themselves,” Mr. Schick said. “You don’t have to join the Rotary or some other club. You can feel like you’re part of the town just by moving in.”

What You’ll Find

Untouched by highways, Bergenfield shares borders with Tenafly to the east, New Milford to the west, Dumont to the north and Teaneck to the south. Running like spines through the three-square-mile borough are the commercial drag of Washington Avenue and railroad tracks. CSX freight trains and their blaring horns are a fact of life for the 27,500 residents, as is the standstill traffic at grade crossings.

“The trains come through at least 10 times a day — but you tune them out,” said Ms. Suero, the Queens transplant, who lives seven blocks from the tracks.

Older colonials and postwar Capes and split-levels are the predominant housing types. Larger properties and lots are found in the areas bordering the Knickerbocker Country Club’s golf course, partially in Tenafly. In recent years, hundreds of houses have been enlarged or replaced by new construction, particularly in the southwestern part of the borough, home to the growing Orthodox Jewish community, which adjoins part of Teaneck’s much larger Orthodox community.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Boroughwide, “A lot of developers and investors have come in and bought up houses in the last 24 months,” said Michelle Wasserlauf, an agent with Links Residential in Teaneck. “Most of the houses are being expanded; few builders are tearing down to the studs. This tells me there is room for growth in Bergenfield.”

Dumont 1/2 mile Cooper’s Pond NEW JERSEY New Milford W. MAIN ST. S. WASHINGTON AVE. Bergenfield Knickerbocker Country Club VAN VALKENBURGH AVE. S. PROSPECT AVE. BERGEN COUNTY VETERANS MEMORIAL park Tenafly N.Y. PA. W. ENGLEWOOD AVE. BERGEN Teaneck Bergenfield New York City NEW JERSEY TEANECK RD.

What You’ll Pay

A budget in the low $300,000s fetches a basic single-family house on a 50-by-100-foot lot. Buyers with budgets topping $700,000 also will find inventory, mostly newer construction.

Prices have been on the rise. From July 1, 2017, to March 31, 2018, 156 single-family houses sold at a median price of $373,000, up from $331,000 — a 12.7 percent increase — during the same period a year earlier, according to the New Jersey Multiple Listing Service.

On April 19, the listing service website showed 59 properties, nearly all single-family. Typical of the lower end were seven Cape Cods ranging from $299,900 to 349,900, all with property taxes of $8,000 to $10,000. At the high end, listed at $1,349,000, was a seven-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bath, custom-built colonial on Van Valkenburgh Avenue, with property taxes of $28,546.

The Vibe

Washington Avenue is the pulse of Bergenfield, and what the narrow thoroughfare lacks in polish — fast food and used-car lots are part of the mix — it makes up for in mom-and-pop charm. There are businesses of a sort seen less and less, or hardly at all: camera shop, independent hardware store, needlepoint store, ballroom dance studio, marzipan maker, cinema with retro marquee.

The dining scene is eclectic. Lechon, the traditional roasted suckling pig, is available at multiple Filipino spots; shepherd’s pie and fish and chips are among the standbys at Tommy Fox’s Public House, an Irish pub; and matzo ball soup flows at a kosher delicatessen two doors down from the jerk chicken at a Jamaican takeout.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

With more than 100 restaurants, most of them on Washington, the business improvement district recently introduced a food crawl featuring $5 menu items, one of a number of efforts to build pedestrian traffic in the downtown area.

“We’re trying to create an environment where people can come with their children to shop and eat and enjoy themselves,” said Stuart Z. Koperweis, executive director of the Bergenfield District Alliance. “This is a very walkable town.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Schools

The five public elementary schools range in enrollment from 215 to 440. Roy W. Brown Middle School, on South Washington Avenue, has 800 students in grades 6 to 8, and Bergenfield High School, on South Prospect Avenue, enrolls 1,200.

Last year, the high school made the Washington Post’s list of “America’s Most Challenging High Schools” and was ranked among U.S. News & World Report’s “Best High Schools.” For 2016-17, mean SAT scores were 537 in reading and writing and 538 in math, versus 551 and 552 statewide. Seventy-four percent of the class of 2017 went on to college, versus 71.1 percent statewide.

The Commute

New Jersey Transit buses stop on Washington Avenue en route to Midtown Manhattan’s Port Authority terminal; the ride takes 40 minutes to an hour and costs $6 one way, or $167 monthly. A popular option is the 177X bus, which operates as an express between the Teaneck Armory, at the Bergenfield-Teaneck border, and the Port Authority. Bergenfield does not have passenger rail service.

The History

Originally the farming village of Schraalenburgh, Bergenfield owes its name to indecision. When the West Shore Railroad came through in the 1880s, the citizenry could not agree on what to call the passenger depot. “North Schraalenburgh” was spoken for in what is now Dumont, and “South Schraalenburgh” was deemed a mouthful.

Settling matters, the railroad issued a die-stamp for tickets reading “Bergen Fields.” Soon after, the post office combined the words and dropped the “s.” The borough of Bergenfield was incorporated in 1894.A STONE HOUSE ON THE CÔTE D’AZUR



$3.6 MILLION (2.95 MILLION EUROS)

This four-bedroom, four-and-a-half-bathroom home, which dates to the 16th century, is near the village of Plascassier, in the rolling hills of the French Riviera. Beyond tall gates, a gravel path leads through an olive grove to the tile-roofed, stone manor house with traditional wooden shutters framing the windows.

The olive trees on this 1.2-acre property grow enough fruit for a local olive mill to harvest it and produce the oil, said Fredrik Lilloe, chief executive of Knight Frank French Riviera, which has the listing. The homeowner keeps the virgin press, and the second press goes to the mill, to make olive oil for the public.

The property also has cypress and citrus trees, a koi pond, a greenhouse and a one-bedroom guesthouse with a conservatory, a shower room and separate commode. A 65-foot-long swimming pool is framed by a low stone wall, with a taller stone wall separating it from a Jacuzzi. West-facing gardens offer views of sunsets and the town of Grasse in the distance.

With the use of a massive antique cast-iron key, the large olive-wood front door of the 2,800-square-foot main house opens into an entry hall, with a powder room and cloakroom. Beyond is a sitting room with a fireplace flanked by tall windows. Terra-cotta tile floors and beamed ceilings run throughout the ground level.TAXES $8,433 (2017)

CONTACT Martha Gundersen, Brown Harris Stevens, 631-405-8436; outeast.com

•

Photo

Altadena, Calif.

WHAT A 1930s Tudor-style home with four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms

HOW MUCH $2.539 million

SIZE 3,492 square feet

PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $727

SETTING The home is in a historic area once occupied by large estates and still known for its spacious, tree-filled properties. The Altadena Town and Country Club is across the street, and downtown Los Angeles about half an hour away.

INDOORS Bought by an investor last year, the home was thoroughly remodeled, with updated mechanical systems, an enlarged kitchen, a reconfigured master suite and a new backyard mahogany-wood deck. Many original features were preserved, including the oak hardwood floors, most doors and windows, and a brick chimney that rises some 20 feet to the top of the living room’s beamed, vaulted ceiling and is marked with a coat of arms.

The new kitchen was created by merging the original kitchen, breakfast room, laundry room and butler’s pantry. It has custom cabinets and Carrara marble countertops, and flows into a family room that connects to the dining room. Glass doors open to the backyard patio. Behind the kitchen is a bedroom with a three-quarter bathroom. The main floor also has a study and a powder room.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Upstairs, the master bedroom has a dressing room and enlarged bathroom, created with space borrowed from an adjacent room. Two additional bedrooms — one with French doors opening to a balcony overlooking a sycamore tree — share a bathroom. There is also a laundry room.

OUTDOOR SPACE The .34-acre property is gated and has a circular driveway newly surfaced with decomposed granite. The porte cochère next to the attached two-car garage could be used as a sheltered seating area. The multilevel backyard deck includes an outdoor kitchen.

TAXES $18,875 (estimated)

CONTACT Crystal Heatherly, Deasy/Penner, 323-363-9310; deasypenner.com

•

Photo

Savannah, Ga.

WHAT A historic house with five bedrooms and five and a half bathrooms

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

HOW MUCH $2.5million

SIZE 6,000 square feet

PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $417

SETTING Completed in 1871 for Judge John Williamson, who was then the city treasurer, the house is in Savannah’s downtown historic district, across the street from Forsyth Park, a 30-acre green space with a distinctive fountain. Unlike many of its gray-brick neighbors, it has a stucco exterior, scored to look like prominent New England brownstone.

INDOORS A restoration preserved the hardwood floors, fireplace mantels and decorative molding. Three connecting parlors run the length of the home: a front room with a gilded-frame pier mirror and marble fireplace; a middle room, used as a dining room, with another marble fireplace; and a back room that serves as a family room. The two front rooms have walkout windows that were designed to skirt 19th-century taxes on doors.

The all-white kitchen was renovated this year. It has a breakfast bar and an adjacent breakfast room leading to a brick patio. (There is also a wet bar in the hallway as you approach the kitchen from the foyer.)

Upstairs, the master bedroom has a triple-window bay and enough room to create a sitting area; there is also an en-suite bathroom. Two additional bedrooms share a hallway bathroom.

A renovated walk-up attic has two bedrooms, a bathroom and a kitchenette.

On the garden level, there are two one-bedroom apartments, each with a bathroom, kitchen and private entrance, which have been used as vacation rentals, bringing in about $65,000 a year.

OUTDOOR SPACE The property has a lush front garden with a fountain, as well as a side veranda. The backyard is fenced and has a brick patio. The current owners built the attached two-car garage to match the house. It is next to a covered parking area with room for two additional vehicles.

TAXES $10,546 (2017)

CONTACT Richard Mopper, Engel & Völkers Savannah, 912-238-0874; evusa.comFortune 500 chief executives who are women Fortune 500 chief executives named John The number of chief executives named John — a group that is overwhelmingly white — is very similar to the number of female executives. There are even more Jameses.

In the corridors of American power, it can be as easy to find a man named John as it is to find a woman.

Fewer Republican senators are women than men named John — despite the fact that Johns represent 3.3 percent of the male population, while women represent 50.8 percent of the total population. Fewer Democratic governors are women than men named John. And fewer women directed the top-grossing 100 films last year than men named Michael and James combined.

These comparisons come from our updated and expanded Glass Ceiling Index, in which we counted the women and men in important leadership roles in American life — including politics, law, business, tech, academia, film and media.

Of the groups of leaders we examined, chief executives and directors of last year’s top-grossing films have the lowest rates of women. Top venture capitalists and House Republicans were next, followed by groups of politicians from both parties: Republican senators and governors, and Democratic governors.

There are fewer

women among ... ...than there are

men named: Chief executives of Fortune 500 companies 5% James 5% Directors of the 100 top-grossing movies of 2017 7% James and Michael 8% Venture capital investors in the largest tech deals of the last 5 years 9% David , James and Peter 11% Republican representatives 9% David , John and Robert 12% Republican senators 12% John 14% Republican governors 12% Doug , Eric and Phil 18% Democratic governors 13% John 19% Cabinet members 21% Daniel , David , James and John 25% Presidents of private colleges 21% David , James , John , Richard , Robert , Thomas and William 23% Editors of the largest newspapers by circulation 24% Chris , Dan , David , Frank , James , Joel and Mike 26% Federal judges 27% David , James , John , Joseph , Michael , Paul , Richard , Robert , Thomas and William 27% Democratic representatives 31% Adam , Adriano , Alan , Albert , Charles , Charlie , Collin , Connor , Daniel , Danny , Darren , David , Donald , Henry , James , Jared , Jerrold , John , Joseph , Mark , Michael , Mike , Peter , Richard , Robert , Ruben and William 32% Supreme Court justices 33% Anthony , Clarence , John and Neil 44% Democratic senators 35% Benjamin , Brian , Charles , Chris , Christopher , Cory , Doug , Edward , Gary , Jack , Jeff , John , Joseph , Richard and Robert 38% MacArthur ‘genius’ fellows of 2017 38% Damon , Dawoud , Derek , Emmanuel , Gabriel , Greg , Jason , Rami , Stefan and Sunil 42% There are more women than men among the editors of the largest magazines by circulation. Name frequency among men in 2010 Some common name variants are condensed; Democratic senators includes independent senators who caucus with Democrats. We excluded three currently vacant House seats from our analysis. Some films listed more than one person as their director.

Of the 24 MacArthur Foundation “genius” grant winners this year, nine were women, and none of the men were named John. That group, chosen by a committee for its creativity, diversity of thought and “promise for important future advances,” was more diverse than other groups in many ways, and that was reflected in the group’s gender ratio and the names of its men. The only category we examined in which more than half of leaders were women — about 52 percent — was editors of the top 50 magazines by circulation. This may be because many of the most popular magazines are about fashion and lifestyle, and cater to women.

Our index was inspired by a 2015 report by Ernst & Young, which found that women made up 16 percent of board members of companies on the S.&P. 1500, less than the share of board seats held by men named John, Robert, James and William. That number has improved slightly: 19 percent of board members are now women, according to updated numbers from Ernst & Young. (The company has not updated its count of board members with particular names.)

The Upshot first published the Glass Ceiling Index three years ago. Justin Wolfers, an economist and an Upshot contributor, looked at various categories and calculated the ratio of women to men who had four of the most common male names. Since then, the proportion of women at the top hasn’t improved much.

How representation has changed among the groups we counted in 2015

Pct. women, 2015 and 2018 2018 2015 Dem. senators Supreme Court justices Dem. representatives Cabinet members Corporate board members Rep. senators Rep. representatives 35% 33% (no change) 31% 20% 19% 12% (no change) 9% (no change) 10% 20 30 Pct. women, 2015 and 2018 In 2018 In 2015 Dem. senators Supreme Court justices Dem. representatives Cabinet members Corporate board members Rep. senators Rep. representatives 30% 33% 26% 16% 35% 33% (no change) 31% 20% 19% 12% (no change) 9% (no change) 5% 10 15 20 25 30 35

This time, we examined the question a little differently: How many male names, starting with the most common names in each group, does it take to outnumber all women? In some cases — among Republican senators, Democratic governors or the chief executives of Fortune 500 companies, for example — the men named John were enough to reach parity or come close. In several other institutions, it took only two male names to overtake the women.

Our lists of names come from different organizations. Most are current, but a few have time lags based on when data was collected.

The prevalence of men in power with particular names is revealing not only of skewed gender representation, but also of the whiteness of many institutions of American politics, culture and education. White men continue to dominate many categories of leadership in America, as our Times colleagues showed in an analysis in 2016.

Women earn more college degrees than men and increasingly work in occupations that used to be male-dominated, and yet their progress to positions of power has been slowed or stalled. There are many reasons for this, researchers say. Women are more likely to take breaks from their careers to raise children. Men at the top are more likely to mentor and promote people like themselves.

Women also face double standards: People in power need to be assertive and ambitious, but women are often criticized for acting that way.

One of the biggest reasons women are so outnumbered at the top, studies show, is discrimination.About two-thirds of smokers will die early from cigarette-based illnesses. Cigarettes are also very addictive. Because of this, it seems reasonable to place warnings on their labels.

If a Los Angeles Superior Court judge has his way, California businesses will have to put similar warnings on something else that can be addictive, coffee. His ruling, which is being challenged by coffee producers, is harder to justify in terms of health — if it can be justified at all.

California’s Proposition 65, enacted in 1986, mandates that businesses with more than 10 employees warn consumers if their products contain one of many chemicals that the state has ruled as carcinogenic. One of these chemicals is acrylamide. Like many other substances, acrylamide causes cancer in rats — when they are pumped full of huge doses in ways that don’t approximate real life.

In humans, the data are far less clear. The American Cancer Society (which does not shrink from saying things cause cancer) reports on its website that “there are currently no cancer types for which there is clearly an increased risk related to acrylamide intake.”In a strange way, that is kind of comforting for us Danes. We are not very likely to get killed at all, and in particular not by a random stranger. (Murderers and victims are usually related through either family or gangs.) Danish society is one of the world’s safest, most tranquil — some would say boring — societies, and when we are warned about dangerous city districts or about shoot-first-ask-questions-later-police officers, it’s always abroad.

In the days after Ms. Wall’s death, I asked female colleagues for their thoughts because I sensed many of them saw this as more than just another news story. Generally, there is no gender difference in how stories are perceived here. There are roughly as many women who are reporters, journalists, editors and international correspondents in Danish media as there are men, and they are at least as prominent. In asking them I found that Ms. Wall’s killing struck at the core of the sense of trust that is the fabric of our society.

“She was doing — brilliantly — exactly what we as women in our society have been taught that we can do. Which is anything a man can do, and better, if you’re smarter,” said Lotte Folke Kaarsholm, a TV anchor. Classic Scandinavian feminism, she explained, involves “a thinking that says that we’re actually all the same, we’re all equal, and the fact that you’re a woman should never stop you from becoming anything you want to become — such as, for instance, a fearless reporter.”

As the case unfolded I realized that the fearless female reporters around me took a hit from Ms. Wall’s death. They were used to keeping their guards up on assignments in more volatile, less egalitarian societies. But at home, in Scandinavia, they knew that they were safe and could enjoy high levels of trust even between strangers.

Peter Madsen’s world of snuff porn and premeditation revealed a new kind of danger. In the court’s verdict on Wednesday, the judges noted that Ms. Wall had walked into a trap set up for any random woman with the right amount of curiosity and trust. In the days before the murder, Mr. Madsen had searched online for images of mutilated women — and had also invited three other women to join him on his submarine. Among them were women who had randomly walked by the vessel and taken an interest in him and his projects. All three declined.

The fourth he asked, Ms. Wall, said yes in spite of being busy hosting a going-away party. She was moving to China a few days later, but she wanted the interview for a story. As the prosecutor said, in one of the most chilling remarks of the case: Her death could have been anyone’s.Once a book has been selected, the next task is finding a reviewer — and the editors of the Review take very seriously the mandate not to assign a review to anyone who has any personal affiliation with a book’s author. “You can disagree with a reviewer’s assessment, but you shouldn’t distrust it,” Ms. Paul said. “So, for that reason, conflict of interest and fact-checking are two of the most important things that we worry about here.”

If a book was written by a Times employee, that means The Times’s daily critics — Dwight Garner, Parul Sehgal and Jennifer Szalai, all of whom are full-time employees at the paper — cannot review it; nor can anyone from a directly competing news organization. Beyond that, Ms. Paul said, the editors apply the same standards they would to any other book. A reviewer cannot review a book by anyone with whom he or she shares an agent, publisher or editor; anyone the reviewer has blurbed, or been blurbed by; anyone, even, with whom the reviewer has shared a contentious moment on a panel or at a conference. Friends are out, as are enemies.

The ubiquity of social media has complicated these assessments. “If you’re following someone on Twitter or if you’re ‘Facebook friends,’ I think that we have all been disabused of the notion that that actually constitutes a friendship,” Ms. Paul said. Those relationships aren’t necessarily seen as a conflict of interest that would preclude a review.

Of course, the literary world is a small one — as are the fields represented by many of the books the Review covers. “In certain areas, everyone knows everyone,” Ms. Paul said, citing politics, science and even British literature. (“It’s an island nation,” she added.)

It can be difficult to find a reviewer who has never been in the same room as a book’s author; and on a case-by-case basis, some passing familiarity can be acceptable. A handshake at a party is fine; a sexual relationship — even years ago, as at least one prospective reviewer has tried to emphasize — is not.

In the case of “Chasing Hillary,” Ms. Chozick, the author, had never met Ms. Alter, the reviewer, who is a radio host and a national correspondent at Time magazine. In choosing her, Ms. Paul sought a reviewer who could “understand the political landscape but who would also be able to assess the book as a memoir,” she said.

Without exception, the reviewer must be able to answer “yes” to the question: “If need be, would you feel free to criticize the book?”

And criticize they do. Though it wasn’t the case this time, Times employees have received plenty of negative reviews in the past. The Books desk doesn’t edit opinions, nor does it kill and reassign a review if it comes back negative.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“There have been instances where writers, both in the newsroom and on the opinion side, have had very negative assessments in the Book Review,” Ms. Paul said. “You just hope that you don’t run into that person in the elevator.”When my wife, Jeanne, was pregnant with our first child, in 1987, we couldn’t fly to Texas for the delivery, but I did come up with a plan: Get some dirt to put under the delivery table. It might sound like a nutty idea, but it wasn’t a new one. I first heard of it during a study abroad program in Siena, Italy, in the 1970s.

The Sienese have fierce loyalty to their neighborhoods, or contrade. Since there was, historically, only one hospital, in one contrada, people from the others would bring some dirt from their own neighborhood into the delivery room for births.

That’s what led me to think about having the baby born on Texas soil, contrada style. I got dirt from various parts of the state, including my hometown, Galveston. A friend also sent some — he said he chipped a piece off the Alamo, too, but I don’t believe him. The resulting mixture fit into a baggie.

When I asked the doctor about bringing it into the hospital, she was, luckily enough, charmed. She’s Italian. She said it would be fine so long as it was in a sterile container and under the delivery table.

Unfortunately, that baby, Elizabeth, was born without the benefit of the dirt, because she was delivered in an emergency procedure and I was stuck in traffic trying to get to the hospital. The dirt was the least of our worries. (She’s fine. She’s 30 now, with a daughter of her own. Who was born in Texas!)He left Lyft in 2014 and joined Uber as vice president of growth that same year. Lyft sued him for breaching a confidentiality agreement and fiduciary duty. The litigation was eventually settled.

Of his time at Uber, which has since been exposed as having had a growth-at-all-costs environment, Mr. VanderZanden said: “I learned some good things, and I learned some bad things.”

He left Uber in 2016 and moved to Southern California. Last year, he founded Bird to bring electric scooters, already popular in cities across China, to America. To date, Bird has raised $115 million from investors, including Craft Ventures and Index Ventures. Mr. VanderZanden now has a team of more than 100 people.

He likes wordplay. The scooters are called Birds. He calls a group of people riding on the scooters a flock. The areas where scooters are supposed to be generally kept are called nests. His mom’s name is Robin.

“We might have taken the birds too far,” Mr. VanderZanden said.

Bird initially rolled out its scooter-rental service in Santa Monica and now operates in seven cities. The company will not disclose how many scooters are in operation but said it has sent out 22,500 helmets to riders, as part of a compliance effort for cities that require riders to use helmets. Bird has also hit one million rides.

Mr. VanderZanden said greater Los Angeles, including Santa Monica, has been especially excited about Bird and that the area has become a transportation tech hub.“When are we going to know these six?” Adam Jonas of Morgan Stanley asked. “Because I asked you a pretty straightforward question. You’re alluding to the six in your slides. You’re clearly not willing to talk about them.” Then, with a tone of exasperation rarely heard in such calls, Mr. Jonas added, “That’s a problem, Jim.”

Photo

The slow rollout of a recovery plan has added a new layer to the challenges facing the No. 2 American automaker. It has trouble on several fronts: Operations in Europe, India, and South America are struggling; costs for key materials like aluminum and steel are rising; sales in China have stalled; and its model line is short on the new types of S.U.V.s and trucks that buyers are snapping up in the United States.

In a recent note to his clients, Mr. Jonas said investors were becoming skittish about Ford and saw General Motors and Fiat Chrysler as better bets, largely because of the uncertainty of how Mr. Hackett intends to fix the company. “Ford is seen as carrying unnecessarily high levels of risk and little transparency,” he wrote.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ford is due to report its first-quarter earnings on Wednesday and is expected to offer some new information about cost-cutting. But investors probably won’t see a full-blown turnaround plan until September, three people familiar with the matter said.

Senior executives are debating the elements of a comprehensive plan to streamline Ford’s internal operations and rebuild profitability in the company’s North American business, and job cuts cannot be ruled out, these people said. They said a key goal would be lifting North America’s profit margin to near 10 percent by 2019 or 2020. Last year, Ford North America’s margin was 8 percent, well short of the 10.7 percent that General Motors achieved.

Photo

Shrinking or selling unprofitable foreign operations could also be part of the new strategy, the three people said, and the company is also discussing whether to continue selling small and midsize cars in the domestic market. Ford currently loses money on the Fiesta, Focus and the Fusion sedan, they said.

Ford’s top executives expect to present the plan to the company’s directors at the board’s July meeting, these people said. The July gathering is typically when directors spend several days at Ford to give its business strategy a thorough review, and test-drive new models the company is preparing to introduce.

A Ford spokesman, Bradley Carroll, declined to comment on the board’s deliberations. But he added that “the entire company is intensely focused on improving the operational fitness of the business to deliver profitable growth with improved returns.”

Mr. Hackett, 63, has signaled that he is wary of rushing into a new strategy. “If you think too quickly, and you’re wrong,” he told reporters in March, “you get this joy of making it to market but then you’re always correcting.”

Photo

Just two years ago, Ford was cruising at high speed. Mr. Hackett’s predecessor, Mark Fields, guided the company to record earnings in 2015 — nearly $11 billion in pretax profit. Brimming with confidence, Mr. Fields approved several ambitious projects. He set off a hiring spree to stock up on software developers, engineers and other executives — talent that he believed Ford would need to compete as electric and self-driving cars reshape the auto industry.

Ford laid out a billion-dollar plan to remake its Dearborn, Mich., locations into a high-tech, Silicon Valley-like campus. The company invested in ride-sharing and other start-ups in a bid to turn itself into a “mobility” company. Mr. Fields and Ford’s chairman, William C. Ford Jr., called on a director — Mr. Hackett — to join the management ranks and run the mobility activities. It also introduced a $400,000 super sports car, the Ford GT.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But when Mr. Fields couldn’t move fast enough to head off slippage in Ford’s profits, the board dismissed him last May and handed the reins to Mr. Hackett, a former chief executive of Steelcase who is credited with turning around the office-furniture maker. And analysts question whether the vestiges of the Fields strategy will ever pay off.

The headquarters makeover might make Ford a more enticing place to work years down the road, but won’t generate the revenue growth the company needs now. The mobility businesses aren’t making money yet. And while the GT sports car turns heads, Ford is selling only 250 a year. “You have to ask the question: Is it really getting you showroom traffic?” said Brian Johnson of Barclays Capital.

Ford’s aluminum-bodied F-150 pickup truck, introduced in late 2014, has been a strong seller and a big generator of profits. But other parts of its core business have been sputtering. As American consumers gravitated away from cars and toward trucks, S.U.V.s and roomy but fuel-efficient S.U.V. cousins known as crossovers, Ford began losing money on cars and allowed its S.U.V. and crossover lineup to age. The current Explorer S.U.V. was introduced in 2010, and the Escape in 2012. Competing models from Toyota, Honda, G.M. and others have since been redesigned and feature newer technology.

“What they should have done is invest in the new crossovers in 2015 and 2016,” said David Whiston, an analyst at Morningstar. Crossovers, he noted, now make up a third of the American car market.

Ford also decided to drop its small pickup, the Ranger. But it is now scrambling to introduce a redesigned version of the Ranger after realizing it was losing sales of small pickups to competitors.

Mr. Hackett and his executive team have presented overviews of his vision for Ford on Wall Street and elsewhere on several occasions. At an event in March, they promised to introduce a slew of new S.U.V.s, including high-performance and off-road models. But his presentations haven’t generated much enthusiasm with investors. Ford’s stock is trading at about $11, slightly below where it stood a year ago.

Mr. Whiston said he was willing to wait for Mr. Hackett to present a comprehensive plan. But he added, “It is strange that it’s been almost a year and we don’t have any concrete details.”Herbert Diess, who was named chief executive of Volkswagen earlier this month, delivered a stern lecture to top managers last week, complaining that the company generates too many scandals and must become more ethical.

“Ethics, integrity and compliance are core for him as a necessary foundation for our future business,” Peik von Bestenbostel, Volkswagen’s vice president for global group communications, said in an email on Sunday in which he confirmed Mr. Diess’s remarks.

Mr. von Bestenbostel said that the objectives outlined in the report by Mr. Thompson are valid and “will help to change Volkswagen in the right direction.”

Mr. Diess replaced Matthias Müller, who had prevented a collapse in Volkswagen sales in the wake of the scandal but struggled to remove the cloud it cast over the company’s reputation. A former BMW executive, Mr. Diess began working at Volkswagen only a few months before the emissions cheating became public and is less tainted by it.

Mr. Diess is likely to be less restrained by personal connections to Volkswagen managers or other employees linked to the emissions wrongdoing. Mr. Müller spent his entire career at Volkswagen or its divisions and had worked closely with some of the people suspected of playing a leading role.

Photo

Despite promises to reform, Volkswagen remains dominated by longtime insiders, and there have been few visible legal or disciplinary consequences for people involved in the emissions cheating. Volkswagen did not keep a promise to publish an internal report on the causes of the scandal prepared by the Jones Day law firm.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As he tries to take a tougher approach, Mr. Diess is also likely to face resistance to change within the sprawling Volkswagen empire, which is famous for its insular, hierarchical corporate culture.

Mr. Thompson is one year into a three-year assignment that was part of Volkswagen’s guilty plea last year to United States Justice Department charges that included obstruction of justice and conspiracy to violate the Clean Air Act. Under the terms of the plea agreement, Volkswagen promised to take steps to prevent the same kind of thing from happening again.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Thompson’s job is to make sure that Volkswagen complies, and the report he submitted this month to the Justice Department is the first of three annual assessments.

Since being appointed the Volkswagen monitor in April 2017, Mr. Thompson has avoided the limelight but, as the report indicates, he has made his presence known at the company’s Wolfsburg headquarters. Though based in Atlanta, Mr. Thompson has an office in the same building as members of the management board and has made an effort to learn German.

Mr. Thompson has substantial leverage over the company. If he concluded that Volkswagen was violating the terms of the plea agreement, it could be voided and the company would land back in court.

Photo

Among other things, Mr. Thompson has been urging Volkswagen to create a more effective whistleblower system to allow employees to report suspected wrongdoing without endangering their careers. He has also been pressing the company to improve its systems for vetting vehicle software.

The emissions scandal occurred after a group of employees, including some who reported to top management, devised software that caused diesel engines to emit less nitrogen oxide pollution when the engine computer detected that the car was being tested.

The software was installed in 11 million cars over almost a decade, but as far as is known no employees reported its existence to the authorities until shortly before the company confessed in September 2015.

During a long career, Mr. Thompson has worked in both government and private industry, including stints as a federal prosecutor in Georgia and general counsel of PepsiCo. In 1991, Mr. Thompson advised Clarence Thomas in his battle to win nomination to the Supreme Court in the face of sexual harassment accusations.

Though Mr. Thompson is a Republican, he has been sharply critical of Donald Trump. He was among former high-ranking government officials who published a letter during the presidential campaign in 2016 that said that Mr. Trump “would be a dangerous president and would put at risk our country’s national security and well-being.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The letter also said that “Mr. Trump lacks the character, values, and experience to be president.”One of the earliest appearances of the muses was in a narrative poem called “Theogony” by the Greek poet Hesiod, who wrote around 700 B.C. that they were nine sisters born of Zeus and his lover Mnemosyne, or memory. Of them he wrote, “they plucked and gave me a rod, a shoot of sturdy laurel, a marvelous thing, and breathed into me a divine voice.” Homer invoked the muse for his epic poem (“Sing to me of the man, Muse”) as did Virgil. Over time, the muse became a less incantatory figure and more of a sexual one: The word is commonly used, for example, as a shorthand for the many wives and lovers Pablo Picasso captured in his work. With the rise of the model as celebrity in the latter half of the 20th century, the muse became more objectified. She could be the woman a fashion designer trusted to wear his clothes, both on and off the runway. Or she could be a figure of whom a world-famous photographer’s lens never tired. These women and their looks — from Misia Sert’s bohemian opulence at the turn of the last century to Twiggy’s sprightly boyishness in the 1960s — can be as much an expression of their times as their era’s music, literature or even politics.

In the early ’80s, model-muses became as famous as the artists they inspired, paving the way for the supers of the subsequent decade such as Naomi Campbell, Cindy Crawford and Kate Moss. Today, the industry’s commercial interests have transformed the role of the muse into something much more lucrative, but during the careers of models like Pat Cleveland and Alva Chinn, the relationship between model and designer was born more out of a sense of simpatico. Cleveland and Chinn were two of the first women of color to be photographed for mainstream fashion magazines and to walk the runways for major designers like Yves Saint Laurent and Karl Lagerfeld. Both, too, walked in the Battle of Versailles (a kind of fashion face-off between French and American designers in 1973) for the African-American designer Stephen Burrows, whose color-blocked, lettuce-edged dresses represented the free-spirited disco nights of the time. Cleveland said she’d often be given clothes “to go out dancing in the evening to see if they last through the night.”The diversity — there are sizable numbers of Hispanic, Filipino and Orthodox Jewish residents — has also been a welcoming feature. “For us, this feels like home in the sense that it’s similar to Queens,” Ms. Suero said. “Our children continue to learn about their Hispanic culture, and others. We were at the St. Patrick’s Day parade, and it was great to see the whole community, whether Irish or not, come down to support it.”

Jonathan Schick, recently arrived from Dallas, has found Bergenfield comfortable and “unassuming,” a place where he can walk around the track at the high school and meet a client for coffee at a diner that has been in business for 50 years.

Mr. Schick, 50, a consultant for nonprofit organizations, and his wife, Marla, 47, who works for a social service agency in New York, relocated to Ms. Schick’s native Bergen County for family reasons and for Jewish schooling opportunities for the youngest of their five children. Choosing Bergenfield over other towns with an Orthodox Jewish presence, they paid $715,000 for a five-bedroom, three-bath colonial in 2015.

Photo

“My impression is there’s a sense of safety here, of families living the American dream, trying to make good lives for themselves,” Mr. Schick said. “You don’t have to join the Rotary or some other club. You can feel like you’re part of the town just by moving in.”

What You’ll Find

Untouched by highways, Bergenfield shares borders with Tenafly to the east, New Milford to the west, Dumont to the north and Teaneck to the south. Running like spines through the three-square-mile borough are the commercial drag of Washington Avenue and railroad tracks. CSX freight trains and their blaring horns are a fact of life for the 27,500 residents, as is the standstill traffic at grade crossings.

“The trains come through at least 10 times a day — but you tune them out,” said Ms. Suero, the Queens transplant, who lives seven blocks from the tracks.

Older colonials and postwar Capes and split-levels are the predominant housing types. Larger properties and lots are found in the areas bordering the Knickerbocker Country Club’s golf course, partially in Tenafly. In recent years, hundreds of houses have been enlarged or replaced by new construction, particularly in the southwestern part of the borough, home to the growing Orthodox Jewish community, which adjoins part of Teaneck’s much larger Orthodox community.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Boroughwide, “A lot of developers and investors have come in and bought up houses in the last 24 months,” said Michelle Wasserlauf, an agent with Links Residential in Teaneck. “Most of the houses are being expanded; few builders are tearing down to the studs. This tells me there is room for growth in Bergenfield.”

Dumont 1/2 mile Cooper’s Pond NEW JERSEY New Milford W. MAIN ST. S. WASHINGTON AVE. Bergenfield Knickerbocker Country Club VAN VALKENBURGH AVE. S. PROSPECT AVE. BERGEN COUNTY VETERANS MEMORIAL park Tenafly N.Y. PA. W. ENGLEWOOD AVE. BERGEN Teaneck Bergenfield New York City NEW JERSEY TEANECK RD.

What You’ll Pay

A budget in the low $300,000s fetches a basic single-family house on a 50-by-100-foot lot. Buyers with budgets topping $700,000 also will find inventory, mostly newer construction.

Prices have been on the rise. From July 1, 2017, to March 31, 2018, 156 single-family houses sold at a median price of $373,000, up from $331,000 — a 12.7 percent increase — during the same period a year earlier, according to the New Jersey Multiple Listing Service.

On April 19, the listing service website showed 59 properties, nearly all single-family. Typical of the lower end were seven Cape Cods ranging from $299,900 to 349,900, all with property taxes of $8,000 to $10,000. At the high end, listed at $1,349,000, was a seven-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bath, custom-built colonial on Van Valkenburgh Avenue, with property taxes of $28,546.

The Vibe

Washington Avenue is the pulse of Bergenfield, and what the narrow thoroughfare lacks in polish — fast food and used-car lots are part of the mix — it makes up for in mom-and-pop charm. There are businesses of a sort seen less and less, or hardly at all: camera shop, independent hardware store, needlepoint store, ballroom dance studio, marzipan maker, cinema with retro marquee.

The dining scene is eclectic. Lechon, the traditional roasted suckling pig, is available at multiple Filipino spots; shepherd’s pie and fish and chips are among the standbys at Tommy Fox’s Public House, an Irish pub; and matzo ball soup flows at a kosher delicatessen two doors down from the jerk chicken at a Jamaican takeout.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Real Estate Newsletter Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

With more than 100 restaurants, most of them on Washington, the business improvement district recently introduced a food crawl featuring $5 menu items, one of a number of efforts to build pedestrian traffic in the downtown area.

“We’re trying to create an environment where people can come with their children to shop and eat and enjoy themselves,” said Stuart Z. Koperweis, executive director of the Bergenfield District Alliance. “This is a very walkable town.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Schools

The five public elementary schools range in enrollment from 215 to 440. Roy W. Brown Middle School, on South Washington Avenue, has 800 students in grades 6 to 8, and Bergenfield High School, on South Prospect Avenue, enrolls 1,200.

Last year, the high school made the Washington Post’s list of “America’s Most Challenging High Schools” and was ranked among U.S. News & World Report’s “Best High Schools.” For 2016-17, mean SAT scores were 537 in reading and writing and 538 in math, versus 551 and 552 statewide. Seventy-four percent of the class of 2017 went on to college, versus 71.1 percent statewide.

The Commute

New Jersey Transit buses stop on Washington Avenue en route to Midtown Manhattan’s Port Authority terminal; the ride takes 40 minutes to an hour and costs $6 one way, or $167 monthly. A popular option is the 177X bus, which operates as an express between the Teaneck Armory, at the Bergenfield-Teaneck border, and the Port Authority. Bergenfield does not have passenger rail service.

The History

Originally the farming village of Schraalenburgh, Bergenfield owes its name to indecision. When the West Shore Railroad came through in the 1880s, the citizenry could not agree on what to call the passenger depot. “North Schraalenburgh” was spoken for in what is now Dumont, and “South Schraalenburgh” was deemed a mouthful.

Settling matters, the railroad issued a die-stamp for tickets reading “Bergen Fields.” Soon after, the post office combined the words and dropped the “s.” The borough of Bergenfield was incorporated in 1894.