If you’re finishing up your income tax return at the last minute and frustrated by this annual ritual of busywork, you should know about a bill that Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced last spring that would make doing taxes vastly easier for Americans — and would strongly push back against the tax prep industry's attempts to keep taxes difficult.

The Tax Filing Simplification Act of 2017 would order the IRS to create a free online tax preparation and filing service comparable to TurboTax or other commercial programs. Moreover, it bans the agency from working with the tax prep companies, as it's been doing for years.

Currently, the IRS collaborates with tax software providers (mainly Intuit, which sells TurboTax) on what's called the Free File program. The program is supposed to provide free access to commercial software for low- and medium-income taxpayers. But because the eligibility rules are so complicated and the system is so poorly advertised, only 3 percent of taxpayers use it, and the National Taxpayer Advocate has repeatedly called for the program's abolition.

Warren's bill would kill the corrupt, feckless Free File program for good. But it goes further than that. Best of all, it establishes a new "return-free" filing option that would send millions of Americans with simple tax situations a pre-prepared tax return, which they can submit unchanged if they like. Warren isn't the first person to propose this. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) both have similar bills this Congress.

But it's a great idea that a number of other countries have already adopted, which would put billions more in the hands of the working poor and make tax filing a cinch for millions of families. And it already has a huge amount of Democratic support, with Sens. Shaheen, Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Tom Udall (D-NM), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Pat Leahy (D-VT), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) all on board.

We needlessly labor over tax returns every year

The actual work of doing your taxes mostly involves rifling through various IRS forms you get in the mail. There are W-2s listing your wages, 1099s showing miscellaneous income like from one-off gigs, etc. To fill out your 1040, you gather all these together and copy the numbers in them onto the 1040 form. The main advantage of TurboTax is that it can import these forms automatically and spare you this step.

But here's the thing about the forms: The IRS gets them too. When Vox Media sent me a W-2 telling me how much it paid me in 2017, it also sent an identical one to the IRS. When my bank sent me a 1099 telling me how much interest I earned on my savings account in 2017, it also sent one to the IRS. If I'm not itemizing deductions (like 70 percent of taxpayers), the IRS has all the information it needs to calculate my taxes, send me a filled-out return, and let me either send it in or do my taxes by hand if I prefer.

This isn't a purely hypothetical proposal. Countries like Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, Chile, and Spain already offer "pre-populated returns" to their citizens.

In a number of countries, like Japan and the UK, the vast majority of people don’t have to file tax returns at all, pre-populated or otherwise. Instead, through a system known as “precision withholding,” the government takes exactly the right amount out of every paycheck. If they find that a mistake was made — not accounting for a charitable donation or mortgage interest, for example — they find that mistake in charity and bank records, and they fix it for you. In journalist T.R. Reid’s great book A Fine Mess, he explains how the Japanese system works:

Japan’s equivalent of the IRS, Kokuzeicho, gathers all the pertinent data for each worker — income, taxable benefits, number of personal exemptions, tax withheld, and so on — and then computes how much the worker owes in tax, down to the last yen. Because Japan uses a system known as “precision withholding,” with the amount changing whenever pay goes up or down, most people withhold the exact amount due. In early March, Kokuzeicho sends a postcard to every citizen that sets forth all this information: how much you earned, how much tax you owe, how much tax you’ve already paid through withholding. If you’ve paid in more tax than you owe, Kokuzeicho deposits the refund amount in your bank account; if you did not withhold enough, the agency takes the tax that’s due from your bank account. … As a result, paying income tax is a totally automatic process for about 80 percent of Japanese households, requiring no more work than reading a postcard once a year.

Closer to home, California has a voluntary return-free filing program called ReadyReturn for its income taxes.

And there are serious plans, like Warren's, for adopting this idea nationwide. Austan Goolsbee, former chief economist for the Obama administration, designed a proposal called "The Simple Return" in 2006 that would provide pre-populated returns for everyone not itemizing their deductions. You could even conceivably extend it to many itemizers; mortgage lenders already send out 1098 tax forms listing interest paid over the year, and the IRS could mandate that charities do the same for tax-exempt contributions.

The Obama administration supports return-free filing, and Ronald Reagan touted the idea in a 1985 speech:

We envision a system where more than half of us would not even have to fill out a return. We call it the return-free system, and it would be totally voluntary. If you decided to participate, you would automatically receive your refund or a letter explaining any additional tax you owe. Should you disagree with this figure, you would be free to fill out your taxes using the regular form. We believe most Americans would go from the long form or the short form to no form.

The proposal would be particularly good for low-income Americans eligible for the earned income and child tax credits, which are both refundable and offer substantial benefits to low-income taxpayers who file. But because you have to file, compliance isn't perfect. Twenty percent of people eligible for the EITC don't get it, and a big fraction of returns contain errors, usually because of the complexity of the credit and due to errors by commercial tax preparers.

Automatic filing would provide EITC payments to many of that 20 percent not getting them, and would spare taxpayers from doing complex calculations that sometimes lead to errors.

The unholy alliance of Big Tax Prep and anti-tax conservatives

So why hasn't return-free filing happened yet? The short answer is lobbying, and in particular lobbying by companies like Intuit. In 2013, ProPublica's Liz Day wrote an incredible exposé on just how hard Intuit has lobbied to stop return-free filing from becoming a reality:

[In 2007] a bill to limit return-free filing was introduced by a pair of unlikely allies: Reps. Eric Cantor, R-Va., the conservative House majority leader, and Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., a liberal stalwart whose district includes Silicon Valley. Intuit's political committee and employees have contributed to both. Cantor and his leadership PAC have received $26,100 in the past five years from the company's PAC and employees. In the last two years, the Intuit PAC and employees donated $26,000 to Lofgren. …In 2005, California launched a pilot program called ReadyReturn. As it fought against the program over the next five years, Intuit spent more than $3 million on overall lobbying and political campaigns in the state, according to Dennis J. Ventry Jr., a professor at UC Davis School of Law who specializes in tax policy and legal ethics.

They haven't stopped; in 2014, Day reported that Intuit was involved with an astroturfing effort meant to manufacture the appearance of grassroots opposition to automatic filing. Intuit spent $13 million lobbying Congress from 2011 to 2015, with 41 lobbying reports relating to taxes in 2015 alone. Most of the reports reference lobbying to "enhance voluntary compliance" — a euphemism for opposing automatic filing.

In this, Intuit and other tax prep companies had a powerful ally: Grover Norquist. The anti-tax crusader vehemently opposes automatic filing on the grounds that it makes tax season insufficiently nightmarish, which might reduce people's aversion to taxes and make it easier for politicians to pass tax increases. So even though Ronald Reagan himself supported automatic filing, Norquist has helped make the idea dirt in the eyes of conservative legislators.

What you can do to fight the tax preparation industry

Warren's bill would start the US on the path to return-free filing. It's a great piece of legislation, and Congress would do well to pass it.

But in the meantime, what's a regular person hoping for return-free filing to do? Well, you could do what Joseph Bankman, the Stanford Law professor who helped design California's system, did and spend $30,000 out of pocket to hire a lobbyist to push the idea and counter Intuit's lobbying.

But for those of us without $30,000 to spare for the greater good, there's a less demanding option: Stop paying for TurboTax.

Now, if you have a relatively simple return without itemizations, I'm not going to argue that you shouldn't use TurboTax for free. It, like most tax software, includes a free option for simple returns or for households making under $62,000 a year. Using that is totally fine, as is using Free File Fillable Forms, a program offered by the tax prep companies in conjunction with the IRS that has a computerized version of the basic 1040 form. As long as you're not giving any of your money to a tax preparation company, it's all good.

But resist the urge to pay for anything. Don't pay for the state version. Don't pay for one allowing for itemized deductions. Don't pay for anything. Hell, don't pay for Intuit's other products like QuickBooks either if you can help it. Paying means putting money into Intuit's pocket, which it can then turn around and use to lobby to make your taxes more complicated.

A boycott might seem a bit paradoxical: If the case for automatic filing is that it's easier than doing your own taxes, isn't TurboTax also easier than doing your own taxes? And, sure, it is. But it costs money, and you should get that convenience for free. In the meantime, doing your own taxes is a hassle, but not so huge of a hassle to not be worth it as a way to punish Intuit and push for a better system.

Moreover, that better system will help people who aren't even filing taxes now, by making more of them aware of refundable credits. Even if a boycott isn't in your own immediate self-interest, it's worth doing to help them.

After years of using the paid version of TurboTax, I did my own taxes using Free File Fillable Forms for the first time last month. Yes, it was a bit annoying. But even though I itemize my deductions it only took a couple of hours, not much longer than TurboTax would. It's absolutely worth it.

If you have yet to file, don't pay TurboTax a cent. If enough of us get on board, we might finally get to enjoy the return-free world we deserve.

Here's how each presidential candidate's tax plan will impact your walletLate last week, the CEO of one of Citigroup, one of the country’s largest banks, laid out why the stock market and corporate America are just fine with President Donald Trump despite his volatile nature — because tax cuts outweigh Trump tweets.

Michael Corbat discussed the megabank’s first-quarter results in a call with analysts on Friday, explaining why he remains calm despite White House-generated uncertainty. “The volatility we see from morning tweets, or stances that vary from time to time — I wouldn’t say the world is numb or numbing to that, but the positive things that happen are overwhelmingly that,” he said.

In other words, despite concerns about a possible US-China trade war, Trump’s volatile reactions to special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, and the potential for escalating conflict in places such as Syria and North Korea, December’s Republican-passed tax cuts are keeping things peachy on Wall Street and in the C-suite.

According to the Wall Street Journal, Citibank’s effective tax rate — what it actually pays — dropped from 31 percent to 24 percent between the first quarter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2017. Wells Fargo’s rate went from 27 percent to 19 percent, and JPMorgan’s went from 22.7 percent to 18.3 percent. (The GOP tax bill cut the standard corporate rate from 35 percent to 21 percent — you’ll notice none of these companies were paying the higher rate before, either.) Bank profits are significantly higher this quarter than the same time last year thanks in large part to the tax bill.

Some of Trump’s antics, such as his trade threats and attacks on Amazon, have made investors a bit more nervous lately, but by and large the richest Americans and companies are happy. The broader US economy is strong, and they got what they wanted out of Trump and the GOP, which makes it easy to ignore the president’s wild Twitter activity.

The day Corbat made his statement, Trump called former FBI Director James Comey a “LEAKER & LIAR” and “untruthful slime ball” on Twitter, said “tremendous pressure is building” for his border wall, attacked former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, and said Russian collusion allegations are made up by a “den of thieves and lowlifes.” Citibank, on the other hand, reported a year-over-year profit increase of 24 percent.It's tax season again, and that means you're probably thinking about using TurboTax. You wouldn't be alone; Intuit, the company that sells TurboTax, claimed in 2016 that the app has 31 million users. Its competitors did pretty well for themselves too, with H&R Block preparing more than 23 million returns last cycle and millions more using TaxAct and TaxSlayer.

Let me be blunt: You should not pay for TurboTax. If you want to use a free version of TurboTax or H&R Block at Home or Credit Karma Tax or TaxAct, go nuts. But for the love of God, don't give Intuit money.

TurboTax is an evil, parasitic product that exists entirely because taxes are confusing and hard to file. Worse than that, Intuit is one of the loudest voices on Capitol Hill arguing against measures that make it easier to pay taxes. Years ago, the Obama administration proposed a system of automatic tax filing, in which the IRS uses income information it already has to fill out your tax return for you. That would save millions of Americans considerable time and energy every year, but the idea has gone nowhere. The main reason? Lobbying from Intuit and H&R Block.

Don't give Intuit money. Don't give H&R Block money. To do so is to perpetuate the status quo in which you have to file your own taxes in the first place. The best way to escape this trap is for millions of taxpayers to start doing their own taxes in hopes of weakening Intuit and H&R Block and depriving them of money they could use to lobby against auto-filing. This requires privileging your own long-term interests ahead of your short-term ones; it's mildly annoying to do your taxes by hand for now, but in the long run, if the plan works, you won't have to do your own taxes at all.

Why the government should just do your taxes for you

The actual work of doing your taxes mostly involves rifling through various IRS forms you get in the mail. There are W-2s listing your wages, 1099s showing miscellaneous income like from one-off gigs, etc. To fill out your 1040, you gather all these together and copy the numbers in them onto the 1040 form. The main advantage of TurboTax is that it can import these forms automatically and spare you this step.

But here's the thing about the forms: The IRS gets them too. When Vox Media sent me a W-2 telling me how much it paid me in 2017, it also sent an identical one to the IRS. When my bank sent me a 1099 telling me how much interest I earned on my savings account in 2017, it also sent one to the IRS. If I'm not itemizing deductions (like 70 percent of taxpayers), the IRS has all the information it needs to calculate my taxes, send me a filled-out return, and let me either send it in or do my taxes by hand if I prefer.

This isn't a purely hypothetical proposal. Countries like Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, Chile, and Spain already offer "pre-populated returns" to their citizens. The United Kingdom, Germany, and Japan have exact enough tax withholding procedures that most people don't have to file income tax returns at all, whether pre-populated or not. California has a voluntary return-free filing program called ReadyReturn for its income taxes.

And there are serious plans for adopting this idea nationwide. Austan Goolsbee, former chief economist for the Obama administration, designed a proposal called "The Simple Return" in 2006 that would provide pre-populated returns for everyone not itemizing their deductions. You could even conceivably extend it to many itemizers; mortgage lenders already send out 1098 tax forms listing interest paid over the year, and the IRS could mandate that charities do the same for tax-exempt contributions.

The Obama administration supported return-free filing, and Ronald Reagan touted the idea in a 1985 speech:

We envision a system where more than half of us would not even have to fill out a return. We call it the return-free system, and it would be totally voluntary. If you decided to participate, you would automatically receive your refund or a letter explaining any additional tax you owe. Should you disagree with this figure, you would be free to fill out your taxes using the regular form. We believe most Americans would go from the long form or the short form to no form.

The proposal would be particularly good for low-income Americans eligible for the earned income and child tax credits, which are both refundable and offer substantial benefits to low-income taxpayers who file. But because you have to file, compliance isn't perfect. Twenty percent of people eligible for the EITC don't get it, and a big fraction of returns contain errors, usually because of the complexity of the credit and due to errors by commercial tax preparers. Automatic filing would provide EITC payments to many of that 20 percent not getting them, and would spare taxpayers from doing complex calculations that sometimes lead to errors.

The unholy alliance of Big Tax Prep and anti-tax conservatives

So why hasn't return-free filing happened yet? The short answer is lobbying, and in particular lobbying by companies like Intuit. In 2013, ProPublica's Liz Day wrote an incredible exposé on just how hard Intuit has lobbied to stop return-free filing from becoming a reality:

[In 2007] a bill to limit return-free filing was introduced by a pair of unlikely allies: Reps. Eric Cantor, R-Va., the conservative House majority leader, and Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., a liberal stalwart whose district includes Silicon Valley. Intuit's political committee and employees have contributed to both. Cantor and his leadership PAC have received $26,100 in the past five years from the company's PAC and employees. In the last two years, the Intuit PAC and employees donated $26,000 to Lofgren. …In 2005, California launched a pilot program called ReadyReturn. As it fought against the program over the next five years, Intuit spent more than $3 million on overall lobbying and political campaigns in the state, according to Dennis J. Ventry Jr., a professor at UC Davis School of Law who specializes in tax policy and legal ethics.

They haven't stopped; in 2014, Day reported that Intuit was involved with an astroturfing effort meant to manufacture the appearance of grassroots opposition to automatic filing. Intuit spent $13 million lobbying Congress from 2011 to 2015, with 41 lobbying reports relating to taxes in 2015 alone. Most of the reports reference lobbying to "enhance voluntary compliance" — a euphemism for opposing automatic filing.

In this, Intuit and other tax prep companies had a powerful ally: Grover Norquist. The anti-tax crusader vehemently opposes automatic filing on the grounds that it makes tax season insufficiently nightmarish, which might reduce people's aversion to taxes and make it easier for politicians to pass tax increases. So even though Ronald Reagan himself supported automatic filing, Norquist has helped make the idea dirt in the eyes of conservative legislators.

The solution: Boycott TurboTax

So what's a regular person hoping for return-free filing to do? Well, you could do what Joseph Bankman, the Stanford Law professor who helped design California's system, did and spend $30,000 out of pocket to hire a lobbyist to push the idea and counter Intuit's lobbying.

But for those of us without $30k to spare for the greater good, there's a less demanding option: Stop paying for TurboTax.

Now, if you have a relatively simple return without itemizations, I'm not going to argue that you shouldn't use TurboTax for free. It, like most tax software, includes a free option for simple returns, or for households making under $62,000 a year. Using that is totally fine, as is using Free File Fillable Forms, a program offered by the tax prep companies in conjunction with the IRS that has a computerized version of the basic 1040 form. As long as you're not giving any of your money to a tax preparation company, it's all good.

But resist the urge to pay for anything. Don't pay for the state version. Don't pay for one allowing for itemized deductions. Don't pay for anything. Hell, don't pay for Intuit's other products like QuickBooks either if you can help it. Paying means putting money into Intuit's pocket, which it can then turn around and use to lobby to make your taxes more complicated.

A boycott might seem a bit paradoxical: If the case for automatic filing is that it's easier than doing your own taxes, isn't TurboTax also easier than doing your own taxes? And, sure, it is. But it costs money, and you should get that convenience for free. In the meantime, doing your own taxes is a hassle, but not so huge of a hassle to not be worth it as a way to punish Intuit and push for a better system.

Moreover, that better system will help people who aren't even filing taxes now, by making more of them aware of refundable credits. Even if a boycott isn't in your own immediate self-interest, it's worth doing to help them.

After years of using the paid version of TurboTax, I did my own taxes using Free File Fillable Forms for the first time in 2016. Yes, it was a bit annoying. But even though I itemize my deductions it only took a couple of hours, not much longer than TurboTax would. My 2017 tax situation was more complicated, as I moved between states and started renting out my old condo, so I hired a great accountant who doesn’t lobby the federal government to make taxes worse. It's absolutely worth it.

If you have yet to file, don't pay TurboTax a cent. If enough of us get on board, we might finally get to enjoy the return-free world we deserve.Did Trump lawyer Michael Cohen secretly visit Prague to meet with Russians in 2016? The future of Donald Trump’s presidency could hinge on whether the answer to that question is yes.

That’s because the claim that such a meeting happened is one of the most specific claims in Christopher Steele’s dossier alleging collusion between the Trump team and Russia to influence the 2016 election — and because, since the very first day that dossier was publicly released, Cohen has adamantly denied taking any such trip, and Trump’s team has relied on that denial to dispute the dossier’s accuracy. “I have never been to Prague in my life. #fakenews,” Cohen tweeted on January 10, 2017, hours after the dossier was posted.

Yet a new report from McClatchy’s Peter Stone and Greg Gordon claims that special counsel Robert Mueller has evidence that Cohen did, in fact, enter Prague through Germany at the height of the 2016 campaign, in “August or early September.”

The McClatchy report is based on anonymous sources, and we don’t yet know what the purported evidence is. It could still prove to be mistaken. Cohen himself reiterated his denial again Saturday morning, telling CNN, “No, I have never been to Prague,” and sending this tweet rebutting the story:

Bad reporting, bad information and bad story by same reporter Peter Stone @McClatchyDC. No matter how many times or ways they write it, I have never been to Prague. I was in LA with my son. Proven! https://t.co/ra7nwjUA0X — Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) April 14, 2018

If the McClatchy report was accurate, it would utterly devastate one of the Trump team’s leading arguments that there was no Trump-Russia collusion. That’s because, to be blunt, there is no reason for Cohen to try to debunk the Steele dossier by lying and saying that he didn’t visit Prague at all if he actually did, unless he was trying to cover up extremely serious wrongdoing that happened during that visit.

If Cohen did in fact visit Prague in 2016, but for innocuous reasons that Steele’s sources twisted, he could have just said that at the time. Instead, he vociferously denied that he went to Prague at all. If that was false, there would be no reason for him to take that tack — unless he was trying to cover up something very serious and hoping to get away with it. (However, we should note again that the McClatchy report remains unconfirmed by other outlets at this point.)

What the Steele dossier alleged about Michael Cohen visiting Prague

The Steele dossier, you will remember, was a months-long research project in which former MI6 agent Christopher Steele dug into Donald Trump’s connections to Russia. Steele was paid by the firm Fusion GPS, which was paid by a lawyer for the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee.

The dossier, as publicly released, is a series of 17 reports written over six months, based on a plethora of sources, that allege deep and corrupt ties between Trump and Russian officials.

Cohen emerges as a major character in the final set of reports. In one dated October 19, 2016, Steele wrote (emphasis added):

Speaking in confidence to a longstanding compatriot friend in mid-October 2016, a Kremlin insider highlighted the importance of Republican presidential candidate Donald TRUMP’s lawyer, Michael COHEN, in the ongoing secret liaison relationship between the New York tycoon’s campaign and the Russian leadership. COHEN’s role had grown following the departure of Paul MANNAFORT [sic] as TRUMP’s campaign manager in August 2016. Prior to that MANNAFORT had led for the Trump side. According to the Kremlin insider, COHEN now was heavily engaged in a cover up and damage limitation operation in the attempt to prevent the full details of TRUMP’s relationship with Russia being exposed. In pursuit of this aim, COHEN had met secretly with several Russian Presidential Administration (PA) Legal Department officials in an EU country in August 2016. The immediate issues had been to contain further scandals involving MANNAFORT’s commercial and political role in Russia/Ukraine and to limit the damage arising from exposure of former TRUMP foreign policy advisor, Carter PAGE’s secret meetings with Russian leadership figures in Moscow the previous month. The overall objective had been “to sweep it all under the carpet and make sure no connections could be fully established or proven.”

Then in a report dated the next day, October 20, Steele gave more specifics. He said Cohen’s “clandestine meeting” with Russian officials was in Prague, and mentioned a Russian NGO, Rossotrudnichestvo, as a potential host for the meeting.

The final report in the published Steele dossier, dated December 13 (after Trump was elected president), reiterated the claim of a Cohen/Prague meeting — now saying it happened in August or September 2016 — and gave many more supposed specifics (emphasis added):

COHEN had been accompanied to Prague by 3 colleagues and the timing of the visit was either in the last week of August or the first week of September. One of their main Russian interlocutors was Oleg SOLODUKHIN operating under Rossotrudnichestvo cover. According to [redacted], the agenda comprised questions on how deniable cash payments were to be made to hackers who had worked in Europe under Kremlin direction against the CLINTON campaign and various contingencies for covering up these operations and Moscow’s secret liaison with the TRUMP team more generally.

The report claims that Cohen discussed how to destroy evidence of this purported hacking operation in the event of a Clinton victory.

These are, of course, highly inflammatory claims that a Trump Organization executive and lawyer was collaborating closely with Russian government officials regarding paying hackers who had worked against the Clinton campaign in some way. But for 15 months after the dossier’s publication, no evidence emerged that this had actually taken place.

Cohen immediately tried to use the “Prague visit” claim to debunk the dossier

On January 10, 2017 — 10 days before Donald Trump’s inauguration — CNN reported that Trump had been briefed on the claims of the Steele dossier, and BuzzFeed News subsequently published the dossier itself.

Some time went by without any comment from Trump’s teams on the shocking allegations. And then Michael Cohen spoke up:

I have never been to Prague in my life. #fakenews pic.twitter.com/CMil9Rha3D — Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) January 11, 2017

Immediately, many observed it was strange that Cohen attempted to debunk the dossier by tweeting a picture of the cover of his passport, rather than its interior. Additionally, since Prague is in the European Union’s Schengen Area, which allows passport-free travel between countries, he could theoretically have gotten an initial entry stamp from any EU country, not just the Czech Republic. It’s also possible for one person to have multiple passports.

But the claim that Cohen visited Prague was a very specific one that showed up in a few different dossier reports. If it in fact was wrong, it would discredit the dossier as a whole (though there are many different sources quoted in the dossier, and even if many are accurate, it’s possible that others are wrong). Most importantly, Cohen deliberately chose to make a denial that he visited Prague his main argument in disputing the dossier.

A few months later, in May 2017, Cohen decided to share more. BuzzFeed News asked to see the inside of his passport, so he showed it to Anthony Cormier, a reporter for the site. The provided passport revealed just one trip inside the Schengen Area — to Italy, in July, which doesn’t quite match the timeline laid out in the dossier. Cohen claimed to them that this was his only passport. And for several months afterward, that is where things remained.

Now, the new McClatchy report by Stone and Gordon claims Mueller has evidence that Cohen “secretly made a late-summer trip to Prague.” They write that, per their anonymous sources, “investigators have traced evidence that Cohen entered the Czech Republic through Germany, apparently during August or early September of 2016, as the ex-spy reported.”

If Stone and Gordon are right, it of course wouldn’t tell us what Cohen actually did in Prague. Yet it would raise enormous questions about why he would have lied so brazenly about the trip, and made that lie the centerpiece of the Trump team’s efforts to discredit the Steele dossier. It’s very difficult indeed to think of an innocent explanation for why Cohen — whose office was raided by the FBI this week — would have done so.

Another possibility, though, is that Cohen’s denial of a Prague visit is in fact technically correct, but misleading in some respect — after all, his denials have been very specific to the city of Prague itself, which would seem to leave open the possibility of a similar meeting to the one alleged that took place in some other nearby city or town.

Finally, it’s also possible that Cohen is on the level here, and both Steele’s dossier and the new McClatchy report are just flat-out wrong. Suffice to say, though, we haven’t heard the last of this topic.Less than 24 hours after ordering missile strikes in Syria, President Donald Trump declared, “Mission Accomplished!” in a tweet on Saturday.

The reaction was swift: Twitter users and political pundits immediately drew parallels with President George W. Bush’s now-infamous 2003 speech just over a month into the Iraq war, in which he announced an end to “major combat operations” in Iraq under a “Mission Accomplished” banner. In actuality, the war was far from over, and would stretch on for years.

The missile strike that Trump was referring to occurred on Friday night. In an announcement, Trump said the attack was underway in retaliation for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s alleged use of chemical weapons on rebel-held areas of the country. The attacks left at least 42 adults and children dead. The United States, Britain, and France hit three targets in the country, including the capital of Damascus, in what Defense Secretary Jim Mattis called a “one-time shot.”

President Trump, who has publicly telegraphed his thinking on Syria on Twitter in recent days, took to the platform to take a victory lap after the bombing.

“A perfectly executed strike last night,” he wrote. “Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!”

A perfectly executed strike last night. Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 14, 2018

The Pentagon backed Trump’s assertion. “We met our objectives. We hit the sites, the heart of the chemical weapons program. So it was mission accomplished,” spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement to ABC News.

Bush thought it was “mission accomplished” in Iraq in 2003. It was not.

In May 2003, President Bush delivered a speech from the flight deck of the USS Lincoln, saying that the United States and its allies had prevailed in Iraq. He appeared under a banner reading, “Mission Accomplished,” but never used that exact phrase in the address. “The war on terror is not over, yet it is not endless,” Bush said. “We do not know the day of final victory but we have seen the turning of the tide.”

Eight years later, President Barack Obama withdrew the last US combat troops from Iraq in December 2011. But unrest in Iraq continues: Obama sent troops back to the country to fight ISIS in 2014.

According to the website Iraq Body Count, the conflict resulted in around 200,000 civilian deaths, and some estimates say the death count is actually closer to half a million. Thousands of American troops died as well. Bush’s preemptive “mission accomplished” speech would haunt his presidency.

When Trump used the phrase in his recent tweet, people immediately responded with criticism.

I didn’t think I could be shocked by a tweet anymore but “mission accomplished” was so surprising I had to double check that it was not a spoof. — Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) April 14, 2018

The term "mission accomplished" was ultimately damaging for Pres. George W Bush but apparently not a concern for Pres. Trump https://t.co/CXwBIqWTE4 — Kelly O'Donnell (@KellyO) April 14, 2018

Friday’s strike marks the second time that the United States has waded into Syria’s seven-year conflict in response to a chemical weapons attack. In April 2017, Trump ordered a strike on Syria after Assad’s forces killed more than 80 people with chemical weapons.

It’s not entirely clear what the United States’ mission in Syria is at the present time, and analysts have warned about the risk of escalation. Russia, which backs the Assad regime, warned that Friday’s bombing raid “will not be met without consequences.” And chemical attacks in Syria almost certainly won’t stop — Assad’s forces have launched more than 200 of them since the start of the war there.

Regardless, Trump may want to take a cue from history and avoid repeating Bush’s mistakes — and not declare victory before it’s clear what’s coming next.Federal authorities reportedly seized recordings, among other evidence, from Donald Trump’s longtime personal lawyer Michael Cohen in a recent raid, according to a new report from CNN. Among those recordings: conversations between Cohen and an attorney for two women who both received hush money to hide their alleged affairs with Donald Trump.

CNN’s Gloria Borger, Sara Sidner, and Scott Glover report that Cohen recorded his conversations with attorney Keith Davidson, who represented porn actress Stormy Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal, both of whom received money to stay silent about their alleged encounters with Trump. Cohen paid Daniels $130,000 before the election, and he allegedly helped coordinate a $150,000 payment to McDougal from American Media Inc., the publisher of the National Enquirer.

The Justice Department said Friday that Cohen is part of a criminal investigation. Federal authorities did not specify exactly what they’re investigating, but reports after his hotel, office, and home were raided suggest authorities are looking at potential bank fraud, wire fraud, and campaign finance violations. It was previously reported that the FBI took information related to Cohen’s payment to Daniels, but this is the first indication that there may be recordings related to the nondisclosure agreements with Daniels and McDougal.

The FBI also reportedly seized a slew of other materials in the Cohen raid, including material from his cellphones, tablet, laptop, and a safe deposit box, reports the New York Times.

The raid on Cohen, Trump’s longtime personal attorney and fixer, has rattled the president; any investigation into Cohen pulls the FBI directly into Trump’s inner circle. According to the Times, Trump called Cohen on Friday to “check in,” which is probably not wise for a president to do when it involves an associate under federal investigation — especially if that president’s associate has a habit of recording conversations.President Donald Trump’s administration may be moving away from its war on marijuana.

In January, Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded an Obama-era memo that effectively protected states that had legalized marijuana from federal intervention. Since marijuana remains illegal at the federal level for any purpose, the Obama memo signaled to states that they could proceed with reforms without the constant threat of the feds raiding state-legal businesses. Sessions’s move, however, revived the possibility of federal intervention, telling prosecutors that they could crack down on marijuana even if it’s legal under state law.

On Friday, however, Trump indicated that he’s not interested in a new war on pot. According to Seung Min Kim at the Washington Post, Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO), whose state was the first to allow recreational marijuana sales, said that Trump had told him Sessions’s move would not affect Colorado’s marijuana industry — and in fact indicated that he would support a law to allow state legalization experiments to continue.

“Late Wednesday, I received a commitment from the President that the Department of Justice’s rescission of the Cole memo will not impact Colorado’s legal marijuana industry,” Gardner said. “Furthermore, President Trump has assured me that he will support a federalism-based legislative solution to fix this states’ rights issue once and for all.”

White House officials confirmed Gardner’s comments are accurate, the Post reported.

Gardner had previously threatened to block Justice Department nominations until he got these kinds of assurances from the Trump administration. With the White House’s shift, he’s now dropping the threat.

Nobody knows if Trump can be trusted

A big open question: It’s unclear how the Justice Department and the federal prosecutors it oversees will react to the deal. Since marijuana remains totally illegal under federal law, prosecutors and other federal law enforcement officials could still pursue cases against marijuana shops and cultivators — although they’d now have to do it despite opposition from the White House.

So far, Justice Department officials have declined to comment — raising real questions about whether the Trump-Gardner deal will hold up in reality.

DOJ hasn't confirmed Trump/Gardner deal to change stance on pot.



Before we say this is a real thing:



Does deal involve DOJ, and if so, what did DOJ agree to? If the deal does not involve DOJ, what value does it have? How can Trump change what DOJ does on enforcement actions? — Dominic Holden (@dominicholden) April 13, 2018

It’s not unusual for Trump to make promises that he doesn’t or can’t keep. For one, he said on the campaign trail that he would like to leave marijuana legalization to the states — but once he was in office, Sessions rescinded the Obama-era memo even though it did exactly what Trump promised.

This has led to some skeptical responses to the Trump-Gardner deal.

After reports of the deal, for instance, Washington state Attorney General Bob Ferguson released a cautious statement: “I understand President Trump has offered his support for states to have the right to regulate marijuana and for legislation to enshrine this right in law. I am cautiously optimistic that the president appears to have heard the will of the people on this issue. But this president has demonstrated a willingness to go back on his word. Until there is a formal agreement protecting Washington’s well-regulated marijuana industry, I will continue to stand ready to defend it.”

Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) echoed the sentiment, tweeting, “Commitments mean little from President Trump. The only way to truly protect states that have legalized marijuana is for Congress to act.”

The war on marijuana always risked a political backlash

If the Trump administration does ultimately back down, the biggest reason may be that its anti-marijuana efforts were always politically risky.

For one, Sessions’s policy allowed federal law enforcement to go against the will of the voters. Eight of the nine states that have legalized marijuana so far have done so through ballot initiatives with voter support. The federal government would be effectively rejecting those votes by going after legal pot in those states — and voters could take offense to that.

More broadly, marijuana legalization is fairly popular at the national level. Gallup’s latest survey in 2017 found that 64 percent of US adults back legalization, up from 36 percent more than a decade before. Gallup even found that a majority of Republicans now support legalization. (One caveat: Anti-legalization advocates argue that if surveys offered options between decriminalization, medical legalization, and recreational legalization, voters would be much less likely to say that they back full legalization.)

So a crackdown on legal marijuana stands in contrast to public opinion, including that of a majority of Republicans.

This kind of polling empowered a political backlash to the rescission of the Obama-era memo. So Democratic lawmakers like Booker and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) pushed against the move, but Republican legislators like Gardner and Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) did too.

That backlash seems to have been enough to get Trump to commit, at least verbally, to allowing marijuana legalization to continue at the state level. The question is what happens next.

For more on marijuana legalization, read Vox’s explainer.On Friday, April 13, President Donald Trump pardoned I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney who was convicted of multiple felonies, including perjury, lying to the FBI, and obstruction of justice, in 2007.

The pardon is alarming on several levels. It’s a direct reward to a veteran of the immediate previous Republican administration, a veteran who served alongside a number of Trump’s top staffers (notably National Security Adviser John Bolton).

It could also be an attempt to intimidate Trump’s ex-staffers and push them to not flip. As Marcy Wheeler, a journalist who has covered the Libby case more extensively than any other, reminds us, Libby’s case was notable largely because he stayed loyal to the administration and did not flip and incriminate any other staffers or officials. “The audience here is Paul Manafort, Michael Cohen, and a slew of other people who can incriminate Trump,” Wheeler writes.

The pardon could also be meant as a shot against James Comey, who is releasing a tell-all book attacking Trump and who appointed Patrick Fitzgerald, the special prosecutor who brought Libby to justice. All three of these motives would be incredibly inappropriate.

But here’s the thing: The presidential pardon power is basically unlimited. It can be used to obstruct justice, yes, and in that case, Congress would have the power to impeach and/or remove Trump if it so chooses. But it cannot undo Trump’s pardons, or limit them in any way, once they’ve been granted.

The same goes for any pardons Trump could issue for former aides like Paul Manafort. He could pardon any indicted aides after they’re convicted, as a reward for loyalty, or he could pardon them now before any trial. He could even deliver a blanket pardon for Jared Kushner, Michael Cohen, Donald Trump Jr., and any other people he worries could be charged in the future but have not been yet.

This is not just hypothetical. Former Trump lawyer John Dowd reportedly floated the option of pardons to attorneys for both Manafort and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn last year. (Such a deal appears not to have occurred with Flynn, who cut a deal with prosecutors in December.)

“He can definitely pardon people who haven’t been charged yet,” Brian Kalt, a law professor at Michigan State University and author of Constitutional Cliffhangers: A Legal Guide for Presidents and Their Enemies, told me last July. “And, contrary to a common misconception, it doesn’t require as a legal matter that he say they are guilty.”

By eliminating whatever advantage his staffers and family members would gain through cooperation with Mueller, Trump would protect himself and other aides against incrimination. But he would also deny the people he pardons the ability to invoke the Fifth Amendment, which allows possible future defendants to decline to answer questions under oath that they feel might incriminate them. Because they would be immune from prosecution, they by definition couldn’t incriminate themselves and thus couldn’t plead the Fifth. They would have to testify if subpoenaed.

That said, they could always lie, and if proven to be lying and charged with perjury — well, Trump could just pardon them again. It would be a grotesque abuse of power, but it would be completely legal.

There is one important limit to Trump’s powers, however. Mueller has also reportedly been cooperating with New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. Should any Trump loyalists face state-level charges, they could not be pardoned by President Trump, offering one possible avenue through which Mueller can target aides without running afoul of the pardon power.

Presidential pardoning powers are vast

The Supreme Court actually ruled on this matter in the 1866 case of Ex parte Garland. That decision concerned a law Congress passed disbarring former members of the Confederate government, which was challenged by former Confederate Sen. Augustus Hill Garland. President Andrew Johnson had pardoned Garland, and Garland argued that this shielded him from disbarment under the law. The Supreme Court agreed, and in doing so clarified that the pardon power is basically unlimited and can be applied to any crime, whether the pardoned person has been charged or not.

“By the second section of the second article of the Constitution, power is given to the President ‘to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment,’” Justice Stephen Field wrote. “With that exception the power is unlimited. It extends to every offence, and is intended to relieve the party who may have committed it or who may be charged with its commission, from all the punishments of every description that the law, at the time of the pardon, imposes.”

Presidents have since taken advantage of this latitude. Ford’s pardon of Nixon occurred before Nixon could be charged with anything, so he gave Nixon a sweeping pardon covering every federal offense during his presidency:

Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford, President of the United States, pursuant to the pardon power conferred upon me by Article II, Section 2, of the Constitution, have granted and by these presents do grant a full, free, and absolute pardon unto Richard Nixon for all offenses against the United States which he, Richard Nixon, has committed or may have committed or taken part in during the period from January 20, 1969 through August 9, 1974.

Trump could, similarly, offer any number of his aides “a full, free, and absolute pardon … for all offenses against the United States … [they] committed or may have committed or taken part in during the period from January 1, 2016 through July 21, 2017,” or earlier or later, as he sees fit.

This might cause problems for Trump himself, however. Just as selling pardons would run afoul of the bribery statute, University of Chicago’s Daniel Hemel and Eric Posner argue that using the pardon power to obstruct the Russia investigation could constitute obstruction of justice. “In Trump’s case, the question would be whether he was acting out of the goodness of his heart, or covering up for his family, his associates and himself,” Hemel and Posner write.

Eleven legal experts contacted by Vox’s Sean Illing agreed. “While the pardon power is quite broad under the Constitution, that does not mean that exercises of the pardon power — or promises to grant pardons — cannot be obstructive,” Lisa Kern Griffin of Duke said. “Like any other lawful act, such as terminating executive branch employees, a pardon could be unlawful if done with the corrupt intent to impede an investigation or influence a witness.”

That being said, because most observers believe the president cannot be indicted while in office (and certainly not by federal prosecutors for obstructing a federal investigation), the question of whether the pardons constitute obstruction of justice mostly matters inasmuch as it changes House and Senate leadership’s attitudes toward impeachment. If it is indeed obstruction but House Speaker Paul Ryan and most Republicans disagree, it’s doubtful Trump will face any concrete consequences as a result.

Many states control pardons. The federal government doesn’t.

While there’s no federal precedent for Trump pardoning his aides, there is one at the state level. Some state governors have pardon powers mirroring that of the president, and in 2005, Kentucky Gov. Ernie Fletcher (R) offered blanket pardons to current and former aides in his administration who did or could face charges from a grand jury investigating the administration’s violations of merit-based hiring laws. Later, a Kentucky Supreme Court ruling affirmed that the grand jury could not indict anyone to whom Fletcher’s pardon applied.

Eventually, Fletcher himself was indicted on three misdemeanor charges. He quickly lost popularity due to the scandal and lost his 2007 bid for reelection by a wide margin.

Kentucky is an unusual state in that it imposes relatively few limitations on the pardon power. Several states, including Connecticut, Georgia, South Carolina, and Utah, have independent boards that offer pardons in most cases, in place of the governor. In Minnesota, the governor and other top officials sit as a board and determine pardons. “A number including Pennsylvania and Delaware, and Texas, have gatekeeper boards that put limits on what the governor can do,” Margaret Love, who served as US pardon attorney from 1990 to 1997, explains. “You can’t do anything without an affirmative recommendation from the board.” All told, she estimates that only 15-16 states have pardon powers as unrestricted as that at the federal level.

Changing the federal pardon power would require a constitutional amendment. But given the potential for abuse illustrated in the Fletcher case and by Trump’s situation, an amendment might be in order.

Can Trump pardon himself?

While Trump could pardon Manafort, Michael Cohen, Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and really anyone he wants, what’s less clear is whether he can pardon himself.

Presidents definitely can’t use the pardon power to impede impeachment proceedings against themselves or any other officials. But there’s disagreement among legal experts about whether the president can use a pardon to defend himself against future prosecution upon leaving office. The Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel ruled in 1974 that Nixon could not pardon himself, but most legal experts consulted by Illing concluded the opposite, that Trump probably could pardon himself. There’s also a question of whether courts would be willing to step in and disrupt a self-pardon, even if it’s not constitutionally permissible.

“It’s a ‘how many troops has the pope’ sort of thing,” Love told me in July.Nothing that happened this week in Washington is likely to have much of an immediate, noticeable impact on anyone’s lives. Instead, the week’s major stories were important for what they set up about the future.

From the retirement of Congress’s most powerful leader to the return of a former FBI director, significant changes are being set into motion. Special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation is moving closer to the heart of Trump’s business empire with inquiries into the business affairs of the Trump Organization’s lead consiglieri, and one of big tech’s most powerful leaders was dragged before Congress in what’s likely to be looked back on as a turning point in Silicon Valley’s relationship with the capital.

Here’s what you need to know.

House Speaker Paul Ryan is retiring from Congress

After his staff spent months angrily denying that he had any plans to retire, House Speaker Paul Ryan announced Wednesday morning that he will not stand for reelection to Congress in November and thus will no longer serve as the GOP’s caucus leader after the midterms.

Why it matters: Though Ryan framed it as a purely personal decision related to his family, the retirement not only creates another open House seat for the GOP to defend but also serves as a de facto vote of no confidence in the party’s odds of prevailing in the midterms, which could induce more retirements and fundraising woes.

Though Ryan framed it as a purely personal decision related to his family, the retirement not only creates another open House seat for the GOP to defend but also serves as a de facto vote of no confidence in the party’s odds of prevailing in the midterms, which could induce more retirements and fundraising woes. An open seat: Ryan’s WI-1 congressional seat had been considered safe as long as the speaker was running for reelection, but the Cook Political Report reclassified it as “leans Republican” without Ryan. Vox’s Ella Nilsen interviewed Randy Bryce and Cathy Myers, the two Democrats running for the seat. Republicans haven’t yet recruited an establishment favorite contender to succeed Ryan, but white nationalist Paul Nehlen does have an aggressive ongoing campaign in the GOP primary.

Ryan’s WI-1 congressional seat had been considered safe as long as the speaker was running for reelection, but the Cook Political Report reclassified it as “leans Republican” without Ryan. Vox’s Ella Nilsen interviewed Randy Bryce and Cathy Myers, the two Democrats running for the seat. Republicans haven’t yet recruited an establishment favorite contender to succeed Ryan, but white nationalist Paul Nehlen does have an aggressive ongoing campaign in the GOP primary. A GOP leadership contest: House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) was passed over for the speakership due to objections from the right wing of the caucus after John Boehner stepped down, and it seems likely that Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) will try to challenge him for the top job next year.

Mr. Zuckerberg went to Washington

Facing a chorus of criticism, much of it related to Cambridge Analytica, Facebook’s founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg flew to Washington to testify before both houses of Congress.

Mark Zuckerberg is really sorry: Zuckerberg’s core message was to say that he is sorry, that Facebook screwed up, and that he accepts responsibility for the mistake. It’s the kind of apology Zuckerberg has been making since he was a sophomore in college who launched a popular website based on hacking into dorm servers to poach his classmates’ ID photos.

Zuckerberg’s core message was to say that he is sorry, that Facebook screwed up, and that he accepts responsibility for the mistake. It’s the kind of apology Zuckerberg has been making since he was a sophomore in college who launched a popular website based on hacking into dorm servers to poach his classmates’ ID photos. A dodged question: As Vox’s Emily Stewart writes, members of Congress repeatedly pressed Zuckerberg for information about how Facebook users can control what data is shared with advertisers, and he repeatedly responded with references to privacy settings that control what is seen by other Facebook users.

As Vox’s Emily Stewart writes, members of Congress repeatedly pressed Zuckerberg for information about how Facebook users can control what data is shared with advertisers, and he repeatedly responded with references to privacy settings that control what is seen by other Facebook users. The real action is elsewhere: Congress is considering a few bills that could impact Facebook, but there’s little sign that any of this will actually go to the top of the regulatory agenda. Instead, the real action is likely to come from Europe — where the General Data Protection Regulation is about to take effect — or from the Federal Trade Commission and other regulatory agencies to which Congress has already delegated a lot of power.

The FBI raised Michael Cohen’s office

Michael Cohen, Donald Trump’s attorney and fixer, found his office raided by FBI agents operating under the auspices of the US attorney for the Southern District of New York (but seemingly at the behest of special counsel Robert Mueller), with agents seizing documents related to Stormy Daniels among other things.

Trump got really mad: The raid touched off a new round of Trump rage, including a Twitter fulmination that “Attorney-Client privilege is dead!” (there is a “crime-fraud exemption” to the privilege) and speculation about Trump firing Mueller and/or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

The raid touched off a new round of Trump rage, including a Twitter fulmination that “Attorney-Client privilege is dead!” (there is a “crime-fraud exemption” to the privilege) and speculation about Trump firing Mueller and/or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Trump reeled it in: By midday Thursday, Trump was striking a more restrained tone — talking up his cooperation with the investigation and his support for his lead attorney, Ty Cobb.

By midday Thursday, Trump was striking a more restrained tone — talking up his cooperation with the investigation and his support for his lead attorney, Ty Cobb. Republicans are nervous: Congressional Republicans have signaled pretty clearly that they don’t want Trump to do anything rash like fire Mueller, but they also aren’t going to stop him.

James Comey started promoting his book

Former FBI Director James Comey’s book is poised to hit bookstores, with the first reviews publishing Thursday evening and a series of high-profile interviews scheduled for the weekend. Comey is clearly not a Trump fan, and the GOP is prepared to strike back.Arizona’s Republican Gov. Doug Ducey is starting to pay attention to teachers. On Thursday, he promised to give them the 20 percent raise they’ve been asking for — 10 percent next year and 10 percent more the following year. He also said he would restore $1 billion in school funding that has been cut since the recession.

“The winners today are the teachers of Arizona,” Ducey said at a press conference Thursday.

He just left out one major detail: how to pay for it.

Ducey, who is up for reelection in November, made vague references to growing state revenues and “strategic efficiencies” that would cover the cost. He said he would work with lawmakers to find the money. Arizona House Speaker J.D. Mesnard suggested an idea Thursday to pay for teacher raises by redirecting other education funding.

It was a surprising shift in tone from the governor, who has repeatedly rejected teachers’ demands for a raise and school funding. He recently called their protests “political theater.”

Teachers in Arizona are among the lowest-paid in the country, and lawmakers have cut education spending per student more than any other state since 2008 — by 36.5 percent. Meanwhile, state lawmakers have been on a tax-cutting spree, slashing taxes on a host of businesses in 2016, from insurance companies to charter plane operators. Last year, Ducey signed a bill with more tax breaks for businesses as well as a 1 percent raise for teachers.

Inspired by the strikes in West Virginia and Oklahoma, teachers have been organizing rallies and “sit-ins,” and preparing for a possible strike. Their demands included a 20 percent raise for teachers over three years, a raise for school support professionals, and restoring the $1 billion in school funding cut since the recession.

So far, teachers seem skeptical of Ducey’s plan.

“It’s important to note that this is not legislation; this proposal is full of various promises that happen over a long period of time,” said Dylan Wegela, a seventh-grade teacher and one of the organizers of the Arizona Educators United grassroots coalition, in a video posted on the group’s private Facebook group. “My question to you is, do you trust the governor and the legislature? And are these promises enough?”

Noah Karvelis, a music teacher in the Phoenix area who helped launch the #RedForEd campaign, which encourages teachers and supporters to wear red every Wednesday to raise awareness about the school funding problem, urged teachers not to back down.

“It feels to me that this was essentially an attempt to stop whatever actions we may have been taking instead of a legitimate groundwork for a legitimate investment in education,” he said in the video.

Last week, Arizona Educators United said they were willing to set a date for a statewide strike, but hadn’t picked one as of Friday. About 24,000 educators have signed a petition saying they would participate in a walkout if lawmakers don’t meet their demands.Back in October 2016, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) called then-FBI Director James Comey’s decision to look into new Hillary Clinton emails just days before the election “appalling.” Her comment reflected the general sentiment among Democrats at the time.

But in May 2017, President Donald Trump fired Comey because the FBI wouldn’t end an investigation into a former top Trump aide’s Russia ties. Democrats, almost in unison, openly warned that dismissing Comey meant Trump may have tried to obstruct justice. And after reports surfaced that Trump had called Comey a “nut job,” Feinstein herself defended the former FBI director, saying that “Comey is no way, shape, or form a nut job.”

As Comey now sits down for high-profile interview after high-profile interview to promote his new book, expect the good feelings from Democrats and the media alike to keep coming.

Comey’s new memoir, A Higher Loyalty, is due to come out on Tuesday. The already-released excerpts indicate that it’s highly critical of Trump, and the tome will assuredly inspire more Comey fandom on television, radio, and print. It may lead to even more arguments, like Damon Linker’s in the Week last June, “that the former FBI director is a bona fide American hero.”

But painting Comey that way misses a lot. He led the FBI when the bureau possibly mishandled its investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of state, perhaps costing Hillary Clinton the election. He was also the FBI director when he oversaw increased surveillance of Muslim communities and a culture of suspicion against Muslims and used suspect methods to stop terrorists.

Put together, as the Washington Post’s Margaret Sullivan noted on March 31, Comey is undeserving of the veneration and softball questions he will surely field in the coming days in response to his much-hyped new book. That, in part, is because he did a successful job at cultivating his holier-than-thou persona, says Matthew Miller, a top Justice Department spokesperson in the Obama administration.

“He wanted to position himself as the hero,” Miller told me, “the man of integrity who was going to tell the American people how it is — the last virgin in town.”

The problem, though, is that the media fell for it.

How Comey handled the Clinton probe

At around 11 am on July 5, 2016, then-FBI Director Comey gave a surprise televised address — thrusting him into the national spotlight.

“This will be an unusual statement in at least a couple ways,” he admitted from the FBI’s lectern. “I am going to include more detail about our process than I ordinarily would, because I think the American people deserve those details in a case of intense public interest.”

The “case” in question was the FBI’s probe into Clinton’s use of a personal email server to conduct State Department business. Investigators wanted to know if Clinton had handled classified information on an insecure network, which could make it easier for foreign adversaries to steal top secrets.

But Comey recommended no criminal charges to the Justice Department, instead reprimanding her as “extremely careless” after finding 110 emails containing classified information among the 30,000 reviewed messages.

The following day, then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch accepted Comey’s choice not to charge Clinton. (Lynch had just days before that decision met with Bill Clinton on an Arizona tarmac, leading to calls for her recusal from the case.) Comey, in effect, closed the case.

According to an April 2017 New York Times report about Comey’s actions during the election, he chose this approach for a few reasons. First, to let those people within the FBI who were upset with Clinton’s conduct know that Comey heard and understood their concerns. But second, and most importantly, he aimed to shield the bureau from GOP-led attacks that the FBI took it easy on Clinton.

Those attacks came anyway. “This announcement defies explanation. No one should be above the law,” House Speaker Paul Ryan tweeted after Comey’s remarks. “It appears damage is being done to the rule of law.”

But the more controversial moment came three months later. As part of a probe into former Rep. Anthony Weiner’s (D-NY) sexually explicit conversations with a minor, the FBI found some of Clinton’s emails on his laptop. That was no coincidence: Huma Abedin, Weiner’s wife and a close Clinton aide at the State Department, backed up thousands of emails on her husband’s computer. Some agents believed Clinton had hid emails from them, adding to suspicions that the messages on Weiner’s laptop might just be the missing emails.

And then on October 28, Comey informed Congress of what happened in a letter: “In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation.”

It was the “October surprise” many feared — the reopening of an investigation into Clinton just 11 days before the election. According to polling expert Nate Silver, Comey changed the vote’s outcome by making the probe’s restart public:

Clinton’s standing in the polls fell sharply. She’d led Trump by 5.9 percentage points in FiveThirtyEight’s popular vote projection at 12:01 a.m. on Oct. 28. A week later — after polls had time to fully reflect the letter — her lead had declined to 2.9 percentage points. That is to say, there was a shift of about 3 percentage points against Clinton. ... In the average swing state, Clinton’s lead declined from 4.5 percentage points at the start of Oct. 28 to just 1.7 percentage points on Nov. 4. If the polls were off even slightly, Trump could be headed to the White House.

Silver’s chart dramatically shows the effect the letter seemed to have on the election.

To be clear, the problem here is not that Comey’s actions helped Trump beat Clinton. It’s that his actions likely had an impact on the election. The FBI is chiefly an apolitical institution, carrying out investigations regardless of the political moment. So for Comey to act the way he did — especially at the time that he did — made it seem like he overstepped his mandate.

“The way he handled the Clinton investigation was seriously flawed and arguably a firing offense,” Miller, the former top DOJ spokesperson, told me.

Comey wrestles with his decision in the new book. “It is entirely possible that, because I was making decisions in an environment where Hillary Clinton was sure to be the next president, my concern about making her an illegitimate president by concealing the restarted investigation bore greater weight than it would have if the election appeared closer or if Donald Trump were ahead in all polls,” he writes. “But I don’t know.”

Let’s be clear about what he’s saying: Comey admits Clinton’s lead in late October may have influenced his decision to reopen the probe and let the public know about it. That means he possibly allowed politics to dictate his actions — which looks really bad for the FBI director.

But Miller thinks Comey’s view of himself also played a part. “He’s a man of integrity, but he very much believes he’s a man of integrity and often thinks he’s the only honest man in the room,” he told me. “At some point, that self-confidence crosses a line into self-righteousness.”

Comey’s imprint on the election results is bad enough. The Justice Department’s inspector general will look into, and soon adjudicate on, how the FBI handled the Clinton probe. But you also just need to look at Comey’s time running the FBI to know he’s not Mr. Perfect.

Comey wasn’t a stellar FBI director

Comey led the FBI for four years — and has faced a fair amount of criticism for his time there.

For one, Muslims working at the FBI felt their fellow agents put them under a microscope. Most notably, these employees felt the FBI would overly scrutinize them because of their heritage.

Former FBI employee Said “Sam” Barodi, according to the Guardian, detailed how some white FBI officials were openly Islamophobic, said Islam was to blame for acts of terrorism, and that some colleagues didn’t abide by the Constitution.

“I would not advise anyone to work for the FBI under these circumstances. Fuck, stay away. It is not worth it. It is cancer,” Barodi told the Guardian. “Muslim employees in federal law enforcement,” he continued, “are the target.”

But that’s not all. Comey also expanded the use of sting operations to catch would-be terrorists before they struck, and some of the practices were suspect. Last May, the Intercept reported that agents “busted” a mentally ill homeless man for claiming he had connections to ISIS. In a similar case, an informant also gave a homeless man $40 so he could buy the weapons — machetes, knives — he said he needed to carry out the attack.

Meanwhile, those stings didn’t stop actual terrorists. As the Intercept notes, the FBI looked at least twice at the man who eventually killed nearly 50 people and wounded another 50 at an Orlando nightclub in June 2016. The FBI, apparently, didn’t consider the man a threat during its investigations.

And when the FBI charged the creator of the child porn dark website Playpen last year, the bureau didn’t shut down the service. That reversed the practice Robert Mueller — Comey’s predecessor and now the special counsel looking into possible Trump-Russia ties — started. Still, the FBI made hundreds of arrests in the US and around the world throughout the case, while also identifying or rescuing nearly 300 sexually abused children.

In short, Comey wasn’t exactly an exemplary leader when he was in charge of the FBI. Yet the “Comey is a hero” myth persists — though perhaps that says more about us than him.

Why we see Comey as a hero — but shouldn’t

The impulse to lionize Comey comes from the fact that he stood up to Trump.

When Trump demanded Comey pledge his loyalty to him, the FBI director declined. After Trump fired Comey last May, Comey revealed that he kept contemporaneous notes about his interactions with the president and made parts of them public. He also testified under oath during a high-profile Senate hearing last June, in which he shockingly called the president a liar.

Put together, this makes Comey stands out as a seemingly noble figure in the middle of the whole Trump-Russia mess, where Mueller’s probe has already found that high-level Trump campaign officials committed crimes.

But if you take a second look, that’s a pretty low bar. Comey may seem like the closest thing this drama has to a hero — except for maybe Mueller himself — but that doesn’t mean the media should forget his complicated past, and treat him like one.House Speaker Paul Ryan will endorse House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, a Republican from California, in the high-profile race for who will succeed him. Ryan plans to make his endorsement official in an interview with Chuck Todd on NBC’s Meet the Press on Sunday.

In endorsing McCarthy, Ryan is trying to ensure a smooth transition for Republican leadership during an unpredictable year. McCarthy is one of two men seen as leading contenders for the spot; the other is Majority Whip Steve Scalise, a Louisiana conservative who gained national attention after he was shot and seriously wounded at a congressional baseball practice last summer. Scalise is the only Southern Congress member in leadership. And it already seems like Freedom Caucus co-founder Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) is looking to shake up the race.

McCarthy has a close relationship with President Donald Trump and has been angling for the job of speaker for years, trying unsuccessfully to succeed John Boehner. McCarthy doesn’t quite have Ryan’s policy chops, but he’s well-known, well-liked and a skilled political tactician.

Ultimately, Ryan’s endorsement is symbolic, but it also carries a lot of weight among rank-and-file House Republicans. There were earlier signs that Ryan wanted his majority leader to succeed him; on Thursday, he said he was “encouraged” that Scalise had said McCarthy should take up the mantle. Scalise has said publicly that he would not run against McCarthy.

Whoever wins the speakership needs a simple majority of the entire House — about 218 votes. Now McCarthy needs to work hard to win over the House Freedom Caucus, the most conservative faction among House Republicans, numbering 40 members. That may be good news for McCarthy because he is close to Trump — as is House Freedom Caucus Chair Mark Meadows, a conservative from North Carolina. Meadows and McCarthy both have the ear of the president, and that commonality may well unite them in the weeks ahead.

Of course, none of this may matter given the tough political realities Republicans are facing in 2018. With Democrats ahead about 7 points on the most current generic ballot, the 2018 midterms are poised to be a blue wave election year.

That would mean the leadership battle would shift across the aisle, where there is lots of chatter on whether House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi will run again or face a challenge from a younger member.

Right now, the race is between Scalise and McCarthy (with McCarthy poised to come out on top), but there’s a possibility we could be talking about a whole other set of players after November 6, 2018.The race to replace House Speaker Paul Ryan has begun.

Ryan, who announced Wednesday he will not run for reelection this November, says he plans to keep his leadership post until he retires in January, but top House Republicans are already trying to position themselves as his heir apparent.

There are two frontrunners in this race for the speakership: Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican who has cultivated a close relationship with President Donald Trump and had ambitions for the job in the past; and Majority Whip Steve Scalise, the conservative Louisiana Republican who gained national attention after he was shot at a congressional baseball practice last summer and is the only Southern Congress member in leadership.

Also possibly throwing his hat in the ring is House Freedom Caucus co-founder Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH), a controversial conservative leader. Jordan has told some Republican colleagues he is “strongly considering” a run for speaker, the Washington Post’s Mike DeBonis reported Friday morning. Jordan would have little chance of winning if he did run, but it would complicate things for both Scalise and McCarthy.

Ryan has endorsed McCarthy, he told Meet the Press host Chuck Todd in an interview that will air this weekend. There were earlier signs Ryan wanted his majority leader to succeed him; on Thursday he said he was “encouraged” that Scalise had said McCarthy should take up the mantle. Scalise has said publicly that he would not run against McCarthy, but both have been angling for the spot.

But Ryan’s preferences might seal the deal.

Whoever wins the speakership needs a simple majority of the entire House — about 218 votes. Assuming Democrats will stand united against whomever Republicans nominate, any Republican faction with roughly two dozen votes can stop a possible nominee in his or her tracks — and the Freedom Caucus has 40 members.

“If we control enough votes to veto who the next speaker is going to be, do you think it is going to be someone who engages less with the Freedom Caucus?” Chair Mark Meadows (R-NC) asked rhetorically when presented with the possibility of a more moderate Republican leader nominee.

But underlying all this jockeying is a tacit understanding that, come November, Republicans may not have to elect a speaker at all. If Republicans lose the majority, they will only have to pick a minority leader — a very different job that requires a very different skill set and only needs a majority of support within the conference.

The race is on.

Two leading candidates are gearing up for a seven-month speakership campaign

Unless Ryan decides to step down from the speakership between now and November, Republicans are gearing up for seven months of campaigning for the top leadership spot.

It’s too early to start openly campaigning for the spot; both McCarthy and Scalise, who are in Ryan’s leadership team, say they are just focused on keeping the Republican House majority in 2019. But behind the scenes, staffers will tell you the two lawmakers are already trying to build coalitions. Republicans members say they are already “sizing up” McCarthy and Scalise as the possible replacements for Ryan, according to Politico.

McCarthy, the California Republican who has been the House majority leader since 2014, is both close to Ryan in leadership and a close ally of President Donald Trump. Unlike Ryan, McCarthy has never been known as someone who will lead a policy debate, but he’s known for being well-liked and a skilled political tactician — and has definitely had ambitions for the speakership.

He fell short in his campaign to succeed John Boehner, mired by rumors of an extramarital affair and a revolt from members of the House Freedom Caucus, who said McCarthy would be too close in style to Boehner.

Scalise, meanwhile, has always been seen as the more conservative policy ideologue compared to McCarthy. He’s from the South, something some conservative members of the conference value — for all the pros and cons that brings. And after the shooting last summer, which left Scalise in critical condition for months, his triumphant recovery presented a comeback story Republicans could get behind when picking their next leader.

And, of course, there is always the chance for a dark-horse candidate who can run through the ranks. There are rumors that Rep. Mark Walker (R-NC), who runs the much bigger mainstream conservative caucus the Republican Study Committee, is thinking about throwing his name into the ring. He denied that he’s actively seeking the job but didn’t rule out the possibility in an interview with Vox.

Meadows also floated Utah Rep. Rob Bishop, a rank-and-file Republican who has said he plans to leave Congress after one more term in office. Meadows himself said he has no aspirations for the speakership, but it’s not lost on anyone that his caucus would love to see him throw his hat into the ring.

For now, it appears as though many are coalescing around McCarthy. But he has a history with some of the more conservative Republicans in the conference wary of letting someone from Ryan’s leadership into the speaker’s office.

The Mark Meadows factor hangs heavy over this race

The speaker’s race ultimately comes down to some simple math.

There are currently 237 House Republicans. Without any major changes in the next seven months, Republicans need between 215 and 218 votes to confirm a speaker. In other words, Meadows — who chairs a cohort of roughly 40 men who make up the House’s most conservative faction and Trump’s most ardent supporters — has a lot of power.

The Freedom Caucus wields enough votes to stop any speaker nomination in its tracks, and Meadows, who is known to have almost-daily personal conversations with Trump, has a direct line to the president if things don’t go his way.

These are leverage points he is not afraid to use.

Only three years ago, Meadows filed a motion to remove Boehner from his seat as speaker, a catalyst for Boehner’s retirement. In 2015, the Freedom Caucus refused to support McCarthy in his bid for the speakership, saying he was too close to Boehner’s leadership team. The revolt ultimately gave rise to Ryan’s leadership.

The gripes with McCarthy weren’t necessarily personal. The Freedom Caucus is simply anti-status quo. They are in the business of moving policy far to the right, even if it tanks the whole thing altogether. And McCarthy, who was majority leader at the time, was simply seen as the next in line — an establishment system the Freedom Caucus fundamentally rejected.

But a lot has changed since 2015. Meadows told reporters that McCarthy “has been reaching out, trying to keep his promises to a number of members of House Freedom Caucus that will serve him well in whatever race should he throw his hat in the ring.”

And it’s not lost on anyone that McCarthy’s close relationship with Trump plays a role. The Freedom Caucus doesn’t break with Trump often, and while the president has yet to weigh in, McCarthy has long been seen as the president’s closest leadership ally.

The Freedom Caucus isn’t ready to commit; some are still holding concerns that McCarthy is too close to the establishment.

“I am not interested in anybody on the current leadership team,” said Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), who is in the Freedom Caucus.

This might not be a race for speaker at all

Underlying all this party infighting is an understanding among Republicans that come January 2019, there might not be a Republican speaker in the House at all.

“We have to make sure we maintain our majority, and that’s got to be our focus from now until November and not to get ahead of ourselves,” Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) said.

The timing of Ryan’s retirement wasn’t random. Trump remains extremely unpopular, and special elections across the country indicate Democratic voters are extremely energized to kick Republicans out of office — a reality Ryan’s retirement reflects. Democrats need to win 24 seats in 2018 to take control of the House, which is looking more and more possible.

Minority leader and speaker are two are fundamentally different jobs. Minority leaders don’t have much policy leverage. Like we’ve seen with Democratic Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, the job is about keeping the members in line behind a clear party message. It’s more offensive work.

The speakership, however, has to defend its party’s legislative agenda. There’s a valid debate over which candidate — Scalise, McCarthy, or anyone else — would better serve each role.On April 3, 2017, Republican National Committee finance chair Steve Wynn announced the addition of new members to the committee’s leadership team, with two names leading the pack as national deputy chairs: Elliott Broidy and Michael Cohen. “The challenge of guiding a swollen and overreaching government to a position that serves its citizens in a truly efficient manner will be best served by the leadership our team hopes to achieve,” Wynn said in a statement.

In January of this year, Wynn resigned from the committee after dozens of women accused him of sexual assault and abuse. On Monday of this week, Cohen’s home, office, and hotel room were raided by FBI agents investigating his role in making hush money payments to two women on behalf of Donald Trump.

And Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported that Cohen helped make another payment: $1.6 million to a former Playboy playmate reportedly impregnated by Cohen’s RNC committee colleague Elliott Broidy. Broidy has reportedly resigned from the RNC.

According to the Journal, in the settlement agreement, Cohen even used the same pseudonyms for Broidy and the former Playboy model as he used in the nondisclosure agreement between Trump and porn actress Stormy Daniels: David Dennison and Peggy Peterson.

Cohen is still a member of the RNC finance committee as of today. And the RNC (and a Trump 2020 Super PAC) have refused to return Wynn’s donations.President Donald Trump just pardoned Lewis “Scooter” Libby, a former Bush administration official who was convicted in 2007 on felony counts of perjury, lying to the FBI, and obstruction of justice in a special prosecutor investigation into the leak of an undercover CIA operative’s identity.

Scooter Libby was Vice President Dick Cheney’s top national security aide and chief of staff from 2001 to 2005. He was at the center of an explosive scandal surrounding the Bush administration’s flawed justifications for the Iraq War.

President George W. Bush commuted Libby’s 30-month prison sentence in 2007 just weeks before Libby was due to surrender to prison, but he twice refused to fully pardon him, reportedly infuriating Cheney and straining the relationship between him and the president. Libby didn’t have to serve any time, but the conviction stayed on his record and he still had to serve two years probation and pay a $250,000 fine.

Now, with Trump’s presidential pardon, Libby’s record will show that he’s been pardoned and he won’t be subjected to civil penalties that can come with being a convicted felon, like not being able to serve on a federal jury or (in some cases) vote.

In a White House statement announcing the pardon, Trump said, “I don’t know Mr. Libby, but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.”

Trump’s move is mostly symbolic. Libby’s conviction won’t be expunged, and it doesn’t mean that he’s now “innocent” in any conventional sense of the word. It sends a troubling message all the same about Trump’s conception of what passes for right and wrong.

Who is Scooter Libby, and what did he do?

As part of its justification for the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the Bush administration argued that Saddam Hussein had been trying to buy uranium in Africa to use in nuclear weapons. The problem was that the US ambassador who had been sent to Africa to investigate that claim hadn’t actually found concrete evidence of that.

So when the ambassador, Joe Wilson, started to hear that erroneous claim being used to justify going to war with Saddam, he decided to speak out in an op-ed in the New York Times.

In the op-ed, which was pointedly titled “What I Didn’t Find in Africa,” Wilson wrote, “I have little choice but to conclude that some of the intelligence related to Iraq’s nuclear weapons program was twisted to exaggerate the Iraqi threat.”

Not long after, Wilson’s wife, an undercover CIA operative named Valerie Plame, had her name leaked to the press — completely blowing her cover (and thus basically her entire career) and potentially putting her and her sources in danger. Wilson believed her name was leaked by the Bush administration as part of a smear campaign against him.

The US attorney general at the time appointed a special prosecutor to investigate the whole affair. As CNN reports, Libby was ultimately not accused of revealing Plame’s identity to reporters himself (it was never conclusively proven whether he did or not), but rather of obstructing the leak investigation by lying about his contact with journalists about Plame.

The Comey link

Some conservatives have argued that Libby’s conviction was unjust and that he was merely the victim of an overzealous special prosecutor — an argument that, as the New York Times aptly noted, “may have resonated with the president,” given that he himself is now under the microscope of a special counsel with wide-ranging authority to investigate Trump and his associates.

And then, of course, there’s the Comey link.

The US attorney general who appointed the special prosecutor who nailed Libby was none other than James Comey — the same James Comey whose firing by Trump kicked off special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Trump and who has since become public enemy No. 1 for the president.

On Friday morning, Trump called Comey “a proven LEAKER & LIAR,” tweeting: “He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH.”

Trump pardoning a man whom Comey helped convict on charges of lying under oath about his involvement in leaking classified information just a few hours later is certainly an interesting way to demonstrate the president’s commitment to holding leakers and liars accountable.Though they are powerless to stop him, House Democrats are doing what they can to paint President Trump’s pardon of Scooter Libby as “contempt for the rule of law” — amid fears that the president might soon use the power of the pardon to protect people close to him who are facing scrutiny via Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi thought the message was clear in Trump’s pardon for Libby, the aide to former Vice President Dick Cheney who was convicted of perjury, obstruction of justice, and making false statements in connection with the leak of CIA operative Valerie Plame’s identity.

.@realDonaldTrump’s pardon of Scooter Libby makes clear his contempt for the American tradition of the rule of law. — Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) April 13, 2018

Trump is clearly trying to send a message with his pardon of Scooter Libby – he has no issue with rewarding those who lie under oath. But it does not change the facts: neither @POTUS or his allies are above the law. — Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) April 13, 2018

The Libby pardon arrives at the same time federal investigators are closing in on Michael Cohen, one of Trump’s closest confidants, and follows reports that Trump’s attorneys had tried to offer pardons to his former campaign chair Paul Manafort, who has been indicted in Mueller’s probe. Pelosi seems to be connecting those dots.

If you can’t quite remember who Scooter Libby is and why he needed a pardon at all, Vox’s Jennifer Williams has you covered:Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz just released a long-awaited watchdog report reviewing former Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe’s conduct before the 2016 presidential election.

The report reviews McCabe’s decisions to leak internal deliberations about an investigation to the Clinton Foundation investigation. The Justice Department cited Horowitz’s findings in explaining why they fired McCabe one day before his retirement in March.

Though the IG report is being dropped in the context of a feud between President Donald Trump and his own FBI and Justice Department, it long predates that feud. Horowitz was appointed DOJ’s inspector general back in 2012, under President Barack Obama. He has a good reputation, and IGs traditionally operate with a good amount of independence from their department leaders, serving as watchdogs of sorts.

He opened this review about a week before Trump was sworn in, and many of the complaints he announced he’d look into were loudly voiced by Democrats at the time. (The report has no connection to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. Further installments of the report will likely examine Comey’s own conduct in 2016.)

So the IG report isn’t just a plot by Trump to delegitimize the FBI — though the president will likely try to use it for that end. Its release comes after Trump has fired Comey, publicly campaigned for McCabe’s firing, publicly berated Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and tried to co-opt the Justice Department more broadly.

It also comes as Comey has embarked on a nationwide tour to promote his new book. You can read the full report below, or at this link.President Donald Trump pardoned Lewis “Scooter” Libby on Friday, the aide to former Vice President Dick Cheney who was convicted of perjury, obstruction of justice, and making false statements in connection with the leak of CIA operative Valerie Plame’s identity.

Libby was indicted in the course of a special counsel investigation into the Plame affair. George W. Bush commuted his sentence, but Trump has gone a step further.

“I don’t know Mr. Libby,” Trump said Friday, “but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.”

Trump has issued only two other pardons so far in his tenure, including one for controversial Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio.

Read Trump’s full statement on the pardon of Libby below:

Today, President Donald J. Trump issued an Executive Grant of Clemency (Full Pardon) to I. “Scooter” Lewis Libby, former Chief of Staff to Vice President Richard Cheney, for convictions stemming from a 2007 trial. President George W. Bush commuted Mr. Libby’s sentence shortly after his conviction. Mr. Libby, nevertheless, paid a $250,000 fine, performed 400 hours of community service, and served two years of probation.

In 2015, one of the key witnesses against Mr. Libby recanted her testimony, stating publicly that she believes the prosecutor withheld relevant information from her during interviews that would have altered significantly what she said. The next year, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals unanimously reinstated Mr. Libby to the bar, reauthorizing him to practice law. The Court agreed with the District of Columbia Disciplinary Counsel, who stated that Mr. Libby had presented “credible evidence” in support of his innocence, including evidence that a key prosecution witness had “changed her recollection of the events in question.”

Before his conviction, Mr. Libby had rendered more than a decade of honorable service to the Nation as a public servant at the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the White House. His record since his conviction is similarly unblemished, and he continues to be held in high regard by his colleagues and peers.

In light of these facts, the President believes Mr. Libby is fully worthy of this pardon. “I don’t know Mr. Libby,” said President Trump, “but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.”When we talk about the consequences of the 33 miles of proposed wall at the US-Mexico border, we usually think in terms of people: who will approve it, who will build it, who will be separated by it. But along the political divide are rich pockets of biodiversity, with dwindling populations of species that move back and forth across the border.

Building a wall through those habitats and migration pathways could spell disaster many of these species of reptiles, mammals, and birds. Man-made barriers have been linked to a decrease in genetic diversity, even when they’re semi-permeable. And they’re often better at blocking animal movement than they are at blocking humans. For species like mule deer in Arizona, that can pose a serious threat to their survival.

Under the 2005 Real ID act, the Department of Homeland Security can waive various environmental laws that might otherwise slow or halt construction in a sensitive area. That means laws like the Endangered Species Act, the Clean Water Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, or the Migratory Bird Treaty Act couldn’t be invoked in border wall construction.

Several parcels of protected land in South Texas, including the National Butterfly Center, a state park, and other areas in the federal wildlife refuge system, are threatened by wall construction. It could be years before construction starts in some of these areas, and there’s still a lot we don’t know about the full impact of barriers on biodiversity in this region.

But watch the video above to see what we do know about how border barriers can wreak havoc on the environment.

By Design is a Vox video series about the intersection of design and technology, hosted by Christophe Haubursin. You can find this series and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube.President Donald Trump and his administration are still deciding whether and how to escalate the US’s military presence in Syria, after another chemical weapons attack on Syrian civilians that has been linked (though not definitively) to the forces of President Bashar al-Assad. But there’s a basic recognition that the war is horrific and it needs to end soon.

Defense Secretary James Mattis illustrated the horror of the Syrian conflict Thursday by telling the House Armed Services Committee, “I’ve seen refugees from Asia to Europe, Kosovo to Africa. I’ve never seen refugees as traumatized as coming out of Syria. It’s got to end.”

But while the plight of the 5.5 million refugees who have fled Syria is apparently a factor in US policy, it doesn’t appear to be inspiring the Trump administration to let in very many refugees.

In the last years of the Obama administration, the US resettled tens of thousands of Syrian refugees. When Trump took office, that number plummeted — partly because of the 120-day “refugee ban” that prevented nearly any refugees from being brought into the US over the summer of 2017, and partly because of specific scrutiny facing refugees from several countries, including Syria.

The result is that the US is on pace to resettle fewer than 100 Syrian refugees in the fiscal year that ends September 30. And it might not even be that many.

The US had just started bringing in large numbers of Syrian refugees when Trump slammed the door on them

The global refugee crisis is, by some measures, worse than ever. And the Syrian civil war, and the world’s response to it, is a big part of why. Syria accounts for 24 percent of the world’s 22.5 million refugees recognized by the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees. (Before the war, Syria had about 21 million people, or 0.3 percent of the world’s population.)

But what truly distinguishes the current refugee crisis is that now, more than ever before, refugees are likely to remain displaced for years or even decades, instead of being able to either return home or be permanently resettled in a third country. While resettlement has always been relatively rare — only 1 percent of global refugees get resettled — it’s most likely to be used in cases where it’s clear that the situation in the refugee’s home country will never get better, and the refugee needs to stop waiting and make a new life.

The Obama administration attempted to prioritize Syrian refugees early in Obama’s second term, as it became clear that the Syrian civil war wasn’t getting any better and that Assad’s soldiers were attacking civilians. But because of concerns about carefully vetting refugees to ensure that no terrorists snuck into the US, it took until the last couple of years of Obama’s presidency for Syrian refugee admissions to the US to really increase.

Then, almost as soon as Trump took the oath of office, his administration slammed the door shut.

First, there was the original travel ban, which banned all refugees and all arrivals from Syria. Even after that ban was put on hold in court, refugee admissions were stop-and-go for months. In December 2016, the last full month of the Obama administration, 1,318 Syrian refugees were admitted to the US; in February 2017, the first full month of Trump, the numbers dropped to 282 and just kept dropping from there.

The 120-day refugee ban officially expired in October but was replaced with a pause on refugee admissions for 11 countries — including Syria — while the US government reviewed vetting procedures. Admissions for Syria restarted at the end of January, and nine refugees have been admitted since then. So while the US has admitted 44 Syrian refugees over the last fiscal year (which started in October), only 11 of those have come since January 1 — putting the US on pace to resettle only 44 Syrians over all of 2018.

That’s still slightly more Syrians than were resettled during some years of Obama. The difference is that the Obama administration was resettling other refugees instead: about 70,000 a year from 2013 to 2015, and 85,000 a year in 2016. (The Obama administration set a target of 100,000 refugees for the 2017 fiscal year, but Trump prevented that from happening.) The Trump administration, meanwhile, has set the lowest refugee target in modern history — no more than 45,000 — and it’s not even on pace to meet it.

President Trump and his administration fundamentally don’t believe that there is such a thing as the “global refugee crisis” — that a war that displaces millions of people in one part of the world creates any obligation on a country in another part of the world to help them. Mattis’s comments make it clear that at least some members of the administration think the US has some responsibility to stop the horrors of the Syrian civil war. It’s just that those responsibilities appear not to include giving the war’s victims a new home.The Oklahoma teacher walkout is over — but not for everyone.

On Thursday afternoon, Oklahoma’s largest educators association announced an end to the nine-day walkout, saying lawmakers “won’t budge an inch.” The group said that it would take the $479 million in extra school funding educators got from lawmakers before the strike — a fraction of the $3.3 billion they had demanded — and that members would return to work.

“I call on our community members to continue supporting these educators as they walk back into the classroom. We want as much support from them after the walkout as they received during the walkout,” Alicia Priest, president of the Oklahoma Education Association, said during a press conference. The OEA framed the walkout as a victory that ended with millions of dollars more in school funding.

Priest said that most of OEA’s members wanted to resume classes. But despite media reports to the contrary, the association is not a teachers union — it’s a professional association for school administrators, teachers, and retired educators that has no collective bargaining authority, as Priest told Vox.

And hundreds of teachers were furious Thursday that OEA had ended what they viewed as their walkout.

“Remember that we teachers are the voice that started this movement, and we are the voice that ends it,” wrote Alberto Morejon, a social studies teacher who started the Facebook group Oklahoma Teacher Walkout, which has drawn more than 70,000 members.

Morejon called on teachers to return to the capitol Friday morning to decide on their next course of action. Hundreds of teachers responded in the comments section about their anger over OEA’s decision. Dozens said they were calling OEA to cancel their memberships. None of those who had commented as of Thursday said they were ready to go back.

“I think the legislators were ready for us to be out 2 weeks ... I don’t think they were ready for 3. I think we should stay out until there is movement with wind energy or Capital Gaines [sic]. Unions, Districts and Parents may turn on the movement ... but that just shows that they were never actually WITH US!! Nothing worth having is EASY. CHANGE IS ALWAYS INCONVENIENT!!!” one teacher posted.

The state’s major school districts, including Oklahoma City and Tulsa, remained closed on Friday, and an undetermined number of teachers said they would continue to call in sick to keep rallying at the capitol.

They say the $479 million lawmakers agreed to give them is far too little and doesn’t solve the school funding crisis. It gives teachers an average $6,000 pay raise next year, and about $1,250 for school support staff. The main problem, in their view, is that it’s a one-time boost for teacher pay and not as much funding for schools as they wanted. Even though lawmakers raised taxes to pay for some of it, the revenue from some of those taxes will only be a one-time deal.

On top of that, Republican legislators introduced several bills on Tuesday to get extra money for teachers and books by capping school superintendents’ salaries and eliminating some of their positions. It was a veiled threat to school administrators, and some teachers believe it spooked administrators at their schools.

On Thursday, Priest looked exhausted and resigned at the press conference, but insisted that the fight is not over.

“As classes resume, we must turn our attention toward the election season. Instead of making our case at the steps of the Capitol, we have the opportunity to make our voices heard at the ballot box. ... A record number of candidates have filed for office, including OEA members who will be the best advocates for our students in the Oklahoma legislature,” she said.It’s official: The National Park Service has hiked entrance fees for the 117 parks that charge admission. But the price increases are much lower than what was initially proposed last year.

The fee increase will be $5 to $10 for a park-specific annual pass. The price for one-time entry per private vehicle or motorcycle will increase by $5. (In many parks, a single entrance fee grants access for seven days, while other parks have options for one- or seven-day passes.)

An annual park pass to Yosemite, for example, is now $70, up from $60. The price per private vehicle is now $35, up from $30.

But it’s a much less severe increase than the $70 per private vehicle that was proposed back in October 2017.

The NPS first announced a plan to increase the admission prices back then for 17 national parks during their busiest five months of the year. Entrance fees during peak season, which varies but is May 1 to September 30 for most parks, were expected to rise to $70 per private, commercial vehicle, $50 per motorcycle, and $30 per person on bike or foot. That increase would have been nearly three times the current rate for some parks.

A public comment period on the proposal for the increase in entrance fees was held from October 24 through December 22, 2017. During that time, the NPS received more than 109,000 comments. It’s clear when combing through these comments that park lovers were split on the increases. But NPS may have lowered the increases because of the public response.

The reason for the increase to the regular entrance fee, according to NPS, is to address a backlog of park maintenance, including “roads, bridges, campgrounds, waterlines, bathrooms, and other visitor services.” The number of people visiting national parks is at an all-time high, which isn’t helping the maintenance situation. The entire park system saw a record 330 million visitors in 2016.

The White House proposed cutting the budget of the Interior Department, which NPS is part of, by about 12 percent to $11.6 billion in 2018. One reason for the proposed cuts? An attempt to address the national park system’s roughly $11 billion maintenance backlog.

NPS notes that a majority of national parks will remain free, since only 117 of 417 park sites charge an entrance fee. And one price that won’t change? The $80 annual America the Beautiful National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass, which allows access to all national parks and more than 1,000 other federal recreation areas for one year. (It’s a terrific deal, and you can purchase one here.)

The first park to see the new increase is Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park in Colorado, where the price hike goes into effect on April 15. Other parks won’t see the fee changes until 2020.President Donald Trump has ordered airstrikes on Syria as punishment for its chemical weapons attack last week in the town of Douma, which killed at least 42 people — including a number of children.

Understanding Trump’s decision requires understanding the real nature of the country’s horrific civil war. At its heart, it is a conflict between a regime that represents a minority of its citizens and the majority who want it gone. But over time, it has spiraled into an immensely complicated international war, with some of America’s most significant enemies and closest partners on various different sides.

“It has been one of the hardest issues that I’ve faced as president,” President Barack Obama said in a December 2016 press conference. “Syria is the most complex, complicated issue I have ever had to deal with," then-CIA Director John Brennan said during a 2016 discussion at the Brookings Institution.

Getting involved in this war in any serious way is immensely complicated and risky, which is why the Obama administration largely avoided doing so, and why it never struck Assad directly. When Trump struck Syria last April, after another large chemical weapons attack, he tried to needle by punishing the Assad regime specifically for its use of chemical weapons without getting dragged into the broader conflict. But clearly, the limited bombing didn’t send the desired message — Assad wasn’t deterred from using chemical weapons again.

So will Trump’s new bombing campaign be something similar, but will involve hoping for different results? Or will he try a bigger intervention, will all of the risks that entail? As of right now, we simply can’t be sure.

What we can do, however, is get at the context behind this decision: how the civil war in Syria began, how it evolved, when US foes like Russia got involved, and what two American presidents have been willing to do so far. What follows is a guide to these key issues, a summary of the key issues and what they mean for the prospect of any bigger Trump intervention.

How Syria’s civil war began — and why America cares so much

When Syrians rose up as part of the wave of Arab Spring protests against Middle East dictators in 2011, Assad quickly decided to emulate his father, Hafez, and try to tamp down the protests through the use of force. The goal was to turn the broad-based protest movement from a political struggle — which Assad’s unpopular regime was bound to lose — into a military one, where his control of the army meant he might be able to kill his way to victory.

"It was very much a strategic decision that the regime made, to militarize the conflict right away," Glenn Robinson, an associate professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, told me in an interview. "I think in their mind, and correctly, if this becomes a political battle where populations matter, the regime probably only has support of a third of the country. ... If this becomes a political contestation, the opposition has the numbers."

The grim way of implementing this plan, slaughtering protestors en masse until they were forced to pick up arms in self-defense, got Assad the war he wanted. In July 2011, defectors from Assad’s regime formed an organized militia called the Free Syrian Army to protect protesters and strike back at Assad. By January 2012, the Syrian uprising had devolved into a full-blown civil war pitting the FSA and other assorted rebel groups against Assad and his supporters.

The strategic stakes of this war, both for the Middle East as a region and for the United States, are enormous — for three main reasons.

The first is Iran. Syria's alliance with Tehran dates back to 1980 and is critical to Iran’s regional ambitions. It uses Syria to convey weapons and other goods to its proxy militias and allies, most notably Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza. In return, Assad's regime gets military and political assistance from Tehran.

Iranian leaders saw the revolt against Assad as a threat not just to him but also to them. In 2012, Iran responded by sending in Hezbollah to fight on Assad's side, an intervention that played an important role in Assad’s campaign against the rebels.

At the same time, though, Iran’s backing made Assad into a target for some of America’s closest partners in the region. Since the Iraq War, and maybe earlier, the oil-rich Sunni Arab states along the Persian Gulf — particularly Saudi Arabia, the largest and strongest — had been embroiled in a sort of cold war with Iran, a Shiite theocracy. Both sides wish to steer the political course of the Middle East, and see the other as a fundamental threat to their security.

So when Assad began to teeter, the Gulf states saw an opportunity to unseat one of Iran's principal allies and started sending arms to the Syrian rebels. In March 2013, the Arab League voted to give its members explicit permission to arm the Syrian opposition. In May of that year, the Financial Times reported that Qatar alone had given $3 billion in aid to the rebels. In just one shipment in 2015, Saudi Arabia provided rebels with 500 deadly TOW anti-tank missiles.

The Syrian conflict thus became more than just a civil war: It became a proxy fight between Iran and America’s Gulf allies, whose outcome was of vital significance for both sides.

It also quickly became a proxy standoff between Washington and Moscow.

Russia’s ties to Syria go all the way back to the Cold War: According to one scholar, the Soviets "essentially built" the modern Syrian military in the 1960s. Continued support for the Assad government gave the USSR its most reliable ally and proxy in the Middle East.

Today, Syria remains one of Russia's few reliable allies outside of the former Soviet republics, a vestige of Moscow's former superpower status and a final military toehold in the Middle East. Russia maintains a valuable naval base today at Tartus, on Syria's Mediterranean coast, and has sold a number of surplus weapons to Assad. Between 2006 and 2010, 48 percent of Syrian arms imports came from Russia. Assad’s defeat, then, would have been a major strategic blow to Vladimir Putin’s regime — which has ambitions of restoring Russia’s Cold War status as a great power with global influence.

“This matters to [the Russians] ... more than it would if they had another 10 [allies to spare],” says Doug Ollivant, who oversaw Iraq policy at the National Security Council from 2008 to 2009 and is now a managing partner at Mantid International.

As a result, Russia has been backing Assad since the war began. In 2011 alone, Russia vetoed a UN Security Council resolution condemning Assad’s crackdown on protesters, and sold nearly $1 billion in arms to Assad’s regime.

Putin’s support for Assad has steadily escalated, with Moscow selling Assad advanced air defense systems and refurbished MI-25 attack helicopters. By September 2015, Russia was a direct participant in the war. Russian warplanes and helicopters are hitting Assad’s enemies from the air, and Moscow has artillery pieces bombarding rebels and special forces embedded with Syrian troops. Some estimates place the number of Russian soldiers in Syria today at around 10,000.

The third and final issue is terrorism. Since practically the beginning of the conflict, al-Qaeda had been sending forces into Syria, seeing a chaotic civil war as a great environment for them to use as a safe haven and a place to get recruits. By mid-2012, the Syrian al-Qaeda franchise, Jabhat al-Nusra, had allied with some relatively moderate rebels — and established themselves as one of the most effective anti-Assad fighting forces. Qatar in particular showered Nusra with cash in an effort to quickly topple Assad.

Put those three things together — Iran, Russia, and terrorism — and you get a sense of why both Obama and Trump have to varying degrees felt the need to involve America in a brutal and seemingly intractable conflict.

The US policy under Obama: (mostly) non-intervention

Obama was president during the bulk of the Syrian civil war, and his legacy as commander in chief will be shaped in part by what he chose to do there — and what he chose to avoid.

One of those things was to refuse to endorse any kind of large-scale effort aimed at toppling Assad — repeatedly overruling members of his administration, like Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and CIA Director David Petraeus, who wanted to provide more advanced weaponry to the rebels. Parallel CIA and Pentagon efforts to recruit, train, and arm Syrian rebels did little to shape the course of the conflict; in 2015, the Defense Department had to concede that its $250 million effort had trained a grand total of 60 fighters (that’s more than $4 million per trainee).

Perhaps the defining moment came on August 21, 2013, when Assad's forces launched sarin gas — a horrifying and deadly chemical weapon — into the Damascus suburb of Ghouta, killing up to 1,423 people. Most of the dead were civilians.

Prior to the attack, President Obama had declared chemical weapons use to be a "red line": If Assad used them, it would trigger an American military response. But after Ghouta, Obama didn't seem to want to follow through. He submitted a plan for punitive airstrikes in Syria to Congress, where lawmakers from both parties signaled that it was likely to fail.

Russia offered Obama a way out of his self-made dilemma. It brokered a deal with Assad where he would agree to give up his chemical weapons and submit to international inspections if the United States agreed not to attack Assad.

The Obama team accepted this as a lifeline. As they saw it, the critical issue was never the Syrian civil war, which the president had decided was too risky to intervene in. Rather, it was the use of chemical weapons — a particularly heinous act prohibited by international law. If the threat of American military force got Assad to back down from chemical use, that would make chemical weapons use less likely in Syria and in other conflicts without putting American troops in harm’s way or risking a wider conflagration.

“I’m very proud of this moment,” Obama told the Atlantic’s Jeffrey Goldberg. ““The overwhelming weight of conventional wisdom and the machinery of our national-security apparatus had gone fairly far. The perception was that my credibility was at stake, that America’s credibility was at stake. And so for me to press the pause button at that moment, I knew, would cost me politically [but] I believe ultimately it was the right decision to make.”

Critics, by contrast, saw it as a cop-out. They argued that if Obama wouldn’t intervene after drawing a “red line” about chemical use, Assad and his allies would see it as proof that the US would never intervene for any reason. This, according to some experts, is the key reason Russia decided to escalate so dramatically in 2015: They came to believe that Obama wasn’t as invested in trying to push out Assad as they were in trying to keep him in power, which means the US would largely give them a free hand. In essence, Obama’s attempt to deter chemical weapons use destroyed his ability to deter Russian intervention.

“It is precisely when Obama went for the chemical weapons deal over strikes in 2013 that Moscow understood it had escalation dominance in Syria,” Emile Hokayem, a Syria expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, wrote in April.

This is a debatable point, to be sure. But there is no question that Obama left office with a civil war that had already killed at least 470,000 Syrians grinding along with no end in sight.

Wait, wasn’t the US bombing Syria before Trump?

There was one major exception to Obama’s hands-off policy in Syria: the war on ISIS. But it was carefully limited, in ways that show why Trump’s strike was such a major shift.

After the militant group swept across northern Iraq in June 2014, and came to control a swath of territory in Syria and Iraq roughly the size of Great Britain, the scale of the terrorist threat became impossible to deny. This, together with the videotaped beheadings of two American journalists, prompted Obama to declare a plan to "degrade and ultimately destroy" ISIS on September 10.

The linchpin of the plan was a series of American airstrikes, both in Syria and in Iraq, supporting forces on the ground that were fighting ISIS. In Iraq, that meant the official Iraqi army as well as tribal leaders and Shia militias. But it wasn’t clear, initially, who that would be in Syria.

Most rebel groups were preoccupied fighting Assad, and had no ability to really refocus on the Islamic State. The same was true, in reverse, for Assad; he had long maintained a sort of de facto ceasefire with ISIS so he could focus on fighting the moderate rebels whom he saw as a bigger threat.

The US ended up settling on fighters from the Kurdish ethnic group, based in northern Syria near the Turkish border, as their key allies. These Kurds were mostly uninvolved in the main civil war, as their chief objective was carving out a Kurdish state in majority-Kurdish areas rather than toppling Assad’s regime in Damascus. Moreover, ISIS had invaded their territory, and was besieging a Kurdish city named Kobane at the time of the US intervention.

So the thousands of missions flown by American warplanes, and hundreds of US special forces deployed to Syria, were supposed to accomplish two things: cut ISIS’s supply lines between Syria and Iraq, and back Kurdish forces in their fight against ISIS.

On this metric, they’ve more or less succeeded. American airstrikes helped break the siege of Kobane and allowed Kurdish forces to launch a counteroffensive that swept over ISIS’s holdings in north central Syria. Today, a joint Kurdish-Arab military group called the Syrian Democratic Forces is camped out within miles of ISIS’s capital city, Raqqa — and are preparing to attack the city itself, with major backing from US troops.

But note the delicacy of this strategy when it came to the main conflict in Syria.

The United States was fanatical about limiting the scope of this counter-ISIS campaign — in particular, making sure it never became a counter-Assad campaign. When the Pentagon sent weapons to some Syrian rebels whom they wanted to fight ISIS, it made them promise not to use those weapons against Assad. (The tiny number of rebels who took the US up on this weak offer were swiftly slaughtered by al-Qaeda forces.)

This only intensified after the Russian intervention began in September 2015. US and Russian forces developed a procedure for flying in the same airspace, called deconfliction, designed to ensure that there was no accidental US bombing of Russians or Assad forces. US and Russian planes managed to fly near each other, for well over a year, with no major incident — even as Russian planes were on their way to drop bombs on Syrian civilians.

This made crystal clear to both the Russians and the Syrians that the United States had no interest in intervening in their war on the rebels. They developed a sense of impunity — enabling atrocities like Saturday’s chemical attack.

Trump has already escalated once. Will he go further this time?

There was little reason to believe that Trump would treat Assad and Russia more harshly than Obama did. During the red line debate in 2013, he tweeted repeatedly and angrily against a strike, warning Obama to back down.

“AGAIN, TO OUR VERY FOOLISH LEADER, DO NOT ATTACK SYRIA,” he tweeted at the time (all caps his). “IF YOU DO MANY VERY BAD THINGS WILL HAPPEN & FROM THAT FIGHT THE U.S. GETS NOTHING!”

During the presidential campaign, Trump even suggested that Assad’s rule was better for Syria than the alternatives. “We don't know who the rebels are,” he said in an October presidential debate. “If they ever did overthrow Assad ... you may very well end up with worse than Assad.”

Trump did not return to his “partner with Russia” policy after taking office. But he did shift the US’s Syria policy, at least rhetorically, with several administration officials suggesting the US would accept Assad staying in power. (Obama wasn’t doing anything substantive to oust Assad but was at least rhetorically committed to his departure.)

That all changed with last year’s chemical weapons attack. In April 2017, Assad used chemical weapons in the town of Khan Sheikhoun, killing more than 80 people — including children. At the time, Trump seemed genuinely angry and horrified by the photos and videos of children killed in the chemical weapons strike, and wanted something done about it.

This isn’t as much of a surprise as it might seem: Trump has always been more of an instinctive hawk than was genuinely believed. Back in March 2011, when Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi was killing his own people in the early stages of the country’s civil war, Trump released a video calling on then-President Obama to “stop this guy” and “save these lives.”

Thomas Wright, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who has spent the past several months studying Trump’s foreign policy doctrine, thinks a similar kind of emotional reaction might be at work here.

“There [have been] very few iconic images of brutality from the Syrian civil war,” he told me. “A picture of a lot of children gassed is pretty horrific for anyone to see.”

But the nature of the attack itself also mattered.

The goal of the 2013 deal Obama made with Syria wasn’t just to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile (a goal at which it clearly failed). It was to show that chemical weapons were somehow different from normal weapons, more unacceptable. The agreement was supposed to show that rogue actors like Assad have two choices: either agree to stop using chemical weapons or face some kind of punishment.

Between 2013 and 2017, this had mostly worked: Assad had not used a nerve agent prohibited by the Chemical Weapons Convention (though he has used chlorine gas, a chemical weapon that isn’t explicitly banned).

What’s known as the “norm” against chemical weapons use — the idea that chemical weapons were, like nuclear and biological weapons, a special kind of evil to be prohibited even in vicious wars — had been upheld, seemingly backstopped by US threat of force.

Last year’s attack made clear that Assad was prepared to break that norm at will, something certainly not lost on Defense Secretary Mattis or then-National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster. They know how serious a violation of the norms around chemical weapons this attack is and how important it is to limit the use of such of weapons. They have likely told the president this, and informed him that American credibility is on the line.

“This is a kind of flagrant flouting of that agreement. ... It’s physical proof that they’ve duped the international community,” Michael Hanna, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation who follows the Syria conflict, says. “It is different than other kinds of war crimes committed by the regime, and ... that view is clearly going to be relayed to him by his close advisers.”

This appears to be the main reason Trump struck Syria, both last year and this time around. His goal wasn’t to intervene in any of the broader and more complicated dynamics of the war — to stop the civil war or weaken Iran. Rather, it’s designed to tell Assad that chemical weapon use will be punished. The goal of last year’s strike was, as Trump said explicitly, to “deter” future chemical weapons use by Assad. Clearly, deterrence failed. If Trump wants to establish it, he’ll need to make this volley more effectual than the last.

Meanwhile, the rebels are in trouble. Since the beginning of the Russian intervention in September 2015, Assad has steadily retaken territory; major rebel strongholds, like the city of Aleppo, have fallen to regime forces. “Assad won his war to stay in power,” Mara Karlin, a scholar at the Brookings Institution, concluded in February congressional testimony.

Another limited strike won’t change that dynamic. Last year’s attack did such little damage, in fact, that Syrian warplanes were already flying missions out of the sole airbase Trump targeted within a day of the airstrike. Trump would need to do something bigger if he wanted to really scare Assad.

There are two main questions going forward. First, what will the new strikes look like? Second, if they do turn out to be much bigger, could they escalate into something far larger, with Trump potentially being pressured into trying to not just constrain Assad but turn the tide of the conflict itself?

We don’t know the answers to these questions yet. But they will play a significant role in determining America’s role in Syria — and, possibly, the future course of the Syrian civil war itself.In America, you can find inequality between white and black people just about everywhere you look. Stark disparities exist in education, in health, in income. And they creep into underappreciated parts of daily life too, like sleep.

Research shows black Americans on average simply don’t sleep as well white Americans do. They don’t sleep as long, they don’t sleep through the night as often, and they suffer more heavily from sleep apnea, a potentially life-threatening disorder. Other minority groups, such as Latinos and Asian Americans, also sleep more poorly than white Americans. But the differences are starkest in black communities.

The sleep gap is essential to understand. It’s a disparity that is both caused by social inequalities and likely to perpetuate them. And that means it could be a ripe target for an intervention that could radically improve millions of American lives. Here are the most important things to know about the black-white sleep gap in America.

Studies consistently find black Americans sleep more poorly than white Americans

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends most adults get around seven hours of sleep or more per night. And in a nationally representative study in 2014, the CDC found 33 percent of white Americans reported getting less than that. For black Americans, that figure jumped to 46 percent reporting poor sleep. To put it more simply: Around half of black Americas don’t get enough sleep.

The CDC survey simply had people report how much sleep they were getting. But researchers have also conducted studies where participants have their sleep tracked by Fitbit-like devices called actigraphy bands.

Some of these studies, which track a large number of participants over the course of a week or more, find as much as an hour difference in the average time spent asleep between black and white Americans.

Poor sleep contributes to a vicious cycle of poor health and inequality

Not only do black Americans sleep fewer hours, there’s evidence that the sleep they get is of poorer quality: waking up more frequently and spending less time in the most restful stages of sleep. Black Americans are also more likely to develop sleep apnea, a breathing disorder that can have a serious impact on sleep and health.

When studies control for various socioeconomic factors (like education level), the sleep gap narrows, but it doesn’t disappear completely.

Poor sleep both reflects disparities in America and also likely contributes to them. Living in a poorer, noisier neighborhood with a higher rate of crime is associated with poorer sleep. As is having to work multiple jobs or in overnight shifts (another burden overrepresented in poorer communities).

In turn, it’s suspected that poor sleep can contribute to heart disease, diabetes, and obesity, which also disproportionally affect black Americans.

In the academic literature, short sleep has been associated with higher blood pressure, body mass index, and increased calcification of the coronary artery. In lab experiments, people who slept only five hours a night for one week became less sensitive to insulin, which makes it harder to maintain blood sugar levels. In an overnight sleep study of 1,024 individuals, poor sleep was associated with the misregulation of the hunger hormones leptin and ghrelin, which would explain another finding: that when people are denied sleep, they have increased appetite.

Poor sleep may play a role in a vicious cycle. Poorer health outcomes then negatively impact the economic prospects of black Americans.

This will be a tough problem to solve

The answers here aren’t simple. It’s not yet conclusively known if helping people sleep better would reduce the prevalence of conditions like obesity, diabetes, and heart disease. Poor sleep contributes to and is a risk factor for these conditions, but that doesn’t necessarily mean good sleep would lessen them.

And even if better sleep is the ticket, it’s a huge challenge to get millions to sleep better.

You may have heard experts tout the benefits of good sleep hygiene. For instance, we should put our phones away an hour before bed because their bright light (particularly the blue light) can keep us awake. That’s a useful tip, but stashing away the phone won’t make up for a noisy neighborhood or a house with poor temperature controls. It doesn’t lift the stress of discrimination, which researchers find also plays a role in keeping people up at night. It doesn’t alleviate the jet lag induced by working odd-hour shifts, which can also lead to averse health outcomes.

Education helps too. In 2015, I (Brian) followed a group of NYU researchers who were going out into black communities in New York to screen residents for sleep apnea and encouraging them to get sleep treatment. They would teach community members that even small fixes, like alleviating snoring, can help people sleep more soundly through the night.

But for now, it’s important to recognize that sleep is an indicator of a community’s health, wealth, and overall well-being. And if sleep is disrupted on such a wide scale, it’s indicative of greater disruptions elsewhere.What happens if President Donald Trump fires Robert Mueller? Will that effectively end Mueller’s ever-expanding Russia probe? Or will the investigation persist with or without Mueller?

As my Vox colleague Zachary Fryer-Briggs noted this week, Trump’s attacks on Mueller are getting increasingly personal. Until recently, Trump had (for the most part) resisted mentioning Mueller by name, criticizing the investigation instead. But now he’s tweeting direct insults of Mueller, calling him “conflicted” and “crazy” and insisting there’s “no collusion.”

There are also reports that Trump is seriously considering firing Mueller in order to curb his investigation. It appears he’s also considering firing Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein (perhaps instead of Mueller) after Monday’s FBI raid on Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen.

If either of these scenarios plays out, it’s not clear what would happen to Mueller’s probe. To get a better sense of the possibilities, I reached out to nine legal experts and asked them directly.

Their full responses, lightly edited for clarity and style, are below.

Victoria Nourse, law professor, Georgetown University

The investigation will persist for several reasons. First, because there are pending indictments. If Mueller is fired, the deputy attorney general can transfer Manafort’s and any other pending cases to other lawyers within the Justice Department. The president could name his own special counsel, but that’s what President Nixon did when he fired Archibald Cox, and the result was a new special counsel who was equally independent, so that’s not a way out either.

Second, prosecutions can proceed outside the Justice Department in Washington by local US attorneys. The warrant obtained against Mr. Cohen, the president’s lawyer, is reason to believe new indictments will issue.

If I were the US attorney for New York (the head federal lawyer in New York appointed by Trump), and I had to approve the Cohen warrant and search, I would want solid proof of a felony. The legal standard for a warrant is not high, but no one would go after a lawyer unless there was pretty hard evidence of a crime. Any indictment against Cohen does not have to come from a special counsel; it can issue from the US attorney in New York.

Third, if Mueller is fired, Congress won’t sit by quietly. Republicans are already signing on to bills that would protect Mueller, or at least have a court weigh in to determine whether his dismissal was proper. Any case involving Mueller’s firing would have to consider the evidence Mueller unearthed.

Finally, if all else fails, state attorneys general, as we have seen in cases on the travel ban or emoluments or immigration, have wide latitude and authority to investigate and bring criminal charges.

Diane Marie Amann, law professor, University of Georgia

Would firing Mueller end the Mueller investigation? Yes and no.

Yes, because firing the investigation’s leader could chill full pursuit of the investigation’s most politically fraught aspects.

No, because the existing web of prosecutorial initiatives would not simply vanish. Federal guilty pleas would remain in place, and federal proceedings arising out of indictments would continue. Any chilling of federal efforts, moreover, would not block state investigations into allegations of fraud, money laundering, and other white-collar crimes.

Jens David Ohlin, law professor, Cornell University

Trump can’t fire Mueller directly — he needs Rosenstein to do it for him. So getting rid of Mueller would involve replacing either Rosenstein or Attorney General Jeff Sessions. At that point, the fate of the investigation would depend entirely on who is in charge of supervising the investigation and whether they want it to continue or not.

If a new attorney general is determined to shut down the investigation and also shut down all related prosecutions by regular DOJ prosecutors, then the investigation would be effectively dead. On the other hand, a new attorney general might stand up to Trump by replacing Mueller with an equally respectable special prosecutor determined to continue the investigation and find the truth.

That’s what happened to Nixon after the Saturday Night Massacre. But Trump might avoid the same “mistake” by appointing a new attorney general who has already promised to him that he’ll shut down the Russia investigation completely. At that point, the only hope would be a congressional investigation launched by Democrats after the midterm elections, or state prosecutions in New York and other local jurisdictions (which aren’t controlled by the Justice Department).

Lisa Griffin, law professor, Duke University

Firing Mueller would not end the investigation into the president and his associates. First of all, there are 19 indictments pending in court. Though it is unlikely that the Russian nationals who have been charged will be brought to justice, the Paul Manafort trial is coming up, and Mike Flynn, George Papadopoulos, Rick Gates, and Richard Pinedo have all entered guilty pleas and await sentencing.

These are filed cases in real court — not fake news. The Justice Department would presumably continue to staff the cases and see them through. That’s also true of the open investigation. A new special counsel, existing members of Mueller’s team, and/or prosecutors in US attorneys’ offices could run out the leads that Mueller has already developed.

There is even some indication that state-level prosecutors in New York — insulated from the president’s potential actions and beyond the reach of his pardon power as well — are also ready to pursue parallel state crimes pertaining to financial improprieties.

Jed Shugerman, law professor, Fordham University

Even if Trump fires Mueller, there are many reasons the investigation will continue. First, Mueller and Rosenstein referred the Michael Cohen case to the US attorney for the Southern District of New York, a separate set of permanent prosecutors.

Second, Mueller was reportedly coordinating with New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. Trump can’t fire state prosecutors or pardon state crimes, and state criminal law covers many of the underlying alleged crimes in these investigations.

Third, even if Trump fires Mueller, Rosenstein could appoint a new special counsel. And if he fires both, the new acting attorney general would be under tremendous pressure to appoint a new special counsel. Trump would have to fire many people to be able to install his own lackey to do his bidding.

Fourth, firing Mueller (and Rosenstein) doesn’t mean that Mueller’s team of prosecutors is automatically dissolved. After Nixon ordered the firing of special prosecutor Archibald Cox in the Saturday Night Massacre, Cox’s team preserved their records and continued their work under a new special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski.

And fifth, it would be likely that the Senate Intelligence Committee, the only committee that has taken its duty seriously so far, would step up its own investigation, potentially hiring Mueller, as long as one or two Republican senators voted with the Democrats to proceed.

And even if this committee failed to uphold its duty now, it seems likely that if the Democrats retake one or both houses of Congress, congressional committees in January 2019 would change hands and take on their constitutional duty to check, balance, and investigate.

Renato Mariotti, former federal prosecutor, 2007 to 2016

There are currently multiple open investigations at the Justice Department. The FBI has collected evidence and has written reports summarizing interviews with witnesses. There are pending indictments of a number of individuals.

If Mueller is fired, those investigations don’t close themselves. The evidence and reports are not destroyed. The indictments are not dismissed. Unless Trump appoints someone who takes it upon himself or herself to close the open investigations and dismiss the court cases, they will continue to proceed.

Steven Duke, law professor, Yale University

Assuming that Mueller is fired, questions would remain — whether the office of special prosecutor still exists and how and by whom Mueller can be replaced. Even if Mueller’s firing also abolished his office, his investigation would continue and likely expand in the hands of the FBI and other agencies, congressional committees, members of the Justice Department (whether specifically authorized or not), state investigators and prosecutors, and various vigilantes. Stirred hornets will attack in all directions.

Miriam Baer, law professor, Brooklyn Law School

Even if Trump is able to remove Mueller, he can’t just make the entire Mueller investigation go away. First, there would be the matter of the cases that have already been indicted and are already pending. Even if Mueller’s entire team were dismissed, the Department of Justice would still have to decide what to do with these prosecutions. The political costs of abandoning these cases (through a pardon or other means) would be enormous.

Second, the United States Attorney’s Offices for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York are already conducting their own investigations. Within each of these offices reside some of the most skilled prosecutors in the country. We know that Michael Cohen appears to be the subject of the Southern District’s investigation, and the Kushner Companies are reportedly the focus of the Eastern District’s inquiry.

Presumably, some of the factual material each district has uncovered in the course of its respective investigations partially overlaps that of the special counsel. Accordingly, one or both offices would almost certainly continue their investigations, unless and until President Trump took steps to block their work. And here, again, the political costs of extinguishing these investigations would be massive as well.

Finally, even if the president were to somehow extinguish all federal investigations of anyone he ever worked with or knew, he would remain powerless to interfere in any investigations by various state or local prosecutors of any violations of state law. State and federal criminal law differ in important ways, and state attorneys would need time to get up to speed. Nonetheless, those state prosecutors would be extremely incentivized to pick up where federal investigators left off.

Ric Simmons, law professor, Ohio State University

This is hard to say. A lot will depend on the political repercussions of Mueller’s firing. Legally, the Department of Justice can continue the investigation, but if the president fires Mueller, it is very likely he will order the Department of Justice to shut down the investigation.

It is not clear who will be running the Department of Justice at that point; Sessions has recused himself from this investigation, and Rosenstein will almost certainly have to be fired and replaced before the president can fire Mueller. But whoever the president finds to take Rosenstein’s place will be willing to carry out the order to shut down the investigation.

There may be small parts of Mueller’s investigation that can be taken up by state attorneys general, however, but without knowing the details of what Mueller is looking for, it is hard to know how much, if any, these state-level prosecutors will have jurisdiction over.The pressure on Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is building as inauspicious details keep emerging about his activities in office.

On Thursday, House and Senate Democrats sent two letters to Pruitt and the White House detailing new alleged transgressions provided by Kevin Chmielewski, a former campaign aide to President Trump who worked as a deputy chief of staff at the EPA under Pruitt.

The letters reveal Chmielewski’s deep concerns about a multitude of indiscretions, including Pruitt’s refusal to stay in secure hotels recommended by the State Department on international travel, instead opting for more opulent accommodations. Chmielewski also said that when he objected to retroactively signing off on paperwork justifying first-class travel for the administrator and one of his aides, he was sidelined and received threats from Nino Perrotta, the head of Pruitt’s 24-hour security detail. It’s worth reading the letters in their entirety:

The allegations of luxury travel, a sweetheart housing deal with a lobbyist, retaliation against staff, and Pruitt’s use of a loophole to get raises for two close aides that have been mounting now for weeks aren’t trivial. They could be serious violations of ethics, if not the law.

And government watchdog investigators are now systematically building a paper trail.

The New York Times reported this week that David Apol of the Office of Government Ethics, the top ethics official in the federal government, took the unusual step of writing a letter to the EPA’s head of ethics, Kevin Minoli, asking him to investigate potential ethics violations.

The Government Accountability Office and the EPA’s inspector general are also poring over records at the agency. And lawmakers, including some Republicans, are demanding answers.

“It gets worse every time there’s a report in the news,” said House Oversight Committee Chair Trey Gowdy (R-SC) at a book signing on Saturday. “I don’t have a lot of patience for that kind of stuff.”

The investigations will likely take months to complete, but the verdicts could change Pruitt’s standing in the White House and his future in government.

Here is a list based on the best information we could gather of many of the investigations into his time in office:

The EPA’s in-house watchdog is on the case

The EPA’s Office of the Inspector General audits and investigates potential wrongdoing at the agency. Though it’s part of the EPA, Congress appropriates its budget separately to give it independence.

The IG’s office confirmed to Vox that four audits related to Pruitt are underway:

There is an expanded investigation of the “frequency, cost and extent of the Administrator’s travel” after reports of Pruitt’s penchant for first-class flights and nearly $200,000 in travel expenses.

Pruitt has surrounded himself with an unprecedented 24-hour security detail with as many as 20 members. Newer concerns about the cost of his security arrangement were rolled into a previous IG audit started in 2016 looking into overpayments to security detail staff.

Building on the previous audit, the IG is also looking into the ongoing cost of Pruitt’s bodyguards and potential overbilling in how the team recorded their hours.

The IG is also examining Pruitt’s use of administrative hiring under the Safe Drinking Water Act, which allows the EPA to bring on staff without approval from Congress or the White House. The audit includes the report that two close Pruitt aides received huge raises after the White House declined to grant the pay bumps.

There are other audits gaining momentum as well:

Samantha Dravis, an associate administrator for policy at the EPA who traveled abroad with Pruitt, abruptly resigned earlier this month from her $179,700-a-year job. Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE) asked the IG last month to verify a report that she did not show up to work for much of the time between November 2017 and January 2018. The IG’s office confirmed to Vox that a review is underway that has not been formally announced.

The IG is also considering whether to investigate Pruitt’s housing arrangements. Pruitt leased a cushy condo close to Capitol Hill last year at the too-good-to-be-true rate of $50 a night, and only for the nights he stayed there. The condo belongs to the wife of a prominent lobbyist who petitioned the EPA on behalf of an energy utility and whose firm represents major oil and gas interests.

House Democrats report that the IG is examining whether Pruitt violated anti-lobbying rules during an April 2017 meeting with the National Mining Association where he encouraged the group to press President Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord.

The GAO is also scrutinizing the EPA

The GAO’s key responsibility is to keep track of how the government spends money, so it makes sense that the agency is very interested in what’s going on at the EPA.

Pruitt had a soundproof phone booth built in his office to the tune of $43,000. The GAO has now taken over this investigation from EPA’s IG.

The GAO is also investigating Pruitt for violating an anti-propaganda law. Pruitt appeared in a video for the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association asking ranchers to weigh in against an expansion of the Clean Water Act.

And some on Capitol Hill want more from the GAO.

Last November, 10 Senate Democrats asked the GAO to investigate Pruitt’s purge of science advisors.

Earlier this month, Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) sent a letter to the GAO asking it to look into Pruitt’s potential misuse of hiring authority as well.

Congress wants to know what’s up too

The House Oversight Committee is also investigating Pruitt’s travels and housing arrangements. Chair Gowdy said in a letter yesterday that he’s not happy with how the agency has cooperated with the inquiry.

Breaking: Today, Chairman Gowdy sent a follow-up letter to EPA Administrator Pruitt regarding Pruitt's official travel and lease agreement.



Read the pic.twitter.com/QvpqriErUb — Oversight Committee (@GOPoversight) April 11, 2018

Meanwhile, three House Republicans have called on Pruitt to resign, while two senators have publicly come to his defense. At the same time, the administrator’s allies in the fossil fuel sector and among conservative groups are rallying the troops to keep him in office, scrambling to justify his massive security detail and to brush off audits as a political ploy. (The White House has launched its own investigation into Pruitt’s condo deal as well.)

By the time these audits yield tangible results (it could be months), some of the pressure on Pruitt is likely to have dissipated. But environmentalists are energized and some Democrats smell blood in the water, so they aren’t likely to let this go and will continue making more inquiries.

And come November, the balance of power may shift in Congress. So the White House will have to weigh whether Pruitt can still advance the ball for the Trump agenda against the obstinate questions about his ethics.The top Republican in the US Senate wants to legalize hemp.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell introduced a bill on Thursday that would remove federal barriers to hemp, which is derived from the cannabis plant but, as a nonpsychoactive substance, can’t get someone high. Hemp, instead, is typically used for its fiber to make all kinds of products — food, paper, cardboard, carpets, clothes, rope, and more.

Hemp has historically been banned under federal drug laws that also prohibit marijuana. As Tom Angell reported at Forbes, the Hemp Farming Act of 2018 wouldn’t legalize pot for recreational or medical uses at the federal level, where psychoactive weed remains illegal for all purposes. It would only legalize hemp.

McConnell said last month that he hopes hemp “can become sometime in the future what tobacco was in Kentucky’s past.” As Don Sergent reported for Kentucky news outlets, some farmers in the state are similarly hoping that hemp can make up for the losses they’re now seeing in tobacco as the nation has realized the health risks posed by cigarettes.

The bill is also backed by Sens. Rand Paul (R-KY), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). And a companion bill has been introduced in the House.

It remains unclear how likely the bill is to pass Congress and get President Donald Trump’s signature. But having the support of the top Republican in the Senate certainly helps.

It's time the federal gov changes the way it looks at #hemp, which is why Senator @RonWyden and I, along with @SenJeffMerkley, are introducing legislation that will modernize federal law in this area & empower American farmers to explore this promising new market. — Leader McConnell (@SenateMajLdr) April 12, 2018

Federal law treats hemp like it’s a dangerous drug, but the only thing you’re going to accomplish by smoking hemp is wasting breath, time and lighter fluid. — Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) April 12, 2018

As it stands, farmers face several barriers to growing hemp due to federal prohibition — including restricted access to banking, water rights, and crop insurance. The bill would remove these restrictions, putting the US Department of Agriculture and state agencies in charge of regulations.

There are already limited research programs for hemp, which McConnell has supported in the past. And it’s actually already legal to sell hemp products — but cultivation is banned in most cases.

Here’s my bottom line on hemp ➡️ If you can BUY it in a supermarket in America, farmers should be allowed to GROW it in America. #HempFarmingAct — Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) April 12, 2018

Meanwhile, nine states and Washington, DC, have legalized the psychoactive form of cannabis for recreational purposes, while 29 states have for medical uses. McConnell, however, has historically opposed those forms of legalization.

For more on marijuana legalization, read Vox’s explainer.A new law intended to curb sex trafficking threatens the future of the internet as we know it

Share A new law intended to curb sex trafficking threatens the future of the internet as we know it

Wondering why Craigslist recently killed its (in)famous Personals section? You can thank Congress — and you can start bracing for more deletions and censorship to come.

This week, President Trump signed into law a set of controversial bills intended to make it easier to cut down on illegal sex trafficking online. Both bills — the House bill known as FOSTA, the Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, and the Senate bill, SESTA, the Stop Enabling Sex-Trafficking Act — have been hailed by advocates as a victory for sex trafficking victims.

But the bills also poke a huge hole in a famous and longstanding “safe harbor” rule of the internet: Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act. Usually shorthanded as “Section 230” and generally seen as one of the most important pieces of internet legislation ever created, it holds that “No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider.” In other words, Section 230 has allowed the internet to thrive on user-generated content without holding platforms and ISPs responsible for whatever those users might create.

But FOSTA-SESTA creates an exception to Section 230 that means website publishers would be responsible if third parties are found to be posting ads for prostitution — including consensual sex work — on their platforms. The goal of this is supposed to be that policing online prostitution rings gets easier. What FOSTA-SESTA has actually done, however, is create confusion and immediate repercussions among a range of internet sites as they grapple with the ruling’s sweeping language.

In the immediate aftermath of SESTA’s passage on March 21, 2018, numerous websites took action to censor or ban parts of their platforms in response — not because those parts of the sites actually were promoting ads for prostitutes, but because policing them against the outside possibility that they might was just too hard.

All of this bodes poorly for the internet as a whole. After all, as many opponents of the bill have pointed out, the law doesn’t appear to do anything concrete to target illegal sex trafficking directly, and instead threatens to “increase violence against the most marginalized.” But it does make it a lot easier to censor free speech on small websites — as evidenced by the immediate ramifications the law has had across the internet.

What FOSTA-SESTA is intended to do: curb online sex work

FOSTA and SESTA began their respective lives as two different bills created in an effort to curb sex trafficking on online personals sites — in particular, Backpage.com.

Backpage has long been known for its advertisements for sex workers (though these were formally removed from the site last year). It’s also seen numerous controversies related to illegal sex work; authorities have arrested individuals using it to pay for sex, and Backpage has aided law enforcement in investigations into ads on its site. In the past, authorities have taken down similar websites through targeted raids.

But previous attempts by authorities to hold Backpage responsible for illegal content on its website have failed due to Section 230’s dictum that websites aren’t liable for content posted by their users. This trend culminated in the December 2016 dismissal of a lawsuit designed to target Backpage for ads on its websites. The presiding judge explicitly cited Section 230 in his decision to dismiss.

Immediately following this dismissal, however, the tide rapidly seemed to turn against Backpage. In January 2017, a Senate investigation ultimately found Backpage to be complicit in obscuring ads for child trafficking. A month later, a documentary of survivors called I Am Jane Doe focused on Backpage, arguing that the safe harbor provision protecting Backpage from liability for ads on its sites should be done away with.

Congress listened. FOSTA and SESTA were created last year in response to the backlash, specifically naming Backpage in an attempt to ensure that future lawsuits like the one dismissed in 2016 could move forward.

This move drew immediate skepticism from within the legal community. Noted law professor and blogger Eric Goldman wrote of SESTA’s creation that “The bill would expose Internet entrepreneurs to additional unclear criminal risk, and that would chill socially beneficial entrepreneurship well outside the bill’s target zone.” He also pointed out that existing criminal laws already do most of what FOSTA-SESTA is designed to do — an argument bolstered by the fact that as recently as this month, Backpage was still facing legal troubles under existing laws that exempt it from 230 protection.

What FOSTA-SESTA probably won’t do: make sex workers safer

The bill’s supporters have framed FOSTA and SESTA as vital tools that will allow officials to police websites and allow sex trafficking survivors to sue those websites for facilitating their victimization. This is a disingenuous portrayal, however, because it fails to acknowledge the ways the internet makes it easier for sex workers to do their work safely, while also making it easier for law enforcement to document and gain evidence about illegal activity.

There is ample evidence, both anecdotal and researched, that giving sex workers a way to advertise, vet, and choose clients online makes them much safer than they are without an online system. When they’re forced onto the streets to find clients, sex workers have fewer advance safety precautions in place, no ability to effectively pre-screen clients, and no way to ensure that they work in safe, secure locations.

The bill also conflates consensual sex work with nonconsensual sex work by doing nothing to differentiate between various kinds of sex work and related content — even if the workers and content are all legally protected by local law. In Nevada, where prostitution is legal in some areas of the state, sex workers have been bracing for FOSTA-SESTA. And one Nevada sex worker recently blamed the bill’s passage for a new local referendum that is attempting to shut down legal adult brothels.

It’s important to note that not differentiating between consensual and nonconsensual sex work is part of an international legal standard codified in a 2000 United Nations protocol. This protocol was later expounded upon in a 2014 follow-up that examined issues of consent and asserted that “consent is always irrelevant to determining whether the crime of human trafficking has occurred.”

However, sex workers have argued vociferously that regardless of legal precedent, this conflation makes both consensual and nonconsensual sex workers less safe. Melissa Mariposa, who responded to the bill by creating an offshore-hosted, sex worker-friendly ISP, described the risks to the Daily Dot:

“If sex workers lose their storefront and safety tools, two things are going to happen,” Mariposa explained. “Number one, the predators will come out to play. Number two, prostitution is going to be pushed right back on the street and in hotel bars by women who will no longer want to see internet clientele and would rather take the risks freelancing. This will create more victims than it helps.”

There’s also plenty of research indicating that online avenues help officials do their work more effectively. A 2016 State Department report found that due to the transparency provided by Backpage and similar sites, the number of identified victims of sex trafficking increased over a seven-year period from fewer than 31,000 to nearly 78,000.

Identifying perpetrators, however, remains challenging. The reality is that authorities have had very little success effectively prosecuting sex traffickers under existing criminal law. In 2014, according to the same State report, a total of 392 sex trafficking investigations led to the prosecution of 105 defendants for sex trafficking. Of those 105 cases, courts convicted 79 offenders but sentenced only 19 of them to prison, with sentences ranging from two to 10 years. These light sentences were largely due to leniency for first-time offenders.

These statistics illustrate just how hard it is to effectively prosecute sex trafficking on an individual level. The solution provided by FOSTA-SESTA, therefore, is to attack websites that facilitate trafficking, despite the fact that they also arguably make it easier for authorities to track down perpetrators, rather than empowering the law to more effectively prosecute the sex traffickers themselves.

All of this explains why a coalition of sex workers, advocates, sex trafficking survivors, and even the Department of Justice have all strongly opposed the idea that FOSTA-SESTA is an effective deterrent to sex trafficking.

The bill arguably endangers, rather than helps, at least one class of sex workers: adults who want to do their work consensually and safely. And if we consider the increased amount of transparency around sex work that will be lost when sites like Backpage are shut down, it’s also arguable that nonconsensual victims of sex trafficking will become less visible and more vulnerable by being shunted away from the visible parts of the web, into the deep web and dark corners of real life. All in all, FOSTA-SESTA is poised to put multiple vulnerable populations at a much higher risk.

Despite this, Congress overwhelmingly voted to pass both bills into law — which may have more to do with the larger moment of backlash against tech culture and its recent “breaches of trust and moral obligation,” as SESTA co-sponsor Sen. Richard Blumenthal put it, rather than the specific goals of these particular bills.

Then again, the final versions of both bills are far more sweeping than they were originally intended to be.

What FOSTA-SESTA actually does: rip a giant hole in the governing foundation of the internet

For two decades, the internet has functioned in accordance with Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act. Because of Section 230, courts have a clear foundation for adjudicating free speech on the internet. And, crucially, because of Section 230, website owners and server hosts aren’t constantly mired in endless lawsuits because someone said something inflammatory on one of their sites.

Without this clause exempting websites from liability for the actions of their users, most websites simply couldn’t afford to exist. They would have to perpetually ward off potential legal action based on the unpredictable behavior of their users, by devoting endless resources to moderating everything their users did, by simply banning user activities altogether, or by throwing millions of dollars at litigation costs. The vast majority of the internet as we know it — all but a handful of websites run by tech companies with massive resources, which arguably couldn’t have reached that status without Section 230’s protections — would be unable to function under this kind of pressure.

Enter FOSTA-SESTA, which create enforceable loopholes in websites if they appear to be allowing prostitution advertisements. That sounds specific, but it’s not.

FOSTA, a bill originally passed in February by the House, was initially set up to focus solely on sites like Backpage — that is, sites that seemed designed just to give a space to sex workers. But by the time it had made it to the House floor, the bill had gained broader, sterner provisions borrowed from the Senate version of the bill, SESTA — provisions that included all websites. This then ballooned into the bill combo that wound up headed to President Trump’s desk for signing. The EFF has called it “a bad bill that turned into a worse bill and then was rushed through votes in both houses of Congress.”

Instead of directly targeting websites known to facilitate sex trafficking, the FOSTA-SESTA hybrid essentially sets up a template for “broad-based censorship” across the web. This means websites will have to decide whether to overpolice their platforms for potential prostitution advertisements or to underpolice them so they can maintain a know-nothing stance, which would likely be a very tricky claim to prove in court.

The bill’s language penalizes any websites that “promote or facilitate prostitution,” and allows authorities to pursue websites for “knowingly assisting, facilitating, or supporting sex trafficking,” which is vague enough to threaten everything from certain cryptocurrencies to porn videos to sites for perfectly legal escort services. (In fact, one of the bill’s main supporters, the National Center on Sexual Exploitation, is arguably using the bill as a path to attack consensual adult pornography, which it has characterized as “violent,“ “degrading,” and “a public health crisis.”)

None of this actually prevents sex work advertising from being created or posted; it just puts the onus on website owners to self-police. SESTA’s provisions allow for legal action against any website found to be “knowingly assisting, supporting, or facilitating” advertisements for sex work. That means everyone and anyone, from Twitter to eBay to your uncle’s motorcycle-trading forum.

Predictably, the bill’s passage left many websites scrambling to figure out how to adjust.

FOSTA-SESTA side effects: websites are pressured into deleting content, whether or not it has anything to do with sex work

Two days after SESTA’s passage by the Senate, Craigslist removed its entire personals section from its platform, citing the difficulty of adhering to the new changes to the law if it continued to allow open posting on its dating section. The move left Craigslist users quizzing one another for alternative personals sites, and sent some into the “activity” category with wink-wink requests for “activity partners.”

Another longstanding escort service, Cityvibe — which tacitly hosted sex workers advertising under the guise of legal services like escorting and massages — shut down altogether, reportedly without refunding money to sex workers who had been posting ads there.

The furry-centric dating website Pounced.org was another casualty of the bill combo. When it shut down overnight a week after SESTA passed, the website left a lengthy note explaining that specific language in FOSTA undermined Section 230 in a way that made “sites operated by small organizations like pounced.org much riskier to operate.”

“We don’t promote prostitution or sex trafficking,” the site’s moderators wrote. “We’re a personals site for the furry community. ... The problem is, with limited resources and a small volunteer staff, our risk for operating the site has now significantly increased.”

In addition, Reddit banned multiple subreddits in response, including r/escorts, r/maleescorts, r/hookers and r/SugarDaddy. Redditors at other forums, like r/SexWorkers, rapidly began redefining and re-articulating their rules in order to keep their own communities safe from the crackdown. Meanwhile, sex workers who had been relying on jobs coming from various websites were left grappling with a complicated litany of precautions to take in order to continue trying to conduct their business safely in the shadow of the new law.

Motherboard also reported that in the wake of SESTA’s passage, Google began reviewing and deleting content directly off the Drive accounts of several of its users. Though the tech giant has a longstanding policy against stashing sexually explicit images and videos on its popular cloud storage system, it appears to have begun a proactive sweep of its user accounts in response to the bill.

Similarly, in late March, Microsoft abruptly announced a drastic change to its policies and enforcement of those policies that effectively scoured its many services, including Skype and its cloud storage products, of any adult content. This drew complaints from Skype users, who feared that Microsoft’s auto-detection filters would ban any Skype user who happened to be involved in consensual sexual activity using the platform.

It should go without saying that it’s possible to possess pornographic material without being connected to a prostitution ring. But again, the vague terms of the bill mean that the only choice for most websites in terms of how they approach policing user content lies between strategic inaction or preemptive overreaction. In cases like Google and Craigslist, preemptive overreaction seems to be the preferred model. While neither Google nor Microsoft explicitly tied its sudden censorship and policy enforcement to the passage of the bills, the timing was hard to ignore.

What FOSTA-SESTA could lead to: the further eroding of internet safe harbor protection

Internet freedom advocates have argued strenuously against FOSTA-SESTA. One of the biggest fears surrounding the bill combo is that it could create room for more bills that attempt to create even more exemptions in Section 230.

This isn’t an alarmist cry; in recent years, prosecutors and litigants have been gunning hard for Section 230, and courts have responded with a strikingly high number of rulings in which they found that safe harbor protections did not apply in specific cases. This trend has given rise to fears that the primary law protecting the internet as we know it is under attack.

Legal experts and internet advocates have strongly opposed “any law that alters the framework set up by Section 230.” We’ve already seen that weakening any part of it yields immediate self-censorship and preemptive deletion on the part of several websites — and this is before lawsuits have even entered the picture. Without Section 230 protections, websites would essentially be forced to hedge resources against unforeseen lawsuits based on unpredictable activity on the part of their users.

The vast majority of the internet’s infrastructure comprises websites and platforms that lack the resources to handle this measure of liability. Those websites, or parts of them, would simply be shuttered overnight, as we’ve seen with Craigslist’s personals sections, or would presumably do away with many spaces where their users can interact and have a voice.

“This bill jeopardizes not only classified ads sites but also dating apps, discussion forums, social media sites, and any other service that hosts user-generated content,” said Emma Llansó of the Center for Democracy & Technology in a public statement opposing the bill. “Smaller platforms will also face the real risk that a single lawsuit could put them out of business.”

There’s ample historical precedent for this argument because it’s why Section 230 was established to begin with. In Zeran v. America Online Inc., the first major federal court case to discuss Section 230, the court’s decision made it clear that there was a dire need to protect websites from the “impossible burden” of endless legal threats:

Whenever one was displeased with the speech of another party conducted over an interactive computer service, the offended party could simply “notify” the relevant service provider, claiming the information to be legally defamatory. In light of the vast amount of speech communicated through interactive computer services, these notices could produce an impossible burden for service providers, who would be faced with ceaseless choices of suppressing controversial speech or sustaining prohibitive liability.

This is why many activists and internet freedom advocates have charged FOSTA-SETA with threatening free speech. As for Section 230, making it susceptible to more exemptions would render the whole clause useless as a governing tool.

Whom FOSTA-SESTA might actually help: corporate giants that want more control over the internet’s untamed spaces

There is one group that does stand to gain a significant amount from this bill package: a network of corporate giants ranging from Hollywood studios to Silicon Valley behemoths.

Prior to SESTA’s passage in the Senate, a parade of celebrities including Amy Schumer and Seth Meyers filmed a PSA to promote it as a tool to fight sex trafficking. Disney threw its weight behind SESTA in a letter to lawmakers supporting the bill, and 20th Century Fox followed suit. But while plenty of well-meaning individuals might have sincerely wanted to “stop” sex trafficking, as the name of the bill suggests, the motivations for the corporate entities that chose to back the bills are more suspect.

The EFF argues that the reason for Hollywood studio interest in FOSTA-SESTA is that it lays the groundwork for the industry to institute automatic censorship and filtering against user speech. The purpose of this would be to simultaneously crack down on any potential copyright threats, namely with the use of automated copyright bots, while corralling user innovation and creativity through channels that are controlled and monitored by preexisting companies.

In other words, the long-term goal would be to cordon off the Wild West of the internet by dividing former free speech zones into spaces controlled by monetized, corporatized entities — a system that would also favor monopolization and unfair competition by industry giants over small internet startups. The tech giant Oracle lent its support to SESTA in a letter opining that any new startup could access “virtually unlimited” technology, and further argued that good technology companies were all about data monetization and user base targeting — not “blindly run[ning] platforms with no control of the content.”

It’s important to note that at one point, tech giants like Facebook and Amazon were lobbying against FOSTA-SESTA through the interest group the Internet Association. But in the final months before the bills went to a vote, they backed off, switching from opposition to support after SESTA was changed to focus on platforms that provide “knowing assistance” to trafficking ventures.

Similar to their strange, glaring silence in the face of renewed attacks on net neutrality, many tech industry leaders seem willing to compromise on issues that will ultimately debilitate their much smaller cohorts on the internet. Small dating sites, Craiglist, Reddit, and the user-driven nonprofit Wikipedia (which has stridently opposed the bill package) have made it clear they can’t afford to suffer the long-term effects of FOSTA-SESTA — at least not without drastically overhauling their sites and everything about the way those sites operate.

But unless FOSTA-SESTA is overturned, either by court rulings or by new legislature from Congress that doesn’t seem to be forthcoming, those smaller sites might not have a choice. Whether or not Section 230 is ultimately weakened overall because of FOSTA-SESTA, it seems clear that we’re in a moment when many of the freedoms and protections we’ve previously assumed were woven into the fabric of the web are being systematically unraveled, challenged, and overridden by powerful special interest groups. If this keeps happening without abatement or countering, we will inevitably be faced with a drastically different, far less democratic version of the internet.

And as the immediate changes to the infrastructure of the web in the wake of FOSTA-SESTA indicate, it all might happen more swiftly than we think.In his new book A Higher Loyalty, former FBI Director James Comey admits what most observers had inferred: that the overwhelming conventional wisdom that Hillary Clinton was going to win on Election Day played a role in his fateful decision to refocus the campaign on the email matter in late October.

“It is entirely possible,” Comey writes, “that because I was making decisions in an environment where Hillary Clinton was sure to be the next president, my concern about making her an illegitimate president by concealing the restarted investigation bore greater weight than it would have if the election appeared closer or if Donald Trump were ahead in all polls. But I don’t know.”

This is, obviously, a mistake that a lot of people made. Many polling-based models of the election showed Clinton with an overwhelming — 90 percent or greater — chance of winning. The main exception was Nate Silver’s FiveThirtyEight, which showed her with “only” a 65 percent chance of winning.

And even some of us who weighed the debate and decided Silver’s statistical modeling was superior talked ourselves into the idea that he was wrong anyway due to Barack Obama’s high approval rating.

Regardless, this is obviously not appropriate criteria for an FBI director to be using when making crucial decisions.

And it points to one of the central ironies of Trump’s decision to fire Comey — the cover story that he was dismissed because of his handling of the email investigation actually makes a great deal of sense. It would have been perfectly reasonable, given the circumstances, for the president to thank Comey for his years of distinguished service in a variety of capacities but judge that the country and the FBI would both be better served by a new leader who wasn’t going to be caught up in the inevitable endless arguments about the 2016 election. There’s a good reason the Republican National Committee is going back to the cover story as the centerpiece of its Lyin’ Comey rebuttal initiative.

The problem is that, as Trump admitted to Lester Holt, this isn’t actually the reason he fired Comey.The war on former FBI Director James Comey has begun. And President Donald Trump himself fired the opening shot. On Twitter, Donald Trump introduced a new insult to his repertoire, calling James Comey a “slime ball.”

James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR. Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired. He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

....untruthful slime ball who was, as time has proven, a terrible Director of the FBI. His handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case, and the events surrounding it, will go down as one of the worst “botch jobs” of history. It was my great honor to fire James Comey! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

Trump and his allies are trying to get out ahead of the release of Comey’s book next week, in which the former FBI head characterizes the president as a pee-tape-obsessed fantasist whose expectations of loyalty were reminiscent of Mafia dons.

The Republican National Committee and the White House have collaborated on a campaign to damage Comey’s credibility — and in the process to imply that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and special counsel Robert Mueller, who are now overseeing the investigation into Russian collusion and obstruction of justice, are compromised by association with Comey.

True to form, Trump himself is leading the charge, and he’s doing it on Twitter.

Why Trump calls Comey a “liar” and a “leaker”

Donald Trump is mashing three different attacks on Comey into the space of 560 characters. Since they’re all complaints that Trump and his allies have made about Comey before, though, it’s pretty easy to figure out what the president means.

“Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired” for “his handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case.” The official reason that Comey was fired, as spelled out in a memo from Rosenstein, was his handling of the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state. But Rosenstein’s allegations — echoing criticisms made by Democrats during and after the 2016 presidential campaign — were that Comey had been unfair to Clinton.

In July 2016, Comey held a press conference to announce that no charges would be filed in the investigation, but nonetheless chided Clinton for her “extremely careless” email use. Democrats saw it as an attempt to imply wrongdoing on Clinton’s part even without a criminal charge.

Then, days before the election, Comey announced that the FBI was reopening the Clinton investigation to see if the FBI-seized laptop of former Rep. Anthony Weiner (D-NY), whose then-wife was a close Clinton adviser, held any new evidence. This, too, was seen as an irresponsible attempt to smear Clinton.

(In his book, Comey reportedly admits that he assumed at the time Clinton would be elected president and worried she’d be seen as “illegitimate” if it appeared the FBI had suppressed the investigation news — and that he’s not sure he would have done the same thing if he’d known Trump would win.)

Donald Trump ostensibly understands this, because it’s ostensibly the reason he had the “great honor” of firing Comey. And his comment that “virtually everyone in Washington” wanted Comey gone, like previous Trump remarks about Democrats hating Comey, shows he understands on some level what the real issue with Comey’s handling of the Clinton investigation was. But just from reading the tweet, with its reference to Comey’s “handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case,” you might well assume that Comey was fired for not charging Clinton with any crimes.

“He leaked CLASSIFIED information.” After he was fired, Comey testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee about his interactions with President Trump, telling them that Trump had asked Comey for “loyalty” before announcing he would keep him on as FBI head; that the president frequently asked the FBI director to tell the public that Trump himself was not under investigation in the Russia scandal; and that he’d expressed a hope that Comey would “see [his] way” to letting former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn off the hook in his criminal investigation.

Trump and his allies were furious at this disclosure, and at reports that Comey had taken notes of his meetings with Trump at the time and had shared them with colleagues at the FBI. They attempted to assert that Comey was breaking “executive privilege” by talking to the public or Congress about it. Trump himself went further, accusing Comey of “leaking” — and is now specifying he leaked “CLASSIFIED information.”

None of this holds up. Not every interaction with the president is automatically classified, and there’s no evidence to date that anything Comey has disclosed was officially considered classified. And unless something is classified, the White House doesn’t have control over what former officials say about it after they leave the White House.

“He lied to Congress UNDER OATH.” Trump has denied that he asked Comey to drop the Flynn investigation. If Trump is telling the truth, Comey did in fact perjure himself to the Senate by saying otherwise. But Trump does not exactly have a sterling record of telling the truth — and, of course, it’s easier for the person who isn’t under oath to lie about something. It’s also worth noting that the things Trump is accusing Comey of lying about are the exact same things he’s accusing him of “leaking.”

Many Trump tweets are impulsive. But this is part of a coordinated campaign to attack Comey.

Often, when Trump starts the day on Twitter, his proclamations come as a surprise to his advisers as much as anyone else. It’s become clear in recent weeks that Trump isn’t deferring to anyone anymore, and administration officials have often scrambled to justify whatever he just said.

This isn’t like that.

As my colleague Matt Yglesias wrote yesterday, the attacks on “Lyin’ Comey” are a premeditated and coordinated campaign, complete with a website. The Republican National Committee collaborated with White House staff to develop the messaging.

It’s not clear what role Trump himself played in this process, although, of course, the moniker “Lyin’ Comey” is Trump’s. And it’s unlikely that anyone needed to coach Trump to go after Comey on Twitter.

But the point is that the Comey saga is no longer at the point where White House staff feel the need to soften Trump’s attacks after the fact, or offer justifications for his animus. They’re all in. “Lyin’ Comey” is no longer a Donald Trump thing; it is now a Republican Party thing. The president’s Twitter account is just the tip of the spear.“They believe in a racial nation that would be transnational in scope ... based on the idea that white people are the chosen people.”

That’s how University of Chicago historian Kathleen Belew describes the ideology of the “white power” movement in America. Belew is the author of a new book, Bring the War Home, that traces the origins of the white power movement to the aftermath of the Vietnam War.

She examines how various racist groups — skinheads, Klansmen, white separatists, neo-Nazis, militiamen, and others — united under a common banner and took the movement in a violent and revolutionary direction.

Belew also argues that the anti-government sentiment created by the Vietnam War helped consolidate and radicalize the white power movement in ways we haven’t fully understood. I spoke with her about the history she lays out in the book, and how it can help us make sense of race relations today.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

You’re very careful about terminology in this book. When you use the phrase “white power movement,” what do you mean?

Kathleen Belew

I use “white power” to name the movement that, in the aftermath of the Vietnam War, united Neo-Nazis, Klansmen, skinheads, white separatists, tax protesters, and militiamen in common cause, and eventually in a war against the federal government.

Some people have referred to this as “white nationalism.” I think that’s misleading because when you say the word “nationalism,” people assume you mean an excess of patriotism, but that’s not what these people believe.

Sean Illing

What do these people believe?

Kathleen Belew

They believe in a racial nation that would be transnational in scope and would involve a violent ending to the United States and remove all people of color and establish a new society based on the idea that white people are the chosen people.

Sean Illing

So this is a revolutionary movement in the sense that these groups don’t want to redeem or transform America because they think it’s beyond redemption. They want to blow it all up and start anew.

Kathleen Belew

Yes. Most of them would prefer Jim Crow America or slavery America, but they don’t think that’s achievable, politically. They believe revolution is the only answer.

Sean Illing

How big is this movement? What kind of numbers are we talking about?

Kathleen Belew

It’s a fringe movement at every point, but if you include all the various groups that it’s composed of (and you should), it’s quite a lot. It helps to think of it in terms of concentric circles. In the center, there’s a group of approximately 25,000 people who are hardcore members: They attend events, they buy literature, they make their whole lives about the movement. Those are the people who are willing to [commit] violence and sacrifice themselves.

Outside of that, there’s another 150,000 or so who aren’t quite that involved but who attend rallies, read the literature, and circulate the message. Outside of that, there’s another, bigger circle that’s roughly 450,000. Those are the people that don’t attend the rallies or purchase the literature but are interested enough to read it online. So they’re flirting with real involvement, but not quite there yet.

Sean Illing

The core claim of this book is that the modern “white power” movement really began as a response to the aftermath of the Vietnam War. What happened?

Kathleen Belew

It helps to explain how I came to this project. I was researching truth and reconciliation commissions and came upon one in the aftermath of an incident in Greensboro, North Carolina, in 1979, where a caravan of neo-Nazis and Klan gunmen opened fire on a leftist demonstration and killed five people, four of whom were card-carrying members of the Communist Party. One of the shooters said at the truth commission in 2005 that he killed communists in Vietnam, so “why shouldn’t I kill communists here?”

This represented a profound shift to me. It’s a collapse of all kinds of different distinctions that we like to think about. It collapses war and home. It collapses enemy and fellow civilian. It collapses different kinds of enemies, and it also collapses time. There’s no peacetime and wartime; it’s perpetual war. And the more I researched this movement, the more ideas like this kept emerging.

Sean Illing

Obviously racism isn’t new in this country, so what was the binding narrative after Vietnam that brought all these elements together?

Kathleen Belew

A lot of these groups were at odds with each other for various reasons, but the narrative of Vietnam was that it was an act of betrayal. They believed the government and the politicians betrayed them. The culture was deeply split by Vietnam, and that gap was never really bridged. So these racist groups took a revolutionary turn and united around the idea of toppling the government.

At the same time, you had all these people with military training who were desensitized to violence and full of rage and hatred. So they obtained weapons they knew how to use, started a network of paramilitary camps, and reframed their struggle as a broader race war against the United States. It’s out of this environment that you get someone like Timothy McVeigh, who bombed a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995.

Sean Illing

To be clear, you’re not arguing that the Vietnam War turned people into racists or made the country more racist than it already was. You’re saying it created the cultural conditions that galvanized these racist groups and helped them organize around a common cause.

Kathleen Belew

That’s exactly right.

Sean Illing

You also note an interesting pattern in American history: In the aftermath of wars, there’s an uptick in white nationalism or white separatism. What’s the explanation?

Kathleen Belew

Early in the research, I wondered if this was as simple as veterans being radicalized during war and returning home to foment violence, but I don’t think it’s that simple. There is scholarship that shows that the surge in violence actually appears throughout American society in all genders and age groups in the aftermath of warfare.

So there’s something more fundamental going on here, and it could be as simple as the state unleashing all this violence during war and then it’s unable to control it afterward, but I’m not convinced that’s the whole story.

If you look at the 20th century, especially the second half, there’s hardly a time when we’re not at war in some place. So there’s this perpetual engagement in state violence, and we should expect that violence to reverberate throughout society during and after war.

Sean Illing

I’m curious how someone with your perspective looks at what’s happening right now in American politics. I realize you’re a historian and your focus isn’t on the present, but I’d love to hear how you make sense of race relations today.

Kathleen Belew

Well, one thing the historical archive makes clear is that white power activists seek violent action whether the government in power validates it or not. The real turn against state power in the white power movement happens in 1983, in the middle of the Reagan administration. And this was after people initially felt emboldened by Reagan’s election. The thing that pushes them to war and violence is the belief that they can’t achieve what they want through mainstream politics. I’m not sure Trump changes that belief in any way.

I think a lot of people experience the Trump administration as sort of a cataclysmic change from what came before, but it’s important to remember that what seems new is not necessarily new. A lot of people expressed shock at the confrontation in Charlottesville last year, but that was similar to the Greensboro shooting I mentioned earlier, and to many other episodes that just aren’t as known to the public.

I think the real question is, why are we still astonished by this — what has happened between 1979 and Charlottesville that made us think this is new or different? One of the reasons I think we need to study the history of this movement is so that we can see it as coherent, coordinated movement with deep roots, and not as the scattered actions of a bunch of lone actors.

Sean Illing

Reading your book, it’s clear that the people involved in the white power movement at the beginning really believed they were creating some racial utopia. But it’s been more than two decades and they’re no closer to it than they were when they started. Will the movement get more desperate, or will it continue to exist on the margins as it has?

Kathleen Belew

This is the question that gives historians the shivers because we hate taking historical data and using it to make a statement about what might happen in the future. I’ll say this, though: The history from 1979 to 1995, the year of the Oklahoma City bombing, shows that there were several attempts to understand and stop white power activism. There were major trials. People were calling attention to this gathering threat, trying to organize and counterprotest.

But despite all those efforts, there wasn’t a decisive stop to the violence. There wasn’t really a decisive stop to the organized movement either. I think what history shows us is that this is a movement with flexible ideologies that is capable of going underground when there is pressure and then reemerging when there is not. I think it would take a real change in how people think about and write about and confront this kind of activism for there to be anything like an endpoint.I hope you held your 1095 form close when you filed your taxes this year because it is not long for this world.

Obamacare’s individual mandate will soon be dead. Republicans have killed it.

When the Affordable Care Act passed in 2010, no provision was more reviled than the law’s requirement that every American who does not buy health insurance pay a penalty. It was the foundation of the conservative constitutional challenge to the law, a case they very nearly won at the Supreme Court.

This idea was never all that popular with the public either. So many individual pieces of Obamacare polled very well — federal subsidies for private coverage, the expansion of Medicaid, eliminating preexisting conditions — but the mandate was woefully underwater.

Maybe worst of all: It didn’t really work. The mandate was billed as an unfortunate necessity. If you were going to force insurers to cover everybody, then you needed the mandate. It would bring in healthy people to offset the costs of covering the sick. But whatever the reason — maybe the subsidies (the carrot) weren’t generous enough, maybe the penalty (the stick) wasn’t harsh enough — that didn’t really happen. Somewhere around 6 million people elected to pay the penalty rather than buy insurance, and both the Obama and the Trump administrations doled out plenty of exemptions.

The mandate was a failed policy experiment, and its failures in a way mirror how the ACA has fallen short of what it was hoped to be, even if the law has undeniably had its successes. Next year, while the rest of the law remains, the mandate will simply vanish.

What a fitting end.

The mandate was Obamacare’s original sin for Republicans

The individual mandate had actually emerged decades earlier in the right-leaning think tank world as a market-based means to achieve universal coverage.

But conservatives quickly turned against it after Democrats adopted it. It was an affront to personal freedom: big-government liberals forcing Americans to buy something they might not want or need. Nothing better symbolized the federal overreach in the Democrats’ health care plan.

“Obamacare is a job-killer, and our economy simply cannot afford this unprecedented, unconstitutional power grab by the federal government,” then-House Speaker John Boehner said in 2010, a few months after the law was signed by Obama, as he was supporting a legal challenge to overturn the mandate and, with it, the whole law.

The mandate was the core of the GOP’s lawsuits to invalidate Obamacare before it could ever really take effect. Conservative attorneys argued that the Constitution barred the federal government from requiring Americans to purchase any commercial product, as the mandate did.

They also said, using the law’s own logic against it, that if the mandate was unconstitutional then the entire law was illegal. They urged the Supreme Court to overturn the mandate and the entire Affordable Care Act alongside it in 2012. It was an existential issue for some of the conservatives pushing the lawsuits.

“There was more at stake than Obamacare. All future purchase mandates were at stake,” Randy Barnett, a Georgetown University law professor who helped craft the case, told me last year when I asked him to go back to the moment of the Court’s ruling.

But Chief Justice John Roberts disagreed — at least in part. While Roberts sided with conservatives in ruling that the government couldn’t require people to purchase something in isolation, he upheld the mandate because he said its penalty was an allowable use of the taxing power granted to Congress by the Constitution.

Maybe Congress couldn’t require you to buy something, but they could tax you if you didn’t, in other words. Whatever the legal minutiae, the mandate survived the Supreme Court by the narrowest and unlikeliest of margins. For a time, anyway.

But when Republicans took control of Congress and the White House last year, there was perhaps no safer bet than the GOP ending the hated mandate. They stumbled at first, when the Senate failed to pass a more sweeping Obamacare repeal bill. But they stuck the repeal of the mandate into their tax bill — it actually, for technical reasons, helped pay for the tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy — and Congress passed it in December. In 2019, the mandate would end for good.

“When the individual mandate is being repealed, that means Obamacare is being repealed,” Trump said at the time. “Obamacare has been repealed in this bill.”

Well, that’s not quite right. But you could forgive Trump for thinking so.

The mandate was supposed to be essential to Obamacare

Barack Obama opposed a requirement that all Americans purchase coverage while he was running for president. Democrats knew this wasn’t going to be a popular idea.

But Obama eventually came around, convinced the mandate was crucial to creating a properly functioning health insurance market.

Health care wonks compare the Affordable Care Act’s health insurance markets to a “three-legged stool.” Three key policies work in tandem to expand coverage at an affordable price.

The first leg of the stool is ending preexisting conditions and allowing all people, sick or healthy, to buy insurance at the same price.

But it also wasn’t thought to work as a standalone policy. Mandating that insurers accept all customers would likely mean only the sicker patients — people who expect to use lots of health care — would sign up. Healthier people would just skip the market, figuring they’d do better not paying premiums and just buying health care when they need it.

This was where the second leg of the stool came in: the individual mandate. The requirement to purchase insurance was meant to ensure that sick and healthy people sign up for coverage. The mandate was supposed to help reduce premiums by nudging healthy people who are cheaper to cover into the market.

The third leg of the stool was the subsidies designed to make insurance affordable. If there is a requirement to buy insurance, Obamacare’s drafters reasoned, then it needs to be affordable for all Americans. This is how the health care law ended up with a sliding scale of subsidies, with more help given to the lowest-income enrollees.

The idea was to create a fine that wasn’t quite as expensive as purchasing insurance but was high enough that it would make consumers think twice about skipping coverage. The fine started lower — $395 or 1 percent of income, whichever was higher — in 2014 increasing to $695 or 2.5 percent of income in 2016, where it was intended to stay.

But the ACA’s penalty wasn’t nearly as harsh as those imposed in other countries. As Princeton University’s Uwe Reinhardt told Vox’s Sarah Kliff in 2016:

When you do this as the Swiss or Germans do, you brutally enforce the mandate. You make young people sign up and pay. But we are too chicken to do that, so we allow people to stay out by doing two things: We give them a mandate penalty that is lower than the premium. And we tell them, If you’re really sick, we’ll take care of you anyhow. When they run these exchanges, they accompany them with a very harsh mandate. If you don’t obey the mandate, the Swiss find out, and they go after you and garnish your wages. If you’re not insured, they’ll look at your wages and recoup the premiums you owe. They’re very tough. And we’ve never been tough.

But the mandate didn’t really work — and Obamacare will probably be fine

It worked out as you’d expect. In 2016, 6.5 million Americans paid an average fine of $70 for not being covered the year before. Along the way, the Obama administration expanded the exemptions people could claim to avoid the mandate.

The Trump administration is building on its predecessors’ work for the mandate’s final year, ruling that people who live in counties with only one Obamacare insurer or people who are opposed to abortion and only have plans that cover abortions available to them do not have to pay the penalty for 2018.

Ending the mandate is going to increase premiums: Dave Dillon, a fellow of the Society of Actuaries, estimates health plans will tack on another 2.5 to 7.5 percent increase to make up for the loss of the mandate in 2019.

But the truth is most health policy experts had already come to believe the mandate wasn’t really working as intended. It was probably a combination of two factors: The penalty itself wasn’t big enough to compel people to buy health insurance, and the subsidies that people received from the federal government to buy coverage weren’t generous enough to draw more of them in either.

“A stronger individual mandate and bigger and broader premium subsidies would have made the ACA more successful,” Larry Levitt, senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, told me in October. “Of course, there are always trade-offs. Bigger premium subsidies would have required bigger tax increases.”

Yet Obamacare, the imperfect product that it is, isn’t going to collapse without the mandate. The law has proved rather resilient under Trump: Nearly as many people signed up for coverage for 2018 as did for 2017. The subsidies deserve the credit: For people with lower incomes, they help make insurance genuinely affordable or even free.

That won’t change when the mandate goes away. Even if insurers raise their premiums, the subsidies will protect the people who receive them from those hikes.

So Obamacare is likely to keep its market of 10 million or so customers. The mandate will retreat to the annals of history, while federal tax credits, Medicaid expansion, and the end of preexisting conditions become even more embedded in the fabric of our safety net.

A failed experiment comes to an end.If Michael Cohen goes down, could Donald Trump save him?

Trump’s “fix-it guy” is at the center of a major FBI investigation, with agents searching Cohen’s office, home, and hotel room under the direction of the US attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York, who received a “referral” from special counsel Robert Mueller.

The raid took place in connection to Cohen’s role in allegedly arranging hush money payments to two women who reportedly slept with Trump, and a potential effort to stop the release of the infamous Access Hollywood “grab ’em by the pussy” tape. Meanwhile, special counsel Robert Mueller is also investigating the Trump Organization’s business deals overseas, including deals Cohen was involved in, and is also reportedly interested in a donation Cohen solicited from a Ukrainian oligarch.

And then there’s the matter of Cohen’s own finances, also under investigation by the FBI. In addition to ties to Ukrainian oligarchs stemming from a mid-2000s ethanol company he co-owned, Cohen holds dozens of New York City taxi medallions, the expensive permits required to operate taxis in the city. As of April 2018, he owes the state of New York $53,836 in unpaid taxi taxes.

If Cohen were to be charged with any crimes connected to these various allegations, he could find himself in court facing a prison sentence. There’s speculation that Mueller might use that pressure to try to flip him to help him in his probe of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia.

But Cohen has thus far been unfailingly loyal to Donald Trump and the Trump family, reportedly telling a radio host Wednesday, “I’d rather jump out of a building than turn on Donald Trump.” He even keeps bobbleheads of Trump’s sons Eric and Donald Jr. on his office desk.

So there’s also another possibility: Trump could try to grant Cohen a presidential pardon before Cohen even considers a plea deal with Mueller. But that would only get Cohen out of jeopardy in federal court. He could still end up in prison if he’s tried or convicted on state charges.

Pardons only work for federal crimes, not state crimes

First, a quick primer on presidential pardons. Article II, Section 2, Clause 1 of the Constitution reads in part: “[The president] shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.” That gives the president of the United States the power to pardon people convicted of federal crimes through “executive clemency.” So Trump absolutely could pardon any of his associates accused, charged, or convicted of a federal crime, including Cohen.

State and federal crimes are different. A state crime, which might include robbery, burglary, or aggravated assault, breaks state law (most crimes committed are state crimes). Federal crimes, in comparison, are ones that violate US federal legislation, and are prosecuted by a US attorney. Examples of federal crimes include mail fraud or organized crime. But some crimes violate state and federal law — for example, someone can commit a murder (state crime) that also violates federal hate crimes law (federal crime).

In the Cohen case, it appears that he’s currently under investigation for violations of federal law — specifically, bank fraud, wire fraud, and campaign finance violations. But bank fraud is also a state crime, meaning that Cohen could be prosecuted on that charge by a New York district attorney, though it’s not currently clear what the theory behind the bank fraud allegations is.

(While the Constitution prohibits double jeopardy, or prosecuting someone twice for the same crime, there is nothing stopping state and federal agencies from bringing similar criminal charges against someone based on the same criminal act — the “separate sovereigns” doctrine.)

I asked Keith Whittington, a politics professor at Princeton University, whether Cohen could be pardoned by President Trump for any federal charges but still brought to trial on state charges.

“It could easily happen if there are several different actions that were legally problematic,” Whittington told me, “but it could also happen even if the same action (or related set of actions) violated both federal and state law. Just to take a high-profile, but very different, case — Dylann Roof was charged with both federal and state crimes resulting from his shootings at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston.”

Judith Miller, an associate professor of law at the University of Chicago Law School, also referenced the Roof case when we spoke, telling me that Roof was convicted on federal hate crimes charges in federal court and sentenced to death, and pleaded guilty to murder charges in South Carolina state court, where he was sentenced to multiple life sentences.

“All the charges arose out of the same events, but both South Carolina and the federal government prosecuted him,” she said. “The charges weren’t brought as a mix of charges in one case, though. The state filed its charges, and the federal government filed separate charges.”

Only federal prosecutors can charge defendants with federal crimes, and only state prosecutors can charge defendants with state crimes. Typically, when someone is charged with crimes by both the federal government and state prosecutors, the federal government will usually stand down and let the state government try their case first, said Barbara McQuade, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School and former US attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan. (Not always — in the Roof case, the federal government went first.)

One example is the trials of four Los Angeles police officers who beat taxi driver Rodney King while arresting him on March 3, 1991. After a Los Angeles jury acquitted three of the four officers on charges of use of excessive forces, the Department of Justice indicted the four officers for violating King’s civil rights. That trial resulted in two convictions and two acquittals.

Cohen could face several New York-based charges — and there’s nothing Trump could do about it

The investigations into Cohen are ongoing, and he hasn’t yet been charged with any crime. But Sonja Starr, also of the University of Michigan Law School, said that the investigators are looking into several issues that would be prosecuted at the state level rather than the federal level.

The investigations could lead to charges of bank fraud, money laundering, and threats of violence — all state crimes. If Cohen is charged with violating campaign finance laws in his payment to Stormy Daniels, on the other hand, that would be a federal crime.

“The fact pattern in this case certainly suggests that various state charges are possible,” she said, “in New York [in addition to] any other states where criminal conduct took place.”

If Cohen were to face state charges, only the governor of New York could pardon him. And that’s not Trump — that’s Andrew Cuomo, who earlier this year threatened to sue the president over the Republican tax bill.

In short, Michael Cohen’s legal problems go way beyond Robert Mueller’s investigation.One of the biggest misconceptions about undocumented immigrants is that they don’t pay any taxes. In his first address to Congress, President Trump set the tone for his coming immigration agenda when he said immigration costs US taxpayers “billions of dollars a year.”

A 2017 Gallup poll that asked survey respondents “whether immigrants to the United States are making the [tax] situation in the country better or worse” found that 41 percent said “worse,” while only 23 percent said “better” (33 percent said they had “no effect”).

The reality is far different. Immigrants who are authorized to work in the United States pay the same taxes as US citizens. And, contrary to the persistent myth, undocumented immigrants do in fact pay taxes too. Millions of undocumented immigrants file tax returns each year, and they are paying taxes for benefits they can’t even use.

The best estimates come from research by the Institute of Taxation and Economic Policy, a Washington, DC, think tank, which suggests that about half of undocumented workers in the United States file income tax returns. The most recent IRS data, from 2015, shows that the agency received 4.4 million income tax returns from workers who don’t have Social Security numbers, which includes a large number of undocumented immigrants. That year, they paid $23.6 billion in income taxes.

Those undocumented workers paid taxes for benefits they can’t even use, like Social Security and Medicare. They also aren’t eligible for benefits like the earned income tax credit. But the IRS still expects unauthorized immigrants to file their taxes, and many of them do so.

Filing taxes helps immigrants create a paper trail to show when they entered the country and how long they’ve been contributing tax dollars. Many are hoping it will help them get legal status one day. That has happened in past reform efforts, and one of the first requirements is usually to prove that a person has been paying taxes. That was the case for the undocumented youth granted temporary work permits under President Obama’s deportation relief program, known as DACA. With the Trump administration’s anti-immigrant agenda, however, their chance of getting papers seems remote for now.

How unauthorized immigrants pay their taxes

Last April, I visited Casa de Maryland in Rockville, Maryland, which hosts two federally subsidized centers where low-income workers can file their taxes for free. That year, they had helped about 200 undocumented immigrants file their taxes, and many were waiting in line with their paperwork when I stopped by.

I watched tax preparer Earvin Gonzalez go through the process of helping undocumented immigrants file their taxes. Maria, whose last name is being withheld because of her immigration status, handed him a folder with tax documents from two jobs. Her W-2 showed that a housecleaning company paid her $17,288 in 2015.

As Gonzalez filled out her information in a computer software program, a green box popped up on the computer screen: “Taxpayer’s Social Security number is not valid.”

That wasn’t a surprise. The 36-year-old from El Salvador is undocumented, and she told me that she made up the Social Security number on the W-2 form because she doesn’t have one. Her employer never asked for identification to verify it, she says. Instead, she has an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN), created by the IRS in 1996 so people who aren’t allowed to work in the United States could still file taxes on any income they earned. (The IRS does not share ITIN information with immigration authorities.)

Maria said she applied for an ITIN number shortly after arriving illegally in the United States from El Salvador in 2009. People told her that having a record of paying taxes would help her with her case to gain legal status if immigration reform happened.

Comprehensive immigration reform failed in Congress, but Maria is still paying her taxes every year. “I think it’s important, and all my relatives pay their taxes too,” she said.

Last year, her tax documents also included two 1099 forms, for her second job as a contractor.

“What kind of jobs were these?” Gonzalez asked her in Spanish.

“After cleaning houses, I would go lay concrete in parking lots,” she said.

Those two jobs brought in a total of $24,845 last year, and Maria still needed to pay taxes on that income. Gonzalez entered some deductions, such as the $1,500 she spent on equipment to pour and level concrete and the 12,000 miles she drove between job sites. Maria, who is a single mom, claimed two dependents: her 16-year-old son and 13-year-old daughter. With her ITIN number, she was able to claim child tax credits, but not the earned income tax credit, the major federal tax credit for low-income working families.

In the end, Maria owed $1,131 in income taxes to the state of Maryland and $775 to the federal government. She said she had some money saved up because she knew she would have a tax bill at the end of the year from the contracting jobs. But she said she will probably get on a payment plan with the IRS. If Maria had qualified for the earned income tax credit, her tax bill would probably have been about $500 lower.

Unauthorized immigrants boost funding for the Social Security system

It’s true that not all undocumented immigrants pay federal income taxes, because the government has no way to keep track of their under-the-table earnings. The IRS can withhold taxes from those hired with fake Social Security numbers, but workers who get paid in cash could simply choose not to report it, unless they voluntarily file a return with an ITIN number.

Still, all undocumented workers fund public schools and local government services by paying sales and property taxes like everyone else. The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates that they pay about $11.7 billion a year in state and local taxes.

And workers who get a paycheck, like Maria, still have payroll taxes for Medicare and Social Security withheld from their paycheck, even if they put a fake Social Security number on their W-2 form. The IRS estimates that unauthorized workers pay about $9 billion in payroll taxes annually.

In Maria’s case, the W-2 form showed that she paid $1,072 into Social Security and $251 into Medicare, two social safety net programs she may never benefit from.

A portion of the payroll tax withheld from undocumented immigrants — like all workers — goes to the retirement trust fund at the Social Security Administration. In 2013, the agency reviewed how much money undocumented workers contributed the retirement trust fund. The number was astonishing: $13 billion in one year.

The chief actuary of the Social Security Administration, Stephen Goss, estimates that about 1.8 million immigrants were working with fake or stolen Social Security cards in 2010, and he expects that number to reach 3.4 million by 2040.

“We estimate that earnings by unauthorized immigrants result in a net positive effect on Social Security financial status generally,” Goss concluded in the 2013 review.

These numbers are a stark contrast to the often repeated rhetoric that undocumented immigrants are a drain on the US economy. Even most Americans seem to think so — in a 2014 Reuters poll, 63 percent of people surveyed said they believe undocumented immigrants burdened the economy.

Emiliano, a 57-year-old undocumented day laborer from Honduras, told me that he knows many people assume he doesn’t pay his taxes. He doesn’t care. He just hopes one day it will help him get legal status.

When I told him the chances don’t look good under the Trump administration, he shrugged.

“You have to have hope in something,” he said.I’m not a big Paul Ryan fan, but one particular kick in the pants the speaker of the House is getting on his way out the door is unfair. It’s simply not the case that he sold out to Donald Trump or compromised his principles in any way. If anything, it’s just the opposite — Trump abandoned his stated views on a wide range of policy issues in order to bring himself into close conformity with Ryan’s ideology and policy agenda.

Writers sending off Ryan, like Tim Alberta at Politico and Josh Barro at Business Insider, argue that the speaker’s career has had a tragic arc in which, in Albert’s words, “the battle for the GOP’s heart and soul is finished,” with Trump the victor and Ryan the loser.

The reality is the opposite. On substance, Trump has embraced Ryan’s vision of lower taxes on the rich and a stingier welfare state, even though he campaigned promising the opposite. Ryan has indulged Trump on a personal level without abandoning any of his longstanding policy views. It’s true that Ryan has had limited success in enacting his agenda, but the impediments there have uniformly been in the United States Senate, not the White House. If anything, the Trump administration is quite loyally plugging away at Ryan-esque goals that the president never articulated as a candidate.

But while it’s unquestionably true that the self-presentation of the GOP in 2018 and beyond looks a lot more like what Trump was doing in 2015 than what Ryan was up to three years ago, the policy agenda of the GOP hews much closer to Paul Ryan’s “Better Way” blueprint than to anything Trump said as a candidate.

The critique now, ironically, is rooted in the same style-over-substance pathologies that led so many journalists to overrate Ryan for so long — an inclination Ryan was shrewd to exploit. He is a substance guy who, as he told the Atlas Society in 2005, got into public life because of the inspiration he drew from Ayn Rand and who believes that “almost every fight we are involved in here on Capitol Hill ... usually comes down to one conflict: individualism vs. collectivism.” He’s never sold out on those core views and instead got Trump to swing over to his side on many key topics.

Political obituaries for Paul Ryan paint him as a sellout

Politico’s Alberta in a very sympathetic political obituary titled “The Tragedy of Paul Ryan” starts with the premise that he “came to Congress as a Jack Kemp conservative and will depart as a Donald Trump Republican.”

Barro, in a more scornful take for Business Insider, argues that “the great tragedy of Paul Ryan is not that he sold his soul to Donald Trump. It’s that he got so little in return.”

It’s true, of course, that relatively little of Ryan’s expansive policy agenda — which centered on privatizing and cutting Medicare while block-granting and cutting all means-tested social assistance — has been enacted during Trump’s time in office. But virtually none of that failure is because Trump opposed Ryan’s ideas or because Ryan sold out those ideas.

A bill subjecting Medicaid to block grants and swinging cuts, the American Health Care Act of 2017, passed the US House of Representatives with the enthusiastic endorsement of Trump and his whole administration. This idea died (in favor of the “skinny repeal” scheme) due to opposition from Republican senators from Medicaid expansion states. Skinny repeal died later primarily because nobody actually thought it was a good idea (though for a bill that nobody would defend on the merits, it came shockingly close to passing).

Block-granting the rest of the welfare state was abandoned as a GOP policy priority not because of Trump, but because Doug Jones beat Roy Moore and cut the GOP Senate majority so razor-thin that it didn’t make sense to try to move more controversial partisan bills.

The Trump White House is, however, doing whatever it can through administrative fiat to make social assistance programs stingier, primarily by imposing work requirements.

There’s a lot that’s happening in Donald Trump’s Washington that wouldn't be happening if Marco Rubio or Scott Walker were president. But on the particular passion points of Ryan’s career — cutting taxes on the rich and cutting spending on the poor — the executive branch is doing its best. They are having limited success getting this done for the same reason that Nancy Pelosi couldn’t get Congress to pass a cap-and-trade bill when she was speaker — getting big laws through the Senate is hard — not because Trump is standing in the way. Even though Trump’s campaign promised in many ways to do just that.

Donald Trump sold out to Paul Ryan

Yet if you took Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign seriously (and recall that at the time, Trump supporters were constantly urging us to take him seriously rather than literally), you would have predicted that Trump would emerge as a major impediment to Ryan and Ryanism.

Candidate Trump promised to avoid cutting Medicaid. Candidate Trump promised to deliver affordable health insurance to all Americans — at government expense, if necessary. Candidate Trump promised to defend Social Security benefits. Candidate Trump said that wealthy people like Donald Trump would pay higher taxes under his plan. Candidate Trump positioned himself as an enemy of global financial elites and vowed to reimpose Glass-Steagall regulation and break up big banks.

Candidate Trump, in other words, promised to deliver cultural revanchism not as a complement to traditional Regan-style small government economics but as a substitute for it.

His campaign was so heterodox on policy that it was commonplace to predict at the time, including this widely cited Lee Drutman article at Vox, that it would lead to a wholesale realignment of the party system. Instead, as Christopher Baylor wrote more recently for Vox, the post-Trump GOP turns out to look broadly similar to the pre-Trump GOP.

And that’s because Ryan very tenaciously declined to sell out to Trump. Working with his longtime friend and former colleague Mike Pence, Ryan staffed the middling ranks of the Trump administration with a bevy of very orthodox conservative Republicans. The stalwart House right-winger Mick Mulvaney was installed at the Office of Management and Budget, and though Tom Price (another House conservative) was eventually forced out as health and human services secretary, he was in place for the crucial Obamacare repeal drama. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and other financial regulators are all solid conservatives, as are the people overseeing all the key social welfare programs at agencies ranging from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to the Department of Agriculture.

Trump, of course, is pursuing his personal passion projects in the fields of being mean to immigrants and mucking around with trade policy. But Ryan is not actively pushing for legislation to restrict immigration and certainly isn’t pushing legislation to restrict trade, while Trump’s administration is diligently — albeit somewhat joylessly — pursuing Ryan’s policy agenda.

Ryan made a reasonable choice about Trump

The impression that Ryan has in some sense “sold out” stems largely from the sense that it was wrong, morally speaking, of Ryan to have done so much to indulge Trump’s racism, his corruption, and his authoritarianism.

I, personally, think those are bad things to indulge.

But unlike Paul Ryan, I’m not a fanatical opponent of the welfare state who views American politics as an apocalyptic twilight struggle between the forces of individualism and collectivism.

Ryan, by contrast, believes in Paul Ryan’s ideas (ideas that, to be clear, are wrong and bad — in reality, helping people is good), and so he faced some tough choices around Trump. Back during the 2016 campaign when Ryan thought Trump was going to lose, he kept him at arm’s length. Alberta even reports that Ryan had a specific plan in place to respond to Trump’s loss by pretending to have been sorry about backing him and “give a speech soon afterward divorcing himself — and the party — from Trump once and for all.”

Instead, Trump won the election. At that point, Ryan could have exercised his constitutional obligation to try to check Trump’s corruption and racism and authoritarianism. But had he done so, Trump might have stuck to his original positions on policy. That would have ensured that the cuts Ryan favored didn’t pass and would even raise the prospect of Trump cutting deals with Democrats to expand the welfare state. Alternatively, Ryan could try to indulge Trump’s corruption and racism and authoritarianism in exchange for gaining Trump’s adherence to Ryan’s policy agenda.

Ryan made the play, and it worked. Even as Ryan himself fades from the scene, Mulvaney is doing his level best to destroy the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, work requirements are getting slapped onto Medicaid, Iowa is making it harder to sign up for Affordable Care Act plans, and Scott Pruitt is doing everything in his power to make it easier for companies to pollute the air and water.

A lot of people who find Ryan likable on a personal level are horrified by the chaos Trump is unleashing on other fronts and relatively unimpressed with the idea that making it harder for poor kids to get food and health care offsets the damage. But that just goes to show how poorly understood Ryan remains, even by some of his biggest fans.Former FBI Director James Comey excoriates President Donald Trump in the first excerpts released from his new book, A Higher Loyalty. Comey describes Trump’s presidency as a “forest fire,” likens the president to a mob boss, and says Trump pressured him more than once to investigate the “pee tape” in previews of the tell-all, which will be released April 17.

Comey does not hold back. Excerpts of the book were published Thursday by the Washington Post, which bluntly says “each chapter can be interpreted as an elaborate trolling of Trump, starting with the title, ‘A Higher Loyalty,’ a subtle reference to the loyalty pledge that Trump sought and did not receive from Comey.”

The book is not just an indictment of Trump and his leadership; Comey also defends his decision to send, less than two weeks before the election, a letter to Congress explaining that the FBI was examining possible new Hillary Clinton emails (which Comey critics argue cost her the election). Here are the five most eye-popping details we’ve learned so far. And let us just say: lordy.

1) Trump was obsessed with the so-called “pee tape”

Comey said he first met Trump in person at an intelligence briefing before the inauguration, which is also where he first briefed Trump about the Steele dossier. The memo, compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele and published by BuzzFeed in January 2017, alleges evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.

Comey writes that Trump was focused on one particularly sordid detail from the dossier: an allegation that a blackmail tape exists of Trump asking prostitutes to pee on a bed in a room the Obamas stayed in at the Ritz-Carlton in Moscow. Per the Washington Post:

The president-elect quickly interrupted the FBI director. According to Comey’s account in a new memoir, Trump “strongly denied the allegations, asking — rhetorically, I assumed — whether he seemed like a guy who needed the service of prostitutes. He then began discussing cases where women had accused him of sexual assault, a subject I had not raised. He mentioned a number of women, and seemed to have memorized their allegations.” The January 2017 conversation at Trump Tower in Manhattan “teetered toward disaster” — until “I pulled the tool from my bag: ‘We are not investigating you, sir.’ That seemed to quiet him,” Comey writes.

Comey said Trump followed up with him after the meeting in a phone call on January 11, saying the “pee tape” couldn’t be real because he’s a germaphobe. “There’s no way I would let people pee on each other around me,” Comey recounts Trump saying. “No way.”

Trump complained the allegations were painful to his wife, Melania Trump, and that the logistics didn’t make sense, according to the Post:

The president-elect argued that it could not be true because he had not stayed overnight in Moscow but had only used the hotel room to change his clothes. And after Trump explained that he would never allow people to urinate near him, Comey recalls laughing. “I decided not to tell him that the activity alleged did not seem to require either an overnight stay or even being in proximity to the participants,” Comey writes. “In fact, though I didn’t know for sure, I imagined the presidential suite of the Ritz-Carlton in Moscow was large enough for a germaphobe to be at a safe distance from the activity.”

Comey said Trump brought it up again during their unusual one-on-one dinner on January 27 at which Trump tried to demand loyalty of the then-FBI director:

And then Trump brought up “the golden showers thing,” Comey writes. The president told him that “it bothered him if there was ‘even a one percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true.” Comey writes that Trump told him to consider having the FBI investigate the prostitutes’ allegation to “prove it was a lie.”

And again on a March 30 call:

“For about the fourth time, he argued that the golden showers thing wasn’t true, asking yet again, ‘Can you imagine me, hookers?’” Comey writes of their March 30, 2017, call. “In an apparent play for my sympathy, he added that he has a beautiful wife and the whole thing has been very painful for her. He asked what we could do to ‘lift the cloud.’”

2) Comey has some things to say about Jeff Sessions

Comey has documented in contemporaneous memos his interactions with Trump, but in his book, he goes into even more astonishing detail. He describes confronting Attorney General Jeff Sessions about leaving him alone with the president. Here’s how Sessions responded, according to Comey:

Sessions just cast his eyes down at the table, and they darted quickly back and forth, side to side. He said nothing. I read in his posture and face a message that he would not be able to help me.

3) Comey is airing his Trump grievances. Like, really airing them.

Comey said he can’t make a judgment on whether Trump attempted to obstruct justice — but he’s not a fan of what he witnessed during his tenure. “I have one perspective on the behavior I saw, which, while disturbing and violating basic norms of ethical leadership, may fall short of being illegal,” Comey writes.

That’s tame compared to some of his other assessments of Trump:

“His face appeared slightly orange with bright white half-moons under his eyes where I assumed he placed small tanning goggles, and impressively coifed, bright blond hair, which upon close inspection looked to be all his.”

“As he extended his hand. I made a mental note to check its size. It was smaller than mine, but did not seem unusually so.”

“I stared at the soft white pouches under his expressionless blue eyes. I remember thinking in that moment that the president doesn’t understand the FBI’s role in American life.”

4) Comey says the Trump administration reminded him of his days prosecuting the mob

“The silent circle of assent. The boss in complete control,” Comey writes. “The loyalty oaths. The us-versus-them worldview. The lying about all things, large and small, in service to some code of loyalty that put the organization above morality and above the truth.”

5) Comey defends his handling of the Clinton email investigation — and makes it seem as if everyone else has absolved him too

Comey apologizes to Hillary Clinton, nodding to her own takedown of him in her book What Happened. “I have read she has felt anger toward me personally, and I’m sorry for that,” he writes. “I’m sorry that I couldn’t do a better job explaining to her and her supporters why I made the decisions I made.”

Comey also says President Barack Obama reassured him after the election about his decision to send the letter about Clinton, according to the Post:President Trump’s potential trade war with China could hammer American farmers. Now Trump is scrambling to find ways to protect them, looking into reviving obscure Depression-era programs and potentially rejoining the free trade agreement he pulled out of during his first week in office.

If Trump ends up actually reentering the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the colossal trade accord he abandoned on January 23, 2017, he would be reneging on one of his signature campaign promises and pulling off one of the most head-spinning policy reversals of his presidency. Trump won the White House on an anti-free trade platform and had spent months arguing that the deal would kill American jobs.

Now he’s searching for a solution to a problem very much of his own making. The president is weighing whether to impose tariffs on up to $150 billion worth of Chinese exports to the US to punish China for its theft of intellectual property from American companies. Beijing has promised to retaliate against the US with its own tariffs — and is homing in on the US agricultural industry.

China has said it will levy 25 percent tariffs on crops like soybeans, corn, and wheat, which are all grown in parts of the country that are home to some of Trump’s strongest political supporters. American soybean farmers are particularly vulnerable — China makes up about 60 percent of their international sales.

The Chinese measures would be a big problem economically for the farmers, and potentially a big problem for Trump and his party heading into this fall’s midterm elections. That has the White House considering whether to dust off the Commodity Credit Corporation, a program created during the Great Depression to aid farmers. The program could be used to buy crops from farmers if they’re hit hard by Chinese tariffs.

It also could help Trump at the negotiating table before China retaliates.

“It’s a way of bolstering his credibility for the negotiations [with China] ahead, and a means to deflect complaints from farm-state senators and congressmen,” said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Politics.

Trump could theoretically persuade China that tariffs on American farmers would be pointless since they’re going to be protected by the US government regardless.

So far, at least, there isn’t much enthusiasm for reviving the decades-old program. Rejoining the TPP, meanwhile, would be extremely difficult logistically. Trump wants to shield America’s farmers from the impact of his own policies. It’s not clear that he’ll be able to.

Trump proudly pulled the US out of a mammoth trade deal. Getting back in will be hard.

Trump’s potential reversal on the TPP deal stunned lawmakers from both parties.

On Thursday, the president he told farm-state governors and lawmakers that he was directing his advisers to look into reentering the pact in order to open up more markets for American farmers. It’s a remarkable about-face given his consistently harsh rhetoric about the pact, one of the Obama administration’s major policy achievements. It was designed to eliminate trade barriers between 12 Pacific Rim countries representing 40 percent of global GDP, but Trump called it “one of the worst trade deals” and pledged to withdraw from it upon entering the White House.

The White House said that Trump is open to rejoining the TPP if it can be improved. “The president has consistently said he would be open to a substantially better deal, including in his speech in Davos earlier this year,” White House deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters said in a statement. “To that end, he has asked [US Trade Representative Robert] Lighthizer and [National Economic Council Director Larry] Kudlow to take another look at whether or not a better deal could be negotiated.”

Republican lawmakers supportive of free trade welcomed the news with open arms. “The best thing the United States can do to push back against Chinese cheating now is to lead the other 11 Pacific nations that believe in free trade and the rule of law,” Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse said in a statement.

if Trump does ultimately try to reenter the TPP, it would be a process that could take months or even years. That’s a problem given that the US and Chinese tariffs could go into effect within weeks. All of which means that Trump is running out of time to find ways to protect American exporters from the full impact of his own protectionist policies.In late 2015, Dino Sajudin, a former doorman at Trump Tower, told a reporter for American Media Inc. (or AMI for short, which publishes the National Enquirer among other gossip outlets) that Donald Trump had possibly fathered a child out of wedlock with an ex-employee in the late 1980s. He passed a lie detector test, AMI paid him $30,000 for the exclusive rights to his account, and then the company, whose president is good friends with President Trump, buried it.

Sajudin’s allegation of a $30,000 payoff to kill the story, reported first by the New Yorker’s Ronan Farrow on Thursday, April 12, has since been corroborated in whole or in part by the Associated Press and the Washington Post. The Post’s Carol Leonnig spoke to Sajudin, who stood by his story and told her it “had to come out.”

In a statement, he elaborated, “I was instructed not to criticize President Trump’s former housekeeper due to a prior relationship she had with President Trump which produced a child.”

NEW: Trump doorman Dino Sajudin releases statement: "I was instructed not to criticize President Trump's former housekeeper due to a prior relationship she had with President Trump which produced a child.” (via @soniamoghe) pic.twitter.com/DYipY5DaY2 — MJ Lee (@mj_lee) April 12, 2018

No outlet has confirmed that the underlying story here — that Trump had an affair with a housekeeper, and that this affair produced a child — is true. The woman in question “emphatically” denied the affair to the AP, telling them, “This is all fake. I think [AMI] lost their money.” Sajudin’s ex-wife called his credibility into question as well, telling the New York Daily News, “He’s infamous for making up stories. … He’s seen the chupacabra. He’s seen bigfoot. One of our friends who passed away, he saw him too, walking down the street.”

Still, the story matters because it fits into a broader pattern of payoffs, including from AMI, being used to cover up stories about Trump sex scandals. Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen says he paid porn actress Stormy Daniels $130,000 to not tell the story of a tryst she says she had with Trump back in 2006; Trump denies knowledge of the payment, but the question of whose money was used remains open — and now potentially under federal investigation.

AMI also, in August 2016, paid $150,000 to Karen McDougal, who also says she had an affair with Trump, in exchange for her story, which it also buried. AMI itself appears to have made that payment, but when the FBI raided Cohen’s law offices, reports emerged suggesting that agents were specifically looking for records on the Daniels and McDougal payoffs. That raises obvious questions about who actually funded those payments.

Dino Sajudin’s story of an out-of-wedlock Trump child raises even more of those questions, as well as the question of just how many payoff deals Trump or allied institutions like AMI have made. In Michael Wolff’s explosive book on the Trump White House, Fire and Fury, former campaign chair turned White House chief strategist Steve Bannon is quoted as saying of Trump’s personal lawyer Marc Kasowitz, “Kasowitz on the campaign — what did we have, a hundred women? Kasowitz took care of all of them.”

We don’t have 100 names of women Trump allegedly paid off, and Bannon has been known to speak hyperbolically. But we do have the names of McDougal and Daniels, and, with Sajudin’s story, the possibility of a third woman.

The National Enquirer has taken down politicians before — but also maintained a tight alliance with Trump

American Media Inc.’s disinclination to pursue these Trump stories is, at first glance, puzzling. This is a company that, on Thursday, April 12, was running pieces speculating that Michael Jackson might still be alive. Yet it’s also a publication that has broken important and accurate stories of affairs in the past, most notably the story of John Edwards’s affair and child with Rielle Hunter. (AMI’s willingness to pay sources is one reason it can sometimes break stories that more traditional media outlets can’t.)

Yet the New Yorker’s Ronan Farrow has reported that the company was known to sometimes use a tabloid industry practice called “catch and kill” on major celebrity scandal stories. That is: It would pay for exclusive rights to a source’s story about a scandal, and deliberately never publish it. Farrow writes that, per one company sources, AMI’s CEO and chair David Pecker “used the unpublished stories as ‘leverage’ over some celebrities in order to pressure them to pose for his magazines or feed him stories.”

With Trump, there was an added personal element. Pecker told the New Yorker’s Jeffrey Toobin last year that Trump is a “personal friend of mine” — they met in the 1990s, he joined Mar-a-Lago in 2003, and he attended Trump’s wedding to Melania. Trump would frequently be a source for Enquirer stories, and in return, the magazine would avoid covering him negatively. (Pecker claims that the National Enquirer’s readers are “white working people” who support Trump.)

This came in handy for Trump during the presidential campaign. “Since the early stages of his campaign in 2015,” the New York Times’s Jim Rutenberg, Emily Steel, and Mike McIntire report, “Mr. Trump, his lawyer Michael D. Cohen and Mr. Pecker have strategized about protecting him and lashing out at his political enemies.”

“In one early interaction,” the Times report continues, “Mr. Cohen helped arrange an ultimately abandoned attempt to buy and bury a potentially damaging photograph of Mr. Trump at an event with a topless woman — what is known in the tabloid world as a ‘catch and kill’ operation.” In February 2015, the Times reports, Pecker and Trump met to strategize about how to release damaging information about the Clintons in a then-hypothetical general election between Hillary Clinton and Trump.

Then there was the $30,000 payment to Sajudin so he wouldn’t come forward with the love child story, in November 2015.

But the Enquirer also stepped in a few months later, as the primary contest between Trump and Ted Cruz got increasingly nasty. First, in early March 2016, the magazine officially endorsed Trump. Weeks later, they ran a story headlined “A hooker, A teacher, & coworkers: 5 romps that will destroy Ted Cruz!” In it, the Enquirer made vague claims about supposed Cruz affairs with several vaguely described women (none of whom were named) and quoted longtime Trump associate Roger Stone saying, “These stories have been swirling around Cruz for some time. I believe where there is smoke there is fire.”

Cruz responded with fury, calling the story “garbage” and “utter lies” spread by “Donald Trump and his henchmen.” Trump, meanwhile, released a statement saying he had “nothing to do with the National Enquirer” that also stressed that “they were right about O.J. Simpson, John Edwards, and many others.”

In April, the Enquirer published a photo it claimed showed Cruz’s father with Lee Harvey Oswald, the man who killed John F. Kennedy, a story that Trump seized on and used to attack Cruz, insinuating that Cruz’s father might have had something to do with the assassination as well. The Enquirer took a number of smaller shots at Cruz as the primary wrapped up, including describing Carly Fiorina as a “homewrecker” after Cruz announced she would be his pick for vice president if he were nominated.

The Enquirer also brought toxically negative and largely fictional coverage of Hillary Clinton to checkout lines around the country. The magazine “routinely depicted Clinton as crazed, diseased, near death, an ISIS-supporting traitor, a liar, a blackmailer, corrupt and a member of a crime family,” Jack Shafer wrote for Politico Magazine.

And then in August 2016, AMI did an even more expensive favor for Trump behind the scenes, when it paid $150,000 for exclusive rights to Karen McDougal’s story of her affair with Trump — and didn’t run it. McDougal claims that Cohen, the Trump lawyer, was involved in her talks with the company about the hush money. AMI told the New York Times that it did, indeed, discuss McDougal’s story with Cohen during the summer of 2016, though it claimed it only did so as part of the reporting process. McDougal’s lawyer, Keith Davidson, who would go on to represent Stormy Daniels when she made her own hush money deal with Cohen, got in touch via email and phone with Cohen to tell him the deal had been completed.

The Enquirer’s extremely close relationship with Trump and his team reportedly continued after he entered the White House. The New York Times reported that in July of last year, Pecker visited Trump at the White House and brought along French businessman Kacy Grine, who “sometimes acts as an intermediary between Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Western businesses.” Pecker pursued business with the Saudis soon afterward, and AMI published a special propaganda magazine promoting the crown prince.

There were also some suggestions that AMI was continuing to target Trump’s enemies. MSNBC hosts Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough wrote last June, “This year, top White House staff members warned that the National Enquirer was planning to publish a negative article about us unless we begged the president to have the story spiked. We ignored their desperate pleas.” (The article eventually revealed the widely rumored fact that they had had an affair and left their spouses for each other.)

Gabe Sherman provided more details in a New York magazine piece. The background, as he tells it, was that Brzezinski and Scarborough had been harshly critical of Trump’s new administration. Then in April, Sherman writes, Scarborough texted with Jared Kushner about the forthcoming story, and “Kushner told Scarborough that he would need to personally apologize to Trump in exchange for getting Enquirer owner David Pecker to stop the story.” (He did not do so, and the Enquirer published the story in June.)

The FBI was looking for Michael Cohen’s communications with David Pecker during this week’s raid

On Monday, April 9, the FBI raided Cohen’s office and a hotel room where he had been staying. Per later reports describing their warrant, agents were looking for information on Cohen’s $130,000 payment to Daniels shortly before Election Day 2016.

But that’s not all they wanted — the New York Times reports that they also wanted all communications Cohen had had with AMI’s David Pecker, as well as National Enquirer editor Dylan Howard (who’s embroiled in his own sexual harassment scandal). Agents were also looking for any information Cohen might have on AMI’s $150,000 payment to Karen McDougal. And they sought Cohen’s communications with Trump himself, and other Trump associates, about “potential sources of negative publicity” before the election. (However, there’s no evidence that they specifically named the payment to Sajudin.)

The idea that a tabloid magazine editor might slant his coverage to help a friend may not sound so outrageous. But the fact that such large sums of money were involved seems to have caught investigators’ interest. Was this a major, off-the-books spending operation aimed at making problems for Trump’s presidential campaign go away? And since we’ve just learned of a new AMI Trump hush money payment this week, how many other payments don’t we know about?

Finally, there’s the question of whether this money truly did come from American Media Inc., as claimed — or whether it traces back to Trump himself, companies controlled by him, or some other wealthy figure. If the money didn’t come from Trump, what did the generous spender want in return for it? And even if it did turn out to be Trump’s funds in the end, this would still give Pecker and AMI massive leverage over him — they’d know all about his sex scandal hush money, so he’d be very motivated to keep them happy.

Regardless of where the money ultimately came from, if AMI was making payments with a goal of helping the Trump campaign, it could have run afoul of campaign finance law. Under federal law, individuals can donate a maximum of $5,400 to a presidential campaign, and corporations are barred from making direct donations. Payments of $30,000 and $150,000 from AMI, to Sajudin and McDougal respectively, are clearly above the individual limit, and since they came from a company, they could run afoul of the corporate direct donation ban as well.

As UC Irvine law professor Rick Hasen told the New Yorker’s Farrow, press organizations are often subject to lower levels of scrutiny in these kinds of cases. The First Amendment’s guarantee of freedom of the press gives press outlets latitude to endorse or condemn candidates without being prosecuted. But, he told Farrow, “If a corporation that has a press function is being used for non-press purposes to help a candidate win an election, then the press exemption would not apply to that activity.”

Common Cause, the left-leaning watchdog group, strongly believes that the McDougal payment was not a legitimate press function, and has filed a Federal Election Commission complaint against both Trump and American Media Inc. over the payment, calling it “an illegal corporate in-kind contribution to the 2016 Trump campaign.”After congressional Republicans passed their massive tax reform bill late last year, Americans felt the impact quickly.

Republicans passed their tax package in mid-December, and the bill’s statutory language meant it went into effect on January 1, 2018. The sweeping overhaul of taxes reduced rates for corporations and individuals (although individual tax cuts will eventually expire) and repealed the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate, effectively kicking 13 million people off their insurance, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

But Americans likely won’t see a big difference in their tax returns this spring; the proposed cuts in the bill will show up when most people file in 2019.

“When they’ll really see the difference is a year from March and April,” said Marc Goldwein, senior policy director for the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.

Related 4 winners and 4 losers from the Republican tax bill

Still, the new tax law will make more immediate changes, including to the amount of money employers withhold from their paychecks for tax purposes.

Beyond proposed cuts that will show up in people’s tax returns, there are much bigger implications and changes taking place down the line. The Republican tax law will cause the national deficit to increase by $1 trillion over the next decade. It will also let individual tax cuts expire after 10 years, meaning taxes on the middle class would eventually go up. Furthermore, some Republicans are advocating for the idea of raising tax rates if the tax bill doesn’t produce enough economic growth to stave off a deficit increase.

It’s hard to predict exactly how this would impact everyday Americans, but tax experts can say a few things with certainty: Older, wealthier Americans are going to benefit in the long run, while young Americans who work will be left footing the bill for years to come.

“It’s going to be a while before the full impact of this reveals itself,” said Eric Toder, co-director of the Urban Institute’s Tax Policy Center.

Indeed, some polling indicates most people haven’t noticed changes in their tax returns this year. A February Politico/Morning Consult poll found that 25 percent of registered voters said they have noticed an increase in their paycheck under the new tax law; 51 percent say they haven’t seen any change, and 24 percent aren’t sure.

Like the health care bill, the tax bill favors older, wealthier people

Around the time of the tax vote, Business Insider ran an analysis to estimate how much savings individual earners would see under the House GOP tax bill (which was not the final bill that was passed). They estimated that a single, childless taxpayer making $25,000 per year would see an average of $200 in savings, a taxpayer making $75,000 annually would see about $2,000 in yearly savings, and a taxpayer making $175,000 per year would see about $4,200 in savings.

But the plan the House and Senate agreed on and passed together in December would see those individual tax cuts eventually expire, while corporate tax cuts stay permanent.

“Basically, the individual income tax reverts to current law for tax year 2026 and beyond,” Goldwein said. “People get eight years of tax reform.”

With the corporate tax rate getting slashed from 35 percent to 21 percent and staying permanent, corporations are the big winners from the GOP tax cuts. But on the individual side, older and wealthier people also get a victory. Multiple analyses show that poorer Americans will lose out under the bill because individual tax cuts will eventually be phased out and the individual mandate will be repealed, causing an estimated 13 million people to lose health insurance, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.

As Vox’s Dylan Matthews reported:

The CBO breaks down the billions of dollars in annual changes to spending and tax revenue by income group, up to people making more than $1 million. What they find is that while the rich as a group benefit each year (as do people making more than $75,000, on aggregate) the desperately poor, earning $10,000 or less a year, lose out consistently — and by 2021, people earning $40,000 a year or less start losing out as well.

Corporate tax cuts will trickle down to shareholders and investors, and therefore be a boost to older, wealthier retirees who make their money from investment earnings rather than wages. Younger people, and people who must work for a living, will eventually see their tax cuts expire and will have to deal with consequences if the national deficit grows.

“There’s a redistribution of burden from the old to the young,” Toder said.

Future generations stand to lose much more, especially if the tax cuts balloon the national deficit as much as they are projected to. Eventually, someone has to pay for the cost of these steep cuts, whether that’s through increased future taxes, cutting spending or entitlement programs, or a mix of all three.

“One way or another, those tax cuts are going to have to be paid back, [and] it’s going to be skewed toward future generations,” Goldwein said. “If I’m a betting man, I don’t think it’s going to turn out well for the poor. But all I can say with certainty is that younger generations are going to pay more relative to how much they’re getting in the tax cut.”Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is trying to hold onto his job as new details about his ethically dubious hiring and housing arrangements continue to leak.

And as he’s made the rounds at conservative media outlets to tout his accomplishments and swing back at critics, Pruitt has made some outlandish claims.

Aside from his usual misleading platitudes, for instance that the Obama-era Clean Water Rule would have regulated puddles (it explicitly does not), Pruitt is generously scattering rhetorical chaff to obscure any wrongdoing at the EPA.

But now a whistleblower has come out and refuted many of Pruitt’s rationales in two letters sent by House and Senate Democrats to the White House on Thursday. The whistleblower, Kevin Chmielewski, was a former campaign aide for President Trump who worked as a deputy chief of staff at the EPA under Pruitt.

Here are some of Pruitt’s biggest whoppers, updated with new details from the letters.

Lie 1: “This agency has been a bastion of liberalism since day one”

Pruitt said this on the Washington Times podcast last week while talking about how the controversies he’s facing are being whipped up by the environmental left and ideologically opposed career staffers at the EPA.

This is a laughably false statement if you know the history of the EPA, which you would hope its administrator would be familiar with. It was a conservative Republican administration that led the charge to create an agency to protect the environment.

“Because environmental protection cuts across so many jurisdictions, and because arresting environmental deterioration is of great importance to the quality of life in our country and the world, I believe that in this case a strong, independent agency is needed,” wrote Richard Nixon in a letter to Congress seeking to establish the EPA in 1970.

The agency’s first administrator William Ruckelshaus had been a Republican member of the Indiana House of Representatives and was also an assistant attorney general in the Nixon administration. During his tenure, he advocated for market-based strategies for reducing pollution in air and water. In other words, not all that liberal.

Lie 2: “This was like an Airbnb situation”

This was Pruitt’s defense for staying in a $50-a-night condo near Capitol Hill co-owned by Vicki Hart, the wife of a prominent lobbyist, that he gave in an interview with Fox News’s Ed Henry last week.

He signed a lease (which you don’t do on Airbnb) but was only billed for the nights he was there, paying $6,100 over six months. He insists that this is an appropriate market rate, and EPA’s ethics office said as much in a hastily drawn up memo. Just about anyone who has lived in DC knows it isn’t.

Pruitt said his landlords “used the facility at the same time I was there.” Sure. To host fundraisers for Republicans.

He also said that “I was living out of a suitcase when I transitioned to DC. My wife was not with me. My children were not with me. My dog was not with me.” His daughter, McKenna Pruitt, did in fact stay with him at the condo while she was a White House intern (and damaged the hardwood floors with her luggage, according to Chmielewski).

Vicki Hart said his daughter staying there would violate the lease agreement.

“The rental agreement was with Scott Pruitt,” Vicki Hart, who co-owns the property, told ABC News. “If other people were using the bedroom or the living quarters, I was never told, and I never gave him permission to do that.”

And Politico reported Friday that Pruitt was so reluctant to give up the pad that the landlords became frustrated and changed the locks after he left.

“Scott Pruitt is the Kato Kaelin of Capitol Hill,” source familiar with the matter told Politico. “He is the long-term house guest who takes advantage of his hosts and refuses to take a hint about when it’s time to leave.”

Why was he so hesitant to pack up? It might have been because the deal was even better than Pruitt let on. According to one of the letters, Chmielewski overheard a speakerphone conversation where Vicki Hart’s husband complained that Pruitt “never paid any rent to him.”

Lie 3: “Mr. Hart has no clients that have business before this agency”

Vicki’s husband, J. Steven Hart, is the chair of powerhouse lobbying firm Williams & Jensen. Its clients include oil giant ExxonMobil, Canadian pipeline firm Enbridge, and liquified natural gas exporter Cheniere Energy.

Hart himself lobbied the EPA on behalf of OGE Energy, a regulated utility with coal, natural gas, and renewable power in its portfolio.

While Pruitt was staying at the condo, the EPA approved an expansion of Enbridge’s Alberta Clipper pipeline carrying oil from Canadian tar sands. The New York Times reported the company was also hit with a $61 million fine from the EPA in 2010 for an oil spill in Michigan.

In 2017, ExxonMobil reached a settlement with the EPA for violations of the Clean Air Act, including a $2.5 million civil penalty.

And Cheniere Energy owns the only natural gas export terminal in the continental United States. Pruitt went to Morocco last December (more below) to pitch the country on US natural gas.

Perhaps Mr. Hart recognized that the arrangement was suspicious, which is why he crossed his name off the lease and wrote his wife’s name in instead:

Lie 4: “The two trips I took, Ed, were all in advancement of air quality issues, environmental issues to this country”

Pruitt’s two international trips in 2017 included a meeting with environment ministers at the G7 environment summit in Italy and an unannounced trip to Morocco.

The trip to Morocco, where Pruitt flew first class, cost $40,000, not including the expenses for his full-time security detail. Pruitt insisted that this trip was well within EPA’s wheelhouse and centered on international environmental cooperation.

But the official EPA press release about the trip says the following in literally the first sentence (emphasis added):

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt attended bilateral meetings in Morocco this week where he outlined U.S. environmental priorities for updating the Environmental Work Plan under the U.S.-Morocco Free Trade Agreement and the potential benefit of liquified natural gas (LNG) imports on Morocco’s economy.

Being a salesperson for natural gas is definitely not in Pruitt’s job description.

Chmielewski also said Pruitt’s travel was dictated by his desire to visit certain cities rather than official work and that Pruitt told staffers “find me something to do [in those locations].” Even some of Pruitt’s official meetings were pretexts, “such as scheduling an official meeting with an old friend.”

Lie 5: “My staff did it. And I found out about it yesterday and I changed it.”

The Atlantic revealed that Pruitt asked the White House to approve huge raises for two close aides. When the White House declined to do so, Pruitt’s staff invoked a rarely used provision of the Safe Drinking Water Act to secure the pay bumps. The provision allows the EPA to hire up to 30 people without approval from the president or Congress and is meant to bring experts into the agency to deal with critical water issues.

Pruitt has used this provision several times before to hire industry lobbyists at the EPA, so it’s not unfamiliar to him. And the law explicitly requires that administrative hires get approval from, you know, the administrator.

The law that was reportedly used to create the pay raises explicitly requires the EPA Administrator's approval.



So either:

1. Pruitt is lying

or

2. These pay raises were illegal https://t.co/DuDRBGJRxY — Natasha Geiling (@ngeiling) April 4, 2018

But Pruitt told an incredulous Ed Henry on Fox News that he didn’t know about the raises until recently. “You don’t know? You run the agency. You don’t know who did this?” Henry asked.

“I found out about this yesterday, and I corrected the action,” Pruitt said.

After the interview, the Washington Post confirmed that Pruitt did in fact ask his staffers to find a way to secure raises for his aides. Elaina Plott at The Atlantic reported on Monday that emails show that one of the aides, Sarah Greenwalt, asked the the EPA’s human resources office to ensure her $56,765 raise went through after the White House had already declined to grant it, invoking Pruitt’s approval.

And Chmielewski told investigators that the raises were “100 percent Pruitt himself” and that he was asked to step aside from his job in order to give another one of the aides, Millan Hupp, a $28,130 pay bump.

The question now is whether any of this will register with President Donald Trump, who met with Pruitt on Monday at the White House. Republicans are increasingly divided over Pruitt, with three House members calling for him to resign and two senators publicly registering their support.

Trump in Rose Garden: “Sometimes it may not look like it but we are draining the swamp.” — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) April 12, 2018

Trump will have to decide whether Pruitt’s high-profile work undoing regulations at the EPA outweighs the negative attention he’s received. Or perhaps yet another controversy will emerge from the White House and push Pruitt’s troubles into the background.An April 5 Associated Press story followed by a similar April 7 Washington Post story both asserted that White House Chief of Staff John Kelly was suffering from diminished clout in the White House, as a more confident President Trump feels comfortable taking matters directly to new hires like John Bolton and Larry Kudlow, chatting on the phone with outside advisers, and firing Cabinet secretaries over Kelly’s objections.

I wasn’t really sure I believed it until I saw this tweet from Trump today with four photos, including one of Kelly looking like a very unhappy camper.

Just had an Agricultural Roundtable with memembers of Congress and Governors.



I will be making remarks on the large scale TAX CUTS given to American families and workers at 1:45 P.M. from the Rose Garden. Join me live: https://t.co/XAchZ3zUSe pic.twitter.com/Dqe8QhpDAZ — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018

Here’s a closer look.

Anyone can be caught in a bad body language moment by a photographer, but this was an official White House release, which seems noteworthy and different from an accidental snapshot.

In other Kelly news, the Daily Beast reported today that former FBI Director James Comey’s forthcoming book claims that then-DHS Secretary John Kelly told him that Trump’s decision to fire Comey was “dishonorable” and that Kelly indicated a desire to resign in protest. Comey, according to the Beast’s sources, says he told Kelly not to quit because “this president” more than others needed honorable people around him.

Why Comey would leak a piece of information that could imperil Kelly’s job if he thought Kelly’s presence was crucial for the country is not exactly clear, though many people have revised their views of Kelly downward since he took office as chief of staff; perhaps Comey is among them.President Donald Trump, who called the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal a “disaster” and pulled the United States out of the agreement in his first action as president, wants back in.

Trump has directed Larry Kudlow, his new top economic adviser, and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to look into negotiating the US’s reentry into the TPP, Sens. Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Ben Sasse (R-NE) told reporters.

It’s a truly shocking reversal from Trump on one of his signature campaign promises. Pulling the United States out of the TPP was not only his first executive order as president but also one of his few consistent policy positions. He’s called it a “disaster” and connected it to a “wave of globalization” that he says kills American manufacturing jobs.

The deal, as Vox’s Zeeshan Aleem explained, was one of the Obama administration’s major policy achievements and aimed to strengthened trade ties between 12 Pacific Rim countries — representing 40 percent of global GDP. But Trump relentlessly attacked the TPP and trade deals like it as job killers and a boon for other countries — a position that broke with his party but was successful among Rust Belt voters.

Republicans, however, have tried to convince Trump otherwise. In February, 25 Republican senators wrote Trump a letter calling on him to reverse his decision on the TPP and “re-engage.”

Trump has waffled on the TPP in recent months, and has said both that he would reconsider it if it was a “better” deal and that “there is no way to fix the TPP.” It’s not clear what a better deal would look like or how the US intends to renegotiate its way in. Only two months ago he said the TPP was “bad” for the US, reiterating his support for bilateral instead of multilateral deals.

Nevertheless, the move immediately received praise from congressional Republicans, who have had to suppress their longstanding support for free trade under Trump. Sasse lauded Trump’s direction as “the best thing the United States can do to push back against Chinese cheating” in a statement.

Republicans were apparently very persuasive.In the race for House Speaker Paul Ryan’s seat in Wisconsin’s First Congressional District, one Democratic candidate has gotten a lot of national attention. But there’s another Democrat in the race: Cathy Myers, though lower profile, is running a serious campaign.

Myers is a school board member and part-time teacher from Ryan’s hometown of Janesville, Wisconsin. She’s running a tough race against fellow Democratic candidate Randy Bryce, the ironworker and union organizer who goes by “IronStache.”

Bryce has taken up most of the political oxygen in the Democratic race so far; he received an early round of endorsements from Bernie Sanders and other progressive groups, and national Democrats followed — the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee recently added Bryce to its “red to blue” list. And he’s fundraised millions so far, putting him in a good position to take over whichever Republican emerges from the primary to replace Ryan, who announced Wednesday that he’s retiring at the end of his term.

But Myers is undeterred.

“I feel my chances are good,” she told me as she drove to Milwaukee after finishing a day of teaching. “My goodness, I went up against Paul Ryan with a guy that had $10 to $11 million sitting in the bank; he could write a check for it at any given time. That didn’t faze me, so why should any of Randy’s fundraising faze me?”

The fact that Ryan is leaving the race could pose a new opportunity for Myers. Bryce has spent much of the campaign attacking Ryan as the leader of the GOP’s efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and pass massive tax cuts. With Ryan retiring and Republicans scrambling to replace him, it could give Myers more of a chance to get her own message out.

She has already fundraised about $800,000 and says she’s building a strong grassroots campaign to take on Bryce in Wisconsin’s Democratic primary in August.

There isn’t a lot of daylight between Myers and Bryce on the issues; both are staunch progressives. Myers is highlighting her local political experience; she won multiple races for the Janesville School Board. When I asked her about making the leap from school board to Congress, she said she sees a move to the US House as a natural next step for public service.

“I’ve won the privilege of serving my community on the Janesville School Board, but I really see that Congress is an extension of my ability to make a positive impact on people’s lives,” she said. “I knew it was going to be hard. We still must work every day.”

I spoke to Myers about the challenges of balancing work and campaigning, why she got into the race in the first place, and how Democrats could win over Wisconsin Trump voters in 2018.

Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.

Ella Nilsen

What are your thoughts on Ryan’s retirement?

Cathy Myers

I heard it this morning as I was having my coffee and reading the paper, and I started to get messages on my phone about it. I guess my first thought is: What a wonderful opportunity this is for the constituents and the people who live in the First Congressional District to finally get some representation that they have been denied for a very long time.

Ella Nilsen

You live in Janesville, right? That’s where the speaker lives.

Cathy Myers

I do.

Ella Nilsen

How often is he around the area?

Cathy Myers

I have run into him on occasion. I think he comes in on weekends. I guess I don’t know how to judge it, whether it’s often given whatever he’s doing. But you’d usually see a bit of a larger presence of Secret Service outside of his house on the weekends that he was home.

Ella Nilsen

So, backing up, why did you decide to run this year?

Cathy Myers

I announced back in June, and I decided to run because I think I’m the best person to represent the people of the First Congressional District. I am a high school English teacher, and I understand the obstacles and the challenges that working-class and middle-class people face. I think I can address them fully. There were things that happened that really made me consider running and were things that I think I could address very specifically.

One of those things was the selection of Betsy DeVos as education secretary. I’m a high school English teacher; I have 24 years of experience in the classroom. And I’m still teaching, by the way. I’m teaching part time this year.

Ella Nilsen

How have you been balancing that?

Cathy Myers

I’m used to working like this. When I was a new mom, I quit my job and opened a state-run day care out of my home so that I could be with my kids more, and also because I couldn’t afford day care with what I was being paid. When my daughter was 1 year old, while I’m still running this day care center and I had a son who was 2, and I worked from 5 am to 5 pm, I started back to graduate school. I worked 12 hours at least a day on my job, and of course, I had my family and my children to take care of. I’m very good at using and squeezing every minute I can out of the day to get things done.

But getting back to Betsy DeVos, she is the enemy of public education. I truly believe that. She is going to defund public education and deny a quality education for our kids. I felt especially attuned to that issue and felt as though my experience will be very important in Congress to counter the things that she’s trying to do.

Ella Nilsen

Paul Ryan has represented your district since 1998. His retirement changes the calculation of the race, but how winnable do you think this district is for Democrats?

Cathy Myers

Well, I thought the district was winnable even when Paul Ryan was still in office, when we still thought he was running. I truly believe that people have gotten to a point where they have become distraught and distressed by Paul Ryan’s service and his lack of leadership. They have been incredibly upset by the fact that he doesn’t come back to the district to talk to them about what’s going on and how he can help them.

Indeed, it seems that the only people he really cared to talk to were people that were writing him big checks. I knew it was going to be hard. And by the way, even if he is not in the race, it’s still going to be hard. We still must work every day. So I’m not taking anything for granted even if he is not there.

I believe that people want a public servant. They want someone who listens to them, who will actually go and look them in the eye and talk about their qualifications and their vision to help them, and will listen to the concerns that they have. That’s why I think I will be an excellent representative for the First District.

Ella Nilsen

Do you think Democrats can win back Trump voters in the district? Or people that are disillusioned with the Democratic Party?

Cathy Myers

I do, because the district at one point went for Obama. It went for Trump [in 2016], but it didn’t go for Trump by all that much. I honestly believe that people in the district were simply feeling ignored. So a vote for Trump was just to see if it could get something different. Now they have buyer’s remorse because they see that what they got was somebody who wants to shake things up; this is a guy who wants to burn things down. They are appalled by the behavior that they see in the White House, the corruption and the chaos.

We are going to have the strongest grassroots campaign in the country. I have members on my team that are experts in grassroots organizing. And we are going to bring service back to this district because we are going out to talk with people like they are our neighbors, because they are. We are going to hear from them and listen to them. They’re not going to be ignored anymore.

That’s how we’re going to win this district, and that’s how we’re going to bring back some of those people that voted for Trump, because they want to be heard and they should be heard.

Ella Nilsen

How do you feel about your chances against Randy Bryce in the primary? He has an incredible amount endorsements from progressive groups; he’s on the DCCC’s “red to blue” list; he’s fundraised millions at this point.

Cathy Myers

I feel my chances are good. My goodness, I went up against Paul Ryan with a guy that had $10 to $11 million sitting in the bank; he could write a check for it at any given time. That didn’t faze me, so why should any of Randy’s fundraising faze me?

I really don’t think this is going to be a race that is going to be about money; I think the race is going to be about whose qualifications are better. That’s me, frankly. I have been elected twice to the Janesville School Board; I was top vote-getter each time. I doubled my vote the second time I ran, and I did that by going out and talking to people, by being visible, by being responsive to the things they care about.

And so I really think that’s going to win it for us. I think that the fundraising ... money is important, of course. But money is not a sign of quality candidates.

Ella Nilsen

So would you say you’re going to try to draw the comparison more on your experience than issues? Because it does seem that you and Randy are both fairly progressive.

Cathy Myers

Right. I think that my qualifications exceed his. He’s lost three times and has never cleared 40 percent. I don’t know why he didn’t win, I just know why I do win, and that’s by going out and talking with people and showing them I care about the challenges that they face.

Ella Nilsen

There’s been a lot of talk following the Pennsylvania special election that the Democrat, Conor Lamb, made it clear he wouldn’t support Nancy Pelosi as House speaker if Democrats win. Have you given any thought to whether you would, if you are elected?

Cathy Myers

I haven’t really given it a whole lot of thought because I’ve got so many things on my plate at the moment. But, I certainly respect Mrs. Pelosi, and I respect people that step up. I also believe in competition. That’s why I’m not afraid of a primary. When I get there, if there are other people that want the job, I will listen to them, and I will do my best to determine who has the best vision for the Democratic Party and for this country.

Ella Nilsen

What do you think the Democratic Party needs to do in order to take back the House in 2018?

Cathy Myers

I think the party needs to offer voters a framework for a very strong grassroots campaign. I think we have not done a very good job of making our case to the people. We’ve allowed other people to change the conversation. I think we need to get back to good old-fashioned grassroots campaigning. It’s not just about campaigning — what about good old grassroots service? We need to be of service to the people of this country.President Donald Trump’s fury over the raid of his lawyer Michael Cohen’s office has initiated a new round of discussion about whether the president will finally fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller, in an effort to halt investigations into himself and his associates.

Trump took on Mueller by name for the first time on Twitter in March, writing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started,” that it was not “fair” that “the Mueller team” had several Democratic prosecutors, and that the investigation was “a total WITCH HUNT with massive conflicts of interest!”

Then, after this Monday’s raid — based on evidence Mueller reportedly referred to the Justice Department — Trump went further, calling it an “attack on our country” and saying, about Mueller, “many people have said, ‘You should fire him.’” (Thursday morning, though, he called a Times report that he had talked about firing Mueller in December “Fake News.”)

Now, all this could well be a PR strategy aimed at discrediting Mueller’s investigation rather than laying the groundwork for firing him. But liberals fear that a recent trend of Trump defying advisers who counsel caution will finally lead to him pulling the trigger — and that he’ll get away with it, since a sycophantic Republican Congress would likely take little action in response.

Yet it’s worth keeping in mind that even though Trump has wanted Mueller gone and his investigation shut down for at least ten months — by one account, Trump actually tried to push Mueller out last June — he’s been either unwilling or unable to actually make it happen so far. And it’s worth understanding the several reasons why that is.

The process of getting rid of Mueller is much more complicated and legally fraught than, say, firing FBI Director James Comey or Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Furthermore, dismissing Mueller himself wouldn’t end Mueller’s investigation — an even more controversial intervention would be required for that. Then, even if he pulled it off, Mueller’s firing would likely lead to a flood of leaks. Finally, the ensuing backlash could help Democrats regain control of Congress — which could make Trump’s legal and political situation even worse.

It is certainly possible that Trump could change his mind and decide that, despite all this, Mueller’s probe is so dangerous that it’s worth casting caution to the wind and firing him. But he’s been afraid to take that step so far — and for some very good reasons.

1) Firing Mueller would be much more procedurally complicated and legally challenging than firing Comey or Tillerson

This March, President Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson with a tweet. Last May, he fired FBI Director James Comey with a signed letter. Both men served at the president’s pleasure — all the president had to do was say the word, and they were gone.

Things aren’t so simple with Mueller. The special counsel was appointed under a Justice Department regulation that sets restrictions on just how and why he can be fired.

The how, in this case, is by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein (since his boss Jeff Sessions recused himself). Rosenstein appointed Mueller, and according to the regulation, he’s the only person who can fire him.

Then there’s the why, which is also very important here. The regulation states that a special counsel can’t be fired on a whim. Instead, it says, he or she can only be fired for “misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or for other good cause.”

If Trump truly was hell-bent on dumping Mueller, these problems probably wouldn’t be insurmountable. But the solutions aren’t pretty — they all involve either more firings or some questionable legal claims.

Regarding the why, the regulation does say a special counsel can be fired for “conflict of interest” — which may explain some of Trump’s recent tweets:

A total WITCH HUNT with massive conflicts of interest! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 19, 2018

Publicly and privately, Trump and his allies have floated several alleged conflicts that they think could be used to justify ousting Mueller — ranging from Mueller’s past working relationship with Comey to a years-old Mueller request for a dues refund from Trump National Golf Club. Legal experts don’t seem particularly convinced by these, and Trump’s own White House counsel Don McGahn reportedly refused to order Mueller’s firing based on these pretexts last year. But a hackish enough Trump Justice appointee could cite them as an excuse for the firing.

The trickier question is the how, considering Rosenstein has repeatedly said he sees no good cause for firing Mueller and has testified that he wouldn’t carry out an order to do so unless he saw good cause.

There are several ways Trump could get around this, though.

Trump could fire Rosenstein and whoever replaces Rosenstein in the Justice Department’s line of succession until he finds someone willing to dismiss Mueller.

Another path would be through firing Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Theoretically, a new attorney general would not be recused from overseeing the Russia investigation like Sessions was, and would replace Rosenstein as Mueller’s boss. However, a permanent attorney general appointee would need to be confirmed by the narrowly divided Senate.

Trump could also evade both the Justice Department’s line of succession and Senate confirmation by exploiting a little-known law called the Federal Vacancies Reform Act. With it, he could appoint a temporary replacement for Sessions or Rosenstein who’s already been confirmed by the Senate for some other post elsewhere in the government. (Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt has been rumored as one possibility.) Whoever this stooge is could then dump Mueller.

Trump could also rescind the regulation establishing the special counsel’s office altogether — but revoking a regulation is a lengthy and complex process.

Finally, he could make a broad executive power claim that he has the power to fire Mueller on his own. But that could lead to a showdown with his own Justice Department (Rosenstein has testified he believes only he can fire Mueller), and would likely end up in court.

Again — if Trump wants Mueller gone enough, he can probably make it happen. The point is that getting there would be far uglier and look far more corrupt than even the firing of Comey.

2) Firing Mueller does not mean ending the Mueller investigation

All of that lengthy preceding section was just about the complexities of firing Robert S. Mueller III, the person.

It doesn’t even begin to address another problem Trump would have to solve — that is, how to end Mueller’s investigation.

Currently, 17 prosecutors are working under Mueller in the special counsel’s office. They’re working with many FBI agents. They’ve convened at least two grand juries (in Washington, DC, and Alexandria, Virginia). They have live indictments against Paul Manafort (in two jurisdictions) and against 13 Russian nationals and three Russian companies. Mueller’s team has also banked guilty pleas from five people who have not yet been sentenced. There could even be sealed indictments we don’t know about (George Papadopoulos’s indictment was sealed for months).

Now, an apparent new front in the investigations against Trump have opened up, since the raid on Michael Cohen’s office was carried out by the US Attorney’s office for Manhattan, and not the special counsel’s own team (though Mueller is said to have “referred” it). If it’s true that Mueller has handed off the Cohen probe to others in the Justice Department, firing him wouldn’t affect the Cohen probe at all.

Firing Mueller would not make all this vanish. For that, a more proactive cover-up would be necessary. Trump’s hypothetical stooge at the Justice Department would have to not just be willing to dismiss Mueller, but to affirmatively act to shut down (or at least, rein in) his investigation and the seemingly separate Cohen probe.

Again, this is something that Trump probably could make happen should he be willing to bear the political consequences. For instance, he could have his Justice Department stooge appoint a crony as a replacement special counsel for Mueller, who will make sure the investigation progresses no further. But it’s yet another step up in difficulty and controversy from just firing one person.

It’s also worth remembering that President Richard Nixon failed at this stage of the cover-up process. He fired his top Justice Department officials until he found one who’d get rid of the special prosecutor investigating Watergate. But then that Justice official (Robert Bork) appointed a new special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, who ended up investigating the case vigorously.

3) Firing Mueller would unleash the leaks

In 11 months of subpoenas, evidence collection, reviews of intelligence intercepts, and witness testimonies, Mueller’s team has gathered an enormous amount of information on the Trump campaign, business, transition, and White House. (For instance, he obtained the full transition team email accounts of 13 Trump aides.)

We don’t know how much of what they have relates to potential criminality, or how much might just be politically damaging were it to become public. But it sure seems likely that, should Trump make a corrupt-looking attempt to shut down Mueller’s investigation, lots of this information would find its way to congressional Democrats or to the media.

Recall what happened when Trump fired Comey back in May — over the ensuing weeks, a remarkable series of bombshell leaks occurred. They were about events both old (Trump’s inappropriate request for Comey’s “loyalty” at a private meeting, his later request that Comey end the investigation into Michael Flynn, and Jared Kushner’s seeking a back channel to communicate with Russia during the transition) and new (Trump’s revelation of classified intelligence to Russian officials in an Oval Office meeting).

Mueller’s probe has been remarkably leak-proof so far. Should the probe be shut down in what looks like a corrupt manner, it seems unlikely that would continue to be the case. At least some law enforcement officials would likely prove more willing to take the legal risks for leaking, should they feel it’s the only way to prevent a cover-up. And of course, the leaks after Comey’s firing were eventually followed by Mueller’s appointment.

4) A Trump cover-up could improve Democrats’ chances of retaking Congress — which would worsen the president’s legal woes

It’s well understood that Trump would face a political backlash for firing Mueller. In and of itself, that probably wouldn’t be enough to hold him back from doing it — after all, he’s been willing and even eager to make controversial political moves in the past.

But the real risk for Trump is in what that political backlash could make likely — a Democratic takeover of one or both chambers of Congress in 2018.

Already, the national environment is worrying for Republicans. The president is unpopular. Democrats lead by nearly 7 points in FiveThirtyEight’s average of congressional generic ballot polls. And Democrats have been consistently bettering their 2016 performance in special elections. The enormous controversy that would result from a shutdown of the Mueller investigation could supercharge all this.

The problem for Trump is not that he’d be sentimental about the GOP’s electoral fate. It’s that Democratic control of even one chamber would unleash empowered opposition party–controlled investigations into him and his administration on Russia, obstruction, and a host of other issues.

That is to say, firing Mueller could help Democrats retake Congress, and end up landing Trump in far more investigative hot water and political jeopardy.

Trump could well calculate that despite all this, Mueller’s investigation is dangerous enough to himself, his family, or his allies in the near term that it’s worth taking the enormous risk of shutting it down.

But anyone who thinks firing Mueller would make Trump’s legal problems go away is badly mistaken. Instead, it would be the beginning of a new and far more serious crisis — with no end in sight.Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links.

Carol Anderson is a brilliant author, academic, and historian — and still, she has no words for how she felt during the 2016 election. Or she does, but she catches herself before she says them out loud on a bonus episode of The Ezra Klein Show.

Anderson’s book White Rage: The Unspoken Truth of our Racial Divide was published a few months before Election Day but remains vitally relevant more than a year into the Trump presidency. In it, Anderson discusses how anger in black communities is hyper-visible, while “white rage manages to be almost invisible [...which] distorts our understanding of the reality of race relations in this country.”

Buy White Rage here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

In this conversation, recorded before a controversial Sam Harris interview on the same show and similar in theme, Ezra asks Anderson about the points she makes in the book, as well as her thoughts on identity politics, “political correctness” on college campuses, and whether things are really as apocalyptic as they feel. The conversation is alternately funny and sobering as Anderson discusses her views on everything from dog-whistle politics and Cold War history to the impact of Archie Bunker.

The books she recommends at the end of the podcast support her sentiment that America has never lived up to its lofty aspirations. They show how our institutions, both public and private, are failing the citizens they’re supposed to serve.

Anderson says of Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City, “that book breaks my heart.” Matthew Desmond’s Pulitzer Prize-winning book profiles poor families in Milwaukee as they struggle to keep their housing. In Evicted, Desmond emphasizes the importance of the home to American life and offers actionable solutions to break the eviction cycle that disproportionately punishes impoverished mothers.

Buy Evicted here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

Tressie McMillan Cottom’s Lower Ed: The Troubling Rise of For-Profit Colleges in the New Economy includes a blurb from Anderson calling it a “powerful, chilling tale.” On the podcast, Anderson describes it as a look at “how [for-profit colleges] prey on the aspirations of those who are seeking a college education in order to have a better life.” Through interviews with former students and employees, McMillan Cottom links the for-profit college industry to larger trends in race, class, and gender inequality.

Buy Lower Ed here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

It’s Even Worse Than It Looks: How the American Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of Extremism was written in 2012 and revised in 2016. The book’s authors, Thomas E. Mann and Norman J. Ornstein, track the rise of extremism in American politics that seems to be getting worse every day. Anderson says It’s Even Worse Than It Looks “gave [her] an insight into where we are right now with the Republican Party, understanding how [it] moved from a governing party to a party of opposition ... which then didn’t provide any kind of space for moderate Republicans.”

Buy It’s Even Worse Than It Looks here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

You can listen to Carol Anderson on The Ezra Klein Show by subscribing on iTunes or wherever you get your podcasts, or by streaming the episode here:One of the most sympathetic, compelling portraits of motherhood on television centers on a performance by a man. On FX’s Baskets, which recently completed its third season, comedian Louie Anderson plays Christine Baskets, owner of a “family rodeo” and mother of twins Chip and Dale (both played by Zach Galifianakis), a part for which Anderson won an Emmy for Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series in 2016.

In the latest episode of my podcast, I Think You’re Interesting, Anderson describes the experience of playing Christine not as trying to put on a character but, instead, as channeling his own mother, Ora, a South Dakota native who spent most of her life in the Twin Cities area in Minnesota. When he steps out of his trailer, Anderson says, it’s as if he opens up a conduit to his mother (who has passed away), wherever she might be.

He’s also used his fond memories of his mother to write a new book, Hey Mom, in which he reminisces about how she protected him from a dangerous, hostile father during his childhood and prepared him for his long career in comedy.

In addition to Baskets, that career has included highly acclaimed standup work, the 1990s animated series Life With Louie (also an Emmy winner), and a gig hosting Family Feud. His standup is notable for pivoting between gently poking fun at himself (usually via his vast roster of self-directed fat jokes) and telling more emotionally risky stories about his life growing up with a large family.

I wanted to ask Anderson if playing Christine had taught him anything about his own mother. A lightly edited transcript of that portion of our conversation follows.

Todd VanDerWerff

The image of a guy in a dress has this long history in television. It starts with Milton Berle, really. He would march out in a dress, and it was always played for laughs, and we’ve since better realized how harmful that could be in some ways. But Christine was never conceived of as a joke, and that was striking to me the first time I saw the show. I’m wondering what those conversations were like.

Louie Anderson

Less conversations. I never for once played a male in the part. And when I occasionally get close to it, I always see it. But I don’t do it. When I get ready, I’m getting prepared to flick my hair and purse my lips, as my mom did.

I think we have tics as humans, so I stole all my mom’s nuance and tics and put them on me to disguise Louie Anderson, to get him out of there. For the most part, I’m really playing [the characters’] mom. I never think, “This is funny because I’m in a dress.” You know what I think when I look in the mirror? I look really good. That’s the difference, I think. [I think] I look really good as a woman. I don’t say, “I look good as a woman.” I look in a mirror and say, “I’m really good.”

People are talking about how much they love the acting of it. I don’t know if you believe in any of that stuff, but I think there’s an open portal for all of us. And that’s what happens when you see really good parts, I think you’re opening yourself up to the idea that you are [the character]. I think of myself as a woman in there. I don’t ever think of myself as a man when I’m playing the part. I think I’m Dale and Chip’s mom. When I step into the trailer, I’m Louie. But when I step out of the trailer, I am not. I leave Louie in the trailer.

So I’m trying to imagine the way my mom must have felt. I knew how she carried herself because she was really funny in her own way, but she had so much style it was just unbelievable. But I didn’t know it as style. I just knew my mom could beat up your mom. [laughs] But mostly by looks, grimaces, and glances; she didn’t have to do much else. Or a mean little word. But not meant to be mean, but more to let people know that they’re being mean.

She had a tremendous amount of justice in her psyche. She knew what was right. She knew what was the right thing and the wrong thing, and she just needed a glance to let you know you weren’t doing it.

Todd VanDerWerff

What’s the thing you didn’t understand about your mom as a child that you do now?

Louie Anderson

Maybe how lonesome she was.

I think my mom stayed with my dad, at the end of the day, because she loved him and didn’t want to be alone. I think that even though she was this unbelievably stoic figure, I think there’s a bunch of us who just don’t want to be alone, because when we’re alone, we’re no good. In the sense of, not bad people, but we’re not as happy. We’re not as connected.

This book was the hardest book I ever wrote, even though my dad’s book [Dear Dad: Letters From an Adult Child, published in 1989] was super hard to write. When you’re older, you’re more responsible for how you treat the people around you. People always say, “You were good to Mom,” but I could have been better. I wish I would have.

Todd VanDerWerff

Have you come to a better understanding of your parents’ marriage, having written about both of them?

Louie Anderson

The time of the world then — late ’20s, early ’30s — you didn’t leave somebody very easily in those days.

Todd VanDerWerff

Especially in Minnesota.

Louie Anderson

Minnesotans will hang on to the very last breath. I remember when my dad quit drinking when he was 69, and my mom turned to us and said, “I told you he’d quit.” I thought that summed up everything, to be honest. I think she realized she loved that guy no matter what, and she was not going to give in, and he gave in.

Todd VanDerWerff

You mentioned that you feel like you’re channeling your mom in some ways. Have you had that feeling before, not necessarily in terms of channeling your mom, but in terms of feeling like you’re tapped into something?

Louie Anderson

Many times. When I’m writing. Onstage, when I’m crushing it, just free-form.

And when I did Life With Louie, when I read the dad character, because the dad character, I had to do it always at the end of all the reading. I’d do the narration, I’d do Little Louie, and then I did the dad. If I did the dad first, I had nothing left for the other characters, because I always thought my dad was there when I was doing it.

Maybe that’s just my nostalgic, sentimental person who I am that wants to think that, but Jesus. I don’t know if you listen to some of the stuff that we taped [for that show]. The dad character, we would just have a line, but I would just go off, almost all the time, and just go on and on. That was so much fun, and this is the character I always thought I would play in a sitcom — my dad. And look! I ended up playing my mom, which is just how life works, isn’t it?

For much more with Anderson, including a highly emotional reading from Hey Mom, listen to the full episode.

To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.Today, April 10, marks Equal Pay Day — the date the average woman in America would need to work until in 2018 in order to earn what men were paid in 2017. According to Valerie Wilson, the director of the Economic Policy Institute’s Program on Race, Ethnicity, and the Economy, “For African-American women, Equal Pay Day this year will come on August 7. For Hispanic women, it will come November 1.”

On the latest episode of Today, Explained, Vox’s senior policy correspondent Sarah Kliff and Wilson joined Sean Rameswaram to talk about how things like motherhood and race impact the gender pay gap.

“Women get more graduate degrees than men at this point,” explains Kliff. “Women’s labor force participation has risen hugely over the past few decades. The one thing that has not changed is this expectation that when couples have children, it is the women who are going to step back and take care of them. And that expectation really seems to be at the heart of the wage gap that exists in 2018.”

Wilson adds, “There’s little left to explain the fact that there is a disparity by gender and by race other than racism and sexism and the role that those play in how people get paid, whether or not they get hired, whether or not they get promoted ...”

Even though there is progress being made — thanks in part to the Equal Pay Act passed in 1963 — we still have a long way to go. Learn more about the gender wage gap, whom it hurts most, and possible solutions to it by listening to the latest episode of Today, Explained.

Related reading:

How do I get even more Today, Explained?

You can get the news we’re reading throughout the day, facts and stats to make you smarter about the world, and behind-the-scenes photos on Twitter at @Today_Explained. You can follow Sean Rameswaram at @Rameswaram, Sarah Kliff at @SarahKliff, and Valerie Wilson at @ValerieRWilson.

How do I report a problem?

For all issues or feedback, please email todayexplained@vox.com.

How do I listen?

If you don’t see the player above, you can listen, subscribe, and review Today, Explained on Stitcher, Apple Podcasts, and Google Play Music.

What if I want to listen at home?

If you have Amazon Echo, add Today, Explained to your flash briefing. If you have Google Home, just say, “Hey Google, play the Today, Explained podcast!”The Cambridge Analytica scandal has put data privacy on Facebook under the spotlight. The concern isn’t just about who can see what you’re sharing on Facebook. It’s what Facebook lets third parties and advertisers see about you.

In hearings on Capitol Hill, Facebook CEO and co-founder Mark Zuckerberg claimed users had plenty of control over their data — from seeing if their data was leaked (his was) to adjusting preferences for targeted ads.

But Facebook doesn’t make it particularly easy to figure out how to adjust these settings. And while Zuckerberg is correct that users “have to opt in to sign in to any app before you use it,” that consent is usually just a simple click.

Still, Zuckerberg’s insistence that users have power over this might have come as a surprise — wait, I have actual control over my ad preferences? — so here are five things you can do to make your Facebook a bit more private.

1) Find out if your data was leaked to Cambridge Analytica

Zuckerberg said Wednesday that he was one of the 87 million Facebook users whose information got harvested by Cambridge Analytica. Facebook is notifying people with a message on top of their newsfeeds, but if you can’t wait for the personalized message, there’s another way to check.

Visit Facebook’s help center and type in “Cambridge Analytica,” or try this link. Log in and you’ll get a message that will either break the bad news — that based on Facebook’s records, you, or one of your friends, logged in to the thisisyourdigitallife app, and your data might have been shared.

Or you or none of your friends did, and it doesn’t seem like you’ve been caught up in the leak. Congrats to those people, and their friends!

2) Figure out which third parties have your data

Facebook changed its policies in 2015 to limit what information third-party app developers can access, which included information about your friends.

Still, there’s a good chance you’ve given permission to third parties, most likely through Facebook Login, which lets you access and auto-populate other apps with your Facebook information: email, birthdate, and so on. To figure out which apps, games, and other extensions might have your data, go to the Settings tab on Facebook, and in the bottom left corner, click on the Apps and Websites tab.

This will take you to a dashboard that has three categories: apps that are actively using your information; apps that have expired; and finally, apps you’ve removed. “Expired” apps can still store your data but, since you’re not currently using them, likely can’t keep pulling updates from Facebook.

3) Turn off or limit access for third-party apps

Once you’re on the Apps and Websites dashboard, you can click on each of the apps — there’s a little “view and edit” bottom (see below), and you can adjust how much and exactly what data the app can use. Some of the data is in the “required” category. For example, Venmo tells me that my name, profile picture, age, and other public profile info is required if I want to use Facebook Login. It also has access to other information, such as my birthday, but if I choose, I can cut that off.

You can repeat this process for all your apps, including the expired ones. You can remove apps altogether, and if you choose, you can turn off all of Facebook’s access to apps, games, and other websites — which means, of course, that you can’t use or log in to them with your Facebook information.

4) Limit your exposure to certain ads (and be prepared to be creeped out)

Facebook’s business model is running ads, so there’s no real way to turn off the spigot completely. But you can adjust your preferences for what ads you get — and what advertisers might be able to get about you.

You get to this Ads page through Settings. You’ll find the Ads option in the bottom left-hand corner. That will bring you to a pretty extensive landing page, where you can get a taste of how Facebook advertisers see you — so be prepared to be a little demoralized.

Once on the dashboard, you can change your interests; Facebook thought I was into “coupons,” for example, so I could delete that category and dissuade it of that notion if I choose. You can hide ads from certain advertisers. You can also see which Facebook ads you’ve clicked on.

There’s also a Your Information section where you can manage whether Facebook can display ads from advertisers that want to reach you based on certain information in your profile, such as relationship status or employer. You can turn those off — they won’t be removed from your profile, but, at least according to Facebook, it won’t let advertisers send you ads based on these details.

Finally — and this is the most fun/frightening one — you can see your categories, such as politics, that advertisers can target you with. These are also removable.

You can also adjust your settings to get Facebook to stop blasting you with ads from outside websites you’ve visited. For example, when you’re shopping for a new sweater online, you can limit sweaters from popping up on your Facebook feed.

There’s more! You can stop Facebook from putting your name on ads — for example, when you see three of your friends “liked” an ad — and you can hide certain “topic” ads, including alcohol and parenting.

5) Download a copy of your Facebook data

If you want to get a comprehensive picture of all your Facebook activity — what ads you’ve clicked on, what apps you’ve used, what chats you’ve had — you can download all of your Facebook data.

To get it, head again to the Settings tab. You’ll be on the General Account Settings page, where you’ll see your name, username — all the basics. There’s a “Download a copy of your Facebook data” option linked at the bottom of the main menu.

According to Facebook, this information will include a lot of the same information that’s already available on your profile and activity log, like your posts and photos. But it also includes less obvious things like those ads you’ve clicked on and all your old messages. It even has the date (and exact time!) you registered for the social network. I didn’t remember that I signed up in July 2004, in simpler times.If there’s ever a moment to capture the existential crisis at Facebook, it was these past couple of weeks.

On Wednesday, the CEO and founder, Mark Zuckerberg, testified in front of the House Committee on Energy and Finance, where he faced fierce questioning about Facebook’s role in a range of misdeeds — from ethnic genocide in Myanmar to election meddling.

While Zuckerberg was confronted with his company’s failures, more than 30,000 Oklahoma teachers were rallying at the state Capitol to demand better pay and funding for their state’s struggling schools. It was the teachers’ eighth day on strike. And one of the notable things about the strike is how reliant it has been on Facebook as an organizing tool — a fact that’s true for the teachers strikes in other states.

With Facebook’s public approval at an all-time low, public school teachers are among the few who see the social network’s potential as a catalyst for meaningful change. They credit the platform for helping launch one of the most significant grassroots labor movements in recent years.

“I don’t think [the strikes] would’ve happened without the Facebook groups,” Samantha Freeman, a kindergarten teacher in the Oklahoma City area, told Vox.

Similar Facebook groups have recently helped people who have common cause find each other. The #MeToo gathered momentum on Facebook; sexual assault victims of the former Olympics gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar were able to connect via the platform; the Occupy Wall Street movement spread across the country through local Facebook groups.

Yet these bright spots don’t negate the reasons the company is under much-warranted scrutiny for its role in Russia’s interference in the 2016 US presidential election, for its handling of user data, and for how it communicated any of these problems to the public. It’s also facing criticism for allowing its platform to be used to organize violence, including in Myanmar, where ethnic cleansing was fanned by the use of Facebook.

The question for Facebook is whether, in the long run, it will be able to overcome its problems to become a platform that can launch successful movements like the ones in Oklahoma and West Virginia, where teachers consider the product essential to their efforts.

The teachers strikes show Facebook’s potential to build communities

In his 2017 manifesto on the future of Facebook, Zuckerberg detailed his ambitious vision for the company:

Progress now requires humanity coming together not just as cities or nations, but also as a global community. ... We may not have the power to create the world we want immediately, but we can all start working on the long term today. In times like these, the most important thing we at Facebook can do is develop the social infrastructure to give people the power to build a global community that works for all of us.

The teachers movement represents a small affirmation of that idealized vision. For the past few months, teachers in several states, from West Virginia to Oklahoma to Arizona, have been mounting massive rallies and strikes to protest stagnant salaries and school budget cuts.

According to the teachers behind these actions, social media — particularly Facebook — has been instrumental in their movement’s explosive growth.

The teachers strike in West Virginia was the spark for this brushfire. Frustration among teachers in the state had been brewing for years, as lawmakers repeatedly slashed business and income taxes and, in turn, cut back benefits and pay for public employees. Labor unions in the state have little influence in state politics, so it wasn’t until two teachers created a private Facebook group in February that the idea of a walkout gained momentum.

“Facebook contributed to a sense of everyone being in it together,” Emily Comer, a teacher who created the private West Virginia Public Employees United Facebook group, told BuzzFeed. Ryan Frankenberry, an organizer with the progressive West Virginia Working Families Party, described it this way:

This strike wouldn’t have happened without the grassroots organization through the private Facebook group. ... The legislative leadership, unions, other organizations, were all helpful. But without question, I don’t think this would have reached the critical mass that was needed had they not had the platform of the group to communicate.

Teachers in other states have been taking after West Virginia’s example. The private Oklahoma Teacher Walkout Facebook group has played a central role in mobilizing teachers. Alberto Morejon, an eighth-grade social studies teacher, said the nine-day teachers strike in West Virginia inspired him to create the online group.

The Facebook group has 75,000 members, and teachers are using the platform to spread information about the logistics of their protest, to discuss their demands from state legislators, and to encourage one another not to give up. Some 30,000 Oklahoma teachers rallied at the state Capitol on Monday, and the strike has continued its eighth day Wednesday.

Arizona teachers have also started their own Facebook hub to organize protests and come up with a list of demands to present to state lawmakers. They are now discussing a date for their own walkout.

Not every connection is good connection

In an interview with Vox’s Ezra Klein, Zuckerberg admitted that the company did not spend enough time thinking about the potential downside of connecting billions of people across the globe. Zuckerberg said, “There’s no doubt that our responsibility is to amplify the good parts of what people can do when they connect, and to mitigate and prevent the bad things that people might do to try to abuse each other.”

Facebook has failed to prevent many of those bad things. In Myanmar, government forces have carried out a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya, the country’s Muslim minority group. Anti-Muslim and anti-Rohingya memes and propaganda spread through Facebook, inciting violence and eroding support for the Rohingya’s plight. Public-facing accounts of verified government and military leaders — as well as the extremely influential accounts of nationalistic Buddhist monks — included false and inflammatory posts about the Rohingya, the New York Times reported in October.

The Silicon Valley tech giant is also under fire for allowing Russian groups buy political ads on the network to spread inflammatory and divisive messages during the 2016 election. Last month, the backlash intensified when news broke that the Trump-aligned political consulting group Cambridge Analytica harvested personal information from millions of Facebook users without their permission.

Each story confirmed how vulnerable the network is to malicious manipulation.

But in the case of the teachers strikes and a few other grassroots movements, such as Occupy Wall Street and #MeToo, the platform has shown that it can enable civic engagement and strengthen communities that were weak or nonexistent. How the company enables more of the latter and stamps out the former will be one of the big challenges it will face in the coming years.

During his testimony Wednesday before the House Committee on Energy and Finance, Zuckerberg seemed aware of that.

“It’s not enough to just connect people; we have to make sure those connections are positive. It’s not enough to just give people a voice; we have to make sure people aren’t using it to hurt people or spread misinformation,” he said.

He then went on to explain some steps the company has taken to make it harder for developers to access user information, and to restrict foreign governments from buying political ads, among other moves.

The big remaining question is whether these steps — and Zuckerberg’s vow to change the company — will be enough to solve the problem.“Google is a digital truth serum,” Seth Stephens-Davidowitz, author of Everybody Lies, told me in a recent interview. “People tell Google things that they don't tell to possibly anybody else, things they might not tell to family members, friends, anonymous surveys, or doctors.”

Stephens-Davidowitz was working on a PhD in economics at Harvard when he became obsessed with Google Trends, a tool that tracks how frequently searches are made in a given area over a given time period.

He spent five years combing through this data. The idea was that you could get far better real-time information about what people are thinking by looking at Google Trends data than you could through polls or some other survey device.

It turns out he was right.

As a barometer of our national consciousness, Google is as accurate (and predictive) as it gets. In 2016, when the Republican primaries were just beginning, most pundits and pollsters did not believe Trump could win. After all, he had insulted veterans, women, minorities, and countless other constituencies.

But Stephens-Davidowitz saw clues in his Google research that suggested Trump was far more serious than many supposed. Searches containing racist epithets and jokes were spiking across the country during Trump’s primary run, and not merely in the South but in upstate New York, Western Pennsylvania, Eastern Ohio, rural Illinois, West Virginia, and industrial Michigan.

Stephens-Davidowitz saw in the Google Trends data a racially polarized electorate, and one primed to respond to the ethno-nationalist rhetoric of Trump.

There were earlier signs, too. On Obama’s 2008 election night, Stephens-Davidowitz found that “one in every hundred Google searches that included the word ‘Obama’ also included ‘KKK’” or the n-word. Searches for racist websites like Stormfront also spiked.

“There was a darkness and hatred that was hidden from traditional sources,” Stephens-Davidowitz says. “Those searches are hard to reconcile with a society in which racism is a small factor.”

Racial attitudes are just one of the many interesting discoveries in Stephens-Davidowitz’s research. He also explores the disconnect between our social media lives and our actual lives, between what we talk about publicly and what we think about privately.

I spoke with him about the book and why he thinks Google Trends is "the most important data set ever collected on the human psyche." I also ask him about his most startling finding, which is that America is experiencing a crisis of self-induced abortions in places where access to abortion clinics is sparse.

Our lightly edited conversation follows.

Sean Illing

You refer to Google as a digital truth serum. What does it tell us about ourselves?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

People tell Google things that they don't tell to possibly anybody else, things they might not tell to family members, friends, anonymous surveys, doctors. People feel very comfortable confessing things to Google. In general, Google tells us that people are different than they present themselves. One way they're different, I have to say, is that they’re nastier and meaner than they often present themselves.

I've done a lot of research on racism, for example, and I was shocked by how frequently people make racist searches, particularly for jokes mocking African Americans. This concealed ugliness can predict a lot of behaviors, particularly in the political realm.

Sean Illing

Speaking of politics, you believed way back in early 2016 that Trump was a serious candidate. You were looking at Google search activity, saw a spike in racist and misogynistic searches, and thought that was a sign of things to come.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

Yeah, I did say that I thought Trump was going to win very, very early, but I'm not sure if that was based purely on the data or just because I'm a total pessimist. I always have been fairly pessimistic about this kind of thing.

Sean Illing

Welcome to the club.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

I'm always predicting horrible things are going to happen, with or without data. But I think there were definitely some clues on the internet that Trump should have been taken more seriously than other people were taking him.

Sean Illing

What were you seeing exactly?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

The first thing was that the level of racism in this country was a lot higher than I had realized. I think a lot of people thought that Trump would be done as soon as he started saying all these racially charged things. I think when you look at this internet data, you see the demand for this type of material.

I mean, I had even been studying white nationalist sites like Stormfront for a long time, long before most people knew about it, and still I was shocked by how widespread the appeal of these sites were.

Sean Illing

This is what we should’ve been paying attention to, not these outdated polling methods.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

You can't really predict using surveys who's going to turn out in an election because everybody says they're going to vote, nobody wants to admit that they have no intention of voting. But you can predict who's going to vote based on their Google searches. People search how to vote, or where to vote, or polling places weeks before an election and that predicts that turnout will be high.

In this election, you saw very, very clearly in the data that there was a huge decrease in these searches in cities with enormous African-American populations, for example. It was very clear in the Google search data that black turnout was going to be way down in 2016, and that was one of the reasons Clinton did so much worse than the polls predicted.

Sean Illing

The political utility of this data is obvious, but it seems like there’s no limit to what we can learn about ourselves. In the book, you call it "the most important data set ever collected on the human psyche."

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

I think the only real competition is Facebook, and I don't think that's as interesting a data set because people are so much less honest on Facebook. People are really, really honest on Google, so they tell Google things that they don't tell anybody else. They search for answers to questions they won’t ask anyone else. I've found this over the past few years: Take any subject area and look at Google searches and you can find something new and interesting and surprising that we didn't know. Whether it's hatred or abortion or child abuse or political views or pregnancy or anxiety or depression. Pretty much every time I turn to Google data, there's something there that is interesting.

Sean Illing

I guess polls are still useful, but search histories are a much better way to get a sense of what people are thinking about controversial or personal subjects.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

Yeah, and those are the most interesting things.

Sean Illing

No doubt.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

They are also often the most important. One of the studies I talk about in the book is a study of Islamophobia. It's not really Islamophobia, it's like Islamo-rage, or something like that. It’s essentially people with horrifically violent thoughts toward Muslim Americans. People search things like “kill Muslims” or “I hate Muslims” or “Muslims are evil.” These people are basically maniacs and you can actually see minute-by-minute when these searches rise and when these searches fall.

What’s interesting about this is that we’re talking about a relatively small group of maniacs. The average American does not search “kill Muslims” or “I hate Muslims”; it's a small group but it's also an important group because these types of people can create a lot of problems. They are the ones who tend to commit hate crimes or even murder Muslims.

That’s what I mean when I say you can get insights on topics that are truly important.

Sean Illing

Let’s zoom back a bit and get a broader sense of the American psyche as revealed by Google. What do Americans fear the most or worry about the most?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

I'd say that one's own body is a pretty big one. If you look at Google AdWords data on bodily insecurity, people who go around looking for ways to lose weight or improve their body, these are almost as popular among men as among women, which is not usually talked about. Twenty percent of searches looking to change one's breasts are from men looking into how to get rid of man boobs. I think male bodily insecurity is not usually talked about but is extremely prevalent.

Sean Illing

That’s interesting.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

Yeah, and also not what you’d expect given our cultural biases.

Sean Illing

Have you found that people are basically dishonest about they actually care about? In the age of social media, everyone’s a warrior for justice — you post an article or two, proclaim your outrage or support, and boom you’re an “engaged” person. But that’s not real activism and it doesn’t require any real commitment.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

It’s a good question. I’ve explored this is in some of my Trump-related research. I think a lot of people exaggerate the extent to which they're anxious about Trump. It's kind of a game that people play. If you look at what really keeps people up at night, what really wakes them up at 3:00 am in a cold sweat, it tends to be economic concerns or health paranoia or legal fears — basically selfish concerns. But I think there's something a little bit unpleasant about that fact.

People like to say that they're anxious about more global concerns about Trump and what he might do to the world, rather than more selfish concerns about one's own economics or health or legal problems. I think people exaggerate. There's a lot of lying about what we actually care about and what actually moves us and what actually makes us sad, what actually makes us anxious.

Sean Illing

What’s the most shocking finding of your research?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

I'm pretty convinced that the United States has a self-induced abortion crisis right now based on the volume of search inquiries. I was blown away by how frequently people are searching for ways to do abortions themselves now. These searches are concentrated in parts of the country where it's hard to get an abortion and they rose substantially when it became harder to get an abortion. They're also, I calculate, missing pregnancies in these states that aren't showing up in either abortion or birth rates.

That's pretty disturbing and I think isn't really being talked about. But I think, based on the data, it's clearly going on.

Sean Illing

That’s appalling if it’s true. Give me some good news. Have you discovered anything pleasant?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

I think it’s refreshing to learn that we’re not alone in our anxieties or insecurities or desires. Alcoholics Anonymous has this phrase, don't compare your insides to other people's outsides. But that's hard because we don't see other people's insides, but I think with this search data, we actually, for the first time, do see other people's insides, and it shows that we should be easier on ourselves.

Sean Illing

Do you think we should spend less time online?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

Well, I want people to spend a lot of time online so that the data gets better and I can do more research.

Sean Illing

I guess I walked right into that answer. Would you at least say that people should take it less seriously, to not take their emotional cues from their Facebook feeds?

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

Sure. Social media can be dangerous if you think that that's real life. It’s not, and we shouldn’t forget that. But people can buy my book and then anytime they're feeling jealous they can read it and be reminded that everyone’s a mess.

Sean Illing

I think we should leave it right there.

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

Indeed.What’s the right regulation for Facebook? That depends on which Facebook you’re talking about.

The Washington leg of Mark Zuckerberg’s “apology tour,” precipitated by Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal, has seen a tense two days of lawmakers grilling the Facebook founder about the extent of the platform’s mounting privacy issues, its role in shaping the global democratic process, and what he is doing to solve its many woes.

During Tuesday’s joint congressional hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committees, lawmakers covered a wide range of questions. But none was more integral to understanding the issues and challenges facing Facebook — and those in favor of regulating it — than a single exchange between Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Zuckerberg.

Graham attempted to corner Zuckerberg about whether Facebook is a monopoly. In the middle of that line of questioning, Graham asked, “Do you embrace regulation?”

“I think the real question, as the internet becomes more important in people’s lives,” Zuckerberg replied, “is what’s the right regulation?”

The question of what the “right” regulation for Facebook might be is a very complicated one. To understand why, a quick look at the second day of hearings might be helpful. Zuckerberg stood Wednesday before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where Chair Greg Walden (R-OR) asked him, “Is Facebook a media company?”

“I consider us to be a technology company,” Zuckerberg replied.

Walden continued, asking Zuckerberg if Facebook was a financial institution.

“I do not consider us to be a financial institution,” Zuckerberg replied, before adding, “although you’re right, we do provide tools for people to send money.”

Walden’s series of questions underscored the main problem with determining the “right” regulation for a company as massive as Facebook. Determining how Facebook should be regulated requires knowing whether you’re regulating it as a media company, a tech company, or something else altogether.

Facebook could face regulation under laws already applied to traditional media companies — if it were treated like a media company

If we think about regulating Facebook as a media company, or even as a publishing company, then most of the options fall under regulations and guidelines that have existed for years.

For example, traditional media companies have to abide by a litany of rules set forth by the Federal Election Commission when it comes to disclosing what entity is sponsoring paid campaign advertisements. These rules have recently been applied to Facebook and other social media platforms via the proposed Honest Ads Act, which would force Facebook to disclose who’s paying for any and all political ads on its platform and require campaigners to declare their approval of every campaign ad posted on their behalf.

Facebook recently promised to abide by the Honest Ads Act even before it comes to a vote — a good thing, since Congress likely won’t have sorted out the mess of applying its regulations to Facebook before midterm elections.

There’s another good reason to sidestep enshrining the Honest Ads Act into law, which brings us to the primary problem with regulating Facebook as a media company: It’s also a tech company.

Regulating Facebook as a media company could infringe on core internet principles — but regulating it as a tech company could be even harder

There’s one major problem with the Honest Ads Act. If Facebook were officially held liable for how third-party ads are disclosed on its platform, the regulation would directly contravene what is basically the internet’s version of biblical law: Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act.

This rule says publishers and ISPs aren’t liable for what users do on their websites. While controversial recent legal challenges have threatened to undermine its protections, it’s still the internet’s primary governing principle.

Section 230 has traditionally been upheld in the court system when it comes to holding companies like Google and Facebook responsible for the content of ads on their platforms. So to get around it, the Honest Ads Act would have to create an exemption to Section 230.

Exceptions to Section 230 do exist, and it is possible for a website to lose its protection under the law. But for the most part, it has remained dominant for two decades, and many internet freedom advocates have argued that allowing any exemptions to Section 230, no matter how well-intentioned, is a dangerous precedent to set.

So what if we were to treat Facebook like a tech company, as Zuckerberg suggests, instead of as a media company? Well, in that case, many of the options for regulating Facebook involve entering new territory for lawmakers — mainly because lawmakers don’t seem to understand the technical ins and outs of Facebook well enough to regulate it.

While it’s arguable that this issue shouldn’t matter when it comes to holding Zuckerberg responsible for the way he’s historically run his company, it is important for lawmakers to develop a deep understanding of the issues tech culture faces before it passes reform that could be detrimental to online freedom. For example, as Congress recently demonstrated with the passing of the highly controversial FOSTA/SESTA bill package, it has a tendency to opt for sweeping, high-level reform with the potential to damage internet freedom and infrastructure.

In the case of the problems plaguing Facebook, that’s the last kind of regulatory influence we need. What we do need, as writers like Zeynep Tufekci and Roger McNamee have eloquently argued, is a system of regulatory processes that create accountability and empower tech companies to create tools responsibly.

Ideally, such processes would deal with not only questions of whether data is being mined ethically, with full user consent, but whether that data is being aggregated ethically and applied at scale in ways that don’t cause unforeseen, widespread harm. (For an example of the unforeseen dangers of data being harvested and analyzed at scale, see the recent fiasco in which the Strava fitness app inadvertently revealed the locations of secret government military bases.)

Another major issue that Congress barely touched on during its two-day hearings with Zuckerberg is an ethical question that has been haunting Silicon Valley lately: Are we building predictive algorithms using models that allow for transparency, accountability, and swift correction?

These are all issues increasingly faced by platforms like Facebook and YouTube, and ones that tech evangelists like Tristan Harris have increasingly attempted to make consumers aware of. But they aren’t really finding their way into conversations on Capitol Hill, which have instead focused on outcomes rather than processes.

Any legislation that in turn focuses on outcomes, rather than assuring accountability at a granular level for the way we’re building the internet, could potentially wind up penalizing the good parts of the internet while failing to prevent the bad parts from flourishing.

There are other options for regulating Facebook, but none are all-encompassing

There are two other major avenues for regulating Facebook. The first involves regulating internet privacy generally, rather than attempting to regulate most of what Facebook does as a company. This is the route Europe has taken with the recent passage of sweeping data privacy reform. Facebook has made numerous changes to comply with European law, and has pledged to make those changes available to all of its users.

Another avenue involves treating Facebook as a monopoly and regulating it using existing antitrust law. Proponents of treating Facebook and other tech giants like Google, Amazon, Apple, and Microsoft like monopolies argue that these companies haven’t only monopolized competition in the tech sector, but have favored their own goods and services when presenting information to viewers. They also argue that these companies have monopolized political and cultural discourse as well by having such tremendous influence over the way information is accessed online.

Antitrust law, then, might block acquisitions or force such giant tech companies to split into different companies with different roles and functions — but only if a strict guideline known as the consumer welfare standard, which determines whether consumers are actively being hurt by the presence of these monopolies, can be met.

Europe has been swift to hold these companies to tougher standards. In addition to its strict new set of data privacy laws, it also levied a $2.7 billion fine on Google last year in the EU’s first antitrust case. But US lawmakers have historically been reluctant to step into the fray where Facebook is concerned — perhaps because of the difficulty of pinning down how to regulate tech companies this large.

Usually, American lawmakers will use consent decrees — essentially, settlements that have to be approved by court order — to wrangle accountability from companies like Facebook. But it doesn’t always work. Currently, the Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree it entered into with the FTC after a previous row over user privacy.

The lack of consistency in US law concerning what and isn’t a monopolistic action is also at issue, especially in the internet realm, where courts often display an apparent lack of comprehension of how the internet works. For example, in a major ongoing case between Google and Oracle, a federal appeals court recently issued a ruling in Oracle’s favor that misinterprets how information on the internet is freely exchanged, and that threatens, on a developmental level, innovation and online entrepreneurship.

This is precisely the kind of legal interference the internet doesn’t need, and it doesn’t exactly engender confidence in the government to make high-level decisions about reforming Silicon Valley.

Still, where Facebook is concerned, the government seems eager to do what it can to rein in the tech giant — even though it’s arguably already too late. The feeling seems to be that anything is better than letting Facebook continue to inadequately police itself. That might ultimately mean we have to live with worse internet policies before we get better ones — but hopefully it will also mean that eventually, all of Silicon Valley’s internet behemoths will have to stand accountable to their users.On Monday, the FBI raided the offices of President Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen, seizing documents and records related to the $130,000 payment Cohen made to porn actress Stormy Daniels, as well as other matters.

It was exactly the kind of story Fox News pundits could use to further the narrative that the “deep state” is conspiring to take down Trump.

But since news of this raid broke, Fox News has spent significantly less time covering the story than the other major cable news networks.

In addition, Fox News spent less of its airtime on Trump’s angry press conference about the raid.

This lack of coverage from Fox News was best crystallized by a segment on Tucker Carlson’s show, where he focused on other crucial and breaking news:

For those still in disbelief that Tucker Carlson was talking about pandas instead of Trump's attorney getting raided by the feds pic.twitter.com/UP0IaappUA — Timothy Burke (@bubbaprog) April 10, 2018

How Fox covered the FBI raid on Cohen’s office

It’s not that Fox didn’t cover the story at all. It’s just that it covered it less — and when it did, the story was folded into a long-running narrative of “deep state” perfidy.

It’s a narrative Fox News pundit Sean Hannity has been pushing since before the election, arguing that unelected bureaucrats are working to get Hillary Clinton elected. And it’s a narrative that Fox News used to justify the firing of FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe.

In his coverage of the FBI raid, Hannity wasn’t interested in explaining why the FBI was raiding Cohen. Rather, he focused on shoring up his argument that the FBI is out to take down Trump. He said, “Mueller and [Deputy Attorney General Rod] Rosenstein have declared what is a legal war on the president. And a source close to President Trump tonight is telling Fox News that Mueller’s investigation is way out of control.”

Fox & Friends, Trump’s favorite morning show, appeared to be talking directly to the president, assuring him that his lawyer was being treated unfairly. They stressed that Cohen had been cooperating with this investigation, “and all the cooperation got them was a huge breach.”

Then they aired an interview with lawyer Alan Dershowitz, who said, “If this were Hillary Clinton being investigated and they went into her lawyer’s office, the ACLU would be on every television show in America, jumping up and down.”

In short, they continued to push the story that the FBI and American institutions are unfair to Trump.

Carlson, who was ridiculed for his coverage of pandas, didn’t completely ignore this story. He talked about how ridiculous it was that the mainstream media, specifically CNN, covered it by taking time away from what he considered more important news. Then he tried to paint the raid as a mere sex scandal that the FBI wants to use to unravel the Trump presidency.

One possible reason the FBI raid might be a tricky story for Fox News: Stormy Daniels

According to the New York Times, the FBI seized documents related to “several topics,” including the payment to Daniels, the porn actress and director who says she had an affair with Trump and was paid off for her silence.

As Vox’s Anna North writes:

The FBI didn’t raid Cohen’s office to find out if Trump was cheating on his wife. The agency is investigating whether Cohen violated campaign finance, banking, or wire transfer laws in connection with the payment to Daniels.

And as I showed in a recent piece, Fox News really does not want to talk about Stormy Daniels.

So when it came time to cover the Cohen raid, Fox News tried to minimize mentions of Daniels’s name:

For the most part, Fox News’s coverage of this raid was predictable. It explained away the FBI probe as part of a “deep state” attack on Trump, just like the Mueller investigation. But this time, the network’s top pundits also had to tiptoe around a scandal — Stormy Daniels — that has plagued the president.

In other words, it was just another night on Fox News.Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg came under fire on Wednesday from black lawmakers for his company’s lack of diversity and its connection to the spread of misleading ads targeting black activist groups.

Zuckerberg was answering questions about his company’s handling of user information and data privacy at a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. As Vox’s Emily Stewart and Jen Kirby note, he has been criticized in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal that left the information of tens of millions of Facebook users exposed and raised questions about how Russia and other groups have used the platform to influence US politics.

In one egregious example, Russian hackers used some 3,000 ads on the platform to inflame racial tensions, with some of the ads suggesting that racial justice groups like Black Lives Matter were a political threat. Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY) asked Zuckerberg if the company’s lack of diversity affected Facebook’s ability or willingness to look into this.

“I’m concerned that there are not eyes that are culturally competent looking at these things,” she said.

In addition to the ads, Russian operatives working for the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency used several social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram — including ones called “Woke Blacks” and “Blacktivists” — to urge black Americans to vote for third-party candidates or sit out the election entirely, according to information released by special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. Other accounts targeting Trump supporters allegedly stoked fears of voter fraud in the lead-up to the presidential election by pushing already debunked claims about the practice.

In his response, Zuckerberg acknowledged that racial diversity was something the company needed to improve on, but argued that the company was slow to notice the entire Russian propaganda effort. He also talked about future steps to stop this kind of problem from happening again.

“We’re going to address this by verifying the identity of every single advertiser who’s running political or issue-oriented ads to make it so that foreign actors or people trying to spoof their identity or say that they’re someone that they’re not cannot run political ads or run large pages,” he said.

This isn’t the first time Facebook has been criticized for its lack of diversity

Facebook’s poor diversity numbers have been a sore spot for the company for years, and while they’ve improved in some areas, that improvement has been relatively small. According to Facebook’s 2017 diversity report, last year the company increased its share of black and Hispanic employees by 1 percent each, to 3 and 5 percent respectively. Black and Hispanic employees each account for 3 percent of Facebook’s senior leadership.

The Wednesday exchange also comes after recent news that Facebook allowed a fake page about Black Lives Matter — which raised $100,000 and was the largest Black Lives Matter page on the platform — to remain active, even after a founder of the racial justice organization notified Facebook that the page was fake. On Monday, a CNN investigation revealed that the page was a “scam with ties to a middle-aged white man in Australia.”

Clarke, who serves as a member of the newly formed Tech Accountability Caucus, wasn’t the only black legislator to ask about Facebook’s relationship with users of color. Rep. G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) also asked about Facebook’s diversity, saying that the racial makeup of the company’s leadership team “does not reflect America.”

And during Zuckerberg’s testimony before the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committees on Tuesday, Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) asked about Facebook’s role in the surveillance of activists affiliated with Black Lives Matter, calling on Zuckerberg to ensure “that the freedoms of civil rights activists and others are not targeted, or their work [is] not being undermined.”

Booker also asked Zuckerberg about a 2016 ProPublica investigation that found that Facebook had allowed advertisers to exclude black and Hispanic users from seeing certain ads. Last month, several civil rights groups sued Facebook, saying that the company’s ad practices facilitated housing discrimination by allowing housing advertisers to prevent members of certain racial groups from seeing their ads.

Zuckerberg responded by saying that Facebook is looking into the issues and would follow up.Mark Zuckerberg really wants you to know there’s a button there for you to decide who among your friends and acquaintances sees the pictures, messages, and news articles you share on Facebook. He’s less willing to talk about how or if you can decide what advertisers and marketers see when you log in to Facebook in the first place.

The 33-year-old founder, chair, and CEO of Facebook returned to Congress on Wednesday to answer a variety of questions about his social media platform before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Among the numerous items on the agenda were data ownership and access and privacy rights. The Cambridge Analytica scandal has put a focus on data sharing at Facebook.

Lawmakers repeatedly asked whether users control how their data is shared with and used by advertisers, developers, and other third parties. Zuckerberg repeatedly went back to explaining how they can decide what their fellow Facebook users can see.

That didn’t really answer the question. There are two kinds of privacy issues on Facebook: one having to do with what users are sharing with other people, and another to do with what they’re sharing with advertisers and other third parties by sharing on Facebook at all.

But Zuckerberg continually dodged the question about advertisers by talking about what users are sharing. You want to know what Nordstrom sees so that specific jumpsuit just keeps popping up on your newsfeed? Zuckerberg would rather explain how to keep your boss from seeing your Instagram posts from your “sick day.”

Lawmakers want to know about one thing. Zuckerberg wants to talk about another. On repeat.

“A hundred billion times a day in our services, when people go to share content, they choose who they want to share it with affirmatively,” Zuckerberg told Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA) at Tuesday’s Senate hearing.

The question he was responding to was whether Facebook should, by law, have to get user permission to sell or share user data.

“Every time that someone chooses to share something on Facebook, you go to the app, right there it says, ‘Who do you want to share with?’” Zuckerberg told Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX) at a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.

Barton had asked about what data Facebook shares with third parties about people under the age of 18.

“Every time that a person chooses to share something on Facebook, they’re proactively going to the service and choosing that they want to share a photo, write a message to someone, and every time, there is a control right there, not buried in settings somewhere but right there when they’re posting, about who they’re sharing with,” he told Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL).

The question was about why the onus was on users to opt in to Facebook’s privacy and security settings.

Zuckerberg talked about the same thing when Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) asked about what’s in Facebook’s terms of service on Wednesday and when on Tuesday Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) asked what sorts of legislative changes he thinks would help solve the problems exposed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal.

“Every piece of content that you share on Facebook, you own, and you have complete control over who sees it and — and how you share it, and you can remove it at any time,” Zuckerberg told Hatch. “That’s why every day, about 100 billion times a day, people come to one of our services and either post a photo or send a message to someone, because they know that they have that control and that who they say it’s going to go to is going to be who sees the content.”

We get that. But what’s a lot more opaque is how Facebook is sharing data with marketers, advertisers, and others to help them sell us things, and what developers learn about us when we use Facebook to sign in to their apps.

Facebook doesn’t sell your data, but it profits off you

Zuckerberg clarified on multiple occasions that the company doesn’t sell users’ data. But that doesn’t mean it doesn’t profit from it.

Facebook’s business model is, as the executive clarified, that it runs ads, and it does that by letting companies target people based on their information. Facebook allows users to share certain pieces of data, and once that data gets shared, it’s often used for ad targeting. Recode’s Kurt Wagner recently explained how it works:

Facebook collects a lot of data about you — everything from your email address to the strength of your phone’s battery. The simplest explanation for this is that Facebook uses that data to make money. No, Facebook doesn’t sell your data. But it does sell access to you, or more specifically, access to your News Feed, and uses that data to show you specific ads it thinks you’re likely to enjoy or click on.

Facebook also allows outside businesses to collect your data if you give them permission. So if you’ve signed up for, say, Uber using Facebook, Uber now has your information.

Beyond how Facebook profits off user data, questions also remain about how Cambridge Analytica and potentially other third parties used information people thought they were sharing only with Facebook.

Cambridge Analytica got data on potentially 87 million Facebook users obtained by Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan through a personality quiz. The company has since changed its policies on what developers and third parties can access, and developers and third parties aren’t allowed to sell and share data with others.

But as the Cambridge Analytica scandal exemplifies, it has happened in the past, and might still. Zuckerberg on Wednesday admitted his own data had been sold to malicious third parties.

Zuckerberg and Facebook still have a lot of questions to answer. And dodging and responding to things that weren’t asked isn’t helping — especially when Facebook won’t commit to making the most comprehensive data policies the rule instead of the exception.

In an exchange with House Energy and Commerce Committee Chair Frank Pallone on Wednesday, Zuckerberg refused to commit to minimizing, “to the greatest extent possible, the collection and use of users’ data.” Zuckerberg said it’s a “complex issue that I think deserves more than a one-word answer.” It also deserves more than that “share with” option Zuckerberg keeps talking about.Most of the questions directed at Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg in his second day of congressional hearings were high-level. But one of the most important was also one of the most basic: Who gets to decide what privacy is?

Zuckerberg appeared Wednesday before the House Energy and Commerce Committee in his second day of hearings to address issues with Facebook and privacy in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. During the hearing, Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) asked Zuckerberg a crucial question about privacy: Who’s responsible for defining what privacy is under US law?

“Who gets the final say?” Welch asked. “Is it the private market, companies like yours, or is there a governmental function here that defines what privacy is?“

Welch’s question came as part of a series of yes-no queries that teased out a framework by which Facebook might be regulated by lawmakers.

“Do you believe,” Welch asked, “that the Federal Trade Commission or another properly resourced governmental agency with rulemaking authority should be able to determine on a regular basis what is considered personal information to provide certainty for consumers and companies what information needs to be protected most tightly?“

In other words: Does the government need a bigger role in determining what “personal information” is?

Embedded in this question was a nod to the recent action the European Union has taken to hold Facebook and other big tech companies to tougher privacy standards. The new laws require those companies to give users more control over their privacy settings, along with clearer access to those settings. Some experts have regarded the new laws as setting “a global standard” for how privacy is defined and dealt with, and Facebook recently announced that it would voluntarily apply the changes it’s making for European users to the rest of its users as well.

Zuckerberg’s response was typically hesitant, even if it was overall positive: “I think this is an area where some regulation makes sense,” he said. “You proposed a very specific thing, and I think the details matter.”

Welch went on to expand the question: “Will you work with this committee to help the US put in place our own privacy regulation that prioritizes consumers’ right to privacy? Just as the EU has done.”

“Congressman, yes,” Zuckerberg responded.

A transcript of the full exchange follows.

Welch

In an effort to move forward, Mr. Zuckerberg, I’ve framed some questions that hopefully will allow a reasonable yes or no answer to see if there’s some common ground to achieve the goal you assert you have and we certainly have, the obligation to protect the privacy of American consumers. First, do you believe consumers have a right to know and control what personal data company collect from them?

Zuckerberg

Yes.

Welch

Do you believe that consumers have a right to control how and with whom their personal information is shared with third parties?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, yes, of course.

Welch

And do you believe that consumers have a right to secure and responsible handling of their personal data?

Zuckerberg

Yes, Congressman.

Welch

And do you believe that consumers should be able to easily place limits on the personal data that companies collect and retain?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, that seems like a reasonable principle to me.

Welch

And do you believe that consumers should be able to correct or delete inaccurate personal data that companies have obtained?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, that one might be more interesting to debate.

Welch

Well, then get back to us with specifics on that. I think they do have that right. Do you believe consumers should be able to have their data deleted immediately from Facebook when they stop using the service?

Zuckerberg

Yes, Congressman, and they have that ability.

Welch

Good. And do you believe that the Federal Trade Commission or another properly resourced governmental agency with rulemaking authority should be able to determine on a regular basis what is considered personal information to provide certainty for consumers and companies what information needs to be protected most tightly?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, I certainly think that’s an area where we should discuss some sort of oversight.

Welch

There’s not a big discussion here. Who gets the final say? Is it the private market, companies like yours, or is there a governmental function here that defines what privacy is?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, I think this is an area where some regulation makes sense. You proposed a very specific thing, and I think the details matter.

Welch

All right. Let me ask you this. Will you work with this committee to help the US put in place our own privacy regulation that prioritizes consumers’ right to privacy? Just as the EU has done.

Zuckerberg

Congressman, yes. I’ll make sure that we work with you to flesh this out.

Welch

All right. And you have indicated, Facebook has not always protected the privacy of their users throughout the company’s history. It seems, though, from your answers, that consumers — you agree that consumers do have a fundamental right to privacy that empowers them to control the collection, the use, the sharing of their personal information online. And Mr. Chairman — and thank you.At Facebook founder and CEO’s Mark Zuckerberg’s hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday, lawmakers were blunt about what they see as the company’s flaws — its inadequate self-policing, lack of transparency, and reluctance to give users more control over their own data.

In a particularly tense moment, Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ) asked Zuckerberg if he would commit to minimizing, “to the greatest extent possible, the collection and use of users’ data.”

Then he asked Zuckerberg for a simple “yes” or “no” response — which Zuckerberg hesitated to give.

It was one of the first times over Zuckerberg’s two-day congressional testimony that he struggled to provide a full, polished answer when challenged about the changes Facebook was willing to make:

“Will you commit to changing all the user default settings to minimize to the greatest extent possible the collection and use of users’ data? Can you make that commitment?” Pallone asked.

Zuckerberg launched into a response: “Congressman, we try to collect and give people the ability —”

Pallone stopped him to demand a “yes” or “no” answer: “Will you make the commitment to changing all the user default settings to minimize to the greatest extent possible the collection and use of users’ data? I don’t think that’s hard for you to say yes to, unless I’m missing something.”

“Congressman,” Zuckerberg answered, “this is a complex issue that I think deserves more than a one-word answer.”

At a moment when lawmakers are scrutinizing the company to see how willing it is to adopt drastic changes to its policies, or whether the government will need to force the company’s hand through stronger regulatory measures, Zuckerberg’s lack of a ready response is a deeply telling moment.

The exchange suggests Facebook isn’t ready to fully change its business model to atone for its many sins. It also reflects just how big and complex Facebook’s many moving parts are and how difficult regulation would be at this point in the company’s growth.

Zuckerberg attempted to defend his reasoning, reminding Pallone that “the reason why we built the developer platform in the first place was because we thought it would be great if more experiences that people had could be more social” — and that to make those social interactions happen, “you need to be able to sign in to an app, bring some of your data, some of your friends’ data, and that’s what we built.”

A transcript of the full exchange follows.

Pallone

Let me ask you three quick questions. Answer yes or no because of the time. Yes or no, is Facebook limiting the amount or type of data Facebook itself collects or uses?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, yes. We limit a lot of the data that we collect and use.

Pallone

See, I don’t see that in the announcements you’ve made. You’ve made all these announcements in the last few days about the changes you’re going to make, and I don’t really see how those announcements or changes limits the amount of type of data that Facebook uses in an effective way.

Let me go to the second one. Again, this is my concern that users currently may not know or take affirmative action to protect their own privacy. Yes or no? Is Facebook changing any user default settings to be more privacy protective?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, yes. In response to these issues, we’ve changed be a lot of the way that our platform works so that way developers can’t get access to as much information.

Pallone

See, again, I don’t see that in the changes that you’ve proposed. I don’t really see any way that you’re changing the user default settings that there will be more privacy protected but let me go to the third one.

Yes or no? Will you commit to changing all the user default settings to minimize to the greatest extent possible the collection and use of users’ data? Can you make that commitment?

Zuckerberg

Congressman, we try to collect and give people the ability—

Pallone

I’d like you to answer yes or no if you could? Will you make the commitment to changing all the user default settings to minimize to the greatest extent possible the collection and use of user’s data? I don’t think that’s hard for you to say yes to unless I’m missing something.

Zuckerberg

Congressman, this is a complex issue that I think deserves more than a one-word answer.

Pallone

Well, again, that’s disappointing to me because I think you should make that commitment. Maybe what we could do is follow up with you on this if possible. We can do that follow-up?

Zuckerberg

Yes.

Pallone

All right. Now you said yesterday that each of us owns the content that we put on Facebook and that Facebook gives control to the consumers over their content but we know about the problems with Cambridge Analytica. I know you changed your rules in 2014 and again this week, but you still allow third parties to have access to third-party data. How can consumers have control over their data when Facebook doesn’t have control over the data itself? That’s my concern. Last question.

Zuckerberg

Congressman, what we allowed our developer platform is for people to choose to sign in to other apps and bring their data with them. That’s something that a lot of people want to be able to do. The reason why we built the developer platform in the first place was because we thought it would be great if more experiences that people had could be more social.

So if you could have a calendar that showed your friends’ birthdays, if you could have an address book that had pictures of your friends in it, if you could have a map that showed your friends’ addresses on it.

In order to do that, you need to be able to sign in to an app, bring some of your data, some of your friends’ data, and that’s what we built. Since then, we’ve recognized that that can be used for abuse too. We’ve limited it so that people can only bring their data when they go to an app. That’s something that a lot of people do on a day-to-day basis and sign in to their apps with Facebook.

Chair Greg Walden (R-OR)

We’re going to have to move on.

Pallone

I think that there’s not enough — people aren’t empowered enough to make those decisions in a positive way.Mark Zuckerberg is one of the 87 million Facebook users whose data was leaked to Cambridge Analytica.

The Facebook CEO admitted that his information was compromised in response to a question from Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) during Wednesday’s House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing.

“Was your data included in the data sold to the malicious third parties — your personal data?” Eshoo asked Zuckerberg.

“Yes,” he replied.

Facebook has begun notifying the millions of users whose data got turned over to Cambridge Analytica, letting them know if they or their friends might have logged in to the thisisyourdigitallife app.

Cambridge academic researcher Aleksandr Kogan designed the personality quiz app, and although only about 270,000 people tried it out, the app’s settings allowed it to access friends’ data, affecting millions more. Kogan, in violation of Facebook’s policies, harvested that data for Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that had ties to the Trump campaign in the 2016 election. Of the 87 million Facebook users believed to have been affected by the leak, more than 70 million are based in the United States.

The fact that Zuckerberg’s own information got shared might fuel critics who say Facebook has gotten too big and too powerful. Eshoo, who posed the questioned to Zuckerberg, represents Silicon Valley. She read him constituents’ questions, including one that asked Zuckerberg whether he thought Facebook had a moral responsibility to run a platform that protects American democracy.

“Congresswoman, yes,” Zuckerberg answered.As members of Congress grilled Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg on his company’s missteps around data and privacy in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, one example of tougher regulations on big tech kept coming up: Europe.

On May 25, the European Union will enact the General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR, a new privacy law designed to make sure users know and understand the data companies collect about them and consent to sharing it. The law requires companies to be transparent with what information they’re gathering and why. Individuals get the right to access all their personal data, control access and use of it, and even have it deleted.

The law will put data privacy and protection at the center of technology design — it can no longer be an afterthought.

The law protects the citizens of the European Union’s 28 member countries, regardless of where the data is processed or where the company collecting it is headquartered. In other words, any company or entity in the world — including banks, universities, social networks, tech platforms, and publishers — dealing with European citizens’ data will need to comply.

“It could bring some control to the Wild West of the third parties operating on these platforms,” said Karen Kornbluh, a senior fellow for digital policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and former ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development under the Obama administration.

While the GDPR will only directly impact Europeans and those who do business with them, given the scale of the market — about 508 million people live in the European Union — there is hope that it will force companies to emphasize privacy for all of their customers’ data, worldwide.

“Because it is such a massive economy and so important, it has the power to create what becomes, in a way, a global standard,” former Federal Trade Commission Commissioner Bill Kovacic told me.

That is, of course, unless companies want to have one standard for Europe and another for everyone else.

The GDPR puts digital consent, privacy, and control front and center

Designed to replace the European Union’s previous governance dating back to 1995, the GDPR is the most sweeping overhaul of online primacy in more than two decades. It was approved by the EU Parliament in April 2016 and will go into effect on May 25, 2018.

What the law does, essentially, is unify rules for how companies handle European citizens’ data, expand the scope of what personal data is, strengthen transparency and consent conditions, and set specific penalties for enforcement.

Among its requirements:

Firms must notify users of a data breach within 72 hours of discovering it.

They must request user consent in a clear, accessible way.

They must allow data portability, meaning users can ask for a copy of their information and ship it off to others.

The law also includes the “right to be forgotten” — meaning people can ask platforms to stop disseminating, halt third-party access to, or delete their data. Outlined in Article 17 of the law as the “right to erasure,” it allows people to request that an entity with their personal data delete it and not disseminate it further, so they can essentially take back their consent. The company in theory has to comply unless there is some public interest in the data (say, it’s a public figure, of historical use, etc.), but there is some debate about how it will be enforced. For example, if a public figure wants to have something from her past deleted, it’s not entirely clear whether she’ll be able to do that.

Companies that don’t comply or break the rules can face a steep fine of up to 4 percent of annual global revenue. For Facebook, that’s about $1.6 billion.

The law offers “a real chance to renegotiate the terms of engagement between people, their data, and the company,” rather than mindlessly clicking through a terms of service agreement, David Carroll, an associate professor of media design at the New School, told Wired.

While the law will only directly affect Europeans, there is a belief it could have a broader impact worldwide. Why would a company want to have one system for people in France, Germany, and Italy and a separate one for people everywhere else?

“It’s strange to say, ‘Yeah, we’re going to respect the privacy of Europeans more than all other human beings all over the world,’” said Rebecca MacKinnon, an internet freedom advocate and director of Ranking Digital Rights, a research initiative on global standards for freedom of expression and privacy in the digital space.

But that might be what at least some companies will do — including, perhaps, Facebook. The company’s founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg told Reuters that Facebook was working on a version of a policy that would comply with the law and would work globally but seemed to acknowledge it wouldn’t implement the whole thing worldwide. “We’re still nailing down details on this, but it should directionally be, in spirit, the whole thing,” he said.

In a call with reporters on Wednesday, Zuckerberg pushed back on the interpretation of his comments to Reuters that Facebook would stop short of applying GDPR guidelines for all of its users. “We’re going to make all the same controls and settings available everywhere, not just in Europe,” he said.

The US has been reluctant to step in on tech regulations. Europe has moved ahead.

That Europe would be quicker to act on regulating Facebook and other tech companies hardly comes as a surprise. It has emerged as a leader in the arena in recent years, while the United States has taken a back seat.

“I think it’s fair to say that [Europe] is leading global policy on privacy and data protection, and they’re doing it at a time when they see the US system has been severely deficient,” Kovacic, who is now a professor at George Washington University, said. “The policymaking capital is not Washington, it’s Brussels.”

A European court in May 2014 ordered Google and other search engines operating in Europe to allow individuals the “right to be forgotten,” letting them ask sites to delist certain search results relating to their name. Since that time, Google has received more than 650,000 requests.

Europe has also been much more aggressive than the United States in antitrust enforcement in tech, probing Google, Amazon, Apple, and Facebook. In mid-2017, the EU’s antitrust watchdog hit Google with a $2.7 billion fine for unfairly favoring its own service over those of its rivals. It was among the most aggressive moves against American tech company anywhere in the world.

Germany at the start of the year began enforcing a new hate speech law that gives social networks just 24 hours to act on hate speech, fake news, and illegal material.

“Europe has been faster,” a Democratic Senate aide told me, adding that many of the companies Europe is regulating are not European but American. “There’s more willingness to regulate companies that aren’t based in your home country.”

There’s no one explanation for why Europe has been so much more willing to act than the United States. Europe has historically been more critical of technological practices. While Americans tend to prioritize individual liberty, Europeans are more inclined to value the role of the state. Americans are generally more tolerant of offensive speech than Europeans. That has translated to a greater impetus to regulate tech in Europe.

“The European sense of privacy as a fundamental human right has been codified in law for a long time,” Michelle De Mooy, the director for privacy and data at the Center for Democracy & Technology. “They have this people-first mentality more than we do here in our capitalist society, where innovation is sort of equated with letting businesses do whatever they need to grow. That has translated into pretty weak data protection.”

“There has been a reluctance in the [US] policymaking arena to take steps that would seem to stifle the growth and emergence of this remarkable information services sector that has become so successful in barely 25 years,” Kovacic, the former FTC commissioner, said.

The US has made attempts at global leadership — for example, in 2011 reaching an agreement on internet policymaking principles at the OECD, which outlined global guidelines for protecting consumers, intellectual property, cybersecurity, and intellectual property while at the same time protecting human rights and the free flow of information. The Obama administration twice followed up with a US privacy proposal — the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights — which twice failed to gain consensus.

And in the specific case of Facebook, the FTC is currently investigating the company over the Cambridge Analytica scandal. It is probing whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree with the agency over its privacy practices.

It matters that the United States has a seat at the table

It isn’t necessarily terrible that Europe has emerged as an early mover in regulating tech. And encouraging entrepreneurship and the capitalist spirit ingrained in Silicon Valley and companies like Facebook are part of the American DNA. But there are also risks.

There have been rumblings, for example, that Germany’s hate speech law goes too far in clamping down on free speech. MacKinnon said there is “real concern among human rights groups that this is going to lead to over-censorship” and put too much power in the decision of private employees about what to leave up and what to take down. “When in doubt, you censor it, whether or not it’s really actually illegal. There are all kinds of issues with some overreaction in Europe around fake news and hate speech that is definitely going in the direction of being counterproductive,” she said.

In the case of the GDPR, the law that’s about to be enforced in May, De Mooy said there’s a risk of putting too much weight on the shoulders of individual users to figure out what to allow to happen with their data. “To the extent that the EU has barreled forward with consent being the key, in this environment when we can’t really know what’s being collected about us all the time and what’s being used, putting the onus on a person to use judgment to allow or disallow something could be problematic,” she said.

The United States hasn’t given up its seat on the table, but it could certainly take a bigger role than it has in order to ensure that other countries, when they do implement regulations on tech and information, aren’t going too far.

“People are concerned about privacy, hate speech, disinformation, and we aren’t leading on solutions to these concerns that would at the same time preserve the free flow of information,” Kornbluh said. “You don’t want some governments saying, ‘We’re combating fake news,’ and compromising human rights.”The Cambridge Analytica Facebook scandal

A Trump campaign–connected firm harvested personal data from tens of millions of Facebook users, bringing up big questions about cybersecurity, big data, and privacy. Catch up on the controversy.It doesn’t feel like it was very long ago that I was sitting, legs crossed, on the floor of a nondescript office building on University Avenue in Palo Alto, watching Mark Zuckerberg raise his fist with a slight smile and say, “Domination!” as a way of closing out our weekly Friday all-hands meeting. By the time I left the company in 2011 to become a full-time writer, “domination” was a real possibility.

It was 2005 and the whole world lay ahead of Facebook. I was a former English graduate student turned Facebook employee, where I started working with user issues, then moved into product marketing and managing before finally, in 2009, becoming Zuckerberg’s speech and blog writer. While in 2005 the site was growing rapidly with college users and had some of the best engagement numbers any venture capitalist had ever seen, it had yet to be released to the general public.

That year, Zuckerberg frequently wore a shirt that said “Sloths” on it, signaling an ironic laziness — to him, and to many of us, the idea of “domination” seemed as much a half-serious, half-joking fantasy as a hard-set mission.

Some days I wondered if he was utterly serious. What would “domination” by Facebook, which at the time was a fun social network for university students, look like? Were there any downsides to connecting anyone and everything in the world — and for one company to oversee those connections?

But whenever I had any doubts I would think, “Facebook has to be much bigger than it is now before ‘domination’ is anything to be afraid of.” And with that, I would throw myself back into the work of growing Facebook. That was our shared passion as a company: Scale first, ask questions later.

As Facebook continued to grow, so did my concerns

As Facebook grew exponentially, smashing user milestones by the month, and the idea of domination started to become plausible, I started looking for signs that Zuckerberg and the Facebook culture at large were aware of the potential downsides to our unfettered growth.

My job as Zuckerberg’s speechwriter meant I helped him formulate his internal and external communications, from blog posts to company-wide emails. This meant that not only did I need to understand the full scope of the mission, I needed to be able to argue it eloquently to others and foresee criticism. At the time, I felt that the biggest long-term threat to Facebook’s popularity was, ironically, becoming dominant to the point of overbearing monopoly.

My worry began to deepen when, around this time, Zuckerberg began using the language of states to talk about Facebook’s burgeoning power. “Companies over countries,” he told me once, as we discussed a blog post about Facebook’s goals. “If you want to change the world, the best thing to do is to build a company,” he added.

In an office where “fortune favors the bold” posters were hung prominently, I could see the appeal of such ambition. Unlike a country, a company has unlimited potential to build and grow, I felt, and a social media company that transcended national boundaries could become a meta-society of its own. A line from Thomas Pynchon’s novel The Crying of Lot 49 often came to mind as I contemplated the heady possibility of changing society digitally: “Shall I project a world?”

But the question I was afraid to ask him was this: If we were to achieve our goal, why should the world trust Facebook or Zuckerberg to shape and manage this new global meta-society? Could Zuckerberg, who wields considerable power over Facebook’s share structure, develop the self-awareness and responsibility to manage it?

If my co-workers were asking themselves these same questions, I didn’t see it being discussed on our internal forum pages or in conversations around the office.

Facebook employees are often brilliant and technically gifted. But the atmosphere we inhabited did not encourage asking questions about power, at least publicly. Instead, internal conversations stayed focused on technical and growth questions; questions that can be answered with metrics — how fast are we growing and what technical roadblocks can we remove — rather than introspection.

“We are building a social operating system,” colleagues would say, and when they said that, it sounded so neutral, so technically unbiased, like we were building a faster laptop instead of a machine capable of mediating the world’s personal relationships, not to mention political elections, with increasing levels of sophistication.

The culture of Facebook then and, as recent reporting suggests, now is one that — oddly, for a company built on the idea of wide-open communication — was somewhat immune to self-criticism or self-reflection. One might think that a company breaking social media growth records would welcome dialogue about the product’s social impact, since we were essentially building an entirely new social and communications infrastructure.

But even the earliest Facebook privacy scandal, the News Feed launch — where users became incensed about having their Facebook activities suddenly serialized into “stories” overnight — was met not with discussion about how Facebook was rapidly overturning people’s understanding of privacy and more with relief that, after a few days of spirited protest, users came back to the fold. It looks like not much has changed with this new scandal.

The Cambridge Analytica scandal brought all these questions to a head

If the takeaway from this to outside observers is that Facebook only cares about growth and profit above ethics, that’s not quite accurate. Because to Facebook, growth is an ethical goal unto itself. When Facebook’s technical mission to connect people is imagined as itself a moral good, all efforts in that direction become righteous by definition.

Asking questions about how that mission might go awry, then, may be seen as disloyal. “This is so disappointing, wonder if there is a way to hire for integrity. We are probably focusing on the intelligence part and getting smart people here who lack a moral compass and loyalty,” as one Facebook employee put it recently in an internal discussion. When asked about people who thought Apple was better at privacy, Zuckerberg claimed those customers had “Stockholm syndrome.”

Then the Cambridge Analytica scandal happened, bringing all these questions home to roost. Revelations that the company worked with the Trump campaign and the Brexit campaign in the United Kingdom to use shadily harvested data from Facebook to target political ads has shaken the company’s public image.

But Cambridge Analytica is a scandal that isn’t a scandal: Everyone who has ever worked on or with the Facebook platform knew that for several years, the platform made data available to third-party developers by design. The scandal is that the world finally understands the ramifications of that state of affairs.

Still, Facebook doesn’t seem to have woken up to this moral quandary, at least in a way that is visible to the world watching. Perhaps the reported internal rumblings at Facebook are evidence that some moral self-reflection is developing; on the other hand, reported employee comments likening anyone who questions or leaks information to “wife beaters and suicide bombers” suggests that the cultural atmosphere that abhors self-criticism is alive and well.

There are signs of hope. Facebook has reportedly taken steps to make anonymized data sets available to researchers to understand how election interference happens on Facebook. It may be that Zuckerberg is finally reflecting on his company’s mission and moral responsibility. Facebook users, investors, and, I would argue, employees should demand that he do so.

But he can’t do it alone. Every person who works at Facebook should also be looking in the mirror and thinking about what that means and asking the hard questions. In the early days of Facebook, it was easy to dream big and hope for the best even while “moving fast and breaking things”; in many ways, we were more successful than anyone who worked there back then could have imagined. But now that market dominance has been achieved and its risks are readily apparent, it’s time to set real limits on Facebook’s power.

Kate Losse is a writer based in California. She is the author of The Boy Kings: A Journey Into the Heart of the Social Network, which details the early culture of Facebook during her time there. Facebook declined to comment about the anecdotes in her book.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are constantly in the news, as is the blockchain technology behind them.

If, like me, you don’t really understand these things, it’s hard to know what to make of all this. Is Bitcoin, and other cryptocurrencies, the future or will this experiment gradually fade away like a historical footnote? Are cryptocurrencies actually decentralized or are they controlled by small groups of people? Are they fraud-proof or can they be manipulated by insiders?

To get some answers, I reached out to Nicholas Weaver, a researcher at the International Computer Science Institute at UC Berkeley. Weaver teaches a course on blockchains and seems to think the technology is, at best, misguided and, at worst, a fraud. So I asked him to lay out his case in the simplest possible terms.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

I don’t really understand Bitcoin or blockchains, and my sense is that I’m not alone. So let’s start with a basic question: What is a blockchain?

Nicholas Weaver

It depends on what you mean. There are private blockchains, which is a 20-year-old technology that somehow causes idiots to throw money at it, and then you have public blockchains, which is supposed to be a decentralized record-keeping structure but, in reality, is both centralized and horribly inefficient. The use of private blockchains is pretty varied because there’s nothing new and it’s an old idea. The use of public blockchains is basically limited to cryptocurrencies.

Sean Illing

You say that cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin aren’t decentralized, and yet people are enamored with these currencies precisely because they believe they’re decentralized. What are they missing?

Nicholas Weaver

None of the cryptocurrencies are truly decentralized. They’re actually centrally controlled by the miners, who can basically rewrite history at will.

Sean Illing

I’m not sure we can understand who the miners are unless we understand how Bitcoin works. Can you walk me through this?

Nicholas Weaver

Imagine we have a public square that has written down everyone’s bank balance, and if I want to send you some money, I basically write a check to you and post it in the town square. The miners gather up all these unconfirmed checks and carve them into stone tablets that then go into the public square.

So if I sent you a check and you want to see that it’s good, you just look on the stone tablets and confirm that it’s good. Think of the miners as the record-keepers who manage all of this. They validate the checks, create them into a bundle (called a block), and then they get paid for their role in the process. These miners are the de facto central authority in cryptocurrency exchanges.

Sean Illing

There are plenty of people who see cryptocurrencies, however flawed, as a step in the right direction because they at least take power away from governing authorities and give individuals more freedom. But you seem to think this is bullshit. Why?

Nicholas Weaver

Well, there are multiple arguments. These systems require an obscene amount of energy to function. And the blockchains are not decentralized and they’re not efficient, so that undercuts the two main points in their favor. But the cryptocurrencies don’t work either, because they don’t actually work as currencies.

Sean Illing

What do you mean they don’t work as currencies?

Nicholas Weaver

The rationale for these things is that there’s no central authority, which means no one can block or undo a transaction. And so far at least, it’s true that transactions aren’t blocked. But why do you need such a system? Because you’re doing a transaction that a central authority would otherwise block, like paying off a hitman or buying drugs.

If that’s what you need money for, the cryptocurrencies are the only game in town. But if you don’t need to buy drugs or hitmen, the cryptocurrencies are vastly less efficient. I mean, look at the volatility of Bitcoin and other digital currencies — they’re all over the place. So if you go to one of the few legitimate merchants that take Bitcoins, they aren’t actually taking Bitcoins. They’re using a service that allows them to price in dollars, and that service immediately sells the Bitcoins and deposits the dollars with the merchants. So there’s a mandatory conversion step.

If I want to buy something with Bitcoin, I don’t like that the price is bouncing up and down either. So I have to turn my dollars into Bitcoins and then do the transaction, and that is a remarkably costly process. That, in my opinion, is not a system that works.

Sean Illing

It appears that Bitcoin’s main accomplishment is that it allows people to buy things clandestinely, only in an absurdly inefficient way.

Nicholas Weaver

Correct. But if you want to buy something you don’t want people to know about, you can just use a pre-paid credit card. There’s still no need for Bitcoin.

Sean Illing

You also say that all cryptocurrencies are plagued by frauds that were banned in the 1930s. Can you explain?

Nicholas Weaver

Cryptocurrency exchanges are not like regular stock exchanges. In a stock market exchange, stocks are all tied to together so the prices are very close. These Bitcoin exchanges are unregulated entities that allow all sorts of things that are outright frauds. For example, in a regular stock exchange, you’re not allowed to trade with yourself because that’s price manipulation. But that’s a regular occurrence on these cryptocurrency exchanges.

Some of these cryptocurrency exchanges are accused of front-running as well, which means the people who run them are using their access to see what customers want to trade and then trading ahead of them to get an advantage. There are also plausible claims about insider trading in various cryptocurrency exchanges. I could go on, but you get the point.

Sean Illing

Do you see a cryptocurrency emerging in the future that is more viable than what we’ve seen so far?

Nicholas Weaver

Well, in order to make a cryptocurrency work, you need stability. The value has to hold. So what you need is an entity that will take, say, dollars, and give you cryptodollars one-for-one and vice versa. But we know what these institutions are; they’re called banks and they use banknotes. And if you build a cryptocurrency that way, you’ve got one of three choices.

One, you act like a regulated financial entity like PayPal or Venmo and don’t allow the criminality. So where’s the novelty there? Two, you become like a wildcat bank from the 1800s and issue banknotes that aren’t backed, but then you run the risk of a bank run and your value going to zero. So what’s the point? Or you have a cryptocurrency that actually is banked by money, and doesn’t allow criminal activity, but that’s been tried before; it was called Liberty Reserve, and it was shut down for money laundering in 2013 by the US government.

Sean Illing

Is yours a minority opinion in the world of cryptocurrency?

Nicholas Weaver

Yes, because there’s a self-selecting bias. Most people who think this is bogus simply walk away. Those who are believers are believers. Very few people have followed it like I have for five years and still find it ridiculous, but that’s because I’m an academic and I have the space to do it and I find parts of it, especially the criminality, interesting. But the arguments in defense of this stuff are getting loonier and loonier.It’s been a really, really bad few weeks for Facebook.

We learned recently weekend that the personal data of 87 million user accounts was accessed by Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that specializes in targeted digital advertising. The data was acquired via a third-party app, and the company behind the app harvested information not just from the users of that app but also from the Facebook friends of users.

The fallout for Facebook has been rough. As my colleague Emily Stewart pointed out, the company is “under siege from lawmakers, regulators, users, shareholders, and even its own employees.” Its stock plummeted by 13 percent in a single week in late March, wiping away $35 billion of shareholder value.

Facebook founder and CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, testified before a senate hearing on Tuesday, apologizing, yet again, for Facebook’s bad behavior.

Much of the coverage has focused on what happened and how it could have been prevented, but the question now is whether Facebook — and other big tech companies — will have to be regulated by the government in a way we never imagined before.

To answer this question, I reached out to Sally Hubbard, an expert in tech law and antitrust enforcement at the Capitol Forum, a nonpartisan legal investigative company that offers analysis to policymakers. I asked her if Facebook should have seen this coming and if antitrust laws are needed to regulate companies like Facebook and Google.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

Were you surprised by the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica story?

Sally Hubbard

Not at all. There are no data protection rules governing Facebook. There are rules that are going into effect later this year in Europe that might help prevent a problem like this, but in the US, it’s pretty much the Wild West when it comes to the so-called “surveillance economy.” And make no mistake about it: The business model of a company like Facebook is surveillance; they’re harvesting data, and that data can and will be misused.

Sean Illing

What makes this story so problematic?

Sally Hubbard

The biggest problem about this is not just that people were deceived about apps they were downloading; that is, they didn’t fully understand how much of their private data they were exposing. The really egregious part of it is that the Facebook friends of these app users had their data accessed as well, and they never consented to any of it.

It’s surprising what’s been permitted in terms of privacy regulations, especially in this country. Whether it’s a third-party app that’s harvesting the data or its Facebook itself, I don’t think people have any understanding of the various ways in which their data is being collected. And they almost certainly have no idea how much Facebook knows about them and how their private data can be used in nefarious ways.

“I don’t think Facebook is going to do anything meaningful on a voluntary basis”

Sean Illing

Is there any way to use a platform like Facebook and not expose yourself to this sort of data breach?

Sally Hubbard

No.

Sean Illing

Should Facebook have seen this coming? Are they negligent in not taking steps to prevent this?

Sally Hubbard

Facebook definitely should’ve seen this coming; they’ve known about it for years. They have a very Silicon Valley libertarian stance on all this, which is to say they just want to create a platform and take no responsibility for what happens on it. I don’t know what they will do next, but they cannot claim to be surprised by what has happened. They understood that their data was being harvested in this way.

Sean Illing

Is this the result of Facebook prioritizing growth over security and privacy at all costs?

Sally Hubbard

Well, security and privacy directly contradict Facebook’s business model. Their business model is a digital advertising business model, and the reason why Facebook and Google had more than a 90 percent share of growth in the digital advertising space last year is that they can target advertising in a way that no other site can because they have a 360-degree view of user activity, meaning they’re tracking users across the web and therefore know much more about their users than anyone else. So protecting private data is contrary to Facebook’s whole reason for being.

Sean Illing

Should we consider using antitrust laws to break up or at least heavily regulate Facebook?

Sally Hubbard

You hear a lot of calls for breaking up big tech companies like Facebook, and while that’s certainly an option, it’s done very rarely. There are other tools that enforcers can use. In the Microsoft case, for example, they didn’t actually break up the company but instead put in place certain constraints on their ability to leverage their monopoly.

I’ve written about the ways that Facebook prioritizes the content that keeps users on its platform and pushes content that doesn’t keep users on its platform to the bottom. These engagement algorithms are causing immense polarization in our society, and I think there’s an antitrust case to be made that they should be forced to change this approach for the health of our society. This wouldn’t break up Facebook, but it would force them to adapt their business model.

“Security and privacy directly contradict Facebook’s business model”

Sean Illing

Can we trust Facebook to self-regulate?

Sally Hubbard

I don’t think Facebook is going to do anything meaningful on a voluntary basis. Again, their entire business model depends upon access to and distribution of private personal data. So why would they take steps to undercut this? They’re a corporation, after all, and their profits are tied to being able to gather this data.

Sean Illing

A final point worth making is that although I called this a “data breach” earlier, it’s not really a breach at all. Facebook wasn’t hacked by Cambridge Analytica or anyone else. They happily gave this data away and trusted that it wouldn’t be used for malign purposes.

Sally Hubbard

That’s right. Although I’m not sure I’d say they gave it away or sold it. Instead, they just allowed the free flow of data in this ecosystem, knowing that something like this could happen.Mark Zuckerberg is having a very busy week in Washington.

The Facebook founder and CEO will testify at a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday, April 11, at 10 am Eastern. He appeared at a joint hearing before the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committees on Tuesday.

Zuckerberg will answer questions about Facebook’s handling of user information and data privacy. The appearance comes in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal that left the information of tens of millions of Facebook users exposed and amid enduring questions about how Russia and other groups have used the platform to influence US politics.

Zuckerberg on Tuesday faced a variety of questions from 44 senators, ranging from whether Facebook is a monopoly from Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) to how he protects his own privacy from Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL). Senators seemed on different pages and, at times, confused about what Facebook does, what its problems are, and how they should be fixed.

Zuckerberg on multiple occasions declined to give specifics on questions or said his team would get back to lawmakers with answers. He was largely successful in his mission to avoid making news.

Zuckerberg will probably get grilled with many of the same questions he got from the Senate on the House side on Wednesday. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chair Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) and ranking member Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ) in a statement on Wednesday said their hearing with Zuckerberg will be an “important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online.”

“We want [Zuckerberg] to account for Facebook’s failure to protect their user data and then, of course, their subsequent failure to take any meaningful action for years,” Pallone said in a phone interview with Vox.

A Facebook spokesperson confirmed Zuckerberg’s Senate and House hearings in an email.

The Cambridge Analytica scandal has Facebook under a spotlight

Facebook and Zuckerberg have come under harsh scrutiny following revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm used by the Trump campaign in the 2016 election, secretly harvested personal data from 87 million of its users. Facebook’s early efforts to contain the scandal fell short, and Zuckerberg was silent about the matter for five days before issuing a statement on it.

Zuckerberg, 33, has since spoken to multiple media outlets about the scandal and questions around Facebook’s handling of its users’ data and information. In tandem, he and the Facebook team are also working to address continued questions over its role in facilitating Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Facebook last week revealed it had uncovered and removed more content from a Kremlin-linked troll farm that sought to influence the 2016 campaign.

Representatives for Facebook, Twitter, and Google testified before Congress regarding Russian disinformation last fall. Zuckerberg and the other companies’ top executives did not attend.

Vox’s Ezra Klein spoke with Zuckerberg in a recent podcast, in which the tech executive admitted the company still has a lot of work to do. “I think we will dig through this hole, but it will take a few years,” Zuckerberg said. “I wish I could solve all these issues in three months or six months, but I just think the reality is that solving some of these questions is just going to take a longer period of time.”

He may not have a lot of time to act — at least not ahead of the congressional committee hearings.

How to watch Zuckerberg’s hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee

When: Wednesday, April 11, at 10 am ET

Where: Capitol Hill, Washington, DC

How to watch: House Energy and Commerce Committee, C-SPANIs Facebook a monopoly? Does Mark Zuckerberg think it has a liberal bias? Why am I suddenly seeing chocolate ads all over Facebook? Do I have as many friends as I think I do? Is Facebook spying on the emails I send via WhatsApp?

Those were just some of the questions senators asked of the Facebook founder and CEO during a hearing on Tuesday. It was the latest evidence that regulating Facebook will be complicated for Congress: Policymakers seem all over the place on what the biggest problem with Facebook is — that is, if they understand what it does at all.

Zuckerberg, 33, fielded questions from 44 senators at a joint hearing before the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committees on Tuesday. He apologized, yet again, for Facebook’s bad behavior and sought to clarify what the platform has done, is doing, and will do to rectify the situation. He on multiple occasions declined to give specifics or said he would have his team get back to lawmakers with answers.

But it wasn’t really Zuckerberg’s behavior that was most attention-grabbing. If anything, the executive sought not to make news. More notable were the questions senators asked, which were, at times, inconsistent or confused about basic topics.

“How do you sustain a business model in which users don’t pay for your service?” Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) asked Zuckerberg early on in the hearing.

“Senator, we run ads,” Zuckerberg replied.

Sen. Hatch: "If [a version of Facebook will always be free], how do you sustain a business model in which users don't pay for your service?"

Mark Zuckerberg: "Senator, we run ads." https://t.co/CbFO899XlU pic.twitter.com/bGKWks7zIk — CBS News (@CBSNews) April 10, 2018

The hearing was supposed to be about social media privacy and the use and abuse of data. That Facebook’s business model is based on free ads using that data was a basic underlying concept.

Some of the questions were … weird

Some of the lines of questioning senators from both parties pursued demonstrated they aren’t exactly the most tech-savvy bunch, aren’t entirely clear on how Facebook works, or maybe have just never used the platform. Or they included some colorful anecdotes about their own social media use.

Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO) revealed he was the first lawmaker who had his “Facebook address” printed on his business cards from the Senate print shop and that his son is a fan of Instagram. He went on to ask Zuckerberg whether Facebook collects user data through “cross-device tracking”; the executive said he would get back to him on that.

Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) revealed that after “communicating with my friends on Facebook and [indicating] that I love a certain kind of chocolate,” he “all of a sudden” started receiving ads for chocolate. “What if I don’t want to receive those commercial advertisements?” He went on to press Zuckerberg about Facebook’s advertising practices and how it helps advertisers target users.

Some on Twitter were quick to point out the group of senators questioning Zuckerberg weren’t exactly digital natives — the average age of the lawmakers at the hearing was 62, and the median age of the chairs and ranking members of the two Senate committees holding the hearing was nearly 80.

But it wasn’t all older lawmakers who seemed a bit confused. Sen. Brian Schatz (D-HI), 45, repeatedly asked Zuckerberg whether Facebook could see emails he sends on WhatsApp, which Facebook owns. You don’t send emails via WhatsApp, and WhatsApp is encrypted, meaning it can’t be accessed by outside parties.

Senators often don’t have special expertise in the topics they write laws about — that’s why they have dozens of staffers and aides — and one of the reasons they hold hearings is to learn more. But regulating Facebook means grappling with complicated questions, such as what type of responsibility the company has for content on its platform, how reasonable it is to expect it to know all of its users and customers, and how to balance the free enterprise that has fueled the internet’s takeoff with legislation reining it in. Many of the lawmakers’ questions suggested they’re still trying to understand the basics of how the platform works.

Senators seem to agree they want to fix something about Facebook. They just have no idea what.

If you asked each of the 44 senators at Tuesday’s hearing — let alone the entire group of 100 — chances are you would get a different answer from each about what exactly the problem with Facebook is. The hearing was, at least in theory, supposed to be about Facebook’s data privacy practices and the Cambridge Analytica scandal. But lawmakers’ questions were all over the place, as many tried to get in a moment for their favorite issues, and even illuminating queries sometimes didn’t get much follow-up.

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC), in a particularly sharp line of questioning, asked Zuckerberg if Facebook has a monopoly on the kind of service it provides. “If I buy a Ford and it doesn’t work well and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy,” Graham said during Tuesday’s hearing. “If I’m upset with Facebook, what’s the equivalent product that I can go sign up for?”

Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) pressed the executive on privacy in an attempt to make the point that he appears to value his own privacy and not necessarily that of his users. “Would you be comfortable sharing with us the name of the hotel you stayed in last night?” he asked. “If you’ve messaged anybody this week, would you share with us the names of the people you’ve messaged?”

Sen. Dick Durbin probes Mark #Zuckerberg on Facebook users’ right to privacy: pic.twitter.com/NXAcInKS0Q — Vox (@voxdotcom) April 10, 2018

Both lines of inquiry might have been strong had they been sustained. But each senator of the 44 senators was given five minutes to talk, and they talked about a lot of different things.

Conservative Sens. Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Mike Lee (R-UT) were determined to out Facebook as having a liberal slant. Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE) wanted to talk about college kids being too sensitive to offensive speech and tech addiction. Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) brought up Peter Thiel’s data firm Palantir. Sens. Roger Wicker (R-MS) spent part of his time discussing with Zuckerberg the difference between internet service providers — the “pipes” of the internet — and the apps such as Google and Facebook on top of it.

Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) brought up specific potential rules and regulations — the Honest Ads Act, which she and other lawmakers put forth in October to institute new rules on political ads, and the idea of requiring companies to inform users of a data breach within 72 hours, which is in a European law that is about to be instituted. Sen. Richard Blumenthal discussed the Consent Act, new legislation that would put restraints on data collection by Facebook, that he and Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA) put forth on Tuesday.

Hatch asked Zuckerberg what sorts of legislative changes he would recommend to help solve the Cambridge Analytica problem, and Graham asked if he would submit some proposed regulations.

“There’s always the danger that Congress’s response will be to step and overregulate,” Hatch warned.

“Regulations can ... cement the dominant power,” said Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK).

Zuckerberg struggled to answer Graham’s monopoly question, explaining that Facebook does indeed have competitors but that they fall into different categories based on different services. He repeatedly proclaimed to be in favor of some sort of regulation of Facebook but demurred when asked for specifics. He often said his staff would get back to lawmakers with details and acknowledged that Facebook had previously underestimated the breadth of its responsibility but wants to do better.

As easy as it is to laugh off lawmakers’ confusion about Facebook or look down at their muddled lines of questioning, it’s also understandable. Plenty of people have a very limited notion of how exactly Facebook’s business works, what happens to their data, and what they can do to increase their privacy. (On that note, Vox’s Jen Kirby has a good explainer on Facebook data questions you might be afraid to ask.)

While it's totally legit to dunk on old senators for asking dumb questions about Facebook, this is the level of knowledge that most people have about a thing they use every day. You shouldn't have to be a tech expert to understand the privacy of your online data. — Aaron Sankin (@ASankin) April 10, 2018

Still, Tuesday’s hearing exemplifies just how hard regulating Facebook will be. Lawmakers and regulators have a range of options to choose from, including a major fine from the Federal Trade Commission, new federal legislation, state-level action, and even revising a federal statute that ensures platforms aren’t responsible for the content posted on them.

But if we can’t agree on the problem, it might be hard to agree on the solution.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg testified before Congress for five hours Tuesday afternoon at a joint hearing before the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committees. He’ll be back on Capitol Hill for another hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday, April 11, at 10 am ET.

Zuckerberg apologized and answered questions about Facebook’s handling of user information and data privacy, among other topics. The appearance comes in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal that left the information of tens of millions of Facebook users exposed and amid enduring questions about how Russia and other groups have used the platform to influence US politics.

The political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica reportedly used personal data harvested from 87 million Facebook users as part of its work on the 2016 Trump election campaign, according to whistleblower Christopher Wylie and others. The revelation raises several ethical and legal concerns about cybersecurity, big data, and privacy, putting the Cambridge and its CEO Alexander Nix, as well as Facebook and Zuckerberg, under intense scrutiny.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is testifying before two Senate committees on Tuesday over the Cambridge Analytica scandal and revelations about the platform’s role in the dissemination of Russian disinformation during the 2016 presidential campaign.

In a sharp line of questioning, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) asked Zuckerberg if Facebook has a monopoly on the kind of service it provides for its more than 2 billion users.

“If I buy a Ford and it doesn’t work well and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy,” Graham said during Tuesday’s hearing. “If I’m upset with Facebook, what’s the equivalent product that I can go sign up for?”

Zuckerberg stumbled, noting that other tech companies overlap with what Facebook does. But he didn’t say there are other companies that make the same product, so to speak.

It’s a worthwhile issue for Graham to bring up. As Vox has covered elsewhere, many tech companies including Facebook provide services no one else does, in part because they’re so big that they can buy the competition. A customer would be hard-pressed to find another website that provides the ability to connect with others like Facebook does.

(Thought experiment: If you switched back to MySpace, would that help you stay in touch with your friends and family?)

That’s why the Graham-Zuckerberg exchange is so important. It gets to the heart of the power that companies like Facebook have — and whether Congress has a role in regulating the size and scope of these companies.

Here’s video as well as a transcript of the entire exchange:

Lindsey Graham

Who is your biggest competitor?

Mark Zuckerberg

Senator, we have a lot of competitors.

Lindsey Graham

Who’s your biggest?

Mark Zuckerberg

I think the categories — did you want just one? I’m not sure I can give one. But can I give a bunch?

Lindsey Graham

Mmhmm.

Mark Zuckerberg

There are three categories that I would focus on. One are the other tech platforms, so Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft; we overlap with them in different ways.

Lindsey Graham

Do they provide the same service you provide?

Mark Zuckerberg

In different ways, different parts of it, yes.

Lindsey Graham

Let me put it this way: If I buy a Ford and it doesn’t work well and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy. If I’m upset with Facebook, what’s the equivalent product that I can go sign up for?

Mark Zuckerberg

Well, the second category that I was going to talk about —

Lindsey Graham

I’m not talking about categories. What I’m talking is the real competition you face.

Because car companies face a lot of competition. If they make a defective car, it gets out in the world, people stop being that car and buy another one.

Is there an alternative to Facebook in the private sector?

Mark Zuckerberg

Yes, Senator. The average American uses eight different apps to communicate with their friends and stay in touch with people.

Lindsey Graham

Okay.

Mark Zuckerberg

Ranging from text apps to email —

Lindsey Graham

Which is the same service you provide?

Mark Zuckerberg

Well, we provide a number of different services.

Lindsey Graham

Is Twitter the same as what you do?

Mark Zuckerberg

It overlaps with a portion of what we do.

Lindsey Graham

You don’t think you have a monopoly?

Mark Zuckerberg

It certainly doesn’t feel like that to me.

Lindsey Graham

So it doesn’t. So you bought Instagram? Why did you buy Instagram?

Mark Zuckerberg

Because they were very talented app developers who are making good use of our platform and understood our values.

Lindsey Graham

It was a good business decision.

My point is that one way to regulate is through competition, through government regulation. Here’s the question that all of us got to answer: What do we tell our constituents, given what’s happened here, why we should let you self-regulate?

What would you tell people in South Carolina, that given all the things we’ve just discovered here, it’s a good idea for us to rely upon you to regulate your own business practices?

Mark Zuckerberg

Well, Senator, my position is not that there should be no regulation.

Lindsey Graham

Okay.

Mark Zuckerberg

I think the internet is increasing —

Lindsey Graham

Do you embrace regulation?

Mark Zuckerberg

I think the real question, as the internet becomes more important in people’s lives, is what’s the right regulation? Not whether there should be or not.

Lindsey Graham

But you as a company welcome regulation?

Mark Zuckerberg

I think if it’s a right regulation, then yes.

Lindsey Graham

Do you think the Europeans have it right?

Mark Zuckerberg

I think that they get things right.

Lindsey Graham

That’s true.

So would you work with us in terms of what regulations you think are necessary in your industry?

Mark Zuckerberg

Absolutely.Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg will apologize when he testifies before a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees on Tuesday and the House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday, saying it was a mistake for his company to take a narrow view of its responsibilities, according to prepared testimony.

“Facebook is an idealistic and optimistic company. For most of our existence, we focused on all the good that connecting people can bring,” Zuckerberg will say, according to testimony released before the hearings. According to the documents, he plans to make the exact same statement at the Senate hearing Tuesday and the House hearing Wednesday.

However, he will concede, “it’s clear now that we didn’t do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well. That goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy.”

Zuckerberg will lay out his version of what happened in the Cambridge Analytica scandal and Russia’s interference in the 2016 election as well as Facebook’s steps to remedy the events. “My top priority has always been our social mission of connecting people, building community and bringing the world closer together,” he will say. “Advertisers and developers will never take priority over that as long as I’m running Facebook.”

Zuckerberg will testify at a joint hearing before the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committees on Tuesday and before the House committee on Wednesday. He will take questions from members of both houses of Congress as well and spent Monday on Capitol Hill meeting with lawmakers.

Read Zuckerberg’s planned remarks:The federal government is already investigating Facebook. The question now is how much further it will go to regulate it.

Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg is testifying before Congress Tuesday and Wednesday in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal and revelations about the platform’s role in the dissemination of Russian disinformation during the 2016 presidential campaign to answer questions about Facebook’s past, current, and future actions.

But what Facebook will do on its own will likely no longer be enough. Calls have grown for the government to try to rein in the social media giant. Even Zuckerberg has acknowledged it might be time for regulators to step in.

Europe is taking some pretty significant steps in clamping down on Facebook and big tech at large. In the United States, where policymakers have traditionally been reluctant to regulate technology, it’s a bit more complicated.

Regulating Facebook is a complicated balancing act, multiple technology experts and Capitol Hill aides said in interviews. The company isn’t facing one scandal — it’s facing two: one about Russian disinformation and fake news, and one about user privacy and data security.

There are no easy answers about where Facebook’s responsibility begins and ends over what’s shared on its platform. In the United States, there’s also a First Amendment issue. When clamping down on what’s shared on social media, the government’s hands are actually more tied than, say, Facebook or Twitter through their terms of service.

“The idea of what they could be doing and what they should be doing is the dividing line,” Michelle De Mooy, the director for privacy and data at the Center for Democracy & Technology, told me.

Facebook could face a “breathtaking” federal fine

Congress and federal agencies are already considering several avenues to rein in Facebook. Arguably the biggest is an investigation that’s already underway: The Federal Trade Commission is looking into the possible misuse of personal information in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which involved sharing data from as many as 87 million users. At issue is whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree with the FTC over charges it deceived consumers about their privacy.

The settlement required Facebook to give consumers “clear and prominent notice” and obtain their consent before sharing their information. And it barred the company from making any further deceptive privacy claims.

If the FTC finds Facebook did violate the 2011 agreement, it could be in deep trouble.

“If there was a violation, and let’s assume there was, the FTC is in a position to punch very hard if it wants to,” said former FTC Commissioner Bill Kovacic. “The potential monetary penalties under the status quo would be extraordinary.”

He said that each violation of the existing settlement could be punished by a fine of $40,000 — per day, per user. For a single wronged user over the course of a month, that’s a potential $1.2 million fine. And compounded among potentially tens of millions of users across several weeks and months, the amount would be astronomical. “Now, would the FTC say, ‘Here’s a bill for $1 trillion?’ No. But short of that, could they impose a breathtaking civil penalty?” Kovacic said.

He said the FTC would need to go through the Department of Justice to pursue a civil penalty, and it is unclear what the result would be. And, of course, we don’t know what yet the FTC will find, if anything. But the investigation could be a big one. “Think of this headline: biggest fine imposed on a business enterprise in the history of government regulation,” Kovacic said. “That would catch the attention of [Facebook] and of others in the industry.”

De Mooy warned that the results of the FTC investigation might not be so satisfying for harmed customers, even if it results in a blockbuster fine. “The problem with anything that the FTC does is that it’s not public,” she said. “If they come to a conclusion that there was a violation, that there were unfair and deceptive practices, we still wouldn’t know why they came to that conclusion.”

Congress wants to force more disclosure on Facebook ads

Meanwhile, there are other proposals on the table to impose new requirements on Facebook. Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mark Warner (D-VA), and John McCain (R-AZ) last October introduced the Honest Ads Act, which seeks to regulate online political advertising much in the same way as television, radio, and print are. The legislation has largely stalled, with Senate Rules Committee Chair Richard Shelby (R-AL) expressing little interest in holding hearings on it.

Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO) is expected to take over for Shelby as chair of the Rules Committee, and the bill’s proponents hope he will express more of an interest in it, a Democratic aide told me.

After Cambridge Analytica and the continued information drip out of Facebook over what Russia did in 2016, public outcry may also push reluctant legislators to be more open to acting.

The Honest Ads Act would require social media companies to disclose which groups are running political advertisements and make reasonable efforts to ensure foreign governments and agents aren’t purchasing ads on their platforms. On Friday, Zuckerberg came out in support of the Honest Ads Act in a Facebook post, saying it would “raise the bar for all political advertising online.” Twitter announced its support for the legislation on Tuesday.

In the same post, Zuckerberg said Facebook would require political-leaning advertisers to verify their identity and location. Anyone who wants to run political or issue-based ads will need to be verified, and Facebook will label the ads and who paid for them. Facebook unveiled a similar authorization requirement for election ads in October.

Meanwhile, the California legislature is seeking to clamp down on bots. Democratic state Sen. Bob Hertzberg and Democratic State Assembly member Marc Levine have both introduced legislation that would require social platforms such as Facebook and Twitter to identify automated accounts — essentially, a sort of sticker that says, “I’m a bot.”

“They built the car and they allowed the Russians to get in it, gave them the keys, and allowed them to go speeding on the highway. And then they wrecked that car into our democracy,” Levine told me recently. “So big tech needs to take responsibility for the software that they are creating.”

In November, California voters will also have the opportunity to vote on the California Consumer Privacy Act, a ballot initiative that would require companies to disclose what information they gather and how they share and sell it, and give people the right to tell businesses what they can and cannot do with their data. Facebook, Google, AT&T, Verizon, and Comcast oppose it.

The Federal Election Commission is also contemplating amending its rules on for disclaimers on political communications, including advocacy and fundraising, online. In late March, it put out two alternative proposals on the matter.

Also in March, a bipartisan group of 37 state attorneys general sent a letter to Zuckerberg “demanding answers” about the company’s business practices and privacy protections.

There’s a lot that could be on the table, but it’s not clear whether it will be

What else could the federal government do? Plenty of proposals are floating around, including mandating new guidelines on transparency and data portability (the ability of users to essentially own their data, have it deleted, and take it from one platform to another), adjusting a law to hold social media platforms liable for users’ content, and even potentially enacting comprehensive privacy legislation.

One possibility is broader legislation dealing with bots, perhaps modeled on the Better Online Ticket Sales Act (better known as the BOTS Act), a 2016 law meant to clamp down on ticket scalping and computer programs that sweep up large numbers of tickets in online sales.

Another is stricter privacy standards. The Obama administration proposed the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, outlining consumers’ rights to control their personal data and requirements for transparency and security. It failed to gain consensus twice, and, if anything, privacy has moved in the opposite direction: President Donald Trump in 2017 signed legislation repealing the FCC’s privacy protections for internet users.

“Efforts to set privacy standards have been ignored or even repealed,” said Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ), ranking member of the House committee Zuckerberg will testify before on Wednesday.

Advocates of a new comprehensive privacy in the United States hope that revelations about Facebook’s practices might push for more sweeping change. “What’s become clear here is that this is not just a consumer protection issue,” said Rebecca MacKinnon, an internet freedom advocate and director of Ranking Digital Rights, a research initiative on global standards for freedom of expression and privacy in the digital space. “Privacy protection is a national security issue.”

“The idea of Congress passing a baseline privacy law is something we’ve championed,” De Mooy said. “It’s a good time to talk about what that actually looks like.”

Advocates of broader regulation for Facebook also suggest expanding the FTC’s authority and lightening some limitations on its jurisdiction. “The FTC has no authority over nonprofits, no authority over common carriers like telecommunications or transportation, airlines, banking,” Kovacic said. “To be a really effective national privacy regulator, you have to have a broad scope of authority over everything that faces the consumer in all contexts.”

Another option would be to revisit Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, a 1996 law that provides immunity from liability to online platforms for content generated by its users. Essentially, the law says that Facebook is like a library, not a newspaper — if you go to a library and check out a book on how to build a bomb, the library isn’t liable for that. If a newspaper publishes an article explaining how to do it and encouraging it, that’s another story.

Congress just passed legislation that rolls back portions of Section 230 for cases of sex trafficking, and that could potentially open the door for further meddling with the law. Proponents of Section 230 warn it could open up a Pandora’s box of threats to internet freedom and actually have the opposite effect of what is intended, in the case of the sex trafficking bill pushing illicit activity into even darker corners of the internet.

Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), who wrote Section 230, warned that changing it would “punch a hole in the legal framework of the open internet” in a speech on the Senate floor. One congressional aide said he believes that Section 230 will be the “central discussion point” on what the internet looks like over the next several years.

One big sticking point in regulating Facebook in America is the First Amendment

Part of what explains why the United States has been so reluctant to enact regulations on the internet and technology is the matter of free speech, as mandated by the US Constitution. Simply put, there is a lot the government just can’t control when it comes to what people do and do not say online.

“From a starting point, we have to recognize particularly here in the United States, with the First Amendment, there is a real limit to what regulation, what government action can do around online content,” said Emma Llanso, director of the Center for Data & Technology’s free expression project. “There are certainly things that are illegal content, so that is more of an area where talking about regulations could make sense, but so much of what comes up in general discussion about this is out of reach of government action from the get-go.”

The Honest Ads Act and FEC guidelines may be able to do something about political advertising and transparency online. But when it comes to policing hate speech, propaganda, and even fake news, it’s just a different story.

And that’s where the companies themselves have to come in. The US Congress might not be able to keep people from bullying online, but Twitter’s terms of service can.

“People tend to confuse what the government can do with what these individual companies can do,” said Karen Kornbluh, a senior fellow for digital policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and former ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development under the Obama administration. “It’s not a First Amendment issue for companies to take down misleading ads, hate speech, or hoaxes.”

She added that companies often face political or financial pressure to take down or lead up content and should be clearer in their terms of service about what they take down and why.

Llanso said getting more transparency from platforms about their content moderation practices, including the numbers and scope of the material there that’s being flagged and is being taken down, could help shape policy prescriptions as well. “Until we get better information into the public discourse about how these platforms are shaping the information environments that they control, we are sort of talking about policy options in the dark.”

She concurred that given limits to government control of free speech, companies do have more freedom to police what’s out there. “Any platform that I can think of has a content policy that is more restrictive than the First Amendment would permit the government to do,” she said.

There are, of course, risks to putting so much impetus on companies to act and turning them into the arbiters of what is and isn’t allowed online. MacKinnon said she’s worried about a setup that turns companies “basically into private judges, juries, and executioners when it comes to online speech.”

But if Facebook, as it says, wants to do better, that’s certainly a way. Zuckerberg told reporters last week that it currently has 15,000 people working on security and content review and plans to have 20,000 by the end of the year.

Antonio García-Martinez, who worked on Facebook’s targeted ads from 2011 to 2013, pointed out to me recently that Facebook already does plenty of self-policing and in political advertising specifically uses a strategy similar to the ones it uses in other advertising arenas. Alcohol ads, for example, are only shown to users of a certain age in the United States, another age in Spain, and not at all in Saudi Arabia, where alcohol is illegal.

“Facebook actually goes in and programmatically figures out what’s an alcohol ad and then applies business logic to it saying what’s allowable,” García-Martinez told me. “And if you break the rules enough, the account gets frozen.”

The hard truth is that the horse is already out of the barn

Zuckerberg’s congressional testimony and his and other Facebook executives’ mea culpa media blitz is perhaps the start of taking a hard look at privacy protection, data, and information manipulation online. But there’s a long road ahead — and a lot of what’s already been done is, well, done.

Facebook has admitted the majority of its users’ information has been accessed by third parties, that it scans messages, and that it keep pretty much all of your data forever. It just announced it found more evidence of Russian troll accounts. Zuckerberg last week said uncovering nefarious content is going to be a “never-ending battle” and that you “never fully solve security.”

“I think we will dig through this hole, but it will take a few years,” Zuckerberg recently told Vox’s Ezra Klein. “I wish I could solve all these issues in three months or six months, but I just think the reality is that solving some of these questions is just going to take a longer period of time.”

The issue is, of course, a lot of data is already out there, the 2016 election is already over, and consumers’ trust in Facebook has already been breached.

“There is an element that it’s too little, too late. But we still want Facebook to make some changes, and we will ask Zuckerberg some questions about what changes he’s making. But we also have to realize that a lot of this information is already out there, and so that has to be thought about, in terms of regulation and legislation — what do we do going forward, but also what do we do for the stuff that’s out there?” Rep. Pallone said. “I don’t know that there’s an easy answer out there.”Baby pictures, vacation check-ins, your new job announcement — they all seem like innocuous posts to mark simple milestones. But your personal life is Facebook’s business. Those data points, taken together, build a powerful (and lucrative) profile of who you are and what you value.

That’s perhaps one of the most important lessons from the Cambridge Analytica scandal and the revelation that the firm may harvested data from as many as 87 million Facebook users. But Cambridge Analytica is far from the only firm that gained access to vast amounts of users’ personal information.

“There are certainly thousands, if not millions, of applications that had similar access and collected similar data — and many are still doing it, although under different terms,” Ian Bogost, a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and contributing editor to the Atlantic, told Vox.

Privacy changes Facebook made to its platform in 2015 made it harder for third-party groups to get users’ data, according to Siva Vaidhyanathan, the director of the Center for Media and Citizenship at the University of Virginia. And in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica revelations, Facebook announced still more changes meant to further safeguard privacy.

Still, those changes don’t entirely wall off your personal data from third parties. And if you don’t check your privacy settings regularly or read the terms of use of the apps you use on the platform, all this can seem overwhelming.

Before you resign yourself to the idea you’ve sold your soul to Facebook for the privilege of posting wedding photos, here’s what experts say it means if a third party gets your data, why it happened, and what, if anything, can be done about it.

1) What does it mean for a “third party” to access my Facebook data?

It means you, as a Facebook user, have given an outside entity — usually a developer who made a game, or a personality quiz, or some other app used on Facebook — the ability to tap into your Facebook profile and get all the information there.

This isn’t a breach or a hack: You likely gave the app developer or quiz maker permission; you just probably just didn’t realize it.

“In each case when you want to use a new app, there’s usually a pop-up that says, ‘Click here to agree to our terms and play the game,’ or, ‘Click here to take this quiz about your psychological profile,’ Andrea Matwyshyn, a professor of law and computer science at Northeastern University, told Vox. “And by clicking yes, you’re taking an affirmative act. The way that the pop-ups are usually created, they say, ‘By clicking here, you are agreeing to our terms of use.’ So that simple click is construed legally as an act of consent to whatever there was in those terms that you may or may not have read.”

It’s often hard to know what permissions you’re giving, and to whom, because the details are buried in overly long terms of service policies, written in legal and technical jargon.

And, Bogost said, to the average Facebook user, it often wasn’t totally obvious that a third party was getting involved at all. “People didn’t realize they were leaving Facebook — because they weren’t leaving Facebook,” he said. “They were still happily, warmly ensconced within their webpage.”

2) But I definitely didn’t take any quizzes. The Farmville trend totally passed me by. I’m probably fine, right?

Not necessarily. Until May 2015, when Facebook changed its API (application program interface) policies, giving a third party the right to your data meant it could also harvest your friends’ data. That’s perhaps what was so insidious. If that random guy you friended freshman year of college or two jobs ago played a lot of games on Facebook, he could unwittingly be handing over his friends’ information — including yours.

This is how an estimated 87 million people might have had their data scraped by Cambridge Analytica. It wasn’t that millions of people took that quiz; it’s that once you start expanding out the social network — friends, friends of friends — it starts to add up. “A treasure trove of information,” Bogost called it.

In 2015, Facebook tweaked what third-party developers can access. Those changes to its policy, which were announced in 2014 and went into effect in 2015, limited the amount of relevant information that could be shared with third-party developers, specifically when it came to friends’ data.

3) What do these third parties do with my data?

The answer is, it depends who gets it. Facebook platform policy prohibits app developers from sharing or selling data. If a developer violates this policy, Facebook will suspend the developer and conduct a full investigation before it will allow the developer back on the platform, a Facebook spokesperson told Vox.

Facebook also reviews exactly what type of permissions third parties request — in other words, tell me why you need to know someone’s birthday for them to use your app — as part of the update to its API policies in 2015.

But there are still some questions about how robust that review process is. “It’s kind of a murky netherworld,” Bogost said. “It’s in the shadows.”

4) How much do third parties know about me?

Even if third parties could only get a little of your data — your hometown, say, or your gender — they could match it up with all kinds of other records, such marketing databases or voter registration databases, to paint a more complete picture of you as a person.

And then, armed with all that robust information, that third party can go and retarget ads on Facebook to you what it already discovered. “That’s the sort of cycle,” Bogost said. “You get into people’s data and either use it directly or expand on it.”

Even the little nuggets of information are quite valuable. Bogost tested this out himself, building a game on Facebook called Cow Clicker. (He wrote about this in an entertaining Atlantic article about how your data gets extracted from Facebook.)

“If you played Cow Clicker, even just once,” he wrote, “I got enough of your personal data that, for years, I could have assembled a reasonably sophisticated profile of your interests and behavior. I might still be able to; all the data is still there, stored on my private server, where Cow Clicker is still running, allowing players to keep clicking where a cow once stood, before my caprice raptured them into the digital void.”

If you took a quiz 10 years ago, chances are the data the third party collected will be 10 years old. That makes it less valuable — but not valueless. “We don’t know who has all of that data from all of those years,” Vaidhyanathan said, “and how would they have used it in the past and, even if it’s incomplete or out of date, how they’re using it now. There’s no accountability whatsoever.”

5) Can I figure out who has my data?

Right now, there’s no way to know all the third parties that might have your data. (Facebook is notifying everyone whose data might have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.) You can see which applications you gave permission to in your Facebook account, but you can’t see if, say, your data got harvested because a friend played a bunch of apps.

6) Did Facebook know this kind of third-party data harvesting would happen, or was it an unintended consequence?

Matwyshyn said the question isn’t really whether Facebook knew, but whether it reasonably should have known that this was going to happen. “And it was reasonably foreseeable that this sort of problem would happen,” she said.

She points to the company’s initial public offering. “What they tell the SEC is that their business is the business of relationship,” she said. “They’re connecting people and sharing information on Facebook, helping with the sharing of information, whether that is connecting audiences to marketers or connecting individuals to other individuals.”

7) How has Facebook changed its policies?

Facebook’s changes to its privacy policy limited the amount of relevant information that could be accessed by developers — most significantly, the data of your friends who weren’t actively participating in those apps. (Cambridge Analytica harvested all that data before those policy changes.)

Part of the reason things changed in 2015 was because the social network figured out it was better for business to keep all that information about its millions of users in house, Vaidhyanathan said.

Between 2010 until 2015, Vaidhyanathan explained, Facebook was mostly focused on rapidly growing its business. “So having Farmville or Words with Friends was really important,” he said. “Those rather addictive games kept people engaged on Facebook and kept people engaged with their friends on Facebook.”

In other words, Facebook actually needed those things to help get you hooked in its early days. That’s not the case anymore; it’s growing without those apps. “They have no reason to give [the data] up to anybody anymore,” Vaidhyanathan said.

Matwyshyn said Facebook realized information is a powerful commodity — even if users posting baby pictures and sharing news articles don’t necessarily see it the same way. “Consumers don’t necessarily connect the dots that if someone knows their political preferences, their health history, their favorite flavor of ice cream, their mother’s maiden name, the names of all of their siblings, the name of their pets, and where they’ve been in sequence in the last six months, that’s an awful lot of information that could be used,” she said.

8) I have a lot of apps that use my Facebook login. I thought it was supposed to make my life easier. Were these companies just trying to grub my data the whole time?

It’s a trade-off. Those apps really do use Facebook logins to make it easier to use their services because it also makes your life easier — no additional passwords or usernames to keep track of this way. Bogost said reducing friction is the primary goal of these services.

But that, of course, that means that the app has your email, maybe your photos, and other information it scrubbed to help you log in to its service.

9) Short of deleting Facebook, is there anything I can do to protect my data now?

Matwyshyn suggests it’s sort of a three-prong process — part technical, part social, and part resignation to the reality of Facebook. You can change your privacy settings and read the terms of service. You can help your friends change their privacy settings.

“And some of it is the less pleasant recognition that when you’re posting things, you need to think not only about what that post will mean today in terms of information that you want to share with your friends, but also what that information could say about you five months from now in the hands of a party that wanted to use it to hurt you in some way,” she said.

Vaidhyanathan said he didn’t think there was much individuals could do — Facebook’s issues are too vast, and he believes any real solution requires government action or regulation. He believes the solution is breaking up Facebook — carving off Instagram and Whatsapp, for example, so Facebook has some competition. At the minimum, Facebook could extend the data protection rules just implemented in Europe to all its users.

But the bigger issue Vaidhyanathan suggests is one that’s much harder to fix: the disconnect between what Facebook users expect the social network to be and how Facebook sees itself — which is really the core of the issue.

“People at the top of Facebook believe what is good for Facebook is good for humanity, and vice versa,” Vaidhyanathan said. “They truly believe if they have as much data as possible, they can figure out how to use it, they can roll out services that will improve our lives, it will all be worth it.

“As long as we go along with it, all or our lives will be better,” he added. “That’s the fundamental animating principle of Facebook.”Mark Zuckerberg’s apology tour continues this week when the Facebook founder and CEO will appear at hearings in the Senate and House of Representatives to discuss his company’s practices.

It will be a public opportunity for lawmakers to make a show that they’re taking a tough stance on Facebook — and a chance for Zuckerberg to face some important questions about what his business is up to and how it plans to address some past wrongs.

The Cambridge Analytica scandal has given birth to myriad questions about Facebook’s practices regarding data and security — and, of course, concerns about the platform’s role in the dissemination of Russian disinformation in US politics continue. On Tuesday in the Senate and Wednesday in the House, lawmakers will have the opportunity to ask Zuckerberg about those matters and more, and they’re ready to take it.

“We have a problem,” said Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA), who sits on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which will hold a joint hearing with the Senate Commerce Committee at which Zuckerberg will testify, on Face the Nation on Sunday. “Our promised digital utopia has minefields in it. Mr. Zuckerberg has not exhausted himself in being forthcoming.”

Expect a show

Given the public attention on and worries about Facebook, lawmakers from both parties are likely to take the opportunity to make a show of their outrage.

“Lawmakers will put their indignation on full display for television cameras during what will likely be a very tough grilling of Zuckerberg,” Mark Hamrick, a senior economic analyst at Bankrate.com, told me. “No doubt some will be sincere. But one must also note that Congress has been ineffective and noticeably absent in policing against and reacting to data privacy abuses, including in the wake of the Equifax disaster.”

Beyond the Cambridge Analytica-fueled privacy debate, questions about Russian meddling in the 2016 election and its consistent efforts to interfere in US politics remain. Facebook last week said it would require those running political and issue ads on its platform to be verified, and it’s upping efforts at transparency. What else is it doing on the political meddling front, and what measures does it have in place to make sure it works?

“This will be one of the most contentious hearings we have seen since bank CEOs went to the Hill during the financial crisis,” said Isaac Boltansky, an analyst at Washington, DC-based research firm Compass Point.

There are three groups of lawmakers to watch out for in the Senate, Boltansky said:

Big names who could grab headlines, such as Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL)

Former state attorneys general, such as Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Kamala Harris (D-CA)

The 2020 presidential hopefuls, including Sens. Cory Booker (D-CA) and Harris

In the House, the figures to keep an eye on include House Energy Committee Chair Greg Walden (R-OR) and ranking member Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ) as well as Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA).

“We want [Zuckerberg] to account for Facebook’s failure to protect their user data and then, of course, their subsequent failure to take any meaningful action for years,” Pallone told me in a phone interview.

In prepared testimony to the House committee released ahead of the hearing, Zuckerberg will tell lawmakers he’s sorry for what happened. “We didn’t take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake,” he plans to say.

Facebook has announced a number of steps it plans to take on its own to address concerns about its practices in recent weeks and days, including enacting new measures to prevent election meddling and spelling out its terms and data policy more clearly. Zuckerberg also took part in an hour-long Q&A session with reporters last week. All of that is likely an effort to avoid fireworks in Congress if at all possible. “I’m assuming that his people are not planning to have him break news,” Rebecca MacKinnon, an internet freedom advocate and director of Ranking Digital Rights, said. “They broke all their news last week so that he doesn’t have to break it in the hearings.”

I’ve spoken with a variety of experts, observers, and stakeholders in recent days to find out what sorts of questions Congress can and should ask.

1) What “malicious actors” have user data?

Facebook in a post last week announcing new plans to restrict data access revealed that “malicious actors” have abused its features to scrape public profile information. It didn’t say who those actors are.

2) Are there more shoes to drop?

Just last week, Facebook acknowledged that 87 million people’s information might have been accessed by Cambridge Analytica, suspended more Russian-linked accounts, and said data from most of its 2 billion users is vulnerable. “How can Facebook be sure more user data has not been misused, and how can the company identify other third parties that may have inappropriately acquired or misused user data?” wrote Michelle De Mooy, director for privacy and data at the Center for Democracy & Technology, in a recent blog post.

3) If you’re open to regulation, why oppose state efforts to regulate?

Zuckerberg has said he’s open to Facebook being regulated, but Facebook has repeatedly opposed state privacy laws, noted Joe Jerome, policy counsel at the Center for Data & Technology. That includes existing laws on the books such as the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act, which covers sensitive facial recognition data, and a California consumer privacy initiative on the ballot in November. “Hopefully this hearing will clarify the company’s approach to privacy laws,” Jerome said.

4) Are you the right person to lead Facebook?

Zuckerberg has said he still believes he is the right person to lead Facebook, and because of Facebook’s shareholder setup in which Zuckerberg controls the majority of the company’s voting stock, he can’t be fired unless he fires himself.

“Facebook’s governance also faces questions, including whether Zuckerberg should continue to serve in both CEO and chair capacities and whether he holds too much power as shareholder,” Hamrick, from Bankrate.com, said. “The marketplace will, to some degree, help determine the outcome of these issues, particularly if the stock continues to come under pressure.”

5) Does Facebook’s business model need to change?

Facebook has defended its business model, which essentially positions its users as the product: It depends fundamentally on providing advertisers with user data to help them target potential consumers. Is there a willingness to try and change the business model that doesn’t depend on extracting and exploiting user data? Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg said in an interview with Today that an opt-out tool to keep Facebook from using profile data for advertising would be a “paid product.”

6) Who owns Facebook’s user data?

There are a lot of questions about who, ultimately, owns the data on Facebook’s platform and what users should reasonably expect is and isn’t being done with their information. Yes, people put their information on Facebook’s platform voluntarily, but they didn’t sign up, for example, to have that used by Cambridge Analytica.

Europe is about to enact a law that, among other things, allows for data portability — meaning users can take their information from one platform for another — and lets users have their information deleted. Would Facebook be open to giving users in the US the same rights?

It’s also worth noting that Facebook’s default user settings promote sharing data inside and outside the platform.

7) What do you think about the agreement with the FTC?

The Federal Trade Commission in March confirmed that it is investigating Facebook over the possible misuse of the personal information of what Facebook has since confirmed to be as many as 87 million of its users by Cambridge Analytica. At issue is whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree with the FTC over charges that it deceived consumers about their privacy.

The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) is encouraging Congress this week to get beyond what Zuckerberg has and can do and to instead focus on the FTC order, said EPIC president Marc Rotenberg in an email. He believes the Cambridge Analytica debacle could have been prevented had the FTC enforced the order. “I am confident this will happen,” he said.

“Does Facebook believe the terms of the FTC’s 2011 consent decree meaningfully improved Facebook’s privacy practices?,” wrote De Mooy in the CDT blog post.

8) Europe is about to take a big step in regulating Facebook. Why not apply those standards in the United States?

Europe on May 25 will enact the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, a new privacy law designed to make sure users know and understand the data companies collect about them and consent to sharing it. Zuckerberg has said he intends to apply the guidelines outlined in the law to users worldwide — but has also acknowledged it won’t be the same format everywhere.

“What format does he see for the United States?” said Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at the United States Public Interest Research Group, in an email. “Would he support a privacy law that guarantees many of those protections for American consumers? Does he support a privacy bill of rights that requires consent from consumers before their information can be used?”

9) How are we supposed to trust that this time is different?

Facebook has consistently waited to address problems until after the damage has been done or it’s been caught. It suspended Cambridge Analytica from its platform the day before news reports were published about what happened when it was clear they couldn’t keep the incident under wraps.

Lawmakers will likely press Zuckerberg on what he plans to do to be more proactive with harm assessment, risk mitigation, and addressing problems before it’s too late. “Isn’t it time for Facebook to stop this pattern of act first and break things and then fix it later?” MacKinnon said.

“If Facebook can’t fix its privacy problems then how can Americans trust them to be caretakers of their sensitive information?” said Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) in a statement after meeting with Zuckerberg on Capitol Hill on Monday.“In a lot of ways Facebook is more like a government than a traditional company,” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said.

He elaborated on this claim in a recent interview with Vox’s Ezra Klein. After noting that the Facebook community consists of more than 2 billion people around the world, he wondered if executives “sitting in an office here in California” were the right people to be making decisions for a constituency of that size. He asked, “How can you set up a more democratic or community-oriented process that reflects the values of people around the world?”

It’s good to see Zuckerberg starting to grapple with Facebook’s political responsibilities. But Zuckerberg and Facebook face far bigger challenges than he acknowledges in the interview.

As the technology writer Zeynep Tufekci has argued, it may be nearly impossible for Facebook to reform itself, given its underlying business model. And even if Facebook can reform itself, it faces some extraordinary challenges in building trust with its users and regulators.

The best way to understand this is to start from Zuckerberg’s comparison of Facebook to a government. Facebook is so powerful in its own domain that it is, indeed, like a sovereign state. It can upend the business models of companies that depend on it, or completely change the ways its individual users relate to each other — without them even realizing what has happened.

As Larry Lessig observed decades ago, computer code is law. And today, Facebook’s code establishes critical rules by which more than 2 billion of the world’s people and millions of businesses interact online.

This means that Facebook is a powerful sovereign and Mark Zuckerberg is the key lawgiver. In some ways, of course, the comparison is inexact. Facebook doesn’t have the power to tax, and it certainly doesn’t have what Louis XIV called “the final argument of kings” — the ability to use physical violence to force people to comply with its demands.

And Facebook must answer to the regulators of other powerful sovereign governments, that of the United States and others around the world. But this is less of a check on power than it first appears because the impact of social media on society and the economy is still poorly understood, and regulation takes time to catch up.

Still, once you begin to think about Facebook as a government, a great deal falls into place. Zuckerberg’s dilemmas are not the dilemmas of a corporation but the dilemmas of a king. Thanks to decades of research on political economy, we have some idea of what those dilemmas are and how difficult they are to solve.

A king is all-powerful. That makes his declarations about wanting to give up authority hard to take seriously.

It is difficult for a king’s subjects to trust him because he has absolute power over them. Yet it is also difficult for a king to give up that control.

One of the key problems of political economy, therefore, is “tying the king’s hands” — allowing the sovereign enough power to do his job, but constraining him so that he does not abuse his trust. Facebook’s version of this problem is doubly hard, in that the company faces mixed incentives.

On the one hand, it has to reassure its users, but on the other it has to answer to the advertisers who drive its business model and allow it to make profits — and to the stock-market investors who create such extraordinary wealth for its owners and employees by speculating on the future growth of those profits.

Despite Zuckerberg’s vision of democracy and community control, Facebook more closely resembles an autocratic than a democratic regime. Zuckerberg is the chair, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder of Facebook.

Standard arguments in political economy suggest that this combination will make it difficult for Facebook to generate trust. Zuckerberg’s promises about new governance arrangements, privileging transparency, and accountability may be sincere. Even so, as game theorists like the late Thomas Schelling have noted, costly commitments are not credible unless there is some means to enforce them when the time comes to deliver. Facebook’s corporate structures mean that such promises are hard to turn into credible commitments unless there is some external incentive that will make them enforceable.

Zuckerberg has defended the way power at Facebook is concentrated in his own person. And it may be true that, as he argues, this unusual corporate governance arrangement allows Facebook to hold off shareholders obsessed with short-term profits and think instead about the long-term interests of its users. But that argument bears an uncanny resemblance to ones made on behalf of “rational” political autocrats. The historian Edward Gibbon, describing the Roman emperor Septimius Severus, argued:

The true interest of an absolute monarch generally coincides with that of his people. Their numbers, their wealth, their order, and their security, are the best and only foundations of his real greatness; and, were he totally devoid of virtue, prudence might supply its place, and would dictate the same course of conduct.

Modern political economists are more likely to emphasize how potential clashes of interest between autocrats and their subjects can generate terrible outcomes and mutual distrust. For example, a classic article by Nobel Prize-winning economist Douglass North and Barry Weingast, on constitutions and commitment problems, highlights how absolute rulers cannot be trusted to be trustworthy.

English kings successfully tied their own hands

North and Weingast point out that from 1603 to 1714, when the United Kingdom was ruled by the absolutist Stuarts, the crown found it enormously hard to persuade bankers to lend it money. The bankers knew that the head of state could simply decide later to repudiate any loan agreement and just keep whatever it had “borrowed.” The result was that the crown was perpetually short of funds and had to resort to forced “loans” that made merchants more determined to keep their money hidden from the government, hurting economic growth.

This only changed after the Glorious Revolution, when a constitutional settlement gave Parliament supremacy — significantly reducing the king’s role and making the monarch subject to the law. The Parliament took on taxing, budgetary, and lending authority. These political limits meant that lenders could trust the crown to repay its debts, making it much easier for the British government to raise money cheaply and efficiently.

Margaret Levi and David Stasavage show that there are other benefits when the executive authority is truly responsible to a legislature representing citizens. Citizens are happier to comply with government demands for taxes, military service, and compliance with the law. When governments are beholden to their constituencies, citizens can respond to broken promises by stopping complying and, at the extreme, removing them from office. When citizens have power over government, the government has strong reason to behave trustworthily, hence generating trust.

This is why tying the king’s hands is a necessary precondition to trust and peaceful economic exchange. It is also a fundamental basis of democracy, which uses institutions to constrain governments to act accountably towards their citizens.

Facebook can’t chop off people’s heads and it has to obey the laws of the jurisdictions where it operates, but, even so, it faces a version of the problem that plagued the Stuarts. Facebook can unilaterally and arbitrarily change many of the laws of its realm (terms of service and market making algorithms among them).

Even if you feel manipulated, there may not be much you can do about it. Network effects — which Facebook has gone to great lengths to reinforce — lock both businesses and users into Facebook, even if they all individually might prefer a different system of rule. As with citizens of traditional states, users of Facebook can exit if they wish, but it is extremely difficult.

The result is that even if Zuckerberg and his lieutenants have good intentions, they will still be too powerful for people to trust easily. It’s possible for powerful actors to break out of these “trust traps,” but it is very hard. North and Weingast discuss two ways in which kings’ hands can be tied: voluntarily or by compulsion.

There are different approaches to tying the king’s hands — some more credible than others

First, the king can try to adhere to an informal norm of behaving responsibly. However, this is very hard to maintain over the long term, as new demands and changing circumstances challenge even the most sincere commitments. Facebook’s competitor Google used to have a simple motto: “Don’t be evil.”

Over time, the company succumbed to the temptation to accept practices that motto would once have forbidden, becoming just a little bit evil, and then just a little bit more, and more, until much of its original idealism seems to have become submerged.

In 2010, Google’s then-CEO Eric Schmidt said: “Google policy is to get right up to the creepy line and not cross it,“ indicating a much more flexible approach to pushing its users’ boundaries.

Second, the king can agree to a constitutional settlement in which he gives up power to become more trustworthy. Zuckerberg has proposed setting up independent bodies that would hear appeals from users regarding Facebook’s decisions. This might be the corporate version of a constitutional compromise.

However, the devil will be in the details. History tells us that it is very hard for kings to curb their power in this way. Even when they recognize that tying their hands is in their long-term interests — because they risk rebellion if their legitimacy comes to be doubted — they are often overwhelmed by the desire to cheat.

For example, even when nation-states seem to give up power to international arbitrators and judges, they create sneaky backdoor incentives to rig the odds in their favor. Rulers can also, more simply, retake power or arbitrarily change the course of policy, either for their own benefit or because they believe they know better what is in the best interest of their community.

If and when Facebook starts to build its own systems of trust, it will face similar temptations. If, for example, Facebook has the power to appoint and reappoint its own “independent” appeal judges, those judges are going to have excellent financial reasons for keeping Facebook happy. They will not have, as federal judges in the United States have, an externally binding constitution to anchor their judgments and provide true independence.

Some past efforts by Facebook to introduce democracy and limitations have failed

Furthermore, democratic processes are only legitimate when they have some real likelihood of binding the monarch to make decisions that he doesn’t like. When in 2009, Facebook faced a previous furor over changes to the ways it shared its users’ data, it responded by proposing a “site governance” system under which its users would have some collective control over their data. In Zuckerberg’s words back then:

The past week reminded us that users feel a real sense of ownership over Facebook itself, not just the information they share. Companies like ours need to develop new models of governance. Rather than simply reissue a new Terms of Use, the changes we’re announcing today are designed to open up Facebook so that users can participate meaningfully in our policies and our future.

However, Facebook’s attempted model of governance involved mass referendums, which were confusing and hard to organize around, and had very low participation. The final referendum was held in 2012, and involved setting the terms under which Facebook could share user data with other organizations. Facebook announced that it would only consider the referendum binding in the (extremely unlikely) case that 30 percent of its global users voted. Since only 668,000 users voted, Facebook felt free to ignore the result, and it has not held any referendums since.

Now, Zuckerberg is arguing in his interview with Klein for establishing a far more independent process: “You can imagine some sort of structure, almost like a Supreme Court, that is made up of independent folks who don’t work for Facebook, who ultimately make the final judgment call on what should be acceptable speech in a community that reflects the social norms and values of people all around the world.”

It’s heartening to see Zuckerberg recognizing that Facebook needs real democratic legitimacy and accountability — and that it’s considering more binding procedures. However, this is only the first step on an incredibly difficult journey. We don’t have many good models showing how corporate accountability and democratic accountability can be combined.

If Facebook finds a way to deliver on this promise by giving others the power to appoint those who decide what behavior must be regulated and how, and by making data sufficiently available for a healthy oversight and decision process, it will be a significant move toward tying the king’s hands. However, this system will have to involve an irreversible ceding of power if it is to be credible, and to create the trust that Facebook is now so sorely lacking.

There are those who will say that the market will eventually rein in any company that doesn’t properly serve its customers. Here, economic history serves up the same lesson as political history: When companies become too powerful, they are often ruthlessly successful in extending and preserving that power. At some point, when customers and competitive markets seem helpless and the harms become overwhelmingly obvious, governments typically step in.

They may go so far as to break up monopolies, but more often they tie powerful companies’ hands by limiting the behaviors that have caused the most obvious harm. European regulations on Facebook’s privacy violations are a good case in point. The risk of course is that technology typically moves much faster than government, and today’s regulation may prove insufficient for tomorrow’s challenges.

Facebook has an opportunity to get ahead of this situation by taking proactive steps to tie its own hands before they are tied for it. Its voluntary adoption of the provisions of the Honest Ads Act, whether or not it passes in Congress, is a good example. (The act, proposed by US Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), would make public who is making sizable political-ad buys on major online platforms, among other requirements.) But if the law does not pass, Facebook will be back in its old situation of being free to change the rules when convenient.

What we need is a partnership between government and platforms in which platforms voluntarily agree to limits on their behavior and establish independent bodies capable of true oversight, and the government provides a backstop of known consequences for the failure to observe those limits. We are hoping that in his appearance before Congress this week, Mark Zuckerberg provides detailed proposals for reestablishing trust, not just vague promises to do better.

The governments and regulatory regimes that we do have are the product of imperfect processes of trial and error over long periods of time. Because we know it will take a long time to create a new cooperative approach to regulating social media, we cannot begin it too soon.

Update, 4/9: On Monday, Facebook announced it is taking a significant, if small, step in this direction by giving access to some of its data to scholars for research on the impact of social media on democracy. The research enterprise will be funded by a consortium of foundations and without any Facebook money; the nonpartisan and independent Social Science Research Council will oversee it. According to the council’s president, Alondra Nelson, “SSRC-appointed review committees will actively engage with technologists, advocates, and ethicists to develop 21st-century academic standards for anonymized digital data use.”

Facebook pledges not to interfere with the research. The hope is to implement a model that other platforms will also adopt to better serve democracy. To be sure, this does not rise to a full binding of hands, but Facebook is ceding power and agreeing to independent oversight.

Henry Farrell is a professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University. Find him on Twitter @henryfarrell. Margaret Levi is the Sara Miller McCune director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University and a professor of political science at Stanford. Find her on Twitter @margaretlevi. Tim O’Reilly is the founder and CEO of O’Reilly Media and the author of WTF? What’s the Future and Why It’s Up to Us. Find him on Twitter @timoreilly.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.If you’ve ever wondered whether social media is just a vast network of bots interacting with other bots, congratulations: Your worldview may be dystopian, but it’s not exactly wrong.

A new study has determined that on Twitter, at least, two-thirds of all links shared on the platform are done so by automated tweets powered by bots.

The Pew Research Center studied over a million English-language tweets posted over a 47-day period in 2017 to determine the nature of Twitter’s link-sharing infrastructure — and to glean more information about the behavior and scope of bots on the platform.

The study analyzed 1.2 million tweeted links, which were all generated by just 140,545 Twitter accounts. Of those tweets, 66 percent were generated by bots. The most frequently linked subjects: porn and sports. Ninety percent of all links to adult content and 76 percent of all links to sports-related content were generated by fake humans.

Certain modes of content also got more play than others — notably that published through aggregation websites, an estimated 89 percent of which were linked by bots.

Somewhat surprisingly in the era of the fabled Russian bot fake news army, the Pew study found that most of these tweeted bot links seemed relatively benign, indicating that our divisive political climate doesn’t yet seem to have perceptibly warped Twitter’s natural bot-based link-sharing infrastructure.

Bots are highly efficient, but not highly partisan

The Pew study highlights the reason for bots’ popularity on social media platforms: They’re extremely efficient.

Researchers found that a small number of highly active bots could fuel massive amounts of link-sharing. The report noted that 22 percent of all links to news and current events generated during the study originated from just 500 accounts — all suspected bots. “By comparison,” the report also observed, “the 500 most-active human users are responsible for a much smaller share (an estimated 6%) of tweeted links to these outlets.”

The study didn’t assess whether links shared by bots are more prone to go viral, or how humans engage with bot-tweeted links. When taken in conjunction with other recent research detailing the speed at which false information spreads on Twitter, it’s natural to assume that the swift efficiency of bots plays a big part in the spread of fake news.

But in fact, bots don’t seem to have a major role in making fake news go viral. As Vox science reporter Brian Resnick notes, “bots seemed to spread false stories and true stories at equal rates.” Fake news actually spreads faster and further after it’s landed in human hands.

Related False news stories travel faster and farther on Twitter than the truth

Most of the bots observed in the Pew study had no demonstrative political bias and seemed to be sharing links targeted at centrist audiences rather than polarized ones. And in fact, among popular news and current events content, links with overt political content were among the least frequently shared by bots.

Sorting the bots from the crowd

To figure out which Twitter accounts were bots, the study worked with a tool called the Botometer, developed by scientists at Indiana University. This is an algorithm that closely analyzes Twitter accounts based on over 1,000 pieces of information gleaned from a user’s public profile, public tweets, and mentions.

These include the user’s general mood, the time of day the user typically posts, how much they post, who they follow, and who follows them back, among many other factors. The Botometer then rates how likely that user is to be a bot. (This reporter is 31 percent likely to be a bot.)

After performing several experiments based on the Botometer, the Pew research decided to adhere to a threshold Botometer score of 43 to figure out whether a Twitter user was human or automated. In other words, for the purposes of the study, if the Botometer ranked an account at 43 percent or higher, that account was considered to be a bot.

The PEW researchers also did a version of checking their work, following up to see how many of the accounts identified as bots in their research were ultimately suspended by Twitter — presumably for being bots. Of the 140,545 accounts they surveyed, a total of 7,226 were ultimately suspended. Accounts that were flagged as bots by the Botometer for the study were 4.6 times more likely to have been suspended than accounts flagged as human.

What does all this tell us about bots?

In a press release, Pew’s associate research director, Aaron Smith, pointed out that the study helps quantify “the extent to which bots play a prominent and pervasive role in the social media environment.” Because bots are so efficient, and because they can often go undetected, it’s important for users to be aware of not only the volume of bots fueling the web of link-sharing on social media, but also what their focus and agendas are. Twitter bots seem to be primarily dedicated to sharing link aggregator websites, drawing from a centrist information pool, and targeting centrist audiences.

That all seems relatively harmless, but knowing the sheer number of links being shared by automated accounts throws into sharp relief just how surreal the landscape of digital and social media has become. After all, this study alone involved a neural network-trained algorithm using an automated process to detect whether automated Twitter bots were real. At best, that’s a bit Blade Runner-y; at worst, it’s another sign our robot overlord takeover is proceeding apace.Are search engines making us more racist?

According to Safiya Umoja Noble, a professor of communication at the University of Southern California, the answer is almost certainly yes.

Noble’s new book, Algorithms of Oppression: How Search Engines Reinforce Racism, challenges the idea that search engines like Google provide a level playing field for all ideas, values, and identities. She says they’re inherently discriminatory and favor the groups that designed them, as well as the companies that fund them.

This isn’t a trivial topic, especially in a world where people get more information from search engines than they do from teachers or libraries. For Noble, Google is not just telling people what they want to know but also determining what’s worth knowing in the first place.

I reached out to Noble last week to find out what she had learned about the unseen factors driving these algorithms, and what the consequences of ignoring them might be.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

What are you arguing in this book?

Safiya Umoja Noble

I’m arguing that large, multinational advertising platforms online are not trusted, credible public information portals. Most people think of Google and search engines in particular as a public library, or as a trusted place where they can get accurate information about the world. I provide a lot of examples to show the incredible influence of advertising dollars on the kinds of things we find, and I show how certain people and communities get misrepresented in service of making money on these platforms.

Sean Illing

Who gets misrepresented and how?

Safiya Umoja Noble

I started the book several years ago by doing collective searches on keywords around different community identities. I did searches on “black girls,” “Asian girls,” and “Latina girls” online and found that pornography was the primary way they were represented on the first page of search results. That doesn’t seem to be a very fair or credible representation of women of color in the United States. It reduces them to sexualized objects.

So that begs the question: What’s going on in these search engines? What are the well-funded, well-capitalized industries behind them who are purchasing keywords and using their influence to represent people and ideas in this way? The book was my attempt to answer these questions.

Sean Illing

Okay, so at the time you did this research, if someone went to Google and searched for “black women,” they would get a bunch of pornography. What happens if they type in “white girls” or “white women”? Or if they search for what should be a universal category, like “beautiful people”?

Safiya Umoja Noble

Now, fortunately, Google has responded to this. They suppressed a lot of porn, in part because we’ve been speaking out about this for six or seven years. But if you go to Google today and search for “Asian girls” or “Latina girls,” you’ll still find the hypersexualized content.

For a long time, if you did an image search on the word “beautiful,” you would get scantily clad images of almost exclusively white women in bikinis or lingerie. The representations were overwhelmingly white women.

People often ask what happens when you search “white girls.” White women don’t typically identify as white; they just think of themselves as girls or women or individuals. I think what you see there is the gaze of people of color looking at white women and girls and naming whiteness as an identity, which is something that you don’t typically see white women doing themselves.

Sean Illing

These search algorithms aren’t merely selecting what information we’re exposed to; they’re cementing assumptions about what information is worth knowing in the first place. That might be the most insidious part of this.

Safiya Umoja Noble

There is a dominant male, Western-centric point of view that gets encoded into the organization of information. You have to remember that an algorithm is just an automated decision tree. If these keywords are present, then a variety of assumptions have to be made about what to point to in all the trillions of pages that exist on the web.

And those decisions always correlate to the relationship of advertisers to the platform. Google has a huge empire called AdWords, and people bid in a real-time auction to optimize their content.

That model — of information going to the highest bidder — will always privilege people who have the most resources. And that means that people who don’t have a lot of resources, like children, will never be able to fully control the ways in which they’re represented, given the logic and mechanisms of how search engines work.

Sean Illing

In the book, you talk about how racist websites gamed search engines to control the narrative around Martin Luther King Jr. so that if you searched for MLK, you’d find links to white supremacist propaganda. You also talk about the stakes involved here, and point to Dylann Roof as an example.

Safiya Umoja Noble

In his manifesto, Dylann Roof has a diatribe against people of color, and he says that the first event that truly awakened him was the Trayvon Martin story. He says he went to Google and did a search on “black-on-white crime.” Now, most of us know that black-on-white crime is not an American epidemic — that, in fact, most crime happens within a community. But that’s a separate discussion.

So Roof goes to Google and puts in a white nationalist red herring (“black-on-white crime.”) And of course, it immediately takes him to white supremacist websites, which in turn take him down a racist rabbit hole of conspiracy and misinformation. Often, these racist websites are designed to appear credible and benign, in part because that helps them game the algorithms, but also because it convinces a lot of people that the information is truthful.

This is how Roof gets radicalized. He says he learns about the “true history of America,” and about the “race problem” and the “Jewish problem.” He learns that everything he’s ever been taught in school is a lie. And then he says, in his own words, that this makes him research more and more, which we can only imagine is online, and this leads to his “racial awareness.”

And now we know that shortly thereafter, he steps into the “Mother” Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina, and murders nine African-American worshippers in cold blood, in order to start a race war.

So the ideas that people are encountering online really matter. It matters that Dylann Roof didn’t see the FBI statistics that tell the truth about how crime works in America. It matters that he didn’t get any counterpoints. It matters that people like him are pushed in these directions without resistance or context.

Sean Illing

My guess is that these algorithms weren’t designed to produce this effect, but I honestly don’t know. What is driving the decision-making process? Is this purely about commercial interests?

Safiya Umoja Noble

It’s difficult to know exactly what Google’s priorities are, because Google’s search algorithm is proprietary, so no one can really make sense of the algorithm except by looking at the output. All of us who study this do it by looking at the end results, and then we try to reverse-engineer it as best we can.

But yes, it’s pretty clear that what’s ultimately driving tech companies like Google is profit. I don’t imagine that a bunch of racists are sitting around a table at Google thinking of ways to create a racist product, but what happens, however, is that engineers simply don’t think about the social consequences of their work. They’re designing technologies for society, and they know nothing about society.

In its own marketing materials, Google says there are over 200 different factors that go into deciding what type of content they surface. I’m sure they have their own measures of relevance for what they think people want. Of course, they’re also using predictive technologies, like autosuggestion, where they fill in the blank. They’re doing that based on what other people have looked at or clicked on in the past.

“They’re designing technologies for society, and they know nothing about society”

Sean Illing

But the autosuggestion tool guarantees that majority perspectives will be consistently privileged over others, right?

Safiya Umoja Noble

Right. People who are a numerical minority in society will never be able to use this kind of “majority rules” logic to their benefit. The majority will always be able to control the notions of what’s important, or what’s important to click on, and that’s not how the information landscape ought to work.

Sean Illing

I’m sure some people will counter and say that these are essentially neutral platforms, and if they’re biased, they’re biased because of the human users that make them up. In other words, the problem isn’t the platform; it’s the people.

Safiya Umoja Noble

The platform exists because it’s made by people. It didn’t come down from an alien spacecraft. It’s made by human beings, and the people who make it are biased, and they code their biases into search. How can these things not inform their judgment?

So it’s disingenuous to suggest that the platform just exists unto itself, and that the only people who can manipulate it or influence it are the people who use it, when actually, the makers of the platform are the primary source of responsibility. I would say that there are makers, as well as users, of a platform. They have to take responsibility for their creations.Facebook’s woes continue to mount in the midst of the Cambridge Analytica scandal. On Wednesday, in a lengthy post to its online newsroom, the company addressed numerous vulnerabilities in its API that could allow user data to be harvested by unscrupulous third-party app developers.

Among them was the revelation that “most people” on Facebook had their public profile data scraped by third-party apps. This vulnerability came through a key search functionality — the ability to find people by email and phone number — which had, until yesterday, allowed third-party apps to gather a large amount of public user profile information.

“Given the scale and sophistication of the activity we’ve seen,” Facebook’s chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer wrote, “we believe most people on Facebook could have had their public profile scraped in this way.“

In addition to this revelation, the company admitted on Wednesday that the total number of users affected by the Cambridge Analytica data scrape was much higher than previously reported. The total wasn’t 30 million, as originally reported in 2017, or 50 million, as reported last month, but might be potentially as high as 87 million. The vast majority of affected users were in the US.

Facebook’s tiny footnote reads, “We do not know precisely what data the app shared with Cambridge Analytica or exactly how many people were impacted. Using as expansive a methodology as possible, this is our best estimate of the maximum number of unique accounts that directly installed the thisisyourdigitallife app as well as those whose data may have been shared with the app by their friends.”

“Thisisyourdigitallife” refers to the name of the app that Cambridge Analytica used to harvest Facebook data between 2013 and 2015, when Facebook revoked the app’s access to its API.

Wednesday’s post detailed Facebook’s attempt to close many loopholes across its platform, in response to both the Cambridge Analytica fiasco and the new privacy regulations Europe has mandated for Facebook, which take effect next month.

Facebook will now make the changes required by European law — which include giving users more control over their privacy settings and clearer access to those settings — available to all users. It will also tell users if they were affected by the Cambridge Analytica data scrape specifically. Facebook demonstrated with a sample mock-up alert what this notification would look like:

Other potential vulnerabilities the company is addressing include a range of public data, from public profiles to direct ad targeting to event pages, that the company has newly made unavailable to apps and third parties. It’s also ramping up its authorization process for apps and will no longer allow old and unused apps to continue to collect users’ data.

To this end, one of its biggest changes involves the way it handles third-party apps that log you in to Facebook on other sites. A longstanding feature of Facebook’s API allows you to log in to virtually any website through your Facebook account. Now, however, the company is making it much, much harder for websites that use this login feature to access your user data in exchange.

According to the company’s developer blog, ”access to checkins, likes, photos, posts, videos, Events, and Groups” that are being scraped by these sites will now require the app to undergo “prior approval by Facebook” in which they will need to “comply with rigorous policies and terms.” The company has not yet publicly stated what those terms will be. In addition, a litany of data will no longer be accessible to these third-party apps, including any of the following data you may have shared on your profile:

religion and political views, relationship status, relationship details, custom friend lists, about me, education history, work history, my website URL, book reading activity, fitness activity, music listening activity, video watch activity, news reading activity, games activity.

Finally, these apps will no longer be able to see lists of your taggable and mutual friends.

The obvious question arising from all this is: Why did it take Facebook so long to recognize that these were potential, glaring vulnerabilities that might put users’ privacy at risk — or, at the very least, that users might not want to be shared outside of their control?

The short answer is that until Cambridge Analytica exposed this underbelly of Facebook’s open API, all of this was a feature, not a bug, for Facebook. Making user data accessible to third parties, particularly in exchange for allowing websites all over the world to access Facebook logins, essentially allowed it to consolidate power across the internet, making it that much harder for you to extricate Facebook from the rest of your life.

It’s also important to note that cries for Facebook to be more strictly regulated, like any other business, have gone unheeded for years — until now. Note that it’s Europe, not the US, that is stepping in to regulate the company now, though Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week. In essence, Facebook’s wake-up call has been a wake-up call for everyone, and it’s unlikely the company’s damage control will end here.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg identified three main kinds of “fake news” and laid out Facebook’s different strategies for dealing with each one.

Speaking to Vox co-founder Ezra Klein on his podcast The Ezra Klein Show, Zuckerberg identified three broad categories of fake news: spammers who are usually independent actors, state actors being controlled by foreign governments and factions, and “real media outlets [that have] varying levels of accuracy or trustworthiness.”

These are three very different categories with three very different potential solutions, which Zuckerberg laid out in terms of escalating complexity. Perhaps surprisingly, the most challenging category was the last one, which involves the process of identifying and boosting real, trustworthy media outlets. Solving this issue — which Klein called a “conceptual” problem — has been an ongoing dilemma for Facebook, according to Zuckerberg. Here’s how he sees these three categories playing out on the platform and how Facebook is approaching them.

1) Spammers

Zuckerberg made it clear that the problem of spammers was the easiest to deal with — all Facebook needed to do to drive away spammers, he told Klein, was to “make it non-economical” for them to be on the platform. So Facebook prevented unethical advertisers from monetizing on the platform and tweaked the algorithms to show their content less:

So the first step, once we realized that this was an issue, was a number of them ran Facebook ads on their webpages. We immediately said, “Okay. Anyone who’s even remotely sketchy, no way are you going to be able to use our tools to monetize.” So the amount of money that they made went down. Then they’re trying to pump this content into Facebook with the hopes that people will click on it and see ads and make money. As our systems get better at detecting this, we show the content less, which drives the economic value for them down.

And after implementing these steps, “eventually,” Zuckerberg said, “they just get to a point where they go and do something else.”

The second problem is a little trickier — but still manageable, he said.

2) State actors, or Russian bot farms

The second category is what Zuckerberg described as “basically the Russian interference effort” — in essence, Russian bot farms circulating propaganda and manipulating conversations on social media. That’s “a security problem” according to Zuckerberg, and he thinks Facebook is “making progress” in handling it — even though it’s not something that can ever be “fully” solved:

You never fully solve it, but you strengthen your defenses. They’re not doing it for money. But you make it harder and harder. You get rid of the fake accounts and the tools that they have for using this. We can’t do this all by ourselves, so we try to work with local governments everywhere who have more tools to punish them and have more insight into what is going on across their country so they can tell us what to focus on. And that one I feel like we’re making good progress on too.

Zuckerberg elaborated that following the disastrous 2016 elections, “we spent a bunch of time developing new AI tools to find the kind of fake accounts spreading misinformation.” Before last year’s German elections, the company removed about 10,000 fake accounts, though controversy continued about the ads that were allowed to remain.

Zuckerberg stressed that Facebook is invested in working with governments — just as it worked with Germany’s electoral commission — to combat the problem. “If you work with the government in a country, they’ll really actually have a fuller understanding of what is going on and what are all the issues that we would need to focus on.”

3) Fake news from real media

The biggest challenge of all, Zuckerberg told Klein, lies with real media outlets “who are probably saying what they think is true, but just have varying levels of accuracy or trustworthiness.”

“That is actually the most challenging portion of the issue to deal with,” he said. “Because there, I think, there are quite large free speech issues. Folks are saying stuff that may be wrong, but, like, they mean it, they think that they’re speaking their truth, and do you really want to shut them down for doing that?”

It’s worth pointing out that many of Facebook’s vocal critics have argued that, yes, it’s worth shutting down many types of harmful and toxic speech, and that not being more proactive on that front is how Facebook wound up here. Still, Zuckerberg was eager to discuss how the company is changing.

“This year,” he said, “we’ve rolled out a number of changes to News Feed that try to boost in the ranking broadly trusted news sources”:

Take the Wall Street Journal or New York Times. Even if not everyone reads them, the people who don’t read them typically still think they’re good, trustworthy journalism. Whereas if you get down to blogs that may be on more of the fringe, they’ll have their strong supporters, but people who don’t necessarily read them often don’t trust them as much. By applying that kind of a lens on this — we know that people in our community want broadly trusted content — that is helping to surface more of the things that are building common ground in our society, and maybe pushing out a little of the stuff that is less trustworthy, even though we’re going to continue to be very sensitive to not suppress people’s ability to say what they believe.

Zuckerberg emphasized that the Facebook “community” was at the heart of this change. “We’ve surveyed people across the whole community and asked them whether they trust different news sources,” he said. Overall, Zuckerberg made it clear that he is counting on Facebook users to tell him what they want — and to direct Facebook’s algorithm how to give it to them.

Zuckerberg trusts the curative power of Facebook’s algorithm to show users “meaningful” content

Zuckerberg stressed that Facebook is sourcing this algorithmic weeding-out of untrusted news to Facebook users, canvassing them to find out what they want — despite the cries of critics who claim such an approach is untenable at best and potentially disastrous at worst. This is, incidentally, how the company did away with clickbait, according to Zuckerberg, by developing “panels of hundreds or thousands of people” to help train Facebook algorithms not to rank things based solely on likes and clicks.

“We try to design algorithms that just map to what people are actually telling us is meaningful to them,” Zuckerberg said.

He also noted, in response to a question from Klein about whether the changes would obscure new media outlets and smaller publications, that the changes he’s implemented to News Feed aren’t intended to be sweeping — at most, they’ll boost or obscure content by a range of about “20 percent”:

I think it’s important to keep in mind that of all the strategies that I just laid out, they’re made up of many different actions, which each have relatively subtle effects. So the broadly trusted shift that I just mentioned, it changes how much something might be seen by, I don’t know, just call it in the range of maybe 20 percent. But it’s not going to make it so that you can’t share what you think, that if someone wants to have access to your content that they’re not going to get at it. What we’re really trying to do is make it so the content people see is actually really meaningful to them.

Zuckerberg went on to clarify that the type of “meaningful” content the company is banking on boils down to content that fosters relationship building and interactive engagement.

“You can break Facebook and social media use into two categories,” he said. “One is where people are connecting and building relationships, even if it’s subtle. ... The other part of the use is basically content consumption.”

Zuckerberg, apparently referring to research Facebook has conducted, claimed that “the things that are about interacting with people and building relationships end up being correlated with all of the measures of long-term well-being that you’d expect, whereas the things that are primarily just about content consumption, even if they’re informative or entertaining and people say they like them, are not as correlated with long-term measures of well-being.”

“So this is another shift we’ve made in News Feed and our systems this year,” he said. “We’re prioritizing showing more content from your friends and family first, so that way you’ll be more likely to have interactions that are meaningful to you and that more of the time you’re spending is building those relationships.”

Though Facebook’s research has shown that more active engagement will boost happiness, numerous academic studies over the years have shown that increased Facebook use corresponds to an increase in depression, low self-esteem, and general unhappiness, regardless of whether one’s usage of the site is passive or active. So don’t expect a new and improved News Feed to result in an immediate boost in happiness — even by just 20 percent.

You can listen to Zuckerberg’s full appearance on The Ezra Klein Show here.Facebook’s fake news problems extend far beyond Russian trolls interfering in US elections. Overseas, false stories have turned into tools of political warfare — most notably in Myanmar, where government forces have carried out a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya, the country’s Muslim minority group.

In an interview with Vox’s Ezra Klein, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressed Facebook’s role in fueling and inciting anti-Muslim and anti-Rohingya sentiment. “The Myanmar issues have, I think, gotten a lot of focus inside the company,” Zuckerberg said. “And they’re real issues and we take this really seriously.”

He recalled one incident where Facebook detected that people were trying to spread “sensational messages” through Facebook Messenger to incite violence on both sides of the conflict. He acknowledged that in such instances, it’s clear that people are using Facebook “to incite real-world harm.” But in this case, at least, the messages were detected and stopped from going through.

“This is certainly something that we’re paying a lot of attention to,” Zuckerberg continued. “It’s a real issue, and we want to make sure that all of the tools that we’re bringing to bear on eliminating hate speech, inciting violence, and basically protecting the integrity of civil discussions that we’re doing in places like Myanmar, as well as places like the US that do get a disproportionate amount of the attention.”

Why Facebook came under fire in Myanmar

Close to 700,000 Rohingya refugees have fled to neighboring Bangladesh since last August in the wake of a government crackdown against the minority group. Then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson officially labeled the crisis an “ethnic cleansing” in November, but the international community has been slow to act on the escalating humanitarian disaster.

The violence in Myanmar highlights the duality of social media in general, and Facebook in particular, as a force for both good and ill.

Activists and reporters use phones and social media to document atrocities, helping evade government censors. But anti-Muslim and anti-Rohingya memes and propaganda spread virulently through Facebook too, inciting violence and eroding support for the Rohingya’s plight. Public-facing accounts of verified government and military leaders — as well as the extremely influential accounts of nationalistic Buddhist monks — included false and inflammatory posts about the Rohingya, the New York Times reported in October.

In a recent report on the Rohingya crisis, Marzuki Darusman, head of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, said Facebook “substantively contributed to the level of acrimony and dissension and conflict” in Myanmar. “Hate speech is certainly of course a part of that,” Darusman said. “As far as the Myanmar situation is concerned, social media is Facebook, and Facebook is social media.”

Facebook responded to the criticism by saying in a statement that there “is no place for hate speech or content that promotes violence,” and that it’s been working with experts in Myanmar to address the issue.

Facebook has taken down some posts, including temporarily shutting down the account of an ultranationalist Buddhist monk who posted incendiary content. But the company has also been accused of removing posts that document violence against the Rohingya, which underscores how challenging and complicated it is to even attempt to police the social network.

Zuckerberg told Klein in his interview that Facebook is constantly trying to navigate between these distinctions — deciding what qualifies as hate speech and what’s valid political speech, among other knotty problems. “I think more than a lot of other companies, we’re in a position where sometimes we have to adjudicate those kind of disputes between different members of our community,” he said.

Klein pointed out that while Facebook is a vital tool for information in Myanmar, that it might not get the attention of other markets given its size. Indeed, Facebook’s popularity as a news source in the region has exacerbated Myanmar’s fake news problem. According to CBS News, the number of Facebook users in Myanmar increased from 2 million in 2014 to more than 30 million currently — partly a result of the military junta easing censorship, and partly because of the increasing affordability of smartphones.

“Facebook has become sort of the de facto internet for Myanmar,” Jes Kaliebe Petersen, chief executive of Phandeeyar — a technology company that helped Facebook create its Myanmarese-language community standards page — told the Times. “When people buy their first smartphone, it just comes preinstalled.”

Zuckerberg conceded that Facebook needs to improve as its global reach expands. “Just based on the fact that our headquarters is here in California,” he told Klein, “and the vast majority of our community is not even in the US, I think does make this just a constant challenge for us to make sure that we’re putting due attention on all of the people in different parts of the community around the world.”

Listen to Zuckerberg’s full interview with Klein here:Mark Zuckerberg on Tim Cook’s criticism of Facebook: It’s “extremely glib and not aligned with the truth”

Share Mark Zuckerberg on Tim Cook’s criticism of Facebook: It’s “extremely glib and not aligned with the truth”

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg rejected Apple CEO Tim Cook’s critique of his company’s business model, which Cook characterized as a scheme to monetize customers, calling it “glib” and “not at all aligned with the truth.”

“I think it’s important that we don’t all get Stockholm syndrome and let the companies that work hard to charge you more convince you that they actually care more about you,” Zuckerberg told Vox co-founder Ezra Klein on his podcast. “Because that sounds ridiculous to me.”

In an interview with Klein, Zuckerberg described Cook’s assessment that Apple has a sounder business model because it sells products to users, rather than selling users to advertisers, as “extremely glib, and not at all aligned with the truth.”

“The reality here is that if you want to build a service that helps connect everyone in the world, then there are a lot of people can’t afford to pay,” Zuckerberg said. “And therefore, as with a lot of media, having an advertising-supported model is the only rational model that can support building this service to reach people.”

Zuckerberg told Klein that Facebook serving people and using an ad-supported business model aren’t incompatible. “I don’t think at all that that means that we don’t care about people,” Zuckerberg said.

Cook had criticized Facebook in an upcoming interview with Recode’s Kara Swisher and MSNBC’s Chris Hayes. In a wide-ranging conversation, Cook also lambasted Facebook’s management of customer data. “We could make a ton of money if we monetized our customers. If our customers were our product,” he said. “We’ve elected not to do that.”

Apple, of course, makes money from selling products (iPhones, Macs, accessories, etc.) and services (iCloud). Facebook, on the other hand, is free, so it relies heavily on digital advertising — and the company’s knowledge of its users’ preferences makes Facebook a lucrative place to advertise.

Cook pushed for increased regulation of Facebook and other sites that build profiles based off personal data too. “I think the best regulation is no regulation, is self-regulation,” he said. “However, I think we’re beyond that here.”

Cook’s comments stood out because they came amid renewed criticism of Facebook following revelations that the consulting firm Cambridge Analytica harvested personal data from 50 million Facebook users.

Zuckerberg’s business model is still coming under fire

Zuckerberg may be right that Facebook’s advertising-supported model allows anyone to access the tool. But the company’s challenge right now is convincing users that it’s being responsible with customer data. The Cambridge Analytica mess has increased the clamor for Facebook to be more transparent about what kind of user data it’s gathering and how that data is being used. Facebook has apologized for it, and the company took out a full-page op-ed last weekend that called the debacle “a breach of trust.”

“I’m sorry we didn’t do more at the time,” Zuckerberg wrote. “I promise to do better for you.”

The Cambridge Analytica fallout and the company’s failure to crack down on misinformation and Russian propaganda accounts in America’s 2016 election have also intensified calls for tighter regulation of Facebook and other social media companies.

At an October congressional hearing, a Facebook representative said that about 146 million people may have been exposed to the Russian misinformation effort online through posts on Facebook and Instagram. (Special counsel Robert Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three online troll factories related to the Russian propaganda campaign pushed through social media.)

When it comes to regulation, Zuckerberg might also be starting to agree with Cook. “I actually am not sure we shouldn’t be regulated,” the Facebook CEO told CNN last week. “I think in general technology is an increasingly important trend in the world and I actually think the question is more, ‘What is the right regulation,’ rather than, ‘Yes or no, should it be regulated?’”

Zuckerberg will also probably get grilled on Capitol Hill about all this. He’s likely to testify before Congress in April, where he’ll face a barrage of questions about what Facebook is doing to crack down on fake news and protect its users’ privacy.

You can listen to his full appearance on The Ezra Klein Show here.

.It’s been a tough year for Facebook. The social networking juggernaut found itself engulfed by controversies over fake news, electoral interference, privacy violations, and a broad backlash to smartphone addiction. Wall Street has noticed: The company has lost almost $100 billion in market value in recent weeks.

Behind Facebook’s hard year is a collision between the company’s values, ambitions, business model, and mind-boggling scale. Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, has long held that the company’s mission is to make the world more open and connected — with the assumption being that a more open and connected world is a better world. That assumption has been sorely tested over the past year. As we’ve seen, a more open world can make it easier for governments to undermine each other’s elections from afar; a more connected world can make it easier to spread hatred and incite violence.

In 2017, Facebook hit more than 2 billion monthly users — and that’s to say nothing of the massive user bases of Facebook-owned properties like Instagram and WhatsApp. There is no way to track, or even understand, all that is happening on Facebook at any given time. Problems that look small in the moment — like organized disinformation campaigns mounted by Russia — reveal themselves, in retrospect, to be massive, possibly even world-changing, events.

I spoke with Zuckerberg on Friday about the state of his company, the implications of its global influence, and how he sees the problems ahead of him.

“I think we will dig through this hole, but it will take a few years,” Zuckerberg said. “I wish I could solve all these issues in three months or six months, but I just think the reality is that solving some of these questions is just going to take a longer period of time.”

But what happens then? What has this past year meant for Facebook’s future? In a 2017 manifesto, Zuckerberg argued that Facebook would help humanity takes its “next step” by becoming “the social infrastructure” for a truly global community.

Remarkably, Facebook’s scale makes this a plausible vision. But it comes with a dark side: Has Facebook become too big to manage, and too dangerous when it fails? Should the most important social infrastructure of the global community be managed by a single company headquartered in Northern California? And does Zuckerberg’s optimism about human nature and the benefits of a connected world make it harder for him to see the harm Facebook can cause?

The full conversation with Zuckerberg can be heard on my podcast, The Ezra Klein Show. A transcript, lightly edited for length and clarity, follows.

Ezra Klein

I want to begin with something you said recently in an interview, which is that Facebook is now more like a government than a traditional company. Can you expand on that idea?

Mark Zuckerberg

Sure. People share a whole lot of content and then sometimes there are disputes between people around whether that content is acceptable, whether it’s hate speech or valid political speech; whether it is an organization which is deemed to be a bad or hateful or terrorist organization or one that’s expressing a reasonable point of view.

I think more than a lot of other companies, we’re in a position where we have to adjudicate those kinds of disputes between different members of our community. And in order to do that, we’ve had to build out a whole set of policies and governance around how that works.

But I think it’s actually one of the most interesting philosophical questions that we face. With a community of more than 2 billion people all around the world, in every different country, where there are wildly different social and cultural norms, it’s just not clear to me that us sitting in an office here in California are best placed to always determine what the policies should be for people all around the world. And I’ve been working on and thinking through: How can you set up a more democratic or community-oriented process that reflects the values of people around the world?

That’s one of the things that I really think we need to get right. Because I’m just not sure that the current state is a great one.

Ezra Klein

I’d love to hear more about where your thinking is on that because when Facebook gets it wrong, the consequences are on the scale of when a government gets it wrong. Elections can lose legitimacy, or ethnic violence can break out.

It makes me wonder, has Facebook just become too big and too vast and too consequential for normal corporate governance structures, and also normal private company incentives?

Mark Zuckerberg

We’re continually thinking through this. As the internet gets to a broader scale and some of these services reach a bigger scale than anything has before, we’re constantly confronted with new challenges. I try to judge our success not by, “Are there no problems that come up?” But, “When an issue comes up, can we deal with it responsively and make sure that we can address it so that those kinds of issues don’t come up again in the future?”

You mentioned our governance. One of the things that I feel really lucky we have is this company structure where, at the end of the day, it’s a controlled company. We are not at the whims of short-term shareholders. We can really design these products and decisions with what is going to be in the best interest of the community over time.

Ezra Klein

That is one of the ways Facebook is different, but I can imagine reading it both ways. On the one hand, your control of voting shares makes you more insulated from short-term pressures of the market. On the other hand, you have a lot more personal power. There’s no quadrennial election for CEO of Facebook. And that’s a normal way that democratic governments ensure accountability. Do you think that governance structure makes you, in some cases, less accountable?

Mark Zuckerberg

I certainly think that’s a fair question. My goal here is to create a governance structure around the content and the community that reflects more what people in the community want than what short-term-oriented shareholders might want. And if we do that well, then I think that could really break ground on governance for an internet community. But if we don’t do it well, then I think we’ll fail to handle a lot of the issues that are coming up.

Here are a few of the principles. One is transparency. Right now, I don’t think we are transparent enough around the prevalence of different issues on the platform. We haven’t done a good job of publishing and being transparent about the prevalence of those kinds of issues, and the work that we’re doing and the trends of how we’re driving those things down over time.

A second is some sort of independent appeal process. Right now, if you post something on Facebook and someone reports it and our community operations and review team looks at it and decides that it needs to get taken down, there’s not really a way to appeal that. I think in any kind of good-functioning democratic system, there needs to be a way to appeal. And I think we can build that internally as a first step.

But over the long term, what I’d really like to get to is an independent appeal. So maybe folks at Facebook make the first decision based on the community standards that are outlined, and then people can get a second opinion. You can imagine some sort of structure, almost like a Supreme Court, that is made up of independent folks who don’t work for Facebook, who ultimately make the final judgment call on what should be acceptable speech in a community that reflects the social norms and values of people all around the world.

Ezra Klein

One thing that has been damaging for Facebook over the past year is a concern will arise and initially the answer is, “Very, very few people saw fake news.” Or, “Very, very few people saw anything from Russia-related bots.” And then slowly it comes out, “No, actually it was more. Millions. Maybe hundreds of millions.”

The problem wasn’t the lack of transparency; it was how to know we could trust what was coming out. And one of the reasons I’m interested to hear you broach the idea of independent institutions is I wonder if part of transparency has to be creating modes of information that are independent.

Mark Zuckerberg

Yeah, I think that’s a good point. And I certainly think what you’re saying is a fair criticism. It’s tough to be transparent when we don’t first have a full understanding of where the state of some of the systems [is]. In 2016, we were behind having an understanding and operational excellence on preventing things like misinformation, Russian interference. And you can bet that’s a huge focus for us going forward.

Right now in the company, I think we have about 14,000 people working on security and community operations and review, just to make sure that we can really nail down some of those issues that we had in 2016.

After the 2016 US elections, a number of months later, there were the French elections. And for that, we spent a bunch of time developing new AI tools to find the kind of fake accounts spreading misinformation and we took down — I think it was more than 30,000 accounts, and I think the reports out of France were that people felt like that was a much cleaner election on social media.

A few months later, there were the German elections. And there, we augmented the playbook again to work directly with the election commission in Germany. If you work with the government in a country, they’ll really actually have a fuller understanding of what is going on and what are all the issues that we would need to focus on.

And then fast-forward to last year, 2017, and the special election in Alabama. We deployed a number of new tools that we’d developed to find fake accounts who were trying to spread false news, and we got them off before a lot of the discussion around the election. And again, I think we felt a lot better about the result there.

Ezra Klein

Let me ask you about your tools to punish that misbehavior, though. The risk reward of manipulating a national election using Facebook is very high. If you’re Russia and you get caught hacking into our election systems — which they also tried to do — and you fail and Hillary Clinton wins, the consequences of that can be really severe. Sanctions could be tremendous, and you could even imagine something like that escalating into armed conflict.

If you do this on Facebook, maybe you get caught and your bots get shut down, but Facebook, in not being a government, really doesn’t have the ability to punish. If Cambridge Analytica messes with everybody’s privacy, you can’t throw them in jail in the way that, if you’re a doctor and you repeatedly violate HIPAA, the government makes sure you face very severe legal consequences. So do you have capacity to do not just detection but sanction? Is there a way to increase the cost of using your platform for these kinds of efforts?

Mark Zuckerberg

I can walk through how we’re basically approaching this.

There are three big categories of fake news. There’s a group of people who are like spammers. These are the people who, in pre-social media days, would’ve been sending you Viagra emails. The basic playbook that you want to run on that is just make it non-economical. So the first step, once we realized that this was an issue, was a number of them ran Facebook ads on their webpages. We immediately said, “Okay. Anyone who’s even remotely sketchy, no way are you going to be able to use our tools to monetize.” So the amount of money that they made went down.

Then they’re trying to pump this content into Facebook with the hopes that people will click on it and see ads and make money. As our systems get better at detecting this, we show the content less, which drives the economic value for them down. Eventually, they just get to a point where they go and do something else.

The second category is state actors. That’s basically the Russian interference effort. And that is a security problem. You never fully solve it, but you strengthen your defenses. You get rid of the fake accounts and the tools that they have. We can’t do this all by ourselves, so we try to work with local governments everywhere who have more tools to punish them and have more insight into what is going on across their country so that they can tell us what to focus on. And that one I feel like we’re making good progress on too.

Then there’s the third category, which is the most nuanced, which are basically real media outlets who are saying what they think is true but have varying levels of accuracy or trustworthiness. And that is actually the most challenging portion of the issue to deal with. Because there, I think, there are quite large free speech issues. Folks are saying stuff that may be wrong, but they mean it, they think they’re speaking their truth, and do you really wanna shut them down for doing that?

So we’ve been probably the most careful on that piece. But this year, we’ve rolled out a number of changes to News Feed that try to boost in the ranking broadly trusted news sources. We’ve surveyed people across the whole community and asked them whether they trust different news sources.

Take the Wall Street Journal or New York Times. Even if not everyone reads them, the people who don’t read them typically still think they’re good, trustworthy journalism. Whereas if you get down to blogs that may be on more of the fringe, they’ll have their strong supporters, but people who don’t necessarily read them often don’t trust them as much.

Ezra Klein

I’m somebody who came up as a blogger and had a lot of love for the idea of the open internet and the way the gates were falling down. One thing I hear when I listen to the third solution there is it also creates a huge return to incumbency.

If you’re the New York Times and you’ve been around for a long time and you’re well-known, people trust you. If you’re somebody who wants to begin a media organization two months from now, people don’t know if they can trust you yet. If Facebook is the way people get their news, and the way Facebook ranks its News Feed is by privileging news people already trust, it’s going to be a lot harder for new organizations to break through.

Mark Zuckerberg

That’s an important point that we spend a lot of time thinking about. One of the great things about the internet and the services we’re trying to build, you’re giving everyone a voice. That’s so deep in our mission. We definitely think about that in all the changes that we’re making.

I think it’s important to keep in mind that of all the strategies that I just laid out, they’re made up of many different actions, which each have relatively subtle effects. So the broadly trusted shift that I just mentioned, it changes how much something might be seen by, I don’t know, just call it in the range of maybe 20 percent.

What we’re really trying to do is make it so that the content that people see is actually really meaningful to them. And one of the things I think we often get criticized for is, and incorrectly in this case, is people say, “Hey, you’re just ranking the system based on what people like and click on.”

That’s actually not true. We moved past that many years back. There was this issue with clickbait, where there were a bunch of publications that would push content into Facebook, [and] people would click on them because they had sensational titles but then would not feel good about having read that content. So that was one of the first times that those basic metrics around clicks, likes, and comments on the content really stopped working to help us show the most meaningful content.

The way that this works today, broadly, is we have panels of hundreds or thousands of people who come in and we show them all the content that their friends and pages who they follow have shared. And we ask them to rank it, and basically say, “What were the most meaningful things that you wish were at the top of feed?”

And then we try to design algorithms that just map to what people are actually telling us is meaningful to them. Not what they click on, not what is going to make us the most revenue, but what people actually find meaningful and valuable. So when we’re making shifts — like the broadly trusted shift — the reason why we’re doing that is because it actually maps to what people are telling us they want at a deep level.

Ezra Klein

One of the things that has been coming up a lot in the conversation is whether the business model of monetizing user attention is what is letting in a lot of these problems. Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple, gave an interview the other day and he was asked what he would do if he was in your shoes. He said, “I wouldn’t be in this situation,” and argued that Apple sells products to users, it doesn’t sell users to advertisers, and so it’s a sounder business model that doesn’t open itself to these problems.

Do you think part of the problem here is the business model where attention ends up dominating above all else, and so anything that can engage has powerful value within the ecosystem?

Mark Zuckerberg

You know, I find that argument, that if you’re not paying that somehow we can’t care about you, to be extremely glib and not at all aligned with the truth. The reality here is that if you want to build a service that helps connect everyone in the world, then there are a lot of people who can’t afford to pay. And therefore, as with a lot of media, having an advertising-supported model is the only rational model that can support building this service to reach people.

That doesn’t mean that we’re not primarily focused on serving people. I think probably to the dissatisfaction of our sales team here, I make all of our decisions based on what’s going to matter to our community and focus much less on the advertising side of the business.

But if you want to build a service which is not just serving rich people, then you need to have something that people can afford. I thought Jeff Bezos had an excellent saying on this in one of his Kindle launches a number of years back. He said, “There are companies that work hard to charge you more, and there are companies that work hard to charge you less.” And at Facebook, we are squarely in the camp of the companies that work hard to charge you less and provide a free service that everyone can use.

I don’t think at all that that means that we don’t care about people. To the contrary, I think it’s important that we don’t all get Stockholm syndrome and let the companies that work hard to charge you more convince you that they actually care more about you. Because that sounds ridiculous to me.

Ezra Klein

So I’m also within an advertising model, and I have a lot of sympathy for the advertising model. But I also think the advertising model can blind us. It creates incentives that we operate under and justify. And one of the questions I wonder about is whether diversifying the model doesn’t make sense. If I understand, and I might not, WhatsApp, which is also part of Facebook, is subscription, right? People pay a small amount?

Mark Zuckerberg

No, we actually got rid of that.

Ezra Klein

Well, see, there you go. Shows what I know.

Mark Zuckerberg

But keep going.

Ezra Klein

The broader point I want to make is that you don’t need to only serve rich people to diversify away from just being about attention. And when it is about attention, when it is about advertising, when you need to show growth to Wall Street, that does pull you toward getting more and more and more of people’s attention over time.

I did an interview with Tristan Harris, who’s been a critic of Facebook. And we were talking about your announcement that some of the changes you’re making have brought down, a little bit, the amount of time people are spending on the platform. And he made the point, “You know that’s great. But he couldn’t do that by 50 percent. Wall Street would freak out; his board would freak out.” There are costs to this model, and I do wonder how you think about at least protecting yourself against some of them dominating in the long run.

Mark Zuckerberg

Well, I think our responsibility here is to make sure that the time people spend on Facebook is time well spent. We don’t have teams who have, as their primary goal, making it so people spend more time. The way I design the goals for the teams is that you try to build the best experience you can. I don’t think it’s really right to assume that people spending time on a service is bad. But at the same time, I also think maximizing the time that people spend is not really the goal either.

In the last year, we’ve done a lot of research into what drives well-being for people. And what uses of social networks are correlated with happiness and long-term measures of health and all the measures of well-being that you’d expect, and what areas are not as positive.

And the thing we’ve found is that you can break Facebook and social media use into two categories. One is where people are connecting and building relationships, even if it’s subtle, even if it’s just I post a photo and someone I haven’t talked to in a while comments. That person is reminding me that they care about me.

The other part of the use is basically content consumption. So that’s watching videos, reading news, passively consuming content in a way where you’re not actually interacting with anyone or building a relationship. And what we find is that the things that are about interacting with people and building relationships end up being correlated with all of the measures of long-term well-being that you’d expect, whereas the things that are primarily just about content consumption, even if they’re informative or entertaining and people say they like them, are not as correlated with long-term measures of well-being.

So this is another shift we’ve made in News Feed and our systems this year. We’re prioritizing showing more content from your friends and family first, so that way you’ll be more likely to have interactions that are meaningful to you and that more of the time you’re spending is building those relationships.

That change actually took time spent down a little bit. That was part of what I was talking about on that earnings call. But over the long term, even if time spent goes down, if people are spending more time on Facebook actually building relationships with people they care about, then that’s going to build a stronger community and build a stronger business, regardless of what Wall Street thinks about it in the near term.

Ezra Klein

I want to ask you another question about the advertising model, and this one is trickier because it bears very directly on my industry. Something I’ve seen recently has been a perception at Facebook that a lot of the critical coverage from the media comes from journalists angry that Facebook is decimating the advertising market that journalism depends on. And there is that view. The publisher of Dow Jones, Will Lewis, said that the diversion of advertising dollars into Facebook and Google is killing news and that it has to stop.

Is he right or wrong? And given that so much of the advertising on Facebook wraps around news that journalism organizations are paying to report and publish, what responsibility do you feel you have to the people creating real news for their business model to work, given that their products create value, not just for the world but for Facebook itself?

Mark Zuckerberg

So I do think a big responsibility that we have is to help support high-quality journalism. And that’s not just the big traditional institutions, but a big part of what I actually think about when I’m thinking about high-quality journalism is local news. And I think that there are almost two different strategies in terms of how you address that.

For the larger institutions, and maybe even some of the smaller ones as well, subscriptions are really a key point on this. I think a lot of these business models are moving toward a higher percentage of subscriptions, where the people who are getting the most value from you are contributing a disproportionate amount to the revenue. And there are certainly a lot of things that we can do on Facebook to help people, to help these news organizations, drive subscriptions. And that’s certainly been a lot of the work that we’ve done and we’ll continue doing.

In local news, I think some of the solutions might be a little bit different. But I think it’s easy to lose track of how important this is. There’s been a lot of conversation about civic engagement changing, and I think people can lose sight of how closely tied that can be to local news. In a town with a strong local newspaper, people are much more informed; they’re much more likely to be civically active. On Facebook, we’ve taken steps to show more local news to people. We’re also working with them specifically, creating funds to support them and working on both subscriptions and ads that should hopefully create a more thriving ecosystem.

Ezra Klein

I’ve been thinking a lot, in preparing for this interview, about the 2017 manifesto where you said you wanted Facebook to help humankind take its next step. You wrote that “progress now requires humanity coming together, not just as cities or nations, but also as a global community,” and suggested that Facebook could be the social infrastructure for that evolution.

In retrospect, I think a key question here has become whether creating infrastructure where all the tensions of countries and ethnicities and regions and ideologies can more easily collide into each other will actually help us become that global community or whether it will further tear us apart. Has your thinking on that changed at all?

Mark Zuckerberg

Sure. I think over the last few years, the political reality has been that there’s a lot of people feeling left behind. And there’s been a big rise of isolationism and nationalism that I think threatens the global cooperation that will be required to solve some of the bigger issues, like maintaining peace, addressing climate change, eventually collaborating a lot in accelerating science and curing diseases and eliminating poverty.

So this is a huge part of our mission. One of the things I found heartening is if you ask millennials what they identify the most with, it’s not their nationality or even their ethnicity. The plurality identifies as a citizen of the world. And that, I think, reflects the values of where we need to go in order to solve some of these bigger questions.

So now the question is how do you do that? I think it’s clear that just helping people connect by itself isn’t always positive. A much bigger part of the focus for me now is making sure that as we’re connecting people, we are helping to build bonds and bring people closer together, rather than just focused on the mechanics of the connection and the infrastructure.

There’s a number of different pieces that you need to do here. I think civic society basically starts bottom-up. You need to have well-functioning groups and communities. We’re very focused on that. You need a well-informed citizenry, so we’re very focused on the quality of journalism, that everyone has a voice, and that people can get access to the content they need. That, I think, ends up being really important.

Civic engagement, both being involved in elections and increasingly working to eliminate interference and different nation-states trying to interfere in each other’s elections, ends up being really important. And then I think part of what we need to do is work on some of the new types of governance questions that we started this conversation off with because there hasn’t been a community like this that has spanned so many different countries.

So those are some of the things that I’m focused on. But right now a lot of people aren’t as focused on connecting the world or bringing countries closer together as maybe they were a few years back. And I still view that as an important part of our vision for where the world should go — that we do what we can to stay committed to that and hopefully can help the world move in that direction.

Ezra Klein

One of the scary stories I’ve read about Facebook over the past year is that it had become a real source of anti-Rohingya propaganda in Myanmar, and thus become part of an ethnic cleansing. Phil Robertson, who’s a deputy director of Human Rights Watch in Asia, made the point that Facebook is dominant for news information in Myanmar but Myanmar is not an incredibly important market for Facebook. It doesn’t get the attention we give things that go wrong in America. I doubt you have a proportionate amount of staff in Myanmar to what you have in America. And he said the result is you end up being like “an absentee landlord” in Southeast Asia.

Is Facebook too big to manage its global scale in some of these other countries, the ones we don’t always talk about in this conversation, effectively?

Mark Zuckerberg

So one of the things I think we need to get better at as we grow is becoming a more global company. We have offices all over the world, so we’re already quite global. But our headquarters is here in California and the vast majority of our community is not even in the US, and it’s a constant challenge to make sure that we’re putting due attention on all of the people in different parts of the community around the world.

The Myanmar issues have, I think, gotten a lot of focus inside the company. I remember, one Saturday morning, I got a phone call and we detected that people were trying to spread sensational messages through — it was Facebook Messenger in this case — to each side of the conflict, basically telling the Muslims, “Hey, there’s about to be an uprising of the Buddhists, so make sure that you are armed and go to this place.” And then the same thing on the other side.

So that’s the kind of thing where I think it is clear that people were trying to use our tools in order to incite real harm. Now, in that case, our systems detect that that’s going on. We stop those messages from going through. But this is certainly something that we’re paying a lot of attention to.

Ezra Klein

I think if you go back a couple years in technology rhetoric, a lot of the slogans people had that were read optimistically have come to take on darker connotations too. The idea that “anything is possible.” Our sense of what “anything” means there has become wider. Or the idea that you want to make the world more open and connected — I think it’s become clearer that an open and connected world could be a better world or it could be a worse world.

So, when you think about the 20-year time frame, what will you be looking for to see if Facebook succeeded, if it actually made the world a better place?

Mark Zuckerberg

Well, I don’t think it’s going to take 20 years. I think the basic point that you’re getting at is that we’re really idealistic. When we started, we thought about how good it would be if people could connect, if everyone had a voice. Frankly, we didn’t spend enough time investing in, or thinking through, some of the downside uses of the tools. So for the first 10 years of the company, everyone was just focused on the positive.

I think now people are appropriately focused on some of the risks and downsides as well. And I think we were too slow in investing enough in that. It’s not like we did nothing. I mean, at the beginning of last year, I think we had 10,000 people working on security. But by the end of this year, we’re going to have 20,000 people working on security.

In terms of resolving a lot of these issues, I think it’s just a case where because we didn’t invest enough, I think we will dig through this hole, but it will take a few years. I wish I could solve all these issues in three months or six months, but I just think the reality is that solving some of these questions is just going to take a longer period of time.

Now, the good news there is that we really started investing more, at least a year ago. So if it’s going to be a three-year process, then I think we’re about a year in already. And hopefully, by the end of this year, we’ll have really started to turn the corner on some of these issues.

But getting back to your question, I think human nature is generally positive. I’m an optimist in that way. But there’s no doubt that our responsibilities to amplify the good parts of what people can do when they connect, and to mitigate and prevent the bad things that people might do to try to abuse each other.

And over the long term, I think that’s the big question. Have we enabled people to come together in new ways — whether that’s creating new jobs, creating new businesses, spreading new ideas, promoting a more open discourse, allowing good ideas to spread through society more quickly than they might have otherwise? And on the other side, did we do a good job of preventing the abuse? Of making it so that governments aren’t interfering in each other’s civic elections and processes? Are we eliminating, or at least dramatically reducing, things like hate speech?

We’re in the middle of a lot of issues, and I certainly think we could’ve done a better job so far. I’m optimistic that we’re going to address a lot of those challenges, and that we’ll get through this, and that when you look back five years from now, 10 years from now, people will look at the net effect of being able to connect online and have a voice and share what matters to them as just a massively positive thing in the world.Though they may appear crystal clear in our minds, our memories are not a carbon copy of the events we witnessed.

Every time we recall a memory, we may accidentally alter it or diminish its accuracy. Even trivial memories are easily corrupted with mere suggestions. The psychologist Elizabeth Loftus once found that when people are told cars “collided” instead of “hit,” they recalled a car accident as being more severe than it was.

Most frustrating of all: We change these details and reconstruct reality without being aware we’re doing it. And the seams of our edited memories are silently sealed; we often can’t remember what we can’t remember.

As a journalist who covers psychology, I’m constantly reading about the mind’s failures of accuracy. And it makes me nervous.

Two years ago, I hiked to the bottom of the Grand Canyon and took 400 pictures along the way. I was worried that images of the canyon — the way the mid-morning light looked on the red-ocher and sand-colored walls — would slip from my memory and be replaced with an approximation. So I leaned on the camera; its memory seemed crystalline, undegradable.

But lately, I’ve been wondering what happens to our memories when we start to rely on smartphones more and more to document our lives. This question is not trivial: 77 percent of Americans now own smartphones, and many rely on them for memory support. If the phones are subtly shifting how human memory works, the effects will be widespread.

As with many topics in psychology, there are currently more questions than answers on this. But in many cases, scientists are finding that constant photo taking actually diminishes our ability to recall our experiences, diverts our attention, and takes us out of the moment. Constantly sharing photos may even be changing how we recall events in our own lives.

At the same time, new research suggests that cameras can also be used to enhance our memories of certain experiences.

This research is in its early stages, but it also provides clues as to how we can best use smartphones: to enhance both our memories of an experience and our enjoyment of them.

How photo taking may mess with our memories

The first step to forming a lasting memory is to pay attention. Without attention, our brains won’t store the sensations we experience in the world around us.

The brain stores long-term memories by linking neurons. The stronger the memory, the stronger the connections. These neurological connections link all the sensations that form a memory: what a scene looked like, what it felt like, what it smelled like.

But if we’re not paying attention — if we’re not even getting information into our short-term memories — nothing will be stored long term in our brains.

The Stanford Memorial Church is a building that demands attention. Above the entrance is a giant, pastel-colored fresco of Jesus welcoming worthy souls into heaven. In this depiction of heaven, there are palm trees. The inside of the church features mosaics, stained glass, and more paintings of angels and saints than you can count on your hands and feet. It’s magnificent. Yet as a forthcoming study in the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology finds, it becomes easier to forget with a camera phone in tow.

In a series of experiments, a few hundred participants took a self-guided tour through the church. On the tour, the participants were supposed to take note of details like “the cruciform shape of the church” and make sure they checked out the bronze angels that “greet you from the massive entry doors.”

Some of these participants had iPods equipped with cameras and were instructed to take photos (either to print out later or to post on Facebook). Other participants went in empty-handed.

A week after the tour, the participants were given a surprise quiz, with questions about details they should have learned on the tour. In one arm of the study, those without a camera got around 7 out of 10 questions right. Those who had a camera scored closer to 6. That’s like going from a C to a D, a small but significant difference.

“Just taking photos in general was enough to decrease scores on a memory test,” says Emma Templeton, a Dartmouth psychological researcher who was a co-author of the study.

Why? The simple answer is that the camera is a distraction. “It could just be that we’re using these devices, distracting ourselves from the experience, and because of that distraction, we don’t remember the thing we’re supposed to be paying attention to,” says Templeton.

And because of the ubiquity of smartphones, “we’ve just inserted into our daily lives potentially a giant source of distraction.”

Templeton and her colleagues suspect it’s not just cameras that are a source of distraction. Using any media during an event — texting, tweeting, etc. — could lead to lapses in memory. Her research team also ran a concurrent online study, which allowed for tighter controls than the church study, that asked 380 participants to watch a TED talk. Overall, memory for the TED talk decreased in any condition where the participants were instructed to take notes onscreen.

Overall, Templeton stresses that psychologists are just beginning to answer the question of how smartphones impact our cognitive abilities. “We’ve had [digital] media and cameras for a while, but in the context [of] the stuff we normally study, this is really quite new, and the use of media is evolving very fast,” she says.

In other words, assessing smartphones’ impact on our cognitive abilities is made even harder by the fact that we’re constantly changing how we use the devices.

How much of my life do I want remembered purely by my brain?

Another reason taking photos may diminish our memories is an idea called cognitive offloading.

Simply put, it’s the idea that we’re literally outsourcing our mental capabilities to computers. In 2011, the journal Science famously published a study that found when people are told a computer will save a piece of information, they’re less likely to remember it for themselves. That experiment only had 60 participants and was conducted on a sample of college students, so its conclusions may have limited value. But you don’t have to look too far to find clear examples of cognitive outsourcing. How many people’s phone numbers do you have memorized?

Lately, more evidence for this idea has trickled in. In 2015, psychology researchers at the University of Waterloo published a paper titled “The Brain in Your Pocket.” They found that people who avoid difficult, analytical styles of thinking are more likely to report relying on their smartphones to look up information. The results suggested that using computers as a cognitive crutch is a common tactic.

“A lot of people, when they see our paper, think our argument is that smartphones are making you stupid,” says Nathaniel Barr, the lead author on the paper who’s now a psychology professor at Sheridan College. “Our favored interpretation is that it’s actually a great way for a person who may be lower in cognitive ability to boost their brain’s ability.” If you’re someone who is bad at remembering directions, you can still get on fine in the world. Smartphones, in this light, are kind of like a new cognitive shortcut.

And cognitive offloading may not be a bad thing if we’re offloading something mundane. If your surgeon is looking up the next step for an appendectomy on Google mid-operation, maybe that’s a problem — but “does anybody give a shit that they don’t have to remember people’s phone numbers?” Barr says.

When it comes to taking photos, the question of offloading becomes more complicated: How much of my life do I want remembered purely by my brain?

“Everything is a trade-off,” Barr says. “If you snap a shot and share it, you’re going to be able to relive that experience with others. If you didn’t, it’s going to be isolated to yourself. There’s both good and bad about that. ... As these technologies become more embedded in our lives, I think we’re tasked with more decisions about trade-offs.”

And this is where some of the most interesting research on cameras and memories lies: what we gain, and what we miss out on, when we take photos nonstop.

The biggest trade-off: cameras narrow our attention

Here’s the nuanced take: Smartphone photography isn’t making us dumber. It’s shifting the way our minds work, refocusing our attention.

Alixandra Barasch is a cognitive scientist at NYU. In her work, she finds that, yes, incessant smartphone camera use can lead to lapses in memory. But, more importantly, she finds a wrinkle: Cameras can also focus our attention to enhance memory.

She’s run similar studies to the one at Stanford, where participants either take photos or don’t take photos while on a museum tour. When instructed to take photos of an exhibit, her participants were more likely to remember visual aspects of their experience (the art and artifacts they saw) than if they didn’t take photos. But there’s a trade-off: The participants snapping photos were less likely to remember information they heard.

“Photos are increasing visual memories,” Barasch says, “but it doesn’t come without a cost.” And that cost is our attention. If we’re so focused on photos and visuals, we’re more likely to ignore other stimuli around us. And what gets ignored does not get remembered.

Barasch’s research finds evidence that smartphones are changing what we notice — they’re redirecting or focusing our attention. In a small study, Barasch and colleagues outfitted participants with eye-tracking devices as they embarked on a tour of a museum exhibit. The analysis revealed that participants who were assigned to take photos spent more time looking at artifacts, and looked at more of them. They didn’t look as much at the floor and ceiling.

When we’re hunting for the perfect Instagram shot, we’re not listening, we’re not smelling, we’re not always paying attention to the beautiful, complex minutiae that make up the moment.

Other researchers have found a similar curious effect. In 2011, Fairfield University psychologist Linda Henkel found in a experiment that when participants were simply told to take photos in a museum exhibit, their memories for the object and the details about them were diminished. But when the participants were told specifically to use the zoom feature on their camera, and get in close, their memories for the objects in the exhibit improved.

The lesson here is that we’re probably limiting our experience when we’re so focused on our cameras.

Powerful experiences in the real world are immersive and often engage all the senses. On your last vacation, can you remember what the wind felt like on your back? Do you remember what was going on internally: Were you thrilled, excited, or scared? When you look back on the Instagram photos from the trip, will you remember what a dinner tasted like, or just that it was pretty?

Photos and recordings are always going to be a thin slice of what you experienced. “They’re not even necessarily the true, full version of what happened,” Henkel says. When we look back on those photos, they do serve as memory cues, but they’re not necessarily reminding us of the whole story.

What sharing so many photos does to our memory

In the past few years, not only have we begun taking more and more pictures with digital cameras but we’re also sharing them, nearly instantly, on social media. This may alter our memories too — in a subtle but profound way.

Barasch and her colleagues have found evidence that taking pictures to share on social media changes our perspective within our memories. That is: When we’re taking photos to share on social media, we’re more likely to remember the moment from a third-person perspective.

“If I asked you to form a picture in your mind of your Christmas experience” that you shared a photo of on social media, she explains, “then you’ll actually start visualizing your Christmas more from an outsider’s perspective.” (She and colleagues performed this experiment with 332 students over a Christmas break.) Photos we simply take for our own archives don’t produce this effect as often.

The consequences of this are subtle. For one, Barasch finds that focusing on sharing photos can make the process of taking photos less enjoyable. That’s possibly because sharing makes us more self-conscious. (Therefore, she recommends pausing a bit after a photo is taken before you share it.) What’s unclear is how this perspective shift will change the way we think about our lives years down the line.

“What we’re looking at now is more intensity of emotions,” she says. “When people are in more of a third-person perspective, they’ll have less intense emotions when they relive the experience, whereas if I stay in the first-person perspective, I feel the genuine emotions that I felt during the exchange.”

How to remember better

At the end of the day, it’s just hard to know what the optimal balance of internal memory and tech-aided memory should be.

But if we want to hold on to certain memories, it’s going to take some mental effort.

It means paying closer attention to our surroundings. It means using our cameras mindfully to focus on the details we truly want to remember. It means putting down the camera for a few moments to notice what the air feels like, what the streets smell like, and writing down our feelings about being there.

Smartphones can help with this process: They can store information and serve as memory cues to help us retrieve it later on. But we can’t offload everything to them.

One consistent finding from research on learning is that intentional memory making takes some effort. Rereading material doesn’t help a student memorize exam answers. No, it’s the hard work of digging down into our memories and reconstructing a piece of information from scratch that makes it easier to retrieve later.

The same thing may happen with experience. “If we don’t practice strategic, effortful retrieval, it may make it more challenging for us when we really have to rely on our own memory,” Henkel says.

Recently, I returned to the Grand Canyon for a second time. It was an unexpected trip. I didn’t bring my standalone camera, and I didn’t take that many photos with my iPhone. I already had photos. And it was liberating. Today, I remember how the canyon squirrels scurried around us, hoping to steal our lunch. I remember how the mild February breeze felt encouraging 7 miles into a hard hike. I remember a dumb joke my friend made about how we should call mule droppings “trail apples” (they’re pretty round). These aren’t photographs; they’re in my head. And I’m pretty sure they’re true.With Facebook mired in a controversy over the misuse of the data of 50 million of its users by the company Cambridge Analytica, people have started thinking about alternatives to the social media giant. Sure, you can delete Facebook (though as Vox’s Aja Romano reports, it’s really hard), but what many people seem to hunger for is a social platform that would provide a lot of the benefits of Mark Zuckerberg’s invention without the skeevy siphoning up of personal data.

The social media site Mastodon, which bears a passing resemblance to Twitter, reports a surge in interest following the Facebook news. (It has a paltry 1.1 million users, compared to Facebook’s 2 billion-plus.)

But it can be tough to live up to the reputation of being a “better” Facebook — just ask Todd Berger, the CEO of Ello, a social networking site for artists, designers, and other “creatives.” In 2014, after a journalist anointed Ello a “Facebook killer,” the site started to blow up. It helped that Facebook had started to more aggressively enforce a mandatory-real-name policy, which alarmed LGBTQ users and others.

An Ello “manifesto” said the site offered a “better way” than that offered by existing social networks, on which

Every post you share, every friend you make, and every link you follow is tracked, recorded, and converted into data. Advertisers buy your data so they can show you more ads. You are the product that’s bought and sold. We believe there is a better way. We believe in audacity. We believe in beauty, simplicity, and transparency. We believe that the people who make things and the people who use them should be in partnership.

The publicity soured when it became clear the company could not remotely serve as a Facebook substitute. Trying to puff up Ello into a Facebook rival “seemed like a horrible idea and proved to be one,” Berger now says. It created a rift in the company.

Today, with some 3 million members, down from 4.5 million at peak hype, Ello is focused on its core membership. It has a staff of a dozen in Boulder, Colorado, and grew by 300,000 to 400,000 members last year. In a conversation edited for clarity and conciseness, Berger reflected on the trade-off between scale and privacy.

Christopher Shea

You’re trying to put the “Facebook killer” stuff behind you. But it’s true that Ello was trying to create an alternative to Facebook, at least for this smaller group of people — artists, designers, and other “creatives” — right?

Todd Berger

Yeah, but it was never about turning into Facebook because those people never believed in Facebook in the first place — for all the reasons that the mainstream populace is catching on to now.

I’m 42. I’ve been working on the internet my whole career, since the mid-’90s. It was pretty obvious when these big networks started popping up that they were going to be collecting and harvesting data to generate revenue. I mean, anyone who wasn’t getting that wasn’t paying attention. So it’s baffling to me that everyone is saying, “Oh, this is a debacle. Oh, my god, how could this happen?” Facebook’s terms of use and privacy policy has always said what they do with the data. They never lied

This seems to be a case of misuse of data [by Cambridge Analytica]. In some ways, I feel bad for Facebook … sure, it’s sad that it happened, but Facebook is a high-risk company. There are, what, 2.3 billion people on it, with tons of data? It’s a hard thing to handle.

Christopher Shea

You’re not on Facebook yourself. Why is that?

Todd Berger

I’ve never been on. I thought from day one that it was a data play. How else are they going to grow? I’ve seen the models evolve since the ’90s. The only way you can scale social to the size of Facebook is to collect personal data — that’s the business. And honestly, I’m just generationally — I’ve never been interested.

I get it that [these large social platforms] have made lots of people wealthy. It’s enabled young kids to build these careers in YouTube by developing these massive followings, and that’s great as long as you understand the risk.

Christopher Shea

So if people want their data to be secure, do they have to turn their backs on the big free social platforms and go to niche places like Ello?

Todd Berger

Yes, I believe this is the future. Destinations like Ello, Arena, VFILES, and other niche communities are doing a great job of providing alternatives to the mainstream.

Christopher Shea

Would it be possible to create an Ello at scale, or does the idea of a massive social network by definition lead to the problems Facebook is experiencing?

Todd Berger

If by “at scale” you mean at Facebook scale, no. But I do believe Ello and other similar products have massive room for growth and can scale vastly in their own rights.

Christopher Shea

It sounds like when people heard the words “Facebook killer,” they wanted it all: They wanted everything good from Facebook, free — minus losing control of their data.

Todd Berger

Totally.

Christopher Shea

It sounds like this is not possible with current technology.

Todd Berger

No, it hasn’t proven possible. Sure, with subscription services it can be done, maybe. But we need a major cultural shift because the problem is the expectation that all of these public social services are free — and they are free.

But free comes at a cost, and to my knowledge, most of the companies that have been very successful, they don’t lie about what that cost is. It’s clearly outlined in their terms of service and privacy policies. But no one bothers to read that shit, because once your friends join, you join and start sharing stuff, and that’s great. But realize that the fun comes at a cost.

But in the mid- to long term, our hope is that emerging technology — blockchain technology — is going to change some of this. Right now when you publish in the ecosystem of the internet, if you are a highly sought-after artist, you don’t make any money for that content you share. Say you get a million views and [extensive] engagement — there’s nothing in that for you other than visibility, right?

So while that engagement is of immense value to Instagram, they don’t see that it’s in their interest to reward the creator for their content. But once that content is on a blockchain and there’s a ledger of who created this, the usage of that content is tracked, and the creator is rewarded for it. I think we need to move to a model where people control their data, and they sell it or don’t sell it according to their own free will.

Christopher Shea

Till that kind of ledger system is technologically possible, would it be a good thing if we all got used to paying 100 bucks a year for a social network?

Todd Berger

I think it would be a great thing, and I think we would take back some of our rights around personal privacy.

Christopher Shea

How do people make money on Ello? Is the idea that people go on Ello to find cool stuff made by your members and buy it?

Todd Berger

Yes, people can buy work. We also partner with brands and agencies to launch products. Creatives need visibility, and they need to grow their influence. Those two things, visibility and influence, lead to opportunities. When we share your work with one of our partners who feature it, and some art director at Nike sees it, that could lead to someone getting hired by Nike.

We’re trying to elevate creatives and promote them in a way that helps them first, then build a business model second. We’re certainly imperfect at it, but we are doing a better job of it from a principles and values standpoint.

Christopher Shea

The Ello manifesto struck a chord. Was it ahead of its time?

Todd Berger

It gets presented as being ahead of the curve, but I didn’t even find it very inventive at the time. We were just trying to state what some of our core principles were. Creatives tend to be one of the vanguards on the internet, so they tend to be aware of how their data and content are being used, which is why we thought this would resonate with the people we were interested in.

I don’t think Facebook ever had cruel intentions. They are executing a business model that clearly states what they’re going to do with people’s data.

But people have decided the internet deserves to be free, that all these private companies, including Facebook, should give people free services. So people are totally complicit in this transference of data.After nearly 10 years of relentless hype for autonomous (“self-driving”) vehicles, the bloom seems to be coming off the rose. In terms of the hype cycle outlined by research consultancy Gartner, autonomous vehicles are plunging down from the “peak of inflated expectations” into the “trough of disillusionment.”

One form the disillusionment takes is skepticism toward AVs’ alleged safety advantages. Last week, a pedestrian in Arizona was struck and killed by a “semi-autonomous” vehicle, i.e., a vehicle that will drive itself part of the time but requires a human driver as backup. The backup driver of another semi-autonomous vehicle was killed last year when it slammed into a semi-truck.

The other form of disillusionment has to do with a growing concern among urbanists that AVs will, by making personal-vehicle travel so much more convenient, induce more of it. They worry that AVs will increase vehicle miles traveled (VMT), further clogging America’s already congested city streets.

I don’t share the first worry — I have confidence that AVs will eventually achieve full autonomy and make good on their safety claims, radically reducing road fatalities.

But I do share the second concern. In fact, I don’t think people are worrying about it enough. There are reasons to believe that any private autonomous vehicle industry will not just increase VMT, but will pursue more VMT aggressively.

It struck me as I read this piece in the New York Post about a new company called Vugo, which has contracts with about 3,500 Uber and Lyft drivers in New York City to install video screens in their vehicles. The screens will display video advertising and, at least initially, cannot be turned off or completely muted.

According to the Post, drivers in New York love the arrangement (though of course, everyone else finds it annoying AF). The money the drivers receive from Uber and Lyft, from direct fees charged to passengers, is barely getting them by. They need supplemental income. Thus, advertising.

And therein lies the germ of an economic dynamic that could doom AVs to fall short of their potential and do great damage along the way — the same way it did to much of the internet. I’m talking about advertising as a business model.

If shared fleets of autonomous vehicles come to be funded primarily by advertising, we will end up with an auto industry even more committed to auto supremacy than the current one — at best a reluctant partner in any effort to make cities denser and more livable, at worst a committed foe.

As a business model, advertising is toxic

It is now something close to conventional wisdom that many of the depredations of our current digital environment can be laid at the feet of the business model it is built around.

Almost all websites, social media networks, and apps these days are funded by advertising. They make money only insofar as they hold user attention, so they are in an endless, recursive, dog-eat-dog struggle for it.

There are no longer any practical limits on the supply side: Content production is cheap and online space is infinite. The only remaining constraint on revenue is on the demand side. Humans only have so many hours in the day and so much attention to give.

So every app is competing not just with other apps but with Netflix and cooking and sleep and work and exercise — anything else that might take your attention off the app. Consequently, the engineers of these tools are growing increasingly adept at exploiting human cognitive and emotional quirks, providing short-term dopamine bursts that prove addictive.

Our pursuit of short-term dopamine bursts has created an environment so crammed full of signals — many aimed at the base emotions of envy, resentment, and outrage — that we have become collectively distracted and unhappy. (Vox’s Ezra Klein had a good podcast episode on this, interviewing Tristan Harris, founder of the Center for Humane Technology.)

The primary tools through which we access the internet are locked into a pursuit for time and attention, clicks and eyeballs, because that’s what the business model demands. It is ruining the internet. It could ruin transportation.

Transportation is going to become more like an app, and we know how most apps are funded

One thing transportation experts have come to agree on is that transportation is evolving into more of a service than a commodity. Rather than buying cars, consumers will buy miles.

Three trends are converging in transportation: electrification, autonomy, and sharing. Anyone who claims to know exactly how that will play out, the timing of those changes, is probably selling something. But the logic of all three trends leans toward transportation as a service (TaaS).

Here’s a plausible scenario: Vehicle electrification continues. Shared vehicle services like Uber and Lyft become more popular. Human drivers are steadily replaced by autonomous vehicles. Over time, TaaS becomes the rule rather than the exception; by, say, 2030, most people take most trips by summoning a shared electric autonomous vehicle.

Barring the unlikely event that cities take ownership of these fleets and begin offering transportation as a public service (TaaPS?) funded by taxes, private industry is going run this process. Competition will be relentless, and with it the drive to reduce subscription or per-mile prices charged to customers.

There will always be a new company willing to cut costs to the bone to fuel rapid growth — and “the bone” in this case is extremely lean. Driverless vehicles will be cheaper than human drivers. Electric vehicles will be cheaper than internal-combustion vehicles. With cheap renewables flooding the grid in midday when the sun is out, electricity will be cheap. Capital and operating costs will be low, so unless public policy imposes some kind of price floor, there will be a steady downward pull on per-mile charges.

Eventually, someone will think to offer upfront charges of $0. Transportation as a free service (TaaFS)!

The history of digital technologies offers a clue as to what “free” means in this context, and where it leads. Companies still have to make money. And the only way to monetize customers without charging them is to make them the product, i.e., to sell their attention through advertising. Once fleet owners start grasping around for other sources of revenue, they will inevitably seize on it.

It would be nice to think that people wouldn’t put up with it, that they would buy a subscription or pay an extra fee for an ad-free transportation service (TaaAFS). But that isn’t what history seems to show.

Rather, customers have shown again and again that when it comes to services, they will go for the cheaper option, brand loyalty (and personal privacy) be damned. Look at airlines, where customers put up with discomfort and nickel-and-dime fees in exchange for cheap base rates.

Look at media, where the ad model dwarfs the subscription model. Look at the popularity of “member club cards” at grocery stores and retail outlets, via which customers exchange their private information for discounts. Look at Facebook to Google, which we allow 360-degree surveillance of our lives.

Want to freak yourself out? I'm gonna show just how much of your information the likes of Facebook and Google store about you without you even realising it — Dylan Curran (@iamdylancurran) March 24, 2018

Or heck, just look at taxi cabs in New York City and Washington, DC, many of which already have blaring advertising screens embedded in them, for the same reason as all the above: They can’t get enough money out of you on the front end, so they have to monetize you on the back end.

And it works. We will do just about anything, reveal just about anything, for cheaper sticker prices, especially for “free.”

So we have to at least consider the possibility that the future of transportation could be dominated by large fleets of shared, electric, autonomous vehicles funded by revenue from advertising — that our smart vehicles could become our next smartphones, tools to deliver our attention to advertisers.

Ad-supported transportation would be a nightmare

That would be awful.

Never mind the fact that vehicle occupants will find yet another part of their day intruded upon by blinking, button-pushing distractions, losing time they might have spent in quiet contemplation (or, sigh, looking at their own smartphones).

If vehicles do become rolling smartphones, “platforms” for a variety of ad-supported videos, apps, games, and services, we can expect the same incentives to take over transportation that dominate online services like Facebook or Candy Crush. To wit: Cars will want more of your time and attention.

The only way to spend time with a car is to drive somewhere in it. Insofar as they get revenue from advertising, owners of shared vehicle fleets will want more people to go more places in cars. Their revenue will rise with VMT, so they will strive to maximize VMT.

Hitching ad revenue to VMT would put the industry squarely in opposition to other, non-car modes of transit and make it an enemy of good urban planning. It would strengthen short-term gratification and weaken long-term foresight — and foresight is already difficult enough to come by in transportation planning.

It used to be boasted of every new innovation that it would make some old legacy system “more like the internet.” That boast carries a somewhat more ominous tone these days. Maybe there are some features of the internet we don’t want to export.Are we becoming slaves to our technology? Is it making us less happy, less free, less connected?

Sherry Turkle, a sociologist and clinical psychologist at MIT, has explored these questions for more than two decades. The author of several books, including Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet and Reclaiming Conversation: The Power of Talk in a Digital Age, Turkle isn’t anti-technology. But she is concerned that we’re failing to appreciate how it’s altering human life.

Her most recent book, Reclaiming Conversation, is a warning about the consequences of living in a world where face-to-face interaction is less and less frequent. We live on and through our screens, and we’re always plugged in, always distracted. She believes this has changed how we think, feel, and interact with one another. For Turkle, at least, it’s transforming what it means to be human.

I spoke with Turkle via Skype about why her views on technology have changed and why she thinks we have to reexamine the role that smartphones and social media are playing in our daily lives.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

Your book Life on the Screen was published in 1995 and it was noticeably optimistic about this new digital world. By the time you wrote Alone Together, in 2011, that optimism was gone. What changed?

Sherry Turkle

In a word, mobile technology. Mobile technology means we’re always on, always plugged in, always stimulated, always in a constant state of self-presentation. Psychologically, that’s a game changer. For nearly all of human history, people were able to find silence and solitude pretty easily — that was just part of the human condition.

I watched all this happen and decided to go out into the field and spend time with families with small children. I watched kids grow up, spent time in classrooms, and saw how these changes were impacting their development. I started thinking a lot about the self and identity and how this mobile world was transforming it in ways we needed to understand.

This is why I became so interested in the themes I’m exploring now — the flight from conversation, the flight from solitude, the flight from silence, the flight from boredom, all of these things that are so important to our development and to our ability to be with other people.

“Just because we invented a powerful technology doesn’t mean we have to become its slaves”

Sean Illing

You’ve called face-to-face conversations “the most human thing we do.” What are the consequences of living in a world where we do this less and less?

Sherry Turkle

Well, I’m not so sure we’re going to continue doing it less and less. We grew up with the internet, so we think the internet is grown up, but it’s not. The internet is very young, and our ways of using it are very young. I think we’re starting to see a backlash. Yes, there are many things about the internet that are amazing, like the fact that we’re having this conversation right now.

But there are certain kinds of communication that can’t be done via texting or video messages or whatever, and I think people are starting to see that. If you want to be a true friend or partner or lover or colleague and you want to really connect, then you have to look at the person you’re engaged with; you have to actually be with them. That’s how progress is made. I think enough people are beginning to understand this.

Sean Illing

You’ve written a lot about empathy and how these technologies are making it harder for us to be empathic. I wonder if you think they’re encouraging us to treat other people as objects or as actors in our own personal drama. As you say, we’re always living through our screens, always performing, always projecting our image and our story.

Sherry Turkle

That’s an interesting way to put it — that we become actors in our own personal drama. I think, over time, the so-called “internet of things” emerges and then we sort of become things on the internet. We talk a lot about authenticity, but actually what we’re doing is curating the self, and that’s what I worry about in terms of empathy.

Empathy requires that I get into your mental space, into your head, into your experience, and give you the comfort of knowing that I made that effort to listen and care, and that I’m taking responsibility for what I hear. It’s a commitment that we make to other people that involves us getting out of our own heads, and the constant self-curation online, the constant self-gratification of smartphones and social media, makes it harder for us to do this.

The thing about something like Facebook is that it’s not really authentic. People are curating what they share on Facebook; they’re always putting on their happy face. They’re posting about their fancy dinner or their fancy vacation or their fancy outfit. It’s not real, or at least it’s not the whole picture of our complicated lives. But empathy is about diving into other people’s sadness, and there’s just not much space for that on social media.

Sean Illing

You’ve interviewed a lot of people who have embraced new technologies because they thought it would make them happier, more empowered, and more connected. Has it?

Sherry Turkle

I don’t think there’s a yes or no answer to those questions. I mean, the students in Parkland, Florida, are using technology in ways that are making them more empowered as they wage this battle for gun control. The fact that they’re fluent with social media, that they know to leverage it into more coverage on TV and in print, is a great thing. They grew up with this technology, and they’re empowered by it.

So I’m not anti-technology — that’s too simplistic. I’m pro-relationships and pro-conversations and pro-communities and pro-politics. I want people to be media-savvy and to use it to their best advantage. These new technologies can be empowering and they can help us connect with other people, but they can also divide us and make us more lonely and isolated.

“We grew up with the internet, so we think the internet is grown up, but it’s not”

Sean Illing

I want to ask you about a distinction you make between “technological values” and “human values.” I’d argue that this is no longer a meaningful distinction, that technological values have essentially become human values and that our society is now guided almost exclusively by technology, for better or worse.

Sherry Turkle

To the degree that you’re right — and I don’t want to say that you’re wrong — it’s time to start backpedaling because that’s not going to get us where we need to go. Our technological values are values that make technology work better, but they don’t necessarily have any social value.

Our technologies aren’t necessarily helping us live a good and meaningful life. They’re not necessarily making us better citizens or friends or colleagues. What you’re describing is a dystopia that I don’t want to live in and I don’t want my daughter to live in. Technology that shapes human life without any human input is of no interest to me.

Sean Illing

I agree, and I guess that’s my point. We’re not really asking questions about what the good life looks like or what it means to be engaged citizens. We’re simply creating new technologies and then organizing our lives around them after they’ve already overwhelmed us.

Sherry Turkle

It’s time to make a change, and as consumers, we have to demand that change. If you object to what a piece of technology is doing to you, don’t buy it. If you notice that your iPhone is making you less present or more self-involved, don’t buy it — or at least demand that it be designed differently. I’m starting to see this already in the world of smartphones. People are saying, “This is making me crazy; my phone is leading me around. I need a device that’s more respectful of my time.”

Just because we invented a powerful technology doesn’t mean we have to become its slaves. I think we fell in love with this incredible technology we invented. We were like young lovers who didn’t want to talk because they thought it would ruin the romance. But now it’s time to talk. It’s time to talk about this technology we fell in love with. We’re not young lovers anymore. It’s time to say, “Hey, let’s make this technology suit our purposes, and our purposes are human purposes.”

Watch: It’s not you. Phones are designed to be addicting.On Monday morning, Tiffany Haddish — the breakout star of last summer’s Girls Trip — gave the world a gift. She gave us some of the most entrancing gossip to hit the Internet since that time she told us all about taking Will and Jada Pinkett Smith on a Groupon swamp tour.

In a dishy and absorbing new profile by Caity Weaver for GQ, Haddish tells the world that somebody bit Beyoncé.

The time: last December. The place: the afterparty for Jay-Z’s concert in Inglewood, California. (You may recall this as the party that prompted Beyoncé to write the lyric, “If they’re tryna party with the queen, they gon’ have to sign a nondisclosure.”) The perpetrator: unknown.

Here’s what Haddish says went down:

“There was this actress there,” continues Haddish, keeping her voice low, “that’s just, like, doing the mostest.” One of the most things she did? “She bit Beyoncé in the face.” Haddish declines to name the actress. […] “Near the end of the party,” says Haddish, describing her final run-in with Mrs. Carter sometime later, “Beyoncé’s at the bar, so I said to Beyoncé, ‘Did she really bite you?’ She was like, ‘Yeah.’ I was like, ‘She gonna get her ass beat tonight.’ She was like, ‘Tiffany, no. Don’t do that. That bitch is on drugs. She not even drunk. The bitch is on drugs. She not like that all the time. Just chill.’ ”

Across the internet, gossip site after gossip site became absorbed with the same burning question: What kind of person would go around biting Beyoncé?

“Hold my earrings,” began R. Thomas Eric for Elle, “somebody actually bit Beyoncé and I’m about to snap.”

“To be clear,” wrote Hunter Harris for Vulture, “An actress (!) bit (!!) Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (!!!).”

“Who the hell bit Beyoncé in the face?” demanded Kristin Correy at Vice.

On one level, the reason that this story is spreading far and wide is pretty clear: Someone bit arguably the biggest star in the world on her face. That’s nuts! Of course everyone wants to know who did it!

But the story also benefits from being told by someone like Haddish, and the very specific way her celebrity interacts with Beyoncé’s.

This story puts two different models of celebrity into conflict

Haddish made the jump from working actress to movie star over the course of 2017. That means that right now, she’s at the stage of her celebrity in which she can mine enormous amounts of goodwill from reacting to her new famous friends like a nonfamous normal person, like you and me.

“Ah,” you think, as you listen to her tell her stories. “I too would drive carefully if I had Will Smith in my car! I too would offer to pay for the Groupon if Jada Pinkett Smith wanted to go on a swamp tour with me! And I too would want to defend Beyoncé’s honor should someone bite her on the face in front of me, and of course I would then immediately tell the world that there are people trying to bite Beyoncé out here.”

It’s a dance we’ve seen before — remember an ascendant Jennifer Lawrence meeting Jack Nicholson in 2013? — but it’s one Haddish is extraordinarily good at. She’s a scrappy underdog, a Woman of the People, pulling back the curtain and giving us all a glimpse at what it’s like to live on the other side, and we love her for it.

Beyoncé, meanwhile, has built her fame on doing the exact opposite. She tells the world very little, and what she does say is tightly controlled. Beyoncé has not granted an interview to anyone in years. If she wants to announce something, she’ll stage an elaborate artistic photoshoot and then post it on her Instagram. Beyoncé sings about making her friends sign nondisclosure agreements. Beyoncé is an untouchable queen whose life we could never hope to understand, and we love her for it.

Part of what makes this particular story so compelling is the way it places these two very specific forms of celebrity into conflict: transparent versus opaque, relatable versus aspirational. It’s Tiffany Haddish at her most Woman of the People — of course if you see someone bite Beyoncé you have to tell the world — and Beyoncé at her most unknowable and untouchable: Once attacked, she tells everyone around her to stand down, and then goes and slips opaque references about what just happened into lyrics she will later drop with no announcement into someone else’s song.

Plus, you know, it’s a story about how someone bit Beyoncé on the face.It’s the tech bro equivalent of a 1950s B-movie: Evil data scientists betray the simple trust of an unwitting, socially benevolent company to snatch private customer data and turn it against them and the world! Mark Zuckerberg’s apology for what has happened at Facebook more or less follows that script.

Don’t get me wrong — I’m sure Zuckerberg is very sorry that his share price has plummeted and that the #DeleteFacebook movement is gaining momentum, putting billions of dollars in shareholder value at risk.

But this story is not about Facebook’s rules being broken, or the apps that seek to discern a more algorithmically predictable “you” through inane clickbait quizzes about which philosopher or dog breed you like best. It’s not, fundamentally, about Cambridge Analytica, or even about Facebook. If you delete Facebook because you’re worried about privacy, you’ll have to delete almost every other app and platform too, because almost everything else on the internet is operating the same way.

This story, at root, is about what you don’t know you’re sharing simply by being online. It’s about how companies take that data and sell it and use it for purposes that you have no say in.

Much commentary in the US has suggested that there is no way out of the dystopia that we’ve constructed for ourselves, short of deleting Facebook and turning away from Google. But that can be hard to do, so interconnected have Facebook and other platforms become with all sorts of internet services people depend on.

But Europe is about to point to a better way of balancing the interests of technological innovation and privacy concerns. It’s been undercovered by the US media, but the era of the data robber barons will be massively disrupted on May 25, when the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation Act, enshrining data protection as a fundamental human right, goes into effect.

US companies are in the sights of EU regulators

Great, you say, but we’re not Europe. And US federal regulation is the product of the naive view that we read and actively assent to the privacy policies on the websites we visit. (Policies that, among other things, don’t cover or explain the algorithms scraping our data because those are protected as trade secrets.) Carnegie Mellon’s Lorrie Faith Cranor has calculated that it would take us some 180 to 300 hours per year if we actually read those texts.

But global US companies, especially those using cloud-based marketing and ad technology that tracks European users’ browsing habits, face significant regulatory exposure.

So how, exactly, will the new European rules, known as GDPR for short, work? Let’s scroll back to what happens when you log on to your friendly social media site. You tick a box agreeing to share all the data generated by your virtual self from the moment you show up online, and in return, you get to access to the good stuff.

From here on in, everything you do is recorded and can be packaged and sold to whoever might find it useful. In the case of Facebook, it’s not what you share with whom when you are on the site or the apps and quizzes you take that are the only issues; they form just a small part of what you are giving up.

The point is that Facebook sees it all, owns it all, and can sell it all. Your data is the cryptocurrency of the digital economy; you have no idea how it is being used to sell you stuff, intentionally, by a tech company — or used against you by being stolen.

If my location at a concert in Seattle on a specific date and time is being sold for money to some travel website, as is the fact that I live in New York, I should know that; but I don’t.

The argument a tech company lawyer might offer, namely that consent has been given through a pop-up form filled with paragraph after paragraph of 6-point-size legalese is, frankly, bullshit. And before you say, actually, yes, it does really authorize consent — well, the EU simply disagrees. The EU is saying, We are not letting companies get away with this charade anymore.

Europe sees private data collection and US governmental snooping as interconnected

European officials have been more concerned about the state of data privacy and regulation than their American counterparts for quite some time, but the immediate origins of the new data protection law can be traced to the fury over the extent of US surveillance in the years after 9/11. On January 28, 2014 — European Data Protection Day (yes, it’s been celebrated in Europe since 2006) — EU vice presi­dent and justice commissioner Viviane Reding said in a speech that European citizens were “in shock” over the extent of the National Security Agency snooping.

She argued that “data collection by companies and surveillance by governments are connected, not separate.” She continued:

The surveillance revelations involve companies whose services we all use on a daily basis. Backdoors have been built, encryption has been weakened. Concerns about government surveillance drive consumers away from digital services. From a citizen’s perspective, the underlying issue is the same in both cases. Data should not be kept simply because storage is cheap. Data should not be processed simply because algorithms are refined. Safeguards should apply and citizens should have rights.

Reding also said it would make no sense for the EU to assert fundamental rights for EU nationals, or a particular geographic region, but not for anyone else. Given the open nature of the internet, there had to be one data protection act to rule them all. It was a warning to US companies that they would not evade the reach of European law simply by being located in the US.

To put it another way, as long as one US cookie sat on a European national’s computer monitoring online behavior, the company that put it there was going to be held responsible.

Despite intense lobbying by US tech, the European Parliament and Council was not dissuaded from passing what Reding has called the “gold standard” in data privacy protection. The law was approved in April 2016, with a two-year grace period before it would be enforced. It applies to any company transacting with an EU national for goods or services — regardless of whether there is a payment involved.

It covers any kind of marketing tech or advertising technology. As a result, these regulations apply to most global US corporations you can think of and, potentially, to thousands of US businesses doing business in Europe that you can’t.

Protections the new law provides

Consider some of what the new data protection law guarantees to EU citizens — again, as of May 25:

A right to know what’s being done with your data, and a right to access it: EU consumers will have the right to obtain from, say, Facebook, confirmation that your data is being collected and held, where, and for what purpose. They also have a right to request and receive a copy of that data, free of charge, in an electronic format, upon request.

Firm guidelines for consent: For your information to be collected, you must give a clear “yes” answer to a clearly presented request. What’s more, it must be as easy for you to withdraw consent as it is to give.

Privacy by design: Privacy is not something a company adds on as an afterthought; any online service that needs personal data in order to function must collect the minimum amount of data necessary for that purpose. No hoovering up everything just because it might be useful in a future context or sellable to a third party.

A right to be “forgotten”: You will be able to request that a company erase your personal data, stop disseminating it, and have third parties stop processing your data too. There are public interest exemptions to this right, such as archiving historical and scientific data. When it comes to balancing the right to be forgotten against freedom of expression or freedom of information, the law says that “it is necessary to interpret notions relating to that freedom, such as journalism, broadly.” What this vague exhortation will mean in practice, observers think, is litigation. There is no shared legal definition for freedom of information in Europe, and the limits of journalism are likely to be tested by anyone with deep pockets and something to hide.

Data portability: You have the right to take your data from one company and give it to another in an easy-to-read format. This is a huge deal in the areas of education, health care, and insurance, Want to change doctors? Just give the new one permission to access your data set. Your old doctor no longer has your records.

Breach notification: Companies must notify you of any security breaches within 72 hours. No more, “Oh, by the way, we were hacked six months ago.”

Data protection officers: The new law requires that companies be able to demonstrate compliance with its requirements through internal documentation if the data collected is relatively modest, and through a data protection officer if the data is voluminous.

Penalties: Failure to comply with the law will be assessed in fines that can top out at 4 percent of a company’s global annual revenue for the preceding year, or €20 million (roughly $24.5 million), whichever is greater. A 4 percent fine on Facebook’s global revenue would be a staggering punishment.

Reaction in the US to this new law has either been denial of this reality — it’s going to be another Y2K moment, all hype, no consequence — or quiet panic.The research company Forrester predicts that 80 percent of companies affected by GDPR will not be compliant come May 25, and that of these, 50 percent will be intentionally noncompliant, meaning that they’ve weighed the costs and risks and decided to roll the dice. Another research giant, Gartner, predicts we will see a multimillion-dollar fine for regulatory noncompliance before 2020.

The challenge for companies is technical: Compliance requires a system that enables active consent, maximal transparency, and enhanced security, all of which require thinking about how to use “distributed ledgers” and blockchain-based technologies to validate transactions.

In truth, the technical solutions aren’t that hard to pull off. (Disclosure: The company for which I work helps to provide some.) People want to share information; companies need them to share information. But if this flow of information isn’t balanced by real, meaningful privacy rights, the public will bail on these platforms — or demand even greater regulation.

In 2010, Zuckerberg told TechCrunch’s Michael Arrington that the “social norm” regarding privacy had “evolved over time,” and that Facebook’s role was to reflect what those norms were. In short, people were comfortable sharing their personal information, so why worry about privacy?

But norms are shifting once more. Looking back, we can frame the development of digital behavior into three phases: First, there was a naiveté phase, where consumers didn’t really understand the technology and what it meant. Then there was the careless phase, where people saw data rights or privacy as either unimportant or an acceptable price of entry to all the good, free stuff. Now it is clear we are entering the demand phase, which sees the emergence of a more savvy, engaged, and alarmed digital consumer — and related movements to create and enforce consumer rights.

Europe is far ahead of the United States in shifting into that final phase. But the arrival of the new data protection rules on May 25 may serve as a wake-up call: Global US companies can’t have one set of gold-standard privacy rules for European customers and another set of fool’s gold rules for US customers and expect Americans not to cry foul.

Facebook has done Americans and the world a favor in showing how people’s data is really used. Now Europe can show us what successful, ethical privacy regulation looks like.

Trevor Butterworth is vice president of research for CynjaTech, a company specializing in data protection and privacy. He is the author of the white paper “GDPR: Threat or Opportunity.” He is also the executive director of Sense About Science USA.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.Elon Musk took a flamethrower to his company Facebook pages after going on a mischievous Twitter riff about how insignificant Facebook is.

The head of SpaceX and Tesla ordered the pages for both companies to be deleted on Friday after responding sarcastically to an article on Vox sister site The Verge about companies deleting their Facebook accounts — but only temporarily. “Wow, a whole week,” Musk snarked. “Risky.”

Facebook’s ongoing scandal related to data firm Cambridge Analytica has prompted a public backlash against the company, including the rise of the hashtag #DeleteFacebook and an outpouring of takes about how, why, and whether you should or shouldn’t stop using the cultural juggernaut that is Facebook.

Musk evidently sees Facebook differently than many of us, however; he followed up his response to The Verge with a tweet to WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton, as Acton encouraged people to take the plunge and say goodbye to Facebook; Musk responded with “What’s Facebook?”

What’s Facebook? — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 23, 2018

When challenged to delete his own company’s Facebook page in response, Musk kept up the flippancy by insisting he didn’t even know SpaceX had a company Facebook page.

I didn’t realize there was one. Will do. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 23, 2018

Literally never seen it even once — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 23, 2018

Musk, true to his word, reportedly had the SpaceX Facebook page taken offline barely half an hour later. After followers alerted him to the Facebook page for Tesla, that, too, soon bit the dust.

Of course, the Facebook page deletion could be just temporary — especially given how notoriously hard Facebook makes it to permanently delete your accounts. And let’s not forget that we’re talking about Elon Musk, the guy who made a company called the Boring Company and then used it to sell 20,000 flamethrowers. Who is also the guy who named a company “Thud” and won’t tell anyone what it’s for. Who is also the guy who gave the Tesla a bioweapon defense mode button. With Musk, it’s frequently hard to tell whether you’re dealing with technological innovation, blatant trolling, or an unlikely mix of both.

Still, when a Silicon Valley guru with this much influence makes a stand, even capriciously, against a titan like Facebook, it sends a message — if only to the fans who now want him to create a Facebook alternative.

FaceX is a good name for a social Media platform @elonmusk and you know it would be the nerdiest platform around. Please do it. — Thinking Allowed (@_uckedUp) March 23, 2018

Lest you think that Musk is gearing up for a principled fight, however, think again: Both SpaceX and Tesla have still kept their respective Instagram pages because even though Instagram is completely owned by Facebook, Musk seems to view them as separate, independent entities:

Instagram’s probably ok imo, so long as it stays fairly independent. I don’t use FB & never have, so don’t think I’m some kind of martyr or my companies are taking a huge blow. Also, we don’t advertise or pay for endorsements, so … don’t care. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 23, 2018

In other words, this is a low-stakes battle for Musk. For the rest of us, deleting Facebook might not be so simple.To say Facebook has had a rough time of it lately would be putting it mildly. Between fake news, falling stock, and glaring data breaches, the social media giant is in the middle of a public reckoning (and a self-reassessment) that is perhaps long overdue.

But Facebook users, in the middle of what seems to be a moment of broader cultural backlash against social media and technology, are also clearly grappling with the ramifications of their use of the platform.

Since reports of Cambridge Analytica’s massive harvest of Facebook user data surfaced last week, multiple media outlets have responded by reminding an agitated public that they do have options for deleting their Facebook accounts. And while alternative takes have made larger cases against Facebook’s core business model, the emphasis has largely been on users making up their minds about how to deal with the company on an individual level.

However, this emphasis fails to take into account both Facebook’s position in modern society and the stakes involved for anyone who chooses to leave a network that has spent more than a decade trying to make leaving it impossible.

At this point, “Why don’t you just delete Facebook” is the internet’s equivalent of asking, “Why didn’t they just leave before the hurricane came” — because it vastly misrepresents how embedded Facebook is at every cultural turn most of us take, and deflects social responsibility away from Facebook onto the users who have been directly impacted by the company’s lack of accountability.

There are three main reasons most people can’t just up and leave Facebook, and they all serve to illustrate the extent to which Facebook has altered the landscape of our digital lives. Let’s break them down.

1) Facebook is technologically embedded within a vast web of interconnected third-party apps and social media platforms

You’ve probably heard cracks before that Twitter humor largely consists of jokes made on Tumblr being shared as screenshots on Facebook, but within this joke is a larger point about how all of these systems interconnect and interact. The web is made up of third-party apps and systems, many of which rely on being fully integrated with your personal Google or Facebook account.

In fact, many mobile and web-based apps actually require you to have a Facebook account — and only a Facebook account — before you can use the app to begin with. Over the years, consumers and other developers have pushed back against this trend, but the truth remains that if you delete your Facebook account, you could immediately lose access to parts of the internet. For example, up until very recently you were required to have a Facebook account to use Tinder, so the vast majority of Tinder’s 50 million users are signing in through Facebook. Deleting Facebook would mean losing access to the app completely, along with all of your Tinder connections. And many other dating apps still require you to have Facebook in order to create accounts. If you don’t realize that before you delete Facebook, then you could be totally cut off from anyone you may have met through these apps.

Additionally, you could find yourself having to laboriously create new accounts for any number of apps that you’ve been logging in to all this time using Facebook — anything from Spotify to Airbnb to Patreon, ride-hailing services, online retailers, and more. Not only is this obnoxious, but you could also lose access to important content and information saved in your original accounts.

Even if you don’t particularly care which apps your Facebook is linked to, there are several core problems with this trend — problems that apply equally to Google, which arguably shares much of the internet’s infrastructure with Facebook. The biggest of these problems is that when you create an infrastructure that assumes everyone is using only one or two major platforms for their daily internet use, you create an internet where using only those two platforms becomes a tacit requirement.

And for many, using Facebook is also a literal and direct requirement.

2) For many people, using Facebook regularly is a required part of their job or education

When I quit Facebook, I assumed it would be for good, but I was wrong. About 18 months after I attempted to leave it, I was ordered back on — by a previous employer who insisted that all reporters have Facebook.

The question of whether journalists are able to do their jobs without Facebook notwithstanding, in a fully digital society, there are a vast and increasing number of jobs that this stipulation applies to: marketers, web developers, social media managers, publicists, anyone wishing to effectively promote personal or professional projects, and so on. I can’t count the number of times I’ve sat in panels on writing or other creator guide sessions and heard panelists dictate that anyone wanting to be taken seriously or promote their work must be on Facebook.

The pressure to be on or use Facebook in order to self-promote, distribute information, and do one’s job effectively is so pervasive most of us probably don’t even really think of it as pressure to conform. Of course businesses and anyone with a personal brand has to have Facebook. Don’t they?

We’re used to the idea of businesses, self-promoters, and “branded” individuals needing and using Facebook, but this pressure also applies to schools. In 2012, Facebook launched Facebook Groups specifically tailored to schools — creating a “walled garden” that students frequently use to promote school spirit and create next-level internet memes.

Collective use of the platform by schools and other educational groups means that, just as with third-party app developers, some organizations still require you to have a Facebook account in order to access information and services. Facebook itself has made inroads into developing technology specifically for school use. Students prepping for college are warned that universities will be watching their social media accounts in order to spot excellent community behavior and social media usage, as well as to pinpoint any red flags.

All of this reliance on Facebook once again means the assumption that everyone is already on Facebook marginalizes anyone who’s not on Facebook, making it harder for anyone not using the platform to access the same degree of communication and information sharing. That’s vital for any job or education system where Facebook is involved. But it’s also vital where social communities are concerned.

3) Facebook is, for better and worse, a tangible tie holding many people to their communities

This final issue with deleting Facebook is the hardest to quantify, but one that’s fundamentally true for most of us: If you delete Facebook, you lose touch in ways that have subtle but tangible emotional repercussions. Your aging Great-Aunt Sally will fret because she has one less way to keep track of you, your high school English teacher will be mad because you never write on his Facebook wall anymore, and your friend will be annoyed because you can no longer see the drama happening with his girlfriend’s ex. You’ll be annoyed because your other friend issued a general Facebook invite to her birthday party and you missed it.

And while the infuriating barrage of polarizing opinions that make Facebook so difficult for many of us to deal with will disappear, so will connections to people you didn’t realize you wanted to keep in touch with until you moved on.

For many, this complicated web of emotional stakes only exists on Facebook, because Facebook is the only social platform on the web where who we are now, in adulthood, converges with the past life we had as a teen or a college student. On Facebook, the many friend networks we’ve made along our paths through life converge and create a unique kind of emotional infrastructure that’s impossible for some people to fully separate from, because it means cutting off the only remaining ties to parts of their pasts, or to previous places they have lived, and even to some family members and friends. To many of the Facebook users you leave behind, walking away from Facebook will send a message that you don’t want to cultivate ties with them — because for many people, Facebook is the only place those ties can be cultivated.

It’s true that the vast majority of Americans still rely on phone calls as the first method of staying in touch with friends and family. But more than 20 percent of US adults told Pew researchers in a 2015 survey that they also rely heavily on Facebook and other social media platforms, a number that’s probably only grown in the years since. Facebook makes it increasingly easy to substitute virtual communication for physical interaction, and we have adapted to this switch as a culture.

That means there’s cultural and social pressure to stay on the platforms that people are most likely to use to find you — for example, when, disaster strikes and you need to mark yourself safe. Then there’s the use of Facebook as a kind of digital scrapbook, to preserve life events, shared moments, and memories. Sure, it’s a cliché — but it’s also real, and it is yet one more tie binding people to the site.

These are real reasons not to walk away from Facebook, and they’re also telling ones: They reflect the uncomfortable truth that while the internet may have expanded our virtual communities, it’s also resulted in fragmented echoes of our physical communities. Facebook has changed how we interact with our pasts, and how we interact with the places and people we call home.

So despite the increased calls to quit Facebook, it’s okay if you don’t feel like you can afford to do so — whether it’s for personal or professional reasons, or just because you don’t want to have to create a whole new Spotify account because in 2011 you could only sign up for Spotify using Facebook and now you have 800 playlists memorializing your last breakup that you can’t bear to lose. All of that is valid, and it illustrates why the onus should never have been on individual consumers to walk away from a platform that has monopolized so much of their internet infrastructure while giving them so little in return.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has acknowledged this much in recent public statements regarding the Cambridge Analytica data breach — but what needs far more acknowledgment is that Facebook has far outstripped the moniker of “social media.” If we think about the internet as a global system, then Facebook is a global world power, and it’s high time we acknowledge that such global power comes with monumental social responsibility. That requires major global leadership and oversight, as well as increased self-scrutiny and accountability from Facebook itself.

It does not, however, require you to quit Facebook.

Update: This piece has been updated to reflect changes to Tinder’s login options.Facebook status: in deep trouble. As if the social network hasn’t been on the wrong side of the news enough lately, it’s now being dragged into a massive scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm with close ties to both Steve Bannon and conservative billionaire Robert Mercer.

“Cambridge Analytica specializes in what’s called ‘psychographic’ profiling,” explains Vox’s Sean Illing, “meaning they use data collected online to create personality profiles for voters.” Politicians and agencies — like, for example, the Trump campaign — hire them to do consulting work such as market research, ad targeting, and PR.

Most recently, though, Cambridge Analytica has made headlines for its extremely questionable acquisition of data from tens of millions of Facebook users that could hypothetically be used to inform their digital marketing strategies.

Sean Rameswaram talks to Kurt Wagner, senior editor covering social media for Recode, and Julia Angwin, senior reporter at ProPublica, about why the Cambridge Analytica news matters, whom it affects, and how you can fight back to protect your privacy.

Related reading:

How do I get even more Today, Explained?

You can get the news we’re reading throughout the day, facts and stats to make you smarter about the world, and behind-the-scenes photos on Twitter at @Today_Explained. You can follow Sean at @Rameswaram, Kurt Wagner at @KurtWagner8, and Julia Angwin at @JuliaAngwin.

How do I report a problem?

For all issues or feedback, please email todayexplained@vox.com.

How do I listen?

If you don’t see the player above, you can listen, subscribe, and review Today, Explained on Stitcher, Apple Podcasts, and Google Play Music.

What if I want to listen at home?

If you have Amazon Echo, add Today, Explained to your flash briefing. If you have Google Home, just say, “Hey Google, play the Today, Explained podcast!”Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg has finally responded to the ongoing scandal surrounding Cambridge Analytica and revelations that the data analytics firm secretly harvested the personal data of 50 million Facebook users.

He said he’s “serious about doing what it takes to protect” the social media platform’s community in a post on Wednesday — but it’s hard not to wonder whether it might be too little, too late.

“We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” Zuckerberg wrote. “I’ve been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn’t happen again. The good news is that the most important actions to prevent this from happening again today we have already taken years ago. But we also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it.”

Zuckerberg had been silent until Wednesday about the saga that began over the weekend when the New York Times and the Guardian released a pair of blockbuster reports outlining how tens of millions of Facebook users’ data was accessed without their knowledge or permission between 2013 and 2015. Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm used by the Trump campaign in 2016, collected the data of not only the approximately 270,000 users who agreed to take a personality quiz created by Cambridge University scholar Aleksandr Kogan but also their friends, thus harvesting the information of some 50 million people.

Facebook found out about it in 2015 and obtained assurances from Cambridge Analytica and Kogan that the data had been deleted — except it hadn’t been. The platform suspended them and Cambridge Analytica’s parent company from the platform on Friday.

It took Zuckerberg five days to discuss an incident that resulted in the misuse of 50 million people’s personal information.

Facebook has been under siege in recent days from lawmakers, regulators, users, shareholders, and even its own employees. Zuckerberg’s post attempts to explain what happened, describe the steps the company has taken to remedy it, and lay out a path forward.

Zuckerberg explained that the roots of the Cambridge Analytica data access date back to 2007, when Facebook launched a platform “with the vision that more apps should be social” that would allow users to log into apps and share who their friends were and their information. He went on to outline how Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, exploited the platform and noted that Facebook in 2014 made changes to limit the data apps could access.

Zuckerberg mentions the “certifications” obtained from Cambridge Analytica and Kogan in 2015 that they’d deleted the data harvested once Facebook discovered the breach — but also claims the company learned only last week that the data hadn’t been deleted because of the Times and Guardian reports.

Zuckerberg said that Facebook is working with regulators to investigate what happened — lawmakers and regulators in the US and Europe are demanding answers — and is conducting an investigation of its own to prevent a repeat of the Cambridge Analytica situation. Facebook plans to investigate and audit apps that accessed large amounts of data before it changed its platform in 2014 and suspend any developers who misused information or refuse an audit. It will also further restrict developers’ access to data and create a new, more visible tool for people to see which apps are accessing their data and how.

“I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I’m responsible for what happens on our platform,” Zuckerberg wrote. “I’m serious about doing what it takes to protect our community.”

The revelations about Facebook and what happened with Cambridge Analytica have spurred a major public backlash and a reevaluation of the power the social media giant has amassed. We’ve voluntarily given it our information and data, and it has been unwise to think it can or will protect it. Zuckerberg does not actually apologize or use the word “sorry” in his statement — and it’s not yet clear if the company’s billions of users will trust his promises to fix things.

Read Zuckerberg’s full statement below:Update: The claim that 50 million Facebook accounts had been affected by the Cambridge Analytica breach has been revised. The official total, as revealed by Facebook in April, stands at 87 million users.

News broke over the weekend of March 17 that Cambridge Analytica (CA), a data analytics firm that worked with Donald Trump’s election campaign, had extracted Facebook data from 50 million user accounts. Or, more accurately, we might say that “news” “broke.”

In fact, we’ve known most of the details concerning CA’s massive data research, and the use of that research in political campaigns, for several years thanks to a 2015 Guardian article, a viral 2016 article in Das Magazin (later published by Vice), and a March 2017 article by the Intercept. Not even the specific number of 50 million accounts is new: Cambridge Analytica’s chief researcher has been boasting about having a 50 million-person sample size in his data sets since 2014, at least.

And we’ve even known, since 2015 or so, that, as Tech Crunch put it, “it was always kind of shady that Facebook let you volunteer your friends’ status updates, check-ins, location, interests and more to third-party apps.”

What is new is that, essentially, major news outlets have taken two stories — what Cambridge Analytica did, and what Facebook knew about what CA did — and pieced them together into a report that spawned immediate concern from the public and a swift response from Facebook. As a result, we now have even less room for plausible deniability about a problem we are lately frequently confronting: a failure to anticipate how technology meant to work on an individual level might be repurposed or exploited when scaled up to apply to millions.

The Facebook breach wasn’t a hack

Between 2013 and 2015, Cambridge Analytica harvested profile data from millions of Facebook users, without those users’ permission, and used that data to build a massive targeted marketing database based on each user’s individual likes and interests. Using a personality profiling methodology, the company — formed by high-powered right-wing investors for just this purpose — began offering its profiling system to dozens of political campaigns.

CA was able to procure this data in the first place thanks to a loophole in Facebook’s API that allowed third-party developers to collect data not only from users of their apps but from all of the people in those users’ friends network on Facebook. This access came with the stipulation that such data couldn’t be marketed or sold — a rule CA promptly violated.

Facebook bears a huge amount of culpability for allowing CA to get its data to begin with. However, reports calling CA’s data harvesting a “leak,” a “hack,” or a serious violation of Facebook policy are all incorrect. All of the information collected by the company was information that Facebook had freely allowed mobile developers to access.

And technically, anyone who used third-party Facebook apps also could have found out that they were allowing those apps to see data from their friends’ profiles. As a Facebook spokesperson reiterated to the New York Times, “No systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.”

Essentially, the data that CA took from Facebook — mainly information gleaned from user profiles and interests — wasn’t private to begin with, not really. It’s just that the vast majority of users either didn’t really know it wasn’t private or didn’t really care. Generally, apps aren’t placing their fine print front and center when we’re using them, nor are they priming us to think too hard about what the long-term or large-scale ramifications of providing our data — and in this case, our friends’ data — could be.

And Facebook didn’t care either — at least not until 2015, when it finally updated its third-party API to block access to the kind of massive data sets that Cambridge Analytica was collecting. That year, without publicly alerting users that its API had been exploited, it drastically limited what features third-party apps could access. It also instituted a review of any third-party app that asked for more than the usual amount of data — public profile, list of friends, and email address — from its users.

By that point, of course, CA had already gotten the bulk of its user data from Facebook users — most notably from their profile pages, where user interests and likes provided the company with the building blocks of personality profiles it created to help determine whether users would be susceptible to different kinds of political messaging.

Arguably, all of that user data should have been private from day one, a “privacy by default” experience that some internet advocacy groups have been begging Facebook to implement for years. The fact that it wasn’t suggests that in the beginning, at least, the exploitability of Facebook’s API was seen as a feature, not a bug — because no one was thinking that a third-party app might utilize its access to user data at the scale Cambridge Analytica did.

The story of Cambridge Analytica is a story of underanticipating the extrapolation of data at a scale of millions

Most of what we know about Cambridge Analytica originates from a blockbuster article originally published in the German publication Das Magazin in December 2016 by reporters Hannes Grassegger and Mikael Krogerus. The article was translated into English, went viral, and was ultimately republished at Vice just weeks after Trump took office in January 2017.

But reporting on Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook data to influence elections for specific campaigns dates back for years — including details about how the data was being collected.

In 2007, Cambridge psychology student David Stillwell, who was doing his PhD in the process of decision-making, launched a mobile app called myPersonality. Initially, the app was just supposed to be a fun side project — but within a year, millions of Facebook users had downloaded it and were volunteering their data.

Stillwell and Michal Kosinski, a fellow student at Cambridge’s Psychometric Centre, realized they could use the data the app was gathering from its users for “serious research.” In 2012, having spent several years refining its methodology, Stillwell’s team began to publish its research, including the ominous-in-retrospect “myPersonality project: Example of successful utilization of online social networks for large-scale social research.”

The publication of the research from Stillwell and Kosinski and their team generated significant press in 2013 — as well as interest from Facebook, which seems to have been aware of the potential for this kind of large-scale implementation of its user data when it reportedly reached out to him with both “the threat of a lawsuit and a job offer,” as Kosinski told Das Magazin.

It was at that point, according to the New York Times report, that the team at the Psychometric Centre was approached by Christopher Wylie, who worked at a company called Strategic Communication Laboratories, self-billed as a data analytics company “to governments and military organizations worldwide.” Wary of this shadow-puppet descriptor, Kosinksi’s team declined to join forces. But Wylie — who would later leave the company in disgust and reveal much of this information to the press — simply turned to another psychology researcher at Cambridge, Aleksandr Kogan.

According to Kosinski, Kogan found a way to mirror the data and methodology being used for the myPersonality experiment, which he referred to as “psychographics.” It most likely wasn’t hard: Stillwell had accidentally stumbled across a treasure trove of Facebook users who seemed willing, by the millions, to give up their data to his third-party app, along with all the data of people in their Facebook friend networks.

So in 2014 Kogan simply made another app, offering similar features to myPersonality, with similar data-scraping technology. Ultimately, Kogan’s app, “thisisyourdigitallife,” gained 270,000 users. That’s a paltry number in terms of successful internet apps, but in terms of the spiraling network trees each of those individual users gave Kogan access to, it was huge: Originally reported as 30 million Facebook users in total, the number was actually closer to 50 million.

Kogan marketed that data to SCL, which created a US-based company for the sole purpose of using all this research data. Longtime SCL director Alexander Nix was named its CEO (he has since been suspended); Republican hedge fund manager and Breitbart investor Robert Mercer reportedly bought into CA, while Steve Bannon, also an investor, joined its board of directors. Bannon chose the name for the company: Cambridge Analytica.

A 2015 Guardian report revealed that Cambridge Analytica received more than $2.5 million from conservative Super PACs funded by Mercer. Within a year, Kogan was boasting of having a data set of “50+ million individuals for whom we have the capacity to predict virtually any trait.”

Throughout 2015, CA worked with the Ben Carson and Ted Cruz campaigns as well as dozens of others, including the Brexit “Leave.EU” campaign, before moving on to work with the Trump presidential campaign. Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn would later be revealed to have had a brief role as an adviser to the company.

That same year, a job service called Global Research Report on the online task site Mechanical Turks was shut down by host Amazon after a report in the Guardian revealed that the service was another offshoot of SCL, and that the data workers were being asked to provide was being harvested by Cambridge Analytica. According to the Guardian report, at that point, CA claimed to have compiled “a massive data pool of 40+ million individuals across the United States — for each of whom we have generated detailed characteristic and trait profiles.”

A year later, that number had ballooned: At the Concordia Summit in New York in September 2016, Nix announced that CA had “profiled the personality of every adult in the United States of America — 220 million people.” Nix claimed a variety of sources were being used to glean this data — everything from Facebook data to phone surveys and voting history.

At the end of 2016, the Das Magazin article put all of the pieces together and raised the alarm, sparking a year of reporting into CA’s research and methodology. In December 2017, the US House Intelligence Committee questioned Nix on an unrelated issue regarding Hillary Clinton’s emails. That same month, special counsel Robert Mueller requested documents from the company regarding its work on the Trump campaign.

Given recent reporting on the company’s international business dealings and apparently strategic spread of misinformation using the internet, untangling CA’s political maneuvers may turn out to be an entirely separate, and daunting, task for the Justice Department.

Facebook is taking action now because of the scale of the bad press it’s receiving

As reported over the weekend by the Observer, Facebook knew in 2015 that its user information had been harvested “on an unprecedented scale.” In addition to changing its API, which the Observer reports as a direct response to CA’s exploitation of user data, the company also demanded that CA certify that it had destroyed all remnants of the data set. The Times noted that as of this month, however, that doesn’t seem to have happened, and most of the data is still in CA’s possession.

Yet Facebook, despite undergoing its own grilling by Congress and despite vowing to undertake a self-reckoning in response to its unwitting influence over the past two years of geopolitics, did not take further action against CA until this past Friday, when it reported to the New York Times that it had suspended CA’s Facebook account, along with CA’s original researchers, Kogan and Wylie. It also reportedly scheduled an internal meeting with employees on Tuesday to explain what happened with Cambridge Analytica and field questions about the situation.

So what changed?

Again, everything that’s been reported this weekend has essentially already been known to us — just as all of the information about CA’s role in the election was publicly available before Das Magazin’s post-election article brought it to widespread public attention. What does seem to be new is Wylie’s personal account of his experience with the company, as well as reports of Facebook’s ongoing attempts to get CA to destroy the data it harvested.

The question of timing is also a crucial one. Cambridge Analytica has occupied a recurring role as a bit player in international political headlines for the better part of a year, while the aftermath of the 2016 election has been brutal for Facebook. As Mueller digs into CA’s political ties, and Facebook promises to restructure itself to better handle the maelstrom of problems that formed through its platform and factored into the election results, both companies are experiencing an intense amount of scrutiny, from more eyes than ever before.

Ironically, it’s not really new information that’s prompting Facebook to take action now, but rather the spread of that information at a massive scale — which is how we got here to begin with.

The factors that allowed Cambridge Analytica to hijack Facebook user data boiled down to one thing: no one involved in the development and deployment of this technology stopped to consider what the results might look like at scale. As the original creators of the methodology that Cambridge Analytica ultimately poached, Kosinski, Stillwell, and the rest of their research team failed to anticipate how the ability to harvest millions of samples of user data might be manipulated or exploited once their methodology was made public.

Cambridge Analytica members like Wylie, who recruited Kogan to work with the company, and Kogan himself, failed to anticipate that handing so much personal data to powerful people might provide them a new way to saturate Facebook with misleading or downright false information. And Facebook, in designing its API, at least initially failed to anticipate that a third-party developer might seek to harvest individual user profiles by the millions.

Facebook’s party line is that Kogan, in representing his app to Facebook, lied to them and stated the data would be used for academic research. But according to the Times, Facebook took no action to verify his claim, which raises the question of how many other “academic research” apps stole user data up until 2015, and what that theft might be used for. (Kogan reportedly retained his own copy of the data for his own personal research.)

For its part, CA has hedged about whether it even used Kogan’s research: It’s repeatedly claimed that “psychographics” — the original Cambridge personality profile data — played no significant part in its work for the Trump campaign. And there are plenty of reasons not to put too much emphasis on CA’s role in the election over a host of other contributing factors.

But speaking to the Observer, Wylie minced no words about the role psychographics played in the company: It “was the basis the entire company was built on.”

Just as with other recent large-scale data manipulations, from the recent Strava app fiasco to the widescale distribution and spread of fake news on social media, Cambridge Analytica didn’t “hack” our internet usage and our Facebook information so much as exploit the way the system was naturally designed to work. On one level, it might be unsurprising that a company guided by Steve Bannon would turn out to be using user data unethically and without permission.

But on another level, what happened to Facebook with Cambridge Analytica is a microcosm of an increasingly obvious problem that’s increasingly affecting all social media platforms — with effects that potentially impact every internet user. Whether these effects end up yielding an algorithmically botched election or just more creepy fake celebrity porn, it seems clear that we’ve entered an unprecedented era of massive online data manipulation.Two black men were arrested and escorted out of a Philadelphia Starbucks on Thursday after staff called the police to report they refused to leave; the men hadn’t ordered anything and were reportedly waiting for a business associate to arrive. The staff reportedly called 911 because Starbucks does “not allow nonpaying people from the public to come in and use the restroom,” Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross told the Philadelphia Inquirer. The employees said the men were trespassing and had refused to leave the restaurant.

A video of the incident has swept across the internet and sparked widespread outrage, prompting Starbucks to issue a less-than-satisfying apology on Saturday afternoon.

The saga began when a video posted on Twitter on Tuesday showed police arresting two black men in Twitter for “doing nothing,” in the words of the user who posted the video. Two people — not the men — can be heard protesting as the police remove the men’s chairs and escort them out. “This is ridiculous,” one white man says to an officer in the video. The men do not protest.

The video has been viewed more than three and a half million times on Twitter since Thursday.

@Starbucks The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing. pic.twitter.com/0U4Pzs55Ci — Melissa DePino (@missydepino) April 12, 2018

Police responded to the call and to keep things from “getting out of hand,” he said, and asked the men to leave, as Starbucks did not want them there. Ross defended the officers, saying they “did absolutely nothing wrong,” but the police department said it was conducting an “internal investigation.”

We are aware of an incident that occurred on 4-12-18 at the Starbucks Café at 18th and Spruce. The entire incident, including the actions of the responding officers, is under internal investigation. Once we gather all the facts, we will comment further. — Philadelphia Police (@PhillyPolice) April 14, 2018

There are a lot of questions here, and they’re not just about the police.

The video of the incident shows at least six police officers taking the two men into custody — a high number, given they were doing nothing.

The obvious question: Beyond the police’s response, why were they called in the first place? People meet in Starbucks all the time, and they wait for others in the restaurant before ordering. Starbucks issued an apology on Saturday to the “two individuals and our customers” and said the company is “disappointed” that it led to an arrest. “We are reviewing our policies and will continue to engage with the community and the police department to try to ensure these types of situation never happen in any of our stores,” the statement says.

We apologize to the two individuals and our customers for what took place at our Philadelphia store on Thursday. pic.twitter.com/suUsytXHks — Starbucks Coffee (@Starbucks) April 14, 2018

A second video from the Thursday incident posted on YouTube shows an extended version of what happened. The two black men who are ultimately arrested speak calmly to police. A third man, later identified real estate developer Andrew Yaffe, who is white, appears and protests.

“Does anybody else think this is ridiculous?” he asks, calling it “absolute discrimination.” Yaffee spoke with attorney Lauren Wimmer about the incident, and she talked to the Philadelphia Inquirer. “He was meeting with the two gentlemen at the Starbucks to discuss business,” Wimmer said Saturday, identifying Yaffe as a friend. “These two guys are business professionals in commercial real estate.”

Wimmer is representing the men who were arrested, who have not been identified publicly. She told the Inquirer she believes the reason for the arrest was “completely based on race” and noted there was “no indication any crime was being committed.”

Starbucks is not the first major restaurant chain to come under fire for racial discrimination. In 1994, Denny’s agreed to pay more than $54 million to settle racial discrimination lawsuits; in 2004, Cracker Barrel paid $8.7 million in discrimination lawsuits.“Why are you here?” a Montgomery County assistant district attorney asked Andrea Constand in a Pennsylvania court Friday, during her testimony about her allegation that Bill Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her in 2004.

“For justice,” Constand replied.

Constand took the stand on Friday for the first time since the original trial 10 months ago, recalling once again the encounter with Cosby, where she says he handed her pills to relax that left her woozy. Cosby, she said, penetrated her as she lay immobilized.

Constand told the same details to a jury last year, which deadlocked on whether to convict Cosby of assault.

But unlike the first trial, this time around, five other women also told their stories about Cosby. They recounted in sometimes graphic, disturbing detail their encounters with him. Janice Dickinson, a former supermodel who said Cosby drugged and raped her in 1982 in Lake Tahoe, said she thought, as Cosby assaulted her, “Here was America’s Dad on top of me.”

Just one of Cosby’s accusers testified at the first trial, and she was not among the women called in court this week. Cosby is not on trial for the incidents they described — something the judge had to remind the jury — but the five women serve as “prior bad acts” witnesses, there to establish that Cosby had a pattern, one that speaks to the nature of the crime for which he is standing trial: drugging and molesting Constand. (Cosby has denied all the allegations against him and maintains his encounter with Constand was consensual.)

These women also faced sometimes brutal cross-examination. Cosby’s defense team questioned their motives for speaking out, suggesting they sought money or fame — a theme lead defense attorney Tom Mesereau hammered about Constand herself in his opening arguments. The defense also pulled apart inconsistencies in the witnesses’ testimonies and dredged up problems from their pasts: drug and alcohol abuse, run-ins with the law.

But the five other accusers withstood the torrent of questions and recriminations from the defense. They admitted to confusion about what happened to them decades ago, and that they spent years grappling with their encounters with Cosby. Yet they were adamant about their allegations: They were drugged, they were assaulted, and Cosby did it.

Or as Dickinson said, in a fiery exchange during cross-examination when a defense attorney attempted to discredit her with dirt from her past: “So what? Cosby raped me in Tahoe.”

The women tell their stories under oath

Constand testified on Friday, and the defense began its cross-examination the same day — and will continue on Monday. But the testimonies of the five other women, given earlier in the week, carried their own weight; this was their one, if incomplete, attempt at justice.

Their stories spun a damning narrative about Cosby over four days. Thomas, the first woman to testify, said she was 24 and an aspiring actress when she met Cosby through a talent agency in 1984 in Reno, Nevada. She said Cosby offered to mentor her and asked her to read a script, where she would play a drunk person. Thomas said Cosby gave her a glass of wine, and she took a sip and blacked out.

The rest of the night came in “snapshots,” she said on Tuesday, saying she remembers Cosby trying to force oral sex and waking up naked in bed with him.

Chelan Lasha recounted a 1986 encounter with Cosby in Las Vegas, when she was a 17-year-old aspiring actress who had just graduated from high school. She said Cosby expressed interest in helping her with her career and invited her to his suite at the Las Vegas Hilton.

When Lasha arrived, she said, a photographer took some pictures of her. She had a cold, so Cosby offered her a pill that he described as an antihistamine and gave her a shot of amaretto. Lasha, who had a cold at the time, said she trusted Cosby and took the pills, which left her immobilized. She said she remembers Cosby grunting and humping her; when she came to, she was naked.

Janice Baker-Kinney said she met Cosby as a bartender in Reno in 1982. She said Cosby gave her pills, and as they played backgammon, she passed out. She woke up the next morning undressed, in bed with Cosby.

Janice Dickinson said Thursday that in 1982, Cosby gave her a drug that he told her would help with her menstrual cramps, before assaulting her. “His robe opened,” she testified. “He smelled like cigar and espresso and his body odor.”

The fifth accuser, Lise-Lotte Lublin, said Cosby gave her two drinks in his hotel room in Las Vegas in 1989, when she was 23. She said she remembers Cosby stroking her hair before she blacked out.

The defense tries to discredit the accusers — but the women are defiant

Cosby’s team’s primary defense has been to try to paint Constand as an opportunist, using the $3.38 million civil settlement she received from Cosby in 2006 to anchor that claim. They’re also trying to sow the same doubts about the other women — that they’re not just liars but are motivated by money or fame.

It began with the first additional accuser called, Heidi Thomas. Defense attorney Kathleen Bliss implied Thomas was making a career out of her allegations against Cosby, bringing up numerous interviews and media spots she has given since she spoke publicly about her allegation in January 2015. “Since coming out in January [2015], you have [had] a lot of attention, wouldn’t you agree?” Bliss asked.

“I’m sure that’s what many people would say, yes,” Thomas replied. She said she had never received money for interviews except for airfare and hotel. She also said many of her public appearances came through her advocacy to change the statute of limitations for sexual assault, including in her home state of Colorado.

Attorneys did the same to Dickinson, who testified Thursday. In a heated exchange, defense attorney Mesereau brought up Dickinson’s 2002 memoir in which she said she took two quaaludes — sedatives that were used as party drugs in the 1970s and ’80s, which Cosby has admitted giving to women before sex — by herself, and never entered Cosby’s room.

Dickinson said she had discussed the rape with her editor but left it out for legal reasons. “It’s all a fabrication there,” she said. “I wanted the paycheck from the book.”

“You told a tale to the jury today that is completely different from the book,” Mesereau shot back. “You made things up to get a paycheck.”

Dickinson said that the book, not her testimony, was false. “You take poetic license in what you do,” she said. “Today I am on a sworn Bible.”

Dickinson, cross examined about content of her three books about her life, said “everything” in them involves poetic license. “You don’t think poetic license means lying?” Cosby laywer Tom Mesereau asks. “Do you know what it means?” she asks in return. — Laura McCrystal (@LMcCrystal) April 12, 2018

The defense tried to discredit the women in other ways. Many of them were the obvious tactics of pointing out discrepancies in testimony and statements — why dates didn’t match up, or why the women had contact with Cosby after they say their assault happened. How, the defense implied, could they be believed if they had gaps in their memory about the nights of the alleged assaults?

But they also went after the witnesses in more personal ways, airing the problems of their past in an attempt to bolster the argument that these women are unreliable. The defense brought up the women’s past substance abuse problems, for example, referencing Dickinson’s mention of drugs in her book.

Lawyers tried the same tactic on Baker-Kinney, trying to imply she took the drugs Cosby gave her willingly, which she denied. Mesereau questioned her past experimentation with drugs and past struggle with alcoholism; Baker-Kinney was open about her problems but refused to associate them with Cosby.

Lasha — who tearfully exclaimed, “You remember, don’t you, Mr. Cosby?” during her testimony Wednesday — was convicted of making a false statement to the police in 2007 about an unrelated case, an easy, and not unpersuasive, line of attack that made some observers question why the prosecution enlisted Lasha.

As the New York Times reports:

Under cross-examination, Kathleen Bliss, one of Mr. Cosby’s lawyers pushed her to answer why she had not told police investigating her Cosby account about her 2007 conviction for making a false statement to the police in an unrelated case. “You knew you had a conviction for filing a false police report in 2007, but you didn’t tell them, did you?,” Ms. Bliss asked. Ms. Lasha responded, “I said I had a criminal history,” but conceded that the police report did not make mention of that.

The defense questioned the witnesses’ associations with Constand, implying they were all coordinating to take down Cosby. That prompted a few memorable exchanges: Baker-Kinney called out Mesereau for visibly rolling his eyes when she responded to a question about her past contact with Constand.

Mesereau not having that answer. At one point, JBK interjects to Mesereau: “Are you rolling your eyes at me?” He responds: “Yes.” She’s stewing. JBK: “Well, I’m under oath, and I can tell you I never, ever, ever, spoke to her about this case.” — Jeremy Roebuck (@jeremyrroebuck) April 11, 2018

And when a defense attorney questioned Thomas’s open support for Constand, including a posting on Facebook, she shot back, “I want to see a serial rapist convicted.”

But when it comes to cross-examination, this is what a high-profile defense is paid to do. Cosby’s lawyers are deploying the strategies they believe will be most effective to discredit Cosby’s accusers and convince a jury of seven men and five women that they are unreliable at best and liars at worst.

It was a stark, unvarnished example of why many accusers fear speaking out about sexual assault and harassment. This is the undercurrent of #MeToo, what made it so powerful to hear survivors come forward together — and what makes the still-nascent movement so fragile.The senior pastor and founder of one of America’s most prominent evangelical megachurches has stepped down following accusations of sexual misconduct.

Bill Hybels, who founded the Chicago-area Willow Creek Community Church in 1975, announced Tuesday evening that he was leaving his post. A March Chicago Tribune article called attention to Hybels’s alleged history of making unwanted advances to junior church staff members. The article also alleged that members of Willow Creek leadership had been aware of these reports and that members had been divided over the effectiveness of the church’s response.

Hybels’s resignation — one of many recent high-profile resignations over sexual misconduct in the evangelical community — suggests that the #MeToo movement may have, at last, reached the evangelical church.

But his departure points to another problem in the evangelical community: (Usually male) individual megachurch pastors have a large influence over their flock. And that influence makes it more difficult to pursue allegations against those leaders.

As Katelyn Beaty, an editor-at-large at the evangelical magazine Christianity Today, told Vox: “Many evangelical institutions are beholden to the power of celebrity and of charismatic men, and have staked too much of their future on the ‘success’ of those men, regardless of potential wrongdoing. There can be a fear that if ‘bad news’ comes out about those men or the church, it will harm the spread of the gospel.”

Willow Creek pioneered the “seeker-sensitive” model for megachurches

Hybels’s resignation is particularly significant because Willow Creek is a paradigm for evangelical megachurches across the United States. The church, which today boasts about 26,000 attendees every weekend, was an early pioneer of what is known as the “seeker-sensitive” model of churchgoing.

These churches actively sought to appeal to a modern, secular audience. Stressing easily understood sermons, contemporary music, and a charismatic pastor, Willow Creek became a successful, often replicated model. Willow itself diverged from the “seeker-sensitive” model in recent years, embracing a more traditional approach, but Hybels nevertheless was a particularly visible and influential figure in the evangelical community.

As Beaty put it: “You can’t understand the evangelical movement in the United States without understanding the Willow Creek story and its enormous growth over the past 30-plus years.” American author and church development consultant Lyle Schaller once called it “the most influential church in America.”

Rumors about Hybel have been swirling for a while

According to the Tribune, the Willow Creek church elders, an appointed committee of church leaders, had been made aware of Hybels’s alleged misconduct in 2013 and 2014.

This misconduct, according to the Tribune, included “suggestive comments, extended hugs, an unwanted kiss and invitations to hotel rooms,” as well as allegations of a decade-long consensual extramarital affair with a married woman who later retracted her claims.

(During an initial investigation, church officials found a record of more than 1,000 emails sent between Hybels and the woman in question but were unable to read them despite having access to the pastor’s electronic devices. He later said he’d failed to archive messages after his computer had been hacked in an unrelated incident.)

Among those who have come forward with their stories is Willow staff member Vonda Dyer, who recounted incidents of Hybels’s unwanted touching and sexual comments both to the Tribune and on her blog. Dyer recounts that he repeatedly made comments on her sexual desirability, her body, and her clothing. In February 1998, Dyer writes on her blog, Hybels tried to initiate a sexual affair during a Willow business trip to Sweden. She writes:

He told me he had taken Ambien. He then shared unfiltered thoughts about me, describing in great detail specific parts of my body he liked, and said he thought I was effusive, sexy and had great candor, mentioned what a promising leader I was, and he said, “We would be so good together. We could lead Willow together. ... He then put his hands on my waist, moved one hand to caress my stomach and kissed me on the lips

According to the Tribune, a number of other women, many unidentified, had come forward to church elders with similar stories over the past few months and years.

The handling of the accusations has divided church elders. An initial internal investigation was carried out in 2014, and Hybels was exonerated. But several members of church leadership argued that the investigation had been ill-designed and insufficient, relying heavily on the pastor’s own testimony and a cursory perusal of his financial and correspondence records.

Among those pushing for a more extensive investigation were John and Nancy Ortberg, former teaching pastors at Willow Creek; Jon Wallace, president at Azusa Pacific University; and Kara Powell, of Fuller Theological Seminary. In 2015, all three resigned from the board of Willow Creek Association, a nonprofit associated with the church, over frustration with the process.

A second investigation was carried out in 2017 on behalf of the church by Jeffrey Fowler of the law firm Laner Muchin in Chicago. The Ortbergs — as well as Jim and Leanne Mellado, another couple affiliated with Willow leadership who had been made aware of Hybels’s alleged victims — initially accepted the church’s invitation to be involved in the process, although none were directly affiliated with Willow at the time. (The Ortbergs had left direct ministry at Willow Creek for a California church in 2003, while the Mellados moved to Colorado in 2013.)

The Ortbergs and Mellados also retained as their legal adviser Basyle “Boz” Tchividjian, grandson of evangelist Billy Graham and founder of GRACE (Godly Response to Abuse in the Christian Environment). The Ortbergs and Mellados ultimately found this second investigation, which also cleared Hybels, to be unsatisfactory.

In a recent post on his blog, John Ortberg decried the investigation process he witnessed as “poorly designed and likely to expose any woman who came forward to grave risks.” He noted that the law firm engaged by the church “exclusively represented” management, and cited concerns that such a firm could function as an impartial investigator in a dispute of this kind.

Formally, Willow Creek Church has steadfastly maintained Hybels’s innocence. Shortly after the Chicago Tribune story broke, Pam Orr, chair of the Willow Creek Elder Board, released a statement accusing “two couples” — they do not reference the Ortbergs and Mellados by name — of having “engaged in a coordinated effort to undermine Bill’s reputation.”

However, this week, Hybels’s early retirement announcement seemed to suggest that Willow Creek has, at last, bowed to critics’ pressure. While Hybels continued to deny the allegations against him, he apologized for his response to them. “I sincerely wish my initial response had been one of listening and humble reflection,” his statement said.

Hybels’s resignation has spurred discussion about how churches handle sexual misconduct in their ranks

Whether or not Hybels is guilty of sexual misconduct, the fact that he seems to have felt pressure to resign is a sign of a change in how the evangelical community deals with issues of sexual misconduct.

As Beaty noted: “Hybels’s early resignation — and especially the admittance that he was thinking through the allegations against him — signals that he understands that Christian leaders can’t continue on leading and serving as if nothing happened after women come forward with allegations of sexual harassment. Even if Hybels still believes he did nothing wrong, he at least understands that continuing on in a position of formal leadership is bad optics, especially in the #MeToo era.”

Tchividjian echoed her comments, telling Vox: “Did the current environment, in which we have seen more and more women in various cultures and environments ... step forward when they would have been silent in years past [inspire these women]? It did empower them to finally step forward to say something about a man that in their world is extremely powerful and influential.”

Tchividjian declined to discuss the specifics of the Hybels case, citing his legal work with the Ortbergs and Mellados. But like Beaty, he highlighted more generally the degree to which the Hybels case spoke to a specific cultural phenomenon in evangelical communities: pastors who are afforded too much power.

When a lead pastor is so closely identified with his church, Tchividjian said, whether in a small country church or a large megachurch, it creates a risky power imbalance between pastor and parishioner.

“In many communities ... a pastor is one of God’s representatives of authority in the church,” Tchividjian said. “And it’s very difficult for anybody in those settings and report and disclose this behavior because what you’re doing is you’re actually indicting God’s representative. And oftentimes ... that particular community doesn’t look too kindly on that.”

But Tchividjian expressed hope that the current cultural moment might provide avenues for parishioners to hold their spiritual authorities accountable.

“As Christians, we have to get back to the realization ... that the church doesn’t belong to a pastor, a person, or even a congregation,” he said. “If we truly believe that, we should embrace transparency and truth.”Lynchburg, Virginia, became the site of a battleground over the future of American evangelicalism last weekend.

On one side of the conflict was Liberty University, the evangelical Christian college founded by Moral Majority leader Jerry Falwell (who died in 2007) and now run by his son, Jerry Falwell Jr.

Liberty has become a de facto stronghold of pro-Trump evangelicals, and the younger Falwell has frequently spoken out in support of both the president and his policies. In 2017, he called Trump a “dream president.” Just last month, as debates about campus gun violence rocked the nation, the university opened a new gun range for students, celebrating it as a triumph of Christian values.

Leading the other camp was Shane Claiborne, the self-described “radical evangelical,” author, and activist, who lives in a faith-based intentional community in Philadelphia.

The “Red Letter Revival” he co-organized — a direct repudiation of Falwell’s values — exhorted the people in attendance to divorce evangelicalism from politicized Christian nationalism and white supremacy.

Featuring a Native American prayer for the land, a Christian rapper who presented a prayer in poetry, and an openly bisexual speaker, the Red Letter Revival was diverse (only two of 18 presenters were white men) and passionately political.

Its speakers repudiated what Pastor David Anderson called “evangelicals ... more committed to the amendments than to the commandments.”

One Charlottesville pastor, Brenda Brown-Grooms, spoke up to declare “Christian nationalism” a form of “apostasy”: a serious and willful deviation from the Christian faith.

Their goal of the event? As Claiborne put it in an interview with Vox: “a Christianity that looks like Jesus again.” The racialized rhetoric of Trumpism, he said, meant that “the words of Jesus are getting lost in white evangelicalism.”

The revival was relatively small. Its approximately 350 attendees paled in comparison to the 8,000-odd on-campus Liberty students. But Liberty’s response was swift — and intense.

According to Claiborne, he invited Falwell to the event, and asked Falwell to pray with him as a show of unity. The university immediately responded with a letter from its police department, informing Claiborne he was barred from campus and that he would be arrested for trespassing if he set foot on campus. (Claiborne posted the exchange, including both letters, on Twitter.)

BREAKING: I sent @JerryFalwellJr a sincere request to pray with us at the #LynchburgRevival. His response? A letter threatening up to a year in jail and a $2500 fine if we attempt to pray on campus @LibertyU, even with students and alumni. Here are both letters. pic.twitter.com/hiGq3C0Zh5 — Shane Claiborne (@ShaneClaiborne) April 5, 2018

That wasn’t Liberty University’s only retaliation. According to Jack Jenkins at Religion News Service, Erin Covey — a Liberty junior and assistant news editor at the university paper the Liberty Champion — was barred from writing an article about the event.

According to Covey, after she reached out to Falwell via email for comment about the event, he responded by telling her: “[L]et’s not run any articles about the event. That’s all these folks are here for — publicity. Best to ignore them.” Covey told Religion News Service that senior administrators frequently killed articles from the student newspaper. Because the university is privately owned, they have the right to do so.

Liberty University officials have not responded to Vox’s request for comment.

Liberty’s outsize response to the Red Letter Revival points to a wider, and increasingly important, issue for evangelicals: the degree to which opposition to Trump is an unacceptable viewpoint in many pockets of the evangelical community. Support of Donald Trump — and of policies on immigration and gun control — is, to certain bastions of the evangelical right, seen as a necessary element of Christianity.

Evangelicalism and Trumpism have become synonymous in certain evangelical areas

Two years ago, the idea that the old-guard evangelicals would treat Trumpism as a tenet of their faith was unimaginable. According to a FiveThirtyEight poll, only 44 percent of white evangelical Republicans supported Trump during the primaries. But in the months and years since Trump won the Republican primary, evangelicalism, (white) nationalism, and Trumpism have become increasingly closely linked. Eighty-one percent of white evangelicals voted for Trump in the general election.

Pat Robertson’s Christian Broadcasting Channel, as I have previously written, has become a de facto mouthpiece for the Trump administration, lobbing softballs at administration officials in exchange for access. Members of Trump’s evangelical advisory council, including prosperity gospel preacher Paula White, have gone on the record telling listeners that God has ordained the Trump presidency.

Robert Jeffress, the pastor of the First Baptist Church in Dallas and Trump’s evangelical right-hand man, even turned “Make America Great Again” into a hymn. As historian John Fea put it in a Washington Post op-ed, these are “court evangelicals,” who see Christianity and political power as going hand in hand.

As a result, across the evangelical spectrum, those who have vocally opposed Trump or his policies have often met with strong backlash. After Southern Baptist Convention leader Russell Moore — president of the convention’s policy arm — made vocal opposition to Trump a hallmark of his public persona, hundreds of Southern Baptist churches threatened to withhold funding from the central convention. (While Moore kept his job, he was forced to apologize for some of his remarks about Trump.)

A number of prominent evangelical writers, including Katelyn Beaty and Skye Jethani, have written about disavowing the term “evangelical.” Even Russell Moore has suggested going by the term “gospel Christian.” For these thinkers, the evangelical community has become synonymous with support for Trump and the white nationalist policies they see him represent.

So too the growing exodus of black evangelicals from the evangelical movement, many of whom report feeling pressured to vote for or support Donald Trump in spite of his statements on race.

As Doug Birdsall, chair of the international Lausanne organization of evangelicals, put it to the Washington Post: “When you Google ‘evangelicals,’ you get Trump.”

But nowhere has the conflation of Trumpism and evangelical Christianity been stronger than at Liberty. And nowhere has the pressure on anti-Trump evangelicals been more severe. As I’ve written previously, the younger Falwell’s political stance has caused discomfort among faculty and students alike.

In 2016, Mark DeMoss, the former chief of staff for the elder Falwell, was forced to resign from Liberty’s board of trustees. His crime? Publicly criticizing Falwell’s endorsement of Trump. In October of that year, Falwell censored a student op-ed critical of Trump and his comments about women on the infamous Access Hollywood tape.

And in 2017, Liberty officials forcibly removed an anti-Trump activist and pastor, Jonathan Martin, from campus after a student group invited him to pray with them. At the time, Liberty senior Dustin Wahl expressed concerns to Vox over the division between Liberty’s leadership and its student ethos, pointing out that a tiny proportion of Liberty students voted for Trump in the Republican primaries. Wahl said: “many have misconceptions about what we’re really like, due to Falwell’s misusing his platform ... Falwell has been somewhat successful in leaving the impression that Liberty itself is behind Trump, which is one of many reasons I believe dissent here is so necessary.”

Wahl also noted that a number of faculty members disagree with Falwell’s politicizations of Christianity but are afraid to speak out due to fear of losing their jobs. (Liberty faculty are not tenured.)

The Red Letter Christian movement seeks to divorce evangelicalism from Trumpism

The Red Letter Christian movement — named for the red lettering used to denote Jesus’s words in many Bibles — is, in many ways, a direct repudiation of Falwell’s brand of Christianity.

For these thinkers, the evangelical establishment’s embrace of Trumpism — unbridled capitalism, xenophobic nativism, and a willingness to engage with white supremacy — goes against everything Jesus stands for.

“Jerry Falwell [Jr.]’s dream is a nightmare to our most marginalized people, those whom Jesus called the ‘least of these,’” Claiborne told Vox in a telephone interview.

The Red Letter Christians aren’t alone among evangelicals uncomfortable with the way GOP politics and Christianity have become intertwined. There are signs that in the wider community, dissenting voices, particularly over Trump’s seeming embrace of white supremacists, are growing. In July 2017, for example the Southern Baptist Convention near-unanimously passed a resolution condemning the “alt-right.” And last December, Roy Moore, an open proponent of Christian theocracy, lost a special election for US Senate in Alabama.

Still, it’s important not to overstate the evangelical opposition to Trump. A recent poll found that 70 percent of white evangelicals still approve of the job Trump is doing as president — not that much smaller a percentage than that of white evangelicals who voted for him. But it’s also vital to recognize that evangelical Christianity isn’t a monolith. Within the evangelical community, a number of voices have been actively advocating for a Christianity that contends with the racism and nationalism in its ranks — and in its history.

As for the Red Letter Christians, they’re planning their next revival. Clairborne suggests the next rally location might be Dallas, where Jeffress of First Baptist Dallas does double duty as Trump’s evangelical mouthpiece.

After all, Claiborne told Vox, “I don’t think ‘Make America Great Again’ was ever meant to be a worship song.”One of Bill Cosby’s accusers confronted Cosby from the witness stand on the third day of his sexual assault trial on Wednesday. “You remember, don’t you, Mr. Cosby?” Chelan Lasha said tearfully to him from the stand.

Wrenching, hard to watch testimony from Bill Cosby prosecution witness Chelan Lasha who sobbed and cried almost continuously. Collapsed in tears against a wall in hall just outside courtroom as she left. — Manuel Roig-Franzia (@RoigFranzia) April 11, 2018

Lasha’s testimony anchored what was perhaps the most intense, emotional day of Cosby’s trial so far. Cosby is charged with drugging and assaulting former Temple University employee Andrea Constand in 2004. The prosecution is calling five additional accusers, including Lasha, to the stand to establish a pattern for Cosby.

Lasha was the second of the five women to testify, and her outburst toward Cosby prompted the defense to ask Judge Steven O’Neill for a mistrial. The judge declined, though he struck the comment from the record.

In her testimony, Lasha recounted a 1986 encounter with Cosby in Las Vegas, when she was a 17-year-old aspiring actress who had just graduated from high school. She said Cosby expressed interest in helping her with her career, and had spoken with her and her grandmother before he invited her to his suite at the Las Vegas Hilton.

When Lasha arrived, she said, a photographer took some pictures of her. She had a cold, so Cosby offered her a pill that he described as an antihistamine and gave her a shot of amaretto. Lasha, who had a cold at the time, said she trusted Cosby and took the pills.

Lasha said Cosby then laid her down on the bed, and she could not move. “He kept pinching my breast and humping my leg,” she said. “Waking up, I was naked.”

She told the jury during the assault when she couldn't move she kept thinking "Dr. Huxtable you said you were going to help me, why are you doing this to me?" — Claudia Rosenbaum (@CJRosenbaum) April 11, 2018

Lasha said she remembered Cosby grunting and humping her; when she came to, she was naked. Lasha said she told her high school guidance counselor and her sister what had happened. She said a few days after the incident, she received a phone call from Cosby: “People who talk too much can be quieted,” he said, according to her.

Lasha’s tearful testimony was bookended by the defense’s cross-examination of Heidi Thomas, a music teacher from Colorado who said the comedian drugged and assaulted her in 1984, when she was 24. Thomas, who delivered her story on Tuesday, faced down defense attorney Kathleen Bliss, who questioned her about her decision to come forward with accusations against Cosby, asking about her frequent media appearances — a line of attack that echoes the defense’s tactics against Constand, whom lawyers painted as seeking fame and money in opening arguments — and asking her about a message of support she sent Cosby.

Thomas said she came forward to support other women who weren’t believed. She also stood firm when Bliss questioned her open support for Constand, including a posting on Facebook.

When questioned about this support by the defense, Thomas replied, “I want to see a serial rapist convicted.”

Bliss: “You’ve made it very clear that you want to help Andrea Constand, haven’t you?”

Thoma: ”I want to see a serial rapist convicted.” — Jeremy Roebuck (@jeremyrroebuck) April 11, 2018

The jury heard from one more accuser on Wednesday: Janice Baker-Kinney, who said she met Cosby as a bartender in Reno in 1982. She said Cosby gave her pills, and as they played backgammon, she passed out. She woke up the next morning undressed, in bed with Cosby.

The defense, in cross-examination, tried to imply that Baker-Kinner took the drugs willingly by bringing up past drug and alcohol abuse. They questioned her past statements, including ones where she suggested she wasn’t aware she had been raped by Cosby until other accusers came forward.

Mesereau also stressing past statements where JBK said for 30 years she didn’t remember being raped. Didn’t realize until other Cosby accusers started coming forward. But JBK not wanting to give him an inch on anything. — Jeremy Roebuck (@jeremyrroebuck) April 11, 2018

“I still don’t like to say the words — I was raped,” Baker-Kinney said on the stand at one point. “I don’t want to think that while I was unconscious someone thought it was okay to have sex with me. I don’t want to be that stupid idiot.”A woman has accused Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens of coercing her to perform oral sex, undressing, kissing and touching her without her consent, and threatening to release a nude photo of her if she told anyone about their encounter, which took place in 2015.

The accusation — disturbing, detailed, and backed up by testimony from witnesses the woman spoke to at the time — was the centerpiece of a report from an independent panel of state legislators released Wednesday night. The report also included accusations that Greitens had physically abused the woman, including nonconsensual spanking and slapping.

The report followed Greitens’s February indictment on a felony charge of invasion of privacy carrying up to seven years of prison time, which saw him led away by the St. Louis sheriff’s office.

But the accusations in the report are even more damning and horrifying than the charges Greitens faces when the trial starts on March 14.

The scandal began in January when local CBS affiliate KMOV reported that Greitens cheated on his wife, secretly took photos of the woman he cheated with, and attempted to blackmail the woman into silence by threatening to release the photos. KMOV did not include the accusations that the encounter was not consensual, instead describing it as an extramarital affair — the framing Greitens has used in public statements but which the legislature’s report suggests is inaccurate.

Greitens called the report inaccurate and the result of a “political witch hunt.” He has steadfastly refused to resign. The majority of the legislators on the panel were Republicans like Greitens, and they said they found the woman credible. Since the report’s release, a bevy of Missouri Republicans — including Congresswoman Ann Wagner and State Attorney General and US Senate candidate Josh Hawley — have called for Greitens’ resignation.

Greitens, a Navy SEAL and Rhodes Scholar with a Bronze Star, a Purple Heart, and a doctorate in refugee studies, was the country’s second-youngest governor at 43 and getting presidential buzz before the allegations first emerged. Previously a Democrat, Greitens switched parties and successfully ran for Missouri governor as a Republican in 2016. A profile during the gubernatorial campaign declared, “If the man has an Achilles’ heel, it’s perfection.”

His actual Achilles’ heel appears to be that he is accused of sexually and physically abusing a woman.

Greitens faced mounting calls for his resignation as a trial nears and new details of his offenses continue to accumulate. For now, he is not resigning in the wake of these allegations. In a news conference Wednesday in advance of the report’s release, he declared that “this was a private mistake that has nothing to do with governing,” that the matter would be put to rest at his trial, which begins on May 14, and that the woman accusing him was confused and might have just been dreaming it all.

What Greitens allegedly did

The account the woman gave to the legislative committee is considerably more detailed than the initial stories that broke in January, and thus is the most complete accounting of what occurred to date. The committee talked to corroborating witnesses and concluded that the woman is “credible.”

The woman details a number of nonconsensual incidents, including when, during a haircut appointment on March 7, 2015 (before the revenge porn incident described above), Greitens felt up her leg all the way to her crotch without consent. On March 21, the woman says, she met Greitens at his house, supposedly to talk, and Greitens attempted to initiate “some sort of, like, sexy workout.”

She says he had “prepared clothes for her to change into,” and once she had changed into them, he led her into his basement, where he “taped her hands to pull-up rings … and then put a blindfold on her.”

She says he then drank water and spit it into her mouth, saying, “Before we start a workout you have to be hydrated.” “I realized he’s trying to kiss me,” she recalled, “but I don’t even want to kiss him. So I just spit it out. He does it and he’s like ‘You’re not going to be a bad girl, are you? Tries to do it again, to which I just let it dribble out, because I didn’t even want to kiss him again.”

Then, she says, Greitens began kissing from her neck down to her chest and ripped open her shirt, once again without consent. He then remarked on a scar on her stomach before continuing to kiss her stomach and pulling down her pants (again, without consent). That’s when she saw the flash of a camera through the blindfold, she said, and she recalls he told her: “You’re not going to mention my name. Don’t even mention my name to anybody at all, because if you do, I’m going to take these pictures, and I’m going to put them everywhere I can. They are going to be everywhere, and then everyone will know what a little whore you are.”

When he asked if she was going to mention his name, she said no through gritted teeth, and he replied, “Now that’s a good girl.”

He then began to kiss her stomach and motion toward attempting oral sex on her when, she says, “I just started freaking out and I started ripping down my hands. I was like, Get me out of here. I’m not ready for this. I don’t want this. I don’t want this.” “I was definitely fearful,” she said. She told him, “I don’t want this,” and, “I’m leaving,” and he “grab[bed] me and like — like, in a bear hug, and was like, Shh, shh, it’s okay, calm down, calm down, and like, lays me down on this ground in the basement.”

She says she started crying uncontrollably. “He starts undoing his pants, and he takes his penis out and puts it, like, near where my face is,” she recalls. At that point, convinced that he would not let her leave otherwise, she performed oral sex, she said. When investigators asked if it was consensual, she replied: “It felt like consent, but no, I didn’t want to do it. … Coerced, maybe. I felt as though that would allow me to leave.”

After that, he did let her leave, she says, though she returned later that day for her keys.

She returned to his house at 4 pm after work, where he explained the picture he took of her the following way: “He said, I know ... but you have to understand, I’m running for office, and people will get me, and I have to have some sort of thing to protect myself. And I thought about you, though, and I felt bad, so I erased it. To which – you know, I didn’t believe him, but at least, he, like, acknowledged that it was messed up and had a reason why.”

Later, at another salon appointment, the woman says she and Greitens kissed consensually, and that in May, they met up at his house and had consensual oral sex. Then in June, she went over to his house to make out. She says he asked her if she had slept with her husband since the previous incident. She said yes, and he slapped her in the face. She recalled, “I said, I think you’re screwed up from being in the Navy.”

The next week, she went over to his house for a “workout.” “At first it was fine,” she said, and then he began “fingering me and … out of nowhere, just, like, kind of smacked me and grabbed me and shoved me down on the ground. And I instantly just started bawling and was just like, What is wrong with you?”

The accusations in the report are considerably more serious and damning than the initial reporting that emerged in January. KMOV News 4 investigative reporters Lauren Trager and John O’Sullivan based their initial report (a video of which you can view here) on a recording of the woman provided to the station by the woman’s ex-husband.

The recording, taken in March 2015 without the woman’s knowledge, depicts her and her then-husband discussing her relationship with Greitens. The tape was made days after the alleged March 21 incident with revenge porn and attempted forcible oral sex, according to the ex-husband. It covered the revenge porn but didn’t go into detail about Greitens’s other nonconsensual acts.

Shortly after that story broke, TPM’s Allegra Kirkland spoke to the ex-husband’s lawyer and Missouri Democratic operative Roy Temple, who both reported that the ex-husband mentioned that Greitens slapped the woman before sex. The legislative report confirms this account.

The legal and political fallout

The “invasion of privacy” statute under which Greitens has been charged applies to cases where a defendant “knowingly photographs or films another person, without the person’s knowledge and consent, while the person being photographed or filmed is in a state of full or partial nudity and is in a place where one would have a reasonable expectation of privacy, and the person subsequently distributes the photograph or film to another or transmits the image contained in the photograph or film in a manner that allows access to that image via a computer.”

It is a class D felony, carrying a prison sentence of up to seven years.

And the other accusations in the woman’s account could open the door to much more serious charges, like sodomy and sexual abuse.

Whatever happens criminally, the scandal has completely destroyed Greitens’s administration, which saw Republicans return to the office after eight years in opposition.

Greitens was fairly popular before the scandal — 20 percent more Missourians approved than disapproved of him in polling last October — but the indictment follows more than a few major clashes during his first year in office. Greitens pushed through a law making Missouri a right-to-work state; while today the state has relatively few union members, historically its brewing industry has been heavily unionized. Opponents have successfully forced a referendum on the issue onto the 2018 ballot, suspending the law’s enforcement in the process.

More damaging were revelations that his gubernatorial campaign relied heavily on massive amounts of dark money from wealthy donors. Missouri has historically had among the laxest campaign finance laws of any state; this upcoming election will be the first one in which state candidates face any contribution limits at all. Before, anyone — individuals, corporations, unions, PACs — could give an unlimited amount to campaigns. That changed with a 2016 ballot measure that finally enacted limits, which passed 70 percent to 30 but which Greitens opposed.

But even by the state’s lax standards, Greitens stood out. During the governor’s race, he received $1.975 million in one day, and no one knows where it came from. It went from a Super PAC called SEALS for Truth to Greitens’s campaign, and to SEALS for Truth from a nonprofit called American Policy Coalition. This is an easy way to use Super PACs and nonprofits to evade donor disclosure, but it’s rarely done as brazenly as in Greitens’s case.

There’s more, as the St. Louis Post-Dispatch’s Kevin McDermott recaps in this helpful piece. Greitens was fined for not disclosing how his campaign got the donor list from his nonprofit, the Mission Continues; the Associated Press found that the campaign raised nearly $2 million from the Mission Continues donors, despite Greitens’s denials that he used the group’s list to fundraise.

He has also refused to release his individual tax returns; the amounts that companies, wealthy individuals, and lobbyists donated to his inauguration parties; and the funders of A New Missouri, a nonprofit he founded as governor to promote his agenda.

The inauguration issue took on new prominence after his administration offered a no-bid contract to one of the inauguration donors. It’s hard to evaluate if there was a quid pro quo involved because no one knows how much the firm actually gave Greitens; he refuses to disclose the numbers. Members of the Missouri legislature introduced bills attempting to demand disclosure from secretive nonprofits like A New Missouri after it aired an attack ad against state Sen. Rob Schaaf, a Republican critic of Greitens, and displayed Schaaf’s personal cellphone number for viewers to call.

Greitens has defended his conduct by comparing dark money to the secret ballot: “The people who believe in voter intimidation believe that the minute you make a political donation, that you immediately need to turn all your information over to the government. … When people go in and they vote, nobody calls that dark voting.”

All that wasn’t enough to end Greitens’s tenure in office. But the accusations have already led some prominent Republicans to call for his resignation. It is hard to imagine a governor credibly accused of sexual assault remaining in his job for long.Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens (R) coerced a woman into performing oral sex on him, claimed to have taken a compromising photo of her, and threatened to release the photo if she told anyone, according to a special investigative report from the Missouri state legislature released Wednesday night.

The report, which includes disturbing and graphic details, describes a 2015 sexual encounter between Greitens and a woman who worked as his hairdresser in which he also blindfolded her, pulled her pants and ripped her shirt without her consent, claimed to have taken a photo, and threatened to release the photo if she told anyone about the encounter. The encounter happened before Greitens took office.

Soon after, the woman told her now ex-husband about the incident with Greitens, she told investigators.

“You’ve been half-raped and blackmailed,” her husband said, according to the report.

“Yes,” the woman responded.

The woman testified that in a separate encounter, Greitens slapped her in the face and called her a “whore” when she talked about a past sexual encounter she had with her husband, from whom she was separated at the time.

“I felt like he was trying to claim me,” she later told lawmakers, describing the slap as “jarring” and “forceful.”

The investigative committee of Missouri lawmakers, including five Republicans and two Democrats, said they found the woman to be a credible witness and corroborated her testimony with a number of other witnesses, none of whom are named in the report. Greitens declined to testify, the report says.

The Greitens scandal blew up earlier this year, when the governor was indicted on a felony charge of invasion of privacy and led away by the St. Louis County sheriff’s office. Previous reports called it an extramarital affair, but the report from the legislature describes a relationship that, while it included one encounter the woman said was consensual, started through coercion and included physical violence as well as threats of blackmail.

Ahead of the report’s release, Democratic state lawmakers who had read the report called on the governor to resign, saying the details the report contained were too disturbing for him to continue in office.

Greitens pushed back in a televised press conference today, calling the investigation a politically motivated “witch hunt.”

The second-youngest governor in the nation, Greitens had clear political ambitions for higher office, taking the step to reserve the web address EricGreitensForPresident.com years ago. On paper, he had a sterling record: He was a Rhodes Scholar and served as a Navy SEAL; he was awarded a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart for his service. He got his doctorate in refugee studies and founded a nonprofit serving fellow veterans.

His trial is set to begin on May 14.

You can read the full report here or below:April 11 marks the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act, a measure meant to ensure that people from marginalized groups have an equal opportunity to buy or rent homes and are not discriminated against.

President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the act in the days after civil rights icon Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) considers combatting housing discrimination to be one of its key missions.

But a half-century later, housing advocates are worried that President Donald Trump — who was once sued for housing discrimination — and HUD Secretary Ben Carson are abandoning this important goal.

Those concerns were exacerbated in March, when HUD confirmed that it was considering replacing anti-discrimination language in its mission statement with a reference to encouraging “self-sufficiency.”

The changes have yet to be finalized, but civil rights groups, fair housing advocates, and politicians are alarmed that a government agency expressly tasked with combating housing discrimination would consider making such a move.

“Secretary Carson is sending a message to the country that he does not take discrimination in the housing market seriously,” Diane Yentel, president and CEO of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, told Newsweek in March. Even if the language changes happen, she said, HUD Secretary Ben Carson and the agency still have a legal obligation to fight housing discrimination.

Carson has pushed back on the idea that the agency was moving away from that mission. “The Department’s mission statement has changed from time to time to capture the dynamic nature of our work. It changed in 2003 and again in 2010. Now, in 2018, we are considering another change to our mission statement and are seeking comments and ideas from our senior staff,” he wrote in a March 8 letter to HUD staffers.

“The notion that any new mission statement would reflect a lack of commitment to fair housing is nonsense,” he added.

Still, the proposal fits with the new conservative direction that Carson has been pushing HUD toward for months. Though his efforts have, at times, been obscured by his lack of experience and a number of ongoing scandals at the agency, the changes to the mission statement, coupled with Carson’s moves to roll back Obama-era housing policies, suggest that Carson wants to radically shift a key part of HUD’s fundamental mission and focus.

HUD is supposed to help marginalized groups. But Carson seems to be trying to change that.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development is the main federal agency tasked with overseeing housing in the US. This includes programs related to homeowner protection, mortgage lending, affordable housing, and community development.

The agency is also supposed to promote anti-discrimination and fairness in housing, and, under the Fair Housing Act of 1968, is authorized to investigate claims of housing discrimination. Because of this, much of HUD’s work revolves around assisting marginalized groups, particularly people of color and LGBTQ individuals.

But recent reports suggest that the agency may be deemphasizing this part of its mission. In March, the Huffington Post broke the news of the changes to the mission statement, citing a leaked March 5 internal memo issued by Amy Thompson, HUD’s assistant secretary for public affairs.

In the memo, Thompson says that the mission statement is being updated “in an effort to align HUD’s mission with the Secretary’s priorities and that of the Administration.”

The original mission statement, which is still on HUD’s website, contains several references to “inclusive and sustainable communities”:

HUD’s mission is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all. HUD is working to strengthen the housing market to bolster the economy and protect consumers; meet the need for quality affordable rental homes; utilize housing as a platform for improving quality of life; build inclusive and sustainable communities free from discrimination, and transform the way HUD does business.

But as HuffPost’s Amanda Terkel notes, the new statement removes a significant number of words and replaces references to inclusive communities with a line about self-sufficiency:

HUD’s mission is to ensure Americans have access to fair, affordable housing and opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency, thereby strengthening our communities and nation.

In a March 7 statement, HUD said that the changes were “modest” and that mission statements from the agency will continue to “embody the principle of fairness as a central element.” The agency added that “HUD has been, is now, and will always be committed to ensuring inclusive housing, free from discrimination for all Americans.”

Carson has long been critical of how HUD approaches housing discrimination

HUD would not be the first agency to change a significant part of its mission statement under Trump. In February, US Citizenship and Immigration Services removed the phrase “nation of immigrants” from its mission statement language.

Much like the USCIS change, adjusting the HUD mission statement would serve as a symbolic confirmation of a policy shift that is already underway. Since assuming leadership of HUD last year, Carson has moved to deemphasize the importance of anti-discrimination work at the agency.

The first signs of this shift appeared during his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination. In a 2015 column for the Washington Times, Carson criticized an Obama administration rule that would require recipients of HUD block grants to complete assessments explaining what their communities look like and how they were working to combat segregation. Carson argued the rule was not focused on explicit discrimination, calling it a form of “social engineering” that relies “on a tortured reading of the Fair Housing laws.”

In January, the Trump administration announced it was delaying the implementation of the rule until 2020, although due to the way the rule is structured, this actually means it won’t go into effect until much later.

This isn’t the only Obama-era rule Carson has attempted to avoid. As Jeff Andrews writes for Curbed, HUD has also moved to delay the Small Area Fair Market Rent (SAFMR) rule, which would give people receiving Section 8 housing vouchers more options when choosing where to live. This would allow them to move out of the poorer, more racially segregated areas that voucher recipients are often limited to.

Carson wanted to postpone implementing the rule for two years to give housing authorities more time to implement the change, but civil rights groups filed a lawsuit saying Carson had not followed legal procedure when implementing the change. The court sided with the groups over Carson and the agency is now working to put the SAFMR rule into effect.

The HUD secretary has also opposed same-sex marriage and LGBTQ rights, and the agency has actively moved away from combating anti-LGBTQ discrimination in housing. According to ThinkProgress, HUD has withdrawn a survey about LGBTQ homelessness and has quietly eliminated publications that show how to prevent violence against transgender people living in homeless shelters. The agency is currently being sued for more information on its handling of LGBTQ housing issues.

In late March, the New York Times reported that the head of HUD’s Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity division paused several fair housing investigations last fall. The investigations had been ordered by previous HUD Secretary Julian Castro. And some preliminary cases, including an investigation into Facebook’s alleged practice of allowing advertisers to exclude certain racial groups from seeing housing ads, have been terminated.

“For all intents and purposes, this administration is stopping the enforcement of civil rights and fair housing laws at the worst possible time,” Gustavo Velasquez, who served as assistant secretary for fair housing during the Obama administration, told the Times.

Housing policy experts have been troubled by these developments. “Carson has sent very clear messages, through both his policy decisions and public statements, that he doesn’t think the federal government has a role in reducing racial disparities,” Jenny Schuetz, a fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program, told me. “That’s very concerning because we still have large disparities between blacks and whites in homeownership, housing wealth, and neighborhood quality.”

Those disparities can be severe and were exacerbated by the Great Recession. Research from the Urban Institute found that black homeownership rates in 2015 were roughly the same level as they were in 1968. And black Americans continue to be more likely than other groups to live in areas that are racially isolated.

“Black families haven’t seen material improvements in their housing situation along two measures: homeownership rates and wealth,” Schuetz explains.

But Carson — who once referred to poverty as a “state of mind” that could be overcome with “the right mindset” — has shifted HUD toward promoting “self-sufficiency.” One of his largest projects revolves around the creation of EnVision Centers, one-stop shops that would encourage people “to leave HUD-assisted housing through self-sufficiency to become responsible homeowners and renters in the private market.”

According to the HUD website, the project, which would see some 3,000 centers created in the next few years, would focus on providing training and resources in four areas: character and leadership, educational advancement, economic empowerment, and health and wellness. The New York Times notes, however, that Carson’s new pet project hasn’t received much support from the Trump administration, getting just $2 million in funding over the next year.

Carson denies claims that he’s shifting HUD’s goals away from combatting housing discrimination. “A lot of people think we’re changing the whole Fair Housing Act and what it implies, like affirmatively furthering fair housing,” Carson said during a visit to Memphis this week. “We want to be able to give people grants, but we also are changing the way we do things, where we’re providing people with a ladder that they can climb.”

But despite Carson’s words, fighting housing discrimination seems like it has become a priority in word only. And that’s going to have an impact — on the agency itself and on thousands of marginalized Americans all over the country.When you think of the Golden Age of Hollywood, you probably think of some of the greatest American movies ever made: Citizen Kane, Gone with the Wind, Casablanca. But what you may not realize is that all of these movies were censored by the Catholic Church.

From 1934 to 1954, every Hollywood movie needed to follow a strict set of moral guidelines that were aligned with Catholic theology. They included such things as barring excessive drinking, onscreen nudity, and even sexual relationships between races.

Enforcement was overseen by the Production Code Administration, which was led by devout Catholic Joseph Breen. For decades, the PCA needed to approve every line of dialogue, every costume, and every poster for any movie that wanted their seal of approval. And as professor Thomas Doherty told me, “adherence to the Production Code was not optional.” Without the PCA’s approval, your movie couldn’t get made.

Watch the video above to see exactly what made Breen one of the most powerful people in Hollywood history. Also make sure to pick up Doherty’s excellent book on Breen and the PCA.

You can watch all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.The largest Black Lives Matter Facebook page had 700,000 followers and had raised some $100,000 to support the prominent racial justice group.

And it was a complete fake.

On Monday, a CNN investigation revealed that the page was a “scam with ties to a middle-aged white man in Australia,” named Ian Mackay. Mackay is an official with the Australian National Union of Workers and is not affiliated with Black Lives Matter.

In addition to the Facebook page, Mackay was also allegedly connected to a Black Lives Matter Facebook group that had nearly 40,000 members. The fake page was previously highlighted in a December 2017 blog post by Jeremy Massler, a freelance investigator.

Mackay had also reportedly created other pages focused on black rights, including blackpowerfist.com, created in April 2015, which operated as a “Reddit-like discussion forum.” Another website, blacklivesmatter.media, was also registered by Mackay. CNN noted that Mackay used the Facebook page to direct traffic to these other sites.

Mackay also reportedly used the Facebook page to run fundraisers and promoted the sale of Black Lives Matter branded merchandise. The fundraisers were hosted on a number of digital platforms, including Donorbox, PayPal, Patreon, and Classy. At least some of the money raised was transferred to Australian bank accounts.

Mackay denied creating the page, and told CNN that “my domain name buying and selling is a personal hobby.”

The story gets weirder: According to CNN, the fake Black Lives Matter page remained active even after Black Lives Matter Global Network co-founder Patrisse Khan-Cullors told the social network that the page was fake. Mackay’s page had twice the number of followers of the one run by the official group, and the fake page was only removed after CNN reporters contacted Facebook.

In a statement on Tuesday, the Black Lives Matter Global Network noted that the fake profile issue was not limited to Facebook, saying that Twitter had also failed to address fake accounts connected to the group.

“For months after noting the fraudulent profiles, the Black Lives Matter Global Network and many of our allies reached out to both Twitter and Facebook to request the fake profiles be deactivated and taken down,” the group said. “Unfortunately, our requests received no adequate response and many supporters continued to be misled.”

“It’s extremely important that platforms like Facebook and Twitter do their due diligence with users so that supporters of our movement, and movements like ours, aren’t misled and that resources aren’t misappropriated,” the group added.

News of the fake Facebook page comes at a difficult time for the social media giant, which is facing criticism that the platform is not doing enough to protect user data and prevent the spread of misinformation, especially in the wake of reports that the Cambridge Analytica political consulting firm accessed the Facebook information of some 87 million people. Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg is slated to testify before members of Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week.

This latest incident raises new questions about Facebook’s handling of false and misleading content targeting minority communities.

This isn’t the first fake Facebook campaign targeting minorities

In February, special counsel Robert Mueller, who is looking into Russian interference into the 2016 presidential election, revealed that Russian operatives were running several social media accounts aimed at stoking racial tensions and discouraging African Americans from voting in the 2016 contest.

It was confirmation of something that media outlets and researchers had observed for months. In January, research from the University of Washington found that Russian accounts actively used the hashtags #BlackLivesMatter, #BlueLivesMatter, and #AllLivesMatter, and keywords related to police shootings in an effort to appeal to both left-leaning and right-leaning individuals.

Last fall, several media outlets reported on the ways that the Internet Research Agency, the Russian group mentioned in Mueller’s statement, and other groups sought to connect with African Americans and racial justice organizers, building upon a history of Russian groups targeting already existing racial divisions in the US.

Last September, CNN reported that two different social media accounts connected to the Internet Research Agency under the handle “Blacktivists” aimed to connect with black audiences and “regularly shared content intended to stoke outrage.”

”Black people should wake up as soon as possible,” one post read, according to CNN. “Black families are divided and destroyed by mass incarceration and death of black men,” read another. At least one ad was specifically targeted to audiences in Ferguson, Missouri, and Baltimore.

According to Mueller, the Russian trolling campaign was not limited to Facebook, but the platform has faced the most scrutiny. The controversy has finally led to some changes, including a requirement that people running large Facebook pages be verified. And with Zuckerberg’s upcoming testimony, it is likely that the large reach of fake Facebook pages will be a topic of discussion on Capitol Hill.Pope Francis has released a new papal document in which he criticizes everything from the toxicity of social media to Catholics’ single-minded focus on abortion, and encourages Catholics to better value the contributions of women to the spiritual life of the church.

The 22,000-word Gaudete et Exsultate (“Rejoice and Be Glad”), a type of papal document known as an apostolic exhortation, represents a reiteration of Pope Francis’s core values as pontiff. Throughout the document, Francis repeatedly stresses the importance of mercy and everyday acts of holiness over a narrow focus on judgment and righteousness. He condemns those who “feel superior to others because they observe certain rules or remain intransigently faithful to a particular Catholic style.”

The document comes at a particularly sensitive time for the often-controversial pope. Just last month, the Vatican found itself embroiled in a “fake news” scandal after a senior Vatican communications official admitted to doctoring a photo of a letter from Francis’s predecessor, Benedict XVI, in order to make the letter appear more positive about Francis’s papacy. A week later, Francis made headlines again after an Italian journalist claimed Francis had told him that hell did not exist (the Vatican denies the journalist’s claim). Last week in Rome, a summit of high-level Catholic officials who opposed Francis’s willingness to offer communion to divorced-and-remarried couples gathered to discuss their frustration with the pope.

This papal document, therefore, will be subject to particular scrutiny from many Catholics. While Gaudete et Exsultate is an apostolic exhortation — a nonbinding form of communication — its words nevertheless have significant symbolic weight for the Catholic community as a whole.

Gaudete thus had two jobs to fulfill. It needed to further the pope’s wider agenda of stressing the importance of social justice, and criticizing what he has previously called the “throwaway culture” of a capitalist, technology-obsessed world. But it also had to counter the claims of many of Francis’s critics, who often see him as a liberal modernizer too willing to compromise on core Catholic values in order to please the secular world.

Francis celebrated women’s contributions to the church

Among the most notable elements in Gaudete et Exsultate was Francis’s celebration of women’s contributions to Catholic spirituality. In a section discussing the myriad ways people might be called to serve God, Francis highlighted the degree to which female contributions have often been undervalued by the church.

“I would stress too that the ‘genius of woman’ is seen in feminine styles of holiness,” Francis wrote, “which are an essential means of reflecting God’s holiness in this world. Indeed, in times when women tended to be most ignored or overlooked, the Holy Spirit raised up saints whose attractiveness produced new spiritual vigour and important reforms in the Church.”

Citing such famous saints as Hildegard of Bingen and Teresa of Avila, Francis also argued the importance of commemorating “all those unknown or forgotten women who, each in her own way, sustained and transformed families and communities by the power of their witness.”

His celebration of women tied into a wider point: the idea that everyone — rich or poor, priest or layperson — has something to contribute to the spiritual life.

“Are you called to the consecrated life? Be holy by living out your commitment with joy,” Francis wrote. “Are you married? Be holy by loving and caring for your husband or wife, as Christ does for the Church.”

Francis also condemned “single issue” Catholicism

Francis also argued that while opposition to abortion is an important hallmark of the Catholic faith, it shouldn’t be used as a wedge issue, or replace a wider concern for Catholic social justice. Critiquing those for whom “the only thing that counts is one particular ethical issue or cause that they themselves defend,” Francis wrote:

Our defence of the innocent unborn, for example, needs to be clear, firm and passionate, for at stake is the dignity of a human life, which is always sacred and demands love for each person, regardless of his or her stage of development. Equally sacred, however, are the lives of the poor, those already born, the destitute, the abandoned and the underprivileged, the vulnerable infirm and elderly exposed to covert euthanasia, the victims of human trafficking, new forms of slavery, and every form of rejection.

While these views aren’t new for Francis — he’s long been a particularly fierce advocate for social justice, for refugees, and for the poor — it’s nevertheless significant that he’s using his pulpit to advocate for a less narrow focus on abortion, long a crucial issue for Catholics.

Francis also had harsh words for Twitter

Among the more striking passages in the exhortation dealt with the dangers of social media and the way it polarizes human discourse. Early in the exhortation, Francis warns Christians to be wary of the way social media can provide a temporary distraction — a Band-Aid for spiritual emptiness.

“The presence of constantly new gadgets,” he writes, “the excitement of travel and an endless array of consumer goods at times leave no room for God’s voice to be heard.”

Later, he zeroes in on social media debate in particular, writing:

Christians too can be caught up in networks of verbal violence through the internet and the various forums of digital communication. Even in Catholic media, limits can be overstepped ... and all ethical standards and respect for the good name of others can be abandoned. The result is a dangerous dichotomy, since things can be said there that would be unacceptable in public discourse, and people look to compensate for their own discontent by lashing out at others. ... Here we see how the unguarded tongue, set on fire by hell, sets all things ablaze.

The most important part of the document may be hiding in plain sight

While Francis zeroed in on a number of hot-button issues, perhaps the most important part of the document lay in a seemingly academic section on heresy, in which he tacitly criticized his detractors.

To understand Francis’s writing here, it’s important to understand the context of his conservative opposition. Much of that opposition, as I have written previously, centers on Francis’s tacit acceptance of the practice of granting communion to couples in second marriages, because the Catholic Church forbids divorce. Francis’s approach — separating out the church’s teachings from its pastoral care — has been lauded by his supporters as an act of Christian mercy but decried by his detractors as intellectual and moral laxity. For Francis’s critics, any change in Catholic teaching is a suspicious concession to modernity.

Francis does not directly reference divorce — or the surrounding controversy over remarried people and the Eucharist — in the document. However, in his section on modern heresies, he directly rebukes those who claim theological certainty on moral issues, saying “when somebody has an answer for every question, it is a sign that they are not on the right road.”

Francis bases his critique on two fourth-century heresies — Gnosticism and Pelagianism — that were significant in the early church. To put it very simply, Gnostics tended to stress the idea that God could be “known” by those with special and privileged information, and tended to see the human body (as opposed to the spirit) as sinful and evil. Pelagians, meanwhile, believed that human beings had the capacity to not sin, and thus that human beings were totally responsible for their own sinfulness. (The church as we know it today rejected both positions.)

In writing about these heresies, Francis cautions his readers to avoid their present-day manifestations. His descriptions of Gnostics and Pelagians, however, sound a lot like his conservative critics.

“Gnostics think that their explanations can make the entirety of the faith and the Gospel perfectly comprehensible,” he writes. “They absolutize their own theories and force others to submit to their way of thinking.”

He condemns those who seek to judge those whose lives appear to be at odds with church teaching, writing: “God is mysteriously present in the life of every person, in a way that he himself chooses, and we cannot exclude this by our presumed certainties. Even when someone’s life appears completely wrecked, even when we see it devastated by vices or addictions, God is present there.”

Likewise, Francis argues that it is fundamentally un-Catholic to expect someone to live up to the ideals of church teaching at all times, saying: “When some ... tell the weak that all things can be accomplished with God’s grace, deep down they tend to give the idea that all things are possible by the human will ... to which grace is then added. They fail to realize that ... in this life human weaknesses are not healed completely and once for all by grace. In every case, as Saint Augustine taught, God commands you to do what you can and to ask for what you cannot.”

This is significant. Pope Francis’s conservative opposition has frequently used the language of heresy to condemn his positions. Last year, for example, a conservative Catholic coalition of senior Vatican officials released an open letter to the pope in which they directly accused him of supporting “heretical positions” on “marriage, the moral life and the Eucharist.” Within Catholic tradition, the charge of heresy is far more serious than simply saying someone is “wrong.” Rather, it’s a theological wrongness so absolute it cuts off the heretic from the spiritual life of the church. By responding by linking his condemnations of his critics to two infamous heresies in church tradition, Francis is not only defending his views on orthodox theological grounds but also displaying a willingness to fight rhetorical fire with fire.

Toward the end of the section, Pope Francis gets particularly pointed. Answering the criticism made by many in his conservative opposition that there is only one undivided, unchanging tradition in Catholicism, Francis argues that it’s borderline heretical to make that claim: “In the Church there legitimately coexist different ways of interpreting many aspects of doctrine and Christian life ... some currents of gnosticism scorned the concrete simplicity of the Gospel and attempted to replace the trinitarian and incarnate God with a superior Unity, wherein the rich diversity of our history disappeared.”

To a casual reader, these remarks might seem relatively anodyne. But in the context of the infighting in the Vatican, they’re downright incendiary.

Ultimately, Francis’s exhortation is a subtle, successful rejoinder to his critics

The skill of Gaudete et Exsultate lies in the way Francis is able to balance his response to his critics with a wider, thoroughly orthodox, Christian approach to what it means to lead a good and holy life. Francis never addresses his critics, or the controversies of his papacy, directly. Rather, he uses the language of Christian orthodoxy and theology to defend his position. The kind of mercy he advocates in Amoris Laetitia (the apostolic exhortation in which he hinted remarried couples should receive communion) is here given an explicitly theological framework.

Paraphrasing the 20th-century Catholic theologian Hans Urs von Balthasar, Francis highlights the way human imperfection, and even sin, should be weighed against the totality of a human life: “We do not need to get caught up in detail. ... Not everything a saint says ... [or] does is authentic or perfect. What we need to contemplate is the totality of their life. ... You too need to see the entirety of your life as a mission.”

In other words — to counter the claims of his detractors — the pope is, in fact, thoroughly Catholic.New Orleans Saints cheerleaders are subject to ridiculous-seeming rules, according to a recent Equal Employment Opportunity Commission complaint filed by a cheerleader who was fired by the team.

While both players and cheerleaders are in theory subject to a “no fraternization” policy, the burden of avoiding contact falls entirely on the cheerleaders. To prevent contact via social media, cheerleaders are required to block all NFL players — not just members of the Saints, but all 2,000 NFL players, even those who post under pseudonyms. They must keep their accounts private and cannot show themselves posing in Saints attire.

To avoid in-person contacts in public, cheerleaders must leave a restaurant or a party if a player enters and must not enter if a player is already there. Any conversation beyond “hello” is a potential violation of the rules — for the cheerleaders, not the players.

To an outsider, the case might seem like a slam-dunk: These rules seem to be shot through with sexism. And Title VII, the federal anti–sex discrimination law, prohibits employers from taking an employee’s sex into account when hiring, firing, or setting the “terms and conditions” of employment.

But in this instance, disparate treatment is not enough to win the case. I certainly think she ought to win. But analyzing why the cheerleader in question, Bailey Davis, may face an uphill battle illustrates some of the challenges in creating equal opportunities for men and women — particularly in highly “gendered” professions. (The New York Times first reported on Bailey’s case, drawing on a non-public EEOC complaint.)

The division of labor between cheerleaders and players is strikingly stereotypical

Cheerleading and playing pro football are indeed highly gendered jobs, to put it mildly. On the field, hypermasculinized men — highly paid celebrities — are paid to savage one another (and are sometimes embroiled in scandals off the field that involve sexual violence, or other kinds).

Cheerleaders, meanwhile, are hypersexualized women, whose dress, grooming, body type, and movements are designed to titillate a largely heterosexual male fan base. And these women, far more replaceable than the men, are paid a tiny fraction of what the players earn — sometimes only a few dollars an hour over minimum wage, while the average salary of an NFL player is more than $2 million.

The specific incident that led to Davis’s firing was her posting a photo of herself in a one-piece outfit on a private Instagram account, allegedly in violation of a team policy that banned nude, semi-nude, or lingerie pictures.

But that seemingly innocuous post was the culmination of a series of alleged, and contested, violations of the anti-fraternization rules. Davis was rumored to have been at a party that players also attended, for instance, which she denied.

The Saints have defended such policies by claiming that they are designed to protect the cheerleaders, called the “Saintsations,” from being preyed upon by the players. But who should be caged, the tiger or its prey? If a team is worried that the players cannot be trusted, why aren’t they the ones subject to restrictions on initiating contact with cheerleaders? Why put the entire burden on the women?

The job of cheerleader and that of football player are different, after all, with one being more competitive, and prestigious, than the other. Lower-valued employees are often subjected to burdens that higher-valued ones are spared. We would think nothing of a rule that dictated that an executive’s assistant must carry the executive’s briefcase, even if the assistants were mostly women and the executives mostly men.

Courts have even (wrongfully, in my view) recognized an exception for sex-specific dress and grooming codes as long as the requirements for one sex are not unduly more burdensome than those for the other. That exception dates to a period when judges couldn’t imagine that women might wear pants to work, or decline to wear high heels, but it has mysteriously reaffirmed in more modern cases.

The argument that the fired cheerleader will have to make — and win

So to win her case, Davis will have to show that the Saints’ rules are rooted not in the different employment roles of cheerleader and player, but in sexism. She’ll have to demonstrate that the team owners are stereotyping men as sexual aggressors and women as vulnerable victims, thus burdening women with the responsibility of avoiding predation.

The Saints will likely defend their practices by arguing that they are motivated by a gender-neutral concern: Scandal is bad for the league, and the team is choosing to impose the burden of avoidance on cheerleaders because they are less valuable to the franchise than the players, their individual contributions less unique. The fact that the rules happen to fall more harshly on women is not by design, but merely because virtually all cheerleaders happen to be women.

In short, if the jobs of “football player” and “cheerleader” were unequal in terms of status but otherwise were gender-neutral — or, at least, open to either sex — we might accept a degree of inequality in the policy’s effects if the policy was a “business necessity.”

These rules are “neutral” in legal-speak, in that they don’t expressly differentiate between men and women.

So does the Saints’ policy pass muster?

As we seek a legal answer, the first question we need to ask is: Are the jobs gender-neutral? Before you laugh, consider that the job of cheerleader at the college level often isn’t exclusively female. And women don’t seem to be formally banned from playing football for an NFL team. A current college player, Becca Longo, a placekicker, may be the one to break into the professional ranks.

The sport of football itself rewards physical traits, like brute size, that significantly favor men. But as long as NFL teams allow women like Longo to try out for the team, and evaluate them fairly, the lack of female players does not represent discrimination.

The situation for cheerleaders is much different, and potentially legally dubious. According to USA Today, the Baltimore Ravens and Indianapolis Colts have men who perform “stunts,” but two men recently hired by the LA Rams will be the first to dance the same routines as the women.

Certainly there are many men who can perform the skills necessary for that job, if that job is defined as rousing the crowd through enthusiastic gymnastic routines, yet none are hired by the Saints or most other teams.

Is it legal to hire only conventionally attractive women?

If sued for hiring only female cheerleaders, a team owner would therefore have to defend the exclusion of men on grounds that cheerleaders are there primarily as sex objects. They’d have to argue that appealing to heterosexual men (or to women who like the female-cheerleader look) is the job. When Southwest Airlines famously made this argument in the early 1980s, defending a rule barring male flight attendants, it lost; but Playboy Clubs made the same argument and won.

If sexual enticement is the primary service provided, the employer can exclude one sex or the other from the job.

Where do cheerleaders fall on the spectrum? I suspect a male would-be cheerleader would have a good case if he sued a team that excluded men from the squad, and that judges would frown on the “cheerleaders must be hot women” line of argument.

Then again, Bailey Davis is not challenging the Saints’ refusal to hire men as cheerleaders, and she wouldn’t have standing to do so. What she objects to is the stereotyping inherent in the policies that cost her her job.

And it’s inescapable how deeply the job of NFL cheerleader traffics in the most archaic of sex stereotypes. That’s the key to analyzing her claim of discrimination. The Supreme Court held almost 30 years ago, in Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins (1989), that the application of sex stereotypes to employees — expecting a woman to behave and dress in a feminine manner, for example — is itself a form of sex discrimination.

The dress-and-grooming exception is an indefensible loophole in that rule, I believe. But the rules Davis is challenging go far beyond gendered, or even stereotyped, dress codes. Current Title VII doctrine should be sufficient to attack policies that regulate the off-field behavior of women in such dramatically different fashion and that draw so heavily on stereotypes of siren-like women, and on the idea that men’s pursuit of attractive women dare not be restrained.

Her case is all the stronger if her team is turning a blind eye to groping and other sexually aggressive behavior by fans.

Gender role policing can be as harmful to equal economic opportunity as formal policies of exclusion. And gender role policing is clearly what the NFL is doing.

On the field, cheerleaders are paid to entice and allure; off the field, they must do anything but. Men are to have run of the place — the stadium, the field, cyberspace, and public places — while women must know their place. That’s why Davis deserves to win her case, assuming it’s been described correctly by the Times.

The broader system that makes female hotness a job requirement for NFL cheerleaders? That may also be ripe for an attack, just not this time around.

Joanna L. Grossman is the Ellen K. Solender endowed chair in women and the law at SMU Dedman School of Law. Her most recent book is Nine to Five: How Gender, Sex, and Sexuality Continue to Define the American Workplace. She is a regular columnist for Justia’s Verdict.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.As Eden Tirl watched a procession of celebrity women voicing their support for the #MeToo movement at this year’s Golden Globe Awards, she had one question: Where was all this support when the first Bill Cosby accusers came forward?

Tirl was a 22-year-old model who had landed a bit part on The Cosby Show when, she says, Cosby sexually harassed her in his dressing room. Decades later, around 60 women have come forward alleging rape, assault, and harassment by Cosby.

Last year, Cosby went to court facing aggravated indecent assault charges for allegedly drugging and assaulting a former Temple University employee, Andrea Constand. The case ended in a mistrial when the jury failed to reach a verdict. His retrial started this Monday.

For Tirl, who came forward in 2015 about her encounter with Cosby, the timing of the trial means everything. “After the #MeToo movement, there really was a shift,” she said. “I do have hope.”

In 1989, Tirl appeared on two episodes of The Cosby Show. The four days she spent on set was marked by daily requests by Cosby, made through a person on set, to visit his dressing room at lunch, according to a public statement released by Tirl and her attorney Gloria Allred. When Tirl visited Cosby’s dressing room on her fourth day on set, she says, an uncomfortable encounter followed. Cosby locked the door behind him, wrapped his arms around Tirl and nuzzled her, and told her, “See, that’s all we were going to do — make love. That’s making love,” Tirl says.

“I’ve never been in such an uncomfortable situation in my life,” Tirl told me. (The Washington Post reached out to one of Cosby’s attorneys, Monique Pressley, for a statement after Tirl’s allegations. Pressley referred to an earlier statement: “While I do appreciate the temptation that may exist, for some, to turn this matter into a public spectacle, lawyers representing clients resolve matters in court, not debates.” Cosby’s lawyers continue to deny allegations against him.)

Twenty-nine years later, Tirl is hopeful that shifting cultural norms after the #MeToo movement will bring justice for Cosby’s accusers. But she feels uncomfortable with the entertainment industry’s relative silence over the years when Cosby’s accusers spoke out. “The difficulty I have is that it’s great that you’re all coming forward — but why didn’t you come forward before?” she said.

I spoke with Tirl, who now runs an ethical shopping website called Notably Smitten, over the phone from her home in Los Angeles. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.

Karen Turner

How does it feel now, several years later, with this trial happening? What are the thoughts going through your head?

Eden Tirl

I think it’s an incredibly groundbreaking trial, especially after what happened with the #MeToo movement. The man is on trial for doing harm to only one woman that came forward that was able to bring a case, because the statute of limitations was not up for her. I know so many of his accusers, and these are women from over the course of four and a half decades.

So how do I feel? I hope that the jury that they choose are able to understand and see that Bill Cosby needs to go to prison. I certainly believe that we’re now in a climate that will perceive and observe this differently than perhaps they had before in the last number of years that women have been coming forward about him.

Karen Turner

I’m just very curious what your thoughts are about the #MeToo movement, given the workplace harassment that you described from Cosby.

Eden Tirl

By the time I landed on The Cosby Show in my early 20s, I had already been modeling for several years. I had seen a lot of things. I had been in situations where maybe somebody was being flirtatious with me, even [when I was] working at a Dairy Queen when I was a kid. But the way this unfolded was not in any way typical.

This was a different situation because the only way that Bill Cosby would do what he did in that professional environment, on those days that I worked there, I was told to leave the set every single day to go have lunch in his dressing room. Bill was not the only person who was complicit in this situation.

As a young person growing up, I adored Bill Cosby. Especially given the fact that I was mixed-race, growing up at a time where what he did on The Cosby Show was so extraordinary. And while he didn’t hurt me in the way that he hurt other women, everybody mourned him as a man who did so much for the black community.

The thing that was most significant to me at the time was people knew what had happened [on set]. So it was never a question of, “Who do we go tell?” I had already told everybody that should have known. The only thing I didn’t do back in that day was to have maybe gone to the producers and made some sort of huge deal out of it.

Karen Turner

How do you feel now that this whole movement has happened?

Eden Tirl

I found it insulting when I was watching the Golden Globes, as well as the SAG Awards this year, when Oprah Winfrey, Nicole Kidman, and other actors all made some grandiose speeches about what’s happened in the last year.

I stood up and looked at my husband, and I said, “This is just gross.” If only there had been one of us Cosby women that had had more celebrity status than any of us did. There were four and a half decades of women that came forward. I don’t even include me in it — but the women that came forward prior to the last 20 of us were raked over the coals. They were called gold diggers. If you know anything about state law about statutes, nobody had a case against them. And people scratch their heads about why women don’t speak up about this.

When women started coming out about Weinstein, many of those women had a certain celebrity cachet. It means something in our culture to be a celebrity. It doesn’t mean fuck-all if you’re just a stewardess.

You can’t all of a sudden get on the bandwagon just because Angelina Jolie was hurt or Gwyneth Paltrow was hurt. But that’s what happens. Famous names came forward, and then that’s when everybody got on the bandwagon and when the dominoes fell.

The difficulty I have is that it’s great that you’re all coming forward — but why didn’t you come forward before?

After the #MeToo movement, there really was a shift. As soon as the news outlets started to be aware that the second Cosby trial was coming back again, within days, Oprah finally spoke of the accusers of Cosby. Lisa Bonet finally came out with a new statement about Cosby. Prior to that? Absolutely not mentioned.

Karen Turner

I’m curious about your relationship with all the other Cosby accusers.

Eden Tirl

There is an incredible bond between us. Not every single one of us is best friends, because we all live in different states and we’re all at varying stages of our lives. Some are in their late 40s; some are grandmothers.

It will be the most valuable thing I take from this, this friendship that got created from meeting the other women during this time. Many of us talk on a regular basis, sometimes weekly. I made a best friend during this, and I know other people have created friendships that are long-lasting bonds.

Karen Turner

Do you have optimism for the future, given that this movement’s happened?

Eden Tirl

I feel very hopeful, and I have very good feelings about the movement, even though my nose was a little bent out of shape a couple of months ago when I was watching the awards shows. But look, everybody learns what they learn when they learn it. We’ve got to value all of our society, no matter what our gender is, no matter what our race is, no matter what our freaking celebrity status is. That needs to be discussed here, in this conversation.

But I do have hope. I think the #MeToo movement is great. I think it’s important. I don’t think it’ll slow down. I think it’s only gonna pick up speed. We need changes in the workplace.

Bill Cosby would have gone to jail a long time ago had women not felt as though the celebrities, the king, the titan, the celebrity moneymaker, was not being protected. Harvey Weinsteins are being protected. Celebrity is the currency in our culture.

I hope this interview reminds everyone about the enormous pause from the celebrity community when the 60 women came forward about Cosby. It is directly related to how these men were able to get away with what they were able to get away with for as long as they did. If we did not put celebrities in this category, it might not have happened.The first time Bill Cosby went to trial on charges that he drugged and molested a woman, his lawyers went with a classic defense: “She’s a liar.”

On Tuesday, Cosby’s lawyer argued in his opening statement in a retrial of the same case that the accuser, Andrea Constand, is a “con artist” who crafted an elaborate story to bilk Cosby out of millions of dollars.

“You’re going to be saying to yourself in this trial,” defense attorney Tom Mesereau told the jury. “‘What does she want from Bill Cosby?’ And you already know the answer. Money, money, and lots more money.”

Both arguments stem from the same old trope: You can’t trust a woman who says she was sexually assaulted. A year ago, Cosby’s lawyers had no real explanation for why. Now they say it’s because of greed.

Confronted with the questions of the #MeToo movement, the Cosby defense is still fronting a retrograde defense, one that sounds a lot like cases that have always been made against women.

Cosby’s lawyer and the prosecution agree it’s “he said, she said”

The defense’s Tuesday opening arguments pointed to a specific mode of attack — discrediting the assault allegation by painting it as a preconceived plot.

Cosby’s layer slammed Constand as a “con artist” and a “so-called victim” during the defense’s opening statement, describing her as an opportunist after money and fame.

Mesereau is attempting to build his case around the revelation that Cosby paid Constand nearly $3.4 million in a 2006 settlement. Constand alleged that Cosby drugged and molested her in his Pennsylvania home in 2004. She reported the incident to authorities in 2005, about a year after the incident. Prosecutor declined to charge Cosby at the time. Constand then pursued the civil lawsuit in 2005; the two reached an out-of-court settlement in 2006.

In the first trial, the defense tried to discredit Constand, picking apart her testimony for inconsistencies. The defense will also call a witness, a woman who worked with Constand at Temple University, who’s expected to testify that Constand fabricated the accusation against Cosby to win money from him.

The prosecution also brought up the multimillion-dollar settlement in its opening arguments; Montgomery County District Attorney Kevin Steele argued that Constand sued Cosby after prosecutors declined to bring a criminal case against him, and that, per the terms of the settlement, she had remained silent about the 2004 incident. Only when dozens and dozens of women began speaking out in 2014 and 2015 did Montgomery County prosecutors reexamine the allegation, which was up against the statute of limitations deadline.

Cosby’s lawyers’ attacks on Constand aren’t new

The fallout from accusations against Cosby, Bill O’Reilly, Harvey Weinstein, and more have advanced the conversation around how we think about the trauma of sexual misconduct, why women are often reluctant to report it, and why they may wait years to speak out.

That has also helped erode — but not eradicate — the smear that victims fabricate accusations for personal gain. That fear, especially when it comes to powerful men, is often what prevents women from coming forward. Many of Cosby’s accusers said that was what kept them silent for years; they said they didn’t think it was worth the attacks on their reputation, their families, their integrity. “I have never received any money from Bill Cosby and have not asked for it,” Barbara Bowman, who accused Cosby of drugging and assaulting her in the 1980s, wrote in 2014. “I have nothing to gain by continuing to speak out.”

It’s true that Constand pursued a civil suit and received a multimillion-dollar figure. She is not the first accuser to pursue civil settlements for assault or harassment; accusers of Bill O’Reilly and Roger Ailes did too. It’s also true that Constand went to the police, who listened to her, and to Cosby, and declined to pursue criminal charges. If one avenue of justice is closed, why not try another?

That’s the argument the prosecution tried to advance on Monday, with the hope that the testimony of five other women will help them win this argument. In the first trial, the prosecution called Constand and one other Cosby accuser to the stand. This time around, five women who say Cosby drugged and assaulted them will testify at the trial, and now that the allegations are decades old, it will be harder to argue that all five are liars out for personal gain.

The first of those women, Heidi Thomas, testified on Tuesday. She said she was 24 and an aspiring actress when she met Cosby through a talent agency in 1984 in Reno, Nevada. She said Cosby offered to mentor her and asked her to read a script, where she would play a drunk person. Thomas said Cosby gave her a glass of wine, and she took a sip and blacked out.

The rest of the night came in “snapshots,” she said on Tuesday, saying she remembers Cosby trying to force oral sex, and waking up naked in bed with him. She also said she never sought a lawyer, or asked Cosby for anything.

#CosbyRetrial Update: Heidi Thomas testified she didn’t tell anyone about the alleged incident for many years & said that while she has gone public with the allegations she has never sought legal representation or sought anything from Bill #Cosby. — Carl Hessler Jr. (@MontcoCourtNews) April 10, 2018

The defense will resume cross-examination of Thomas on Wednesday.

The prosecution is hoping the accounts of Thomas and the four other women will bolster the legitimacy of Constand’s story, establishing a predatory pattern by Cosby. The defense will instead try to establish a different pattern — one that pits Cosby against a powerful movement. The prosecutors, defense attorney Mesereau said in his opening statement, “are hoping that somehow in the current climate in America maybe you’ll be prejudiced.”

“Maybe you won’t see the facts,” he added. “Maybe you’ll just be too blinded by the accusations.”April 10 marks Equal Pay Day, created to draw attention to the gender wage gap.

This particular date was not randomly selected — it’s supposed to symbolize how far women have to work into 2018 to catch up to the same amount men made in 2017.

But it fails to take into account one fundamental fact: Women of color are often paid far less.

According to the National Women’s Law Center, white women on average make 79 cents for every dollar made by a man, while black women make 63 cents, Native American women make 57 cents, and Latina women make 54 cents. Asian-American women have the highest pay on average, 87 cents to every dollar made by a man, but there is significant variation among different nationalities of Asian women, with some groups making far less than the average.

US Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) tweeted out a graphic to call attention to this important distinction.

While today is Equal Pay Day, this is not true for all women. Black women will have to work until August 7, 2018 to earn what men made in 2017,and Hispanic women will have to work even further.This is a disgrace and we have to do better by the women of our country. #EqualPayDay pic.twitter.com/qJE8memTSG — Rep. Marcia L. Fudge (@RepMarciaFudge) April 10, 2018

So basically, Equal Pay Day doesn’t equally apply to everyone. Black women, for example, won’t reach the equal pay milestone until August 7 of this year. One month later, on September 7, Native American women will reach equal pay. On November 1, Latina women will hit the benchmark. (Asian-American women hit the equal pay mark on February 22, but again, that date overlooks significant disparities in pay among different groups of Asian women.)

Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, wrote in a recent op-ed in the Hill that “despite the calculations that determine an ‘average’ pay gap for women, many women of color experience wage gaps that are far greater — in some cases double — the average gap.”

So next time Equal Pay Day rolls around, let it be a reminder that disparities in pay occur not only along gender lines but along racial ones as well.“There are people who argue that this is much ado about nothing,” Anderson Cooper said on 60 Minutes, “that if this was not a story about an adult-film actress and the president of the United States, no one would pay attention.”

He was talking about the story of Stormy Daniels, legal name Stephanie Clifford, the porn actress who was paid $130,000 to keep silent about a sexual encounter she says she had with Donald Trump in 2006.

Ever since details of the Daniels story began to come out earlier this year, it’s been dismissed as a distraction. “There are enormous problems facing our country,” Bernie Sanders (I-VT) said on CNN in early March, “and what are we talking about over and over again? Stormy Daniels.”

But the Monday morning raid on Trump lawyer Michael Cohen’s office and hotel room — in which documents related to the payment to Daniels were reportedly seized — shows yet again that Daniels and her claims do matter. Despite the willingness of some to cast her account as nothing more than a salacious sex scandal, and her as a woman unworthy of attention, her story has always been about a lot more than sex.

Her allegations get at a core concern about the Trump presidency: that he may have used (indeed, may still be using) his money and power to make sure the ordinary rules of human behavior don’t apply to him. Monday’s raid makes those questions all the harder to ignore.

“Salacious sexual stories”

From the get-go, the story of Stormy Daniels has been treated as a sideshow at best, a joke at worst. As Marlow Stern of the Daily Beast notes, headlines have frequently omitted Daniels’s name, simply referring to her as a “porn star.” Pundits have snickered at Daniels’s stage name and commented on her clothing. When Daniels told Jimmy Kimmel in a January interview that online trolls had accused her of being an FBI informant or a man, Kimmel quipped, “We’ll have to do a full examination and figure that out.” Then he asked her to pick, from a box of carrots, the one most closely resembling Trump’s genitals.

Even those who have refrained from dick jokes have generally cast Daniels’s account as beneath public notice. “We’ve seen what happens when salacious sexual stories come out about the president, even those that are allegedly nonconsensual — nothing,” wrote Bridget Read at Vogue’s website in January. “Don’t Google Stormy Daniels or get distracted by the latest sideshow, no matter how eye-popping.”

In a March appearance with Sanders and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), documentary filmmaker Michael Moore called the Daniels story — as well as questions about the Trump campaign’s alleged collusion with Russia — “shiny keys to distract us” from the real problems in the country.

The dismissals kept coming even after Daniels said on 60 Minutes that she was threatened in front of her infant daughter and told to “leave Trump alone.” “The story elements — a porn star, the president, hush money, threats of physical harm, a $20 million lawsuit, the big reveal on camera — were the stuff of ratings gold,” wrote James Pindell at the Boston Globe after the interview. “But here is the truth: The Stormy Daniels story doesn’t matter, regardless of how much we talk about it.”

Monday’s raid is yet more evidence that Daniels’s account isn’t just about sex

It’s been clear for some time that the Daniels story is about more than Trump’s alleged infidelity to his wife. As Vox’s Dylan Matthews pointed out, it’s about abuse of power — according to Daniels’s account, Trump’s wealth gave him the ability to quash a damaging story about himself, at least until after the presidential election.

But the events of this week make it even more obvious that Daniels’s account is about more than sex. On Monday morning, FBI agents raided the hotel room and law office of Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer who has claimed he paid Daniels $130,000 out of his own pocket, with no coordination with the Trump campaign. According to the New York Times, the agents were looking for records of payments to Daniels and Karen McDougal, another woman who says she was paid to keep silent about an affair with Trump.

The FBI didn’t raid Cohen’s office to find out if Trump was cheating on his wife. The agency is investigating whether Cohen violated campaign finance, banking, or wire transfer laws in connection with the payment to Daniels. If the investigation finds evidence tying the payment to the Trump campaign or Trump himself, that could lead to trouble for the president, not just Cohen.

Of course, a lot would need to happen for Trump to face substantive consequences from Monday’s raid. But the circumstances should remind everyone that the case goes beyond the president’s sex life.

The Daniels case has a lot in common with the unfolding story of the Trump campaign’s alleged collusion with Russia — both involve allegations of campaign violations and financial malfeasance, of Trumpworld figures working behind the scenes to protect their candidate. But the Russia story has generally been treated (except, perhaps, by Michael Moore) as hard news, while Daniels has been dismissed as fluff.

Part of that clearly has to do with the fact that Daniels is a woman, and a porn actress (and director, and writer) at that, making allegations that have to do with sex. Media figures, operating in a larger landscape where women are doubted and disbelieved, especially if they’re seen as promiscuous, are primed to laugh at her and everything she stands for.

This reaction isn’t just sexist — it’s also dangerous, because it has led many in the country to ignore a very serious allegation against the president: that he has used his money and power to shut up women who might embarrass him. This isn’t a “distraction,” but gets right at core concerns about Trump and his ability to govern — the Daniels story is one of many warnings that suggest Trump believes that laws and policies that limit the behavior of ordinary humans simply don’t apply to him. If Americans ignore that warning because it comes from a porn actress, they’re making a big mistake.It took Aileen Rizo six years to get her Equal Pay Day.

On Monday, an 11-judge panel for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that employers can’t use a woman’s salary history to rationalize paying her less than a man doing the same job.

The appeals court reviewed and overturned a ruling made last year by three appellate judges, who had sided with a lower court in deciding that it wasn’t a form of gender discrimination for the Fresno school district to pay a female math consultant less than a male peer. The lower court had ruled in Rizo v. Yovino that the school district’s decision to pay Aileen Rizo less was based on the fact that she was paid less in previous jobs, not because she was a woman.

But a panel of judges said that calculating a woman’s pay based on her salary history is a form of gender discrimination — a violation of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which prohibits businesses from paying women less than men for the same work.

“Although the Act has prohibited sex-based wage discrimination for more than fifty years, the financial exploitation of working women embodied by the gender pay gap continues to be an embarrassing reality of our economy,” wrote US Circuit Judge Stephen Reinhardt in the court’s majority opinion. (It was one of Reinhardt’s last rulings before he died last month of a heart attack.)

Reinhardt argued that the persistent gender pay gap — with women now earning on average 80 cents for every dollar a man earns — is a form of gender discrimination, so basing a woman’s salary on past earnings was also a form of discrimination.

The ruling marks a major shift in how the Ninth Circuit has interpreted the Equal Pay Act, and affects workers who live in the nine Western states in the Ninth Circuit. And Reinhardt’s opinion goes even further than the rulings of the 10th and 11th Circuits, which only bar businesses from using salary history as the sole reason for paying a woman less. Reinhardt, who was known as a “liberal lion” in the country’s most liberal appellate court, said that it should never be used as a factor in paying a woman less.

“To hold otherwise — to allow employers to capitalize on the persistence of the wage gap and perpetuate that gap ad infinitum — would be contrary to the text and history of the Equal Pay Act, and would vitiate the very purpose for which the Act stands,” he wrote.

Public opinion has shifted on the issue

Monday’s ruling reflects a shift taking place across the country. Renewed attention to the gender wage gap and research on the role of a woman’s salary history in perpetuating it has led women’s rights advocates to push lawmakers to ban employers from asking job candidates about their salary history.

In recent years, they’ve won several victories. Several states, such as Massachusetts, Delaware, and Oregon, have banned the practice. In 2017, California did too. Cities such as New York, San Francisco, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and New Orleans have done the same.

Congress has not passed such a law, and the Ninth Circuit’s decision doesn’t go that far, but it could still have far-reaching consequences. The ruling makes it a lot harder for employers in the region — which includes Silicon Valley — to persuade a federal judge to dismiss gender pay discrimination lawsuits.

That’s because federal judges in the Ninth Circuit now need to reinterpret the Equal Pay Act. The law bars businesses from paying men and women different wages, but there are exceptions: A man could be paid more because of seniority, experience, or work performance. The law also says employers could pay different wages if the decision was “based on any other factor than sex.”

That last exception is at the heart of the recent legal battle. For more than three decades, the Ninth Circuit has viewed salary history as a factor “other than sex,” and therefore held that it was not illegal for businesses to pay a woman less than a man just because she earned less in previous jobs. That view has been the norm since the court’s 1982 ruling in Kouba v. Allstate Insurance Company.

In that case, an Allstate agent in Sacramento and her female colleagues sued the company for allegedly discriminating against women by basing their wages on their last salary. Lola Kouba claimed she was paid about $800 a month compared to $1,000 a month earned by male colleagues doing the same job.

But the Ninth Circuit disagreed with Kouba’s discrimination argument, saying it was not illegal to pay a woman less than a man based on her past salary if the employer had “an acceptable business reason” to do so. Allstate argued that it did so to save money; the appellate court considered that a legitimate business decision.

The ruling — like all appellate court rulings — created a binding precedent for all federal judges in the nine states covered by the Ninth Circuit, requiring them to rule the same way in similar cases for decades.

As of Monday, that has changed.

A math teacher successfully challenged the court’s view

The appellate court’s recent ruling stems from a gender discrimination lawsuit filed in 2012. In Rizo v. Yovino, Aileen Rizo, a math consultant in Fresno, California, said the school district discriminated against her by using her salary history to justify paying her less than her male colleagues.

When Fresno County hired Rizo in 2009, it used a standard pay schedule, which included 10 salary levels for math consultants. To calculate the pay level for a new hire, the Fresno school district took the candidate’s most recent salary, added 5 percent, and placed the new hire at the corresponding pay level within the salary schedule.

Before taking the job in Fresno, Rizo earned $50,630 a year as a middle school math teacher in Arizona. Even with a 5 percent bump, that placed her at the bottom of Fresno County’s pay schedule.

Lawyers representing the school district conceded that the country paid Rizo less than male employees for the same work. But they argued that the county did not violate the Equal Pay Act because the basis for the pay disparity — the county’s salary schedule — was a “factor other than sex” that exempted the county from liability.

The district court disagreed with the county’s defense and ruled in favor of Rizo. Here was its reasoning:

A pay structure based exclusively on prior wages is so inherently fraught with the risk — indeed, here, the virtual certainty — that it will perpetuate a discriminatory wage disparity between men and women that it cannot stand.

The county appealed the decision, and in April 2017, a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit reversed the lower court’s ruling. Their reasoning: The district court disregarded precedent from Kouba v. Allstate Insurance Company, which held that salary history is a factor other than sex.

Rizo petitioned the Ninth Circuit to review the April 2017 decision. A majority of Ninth Circuit judges then ordered an 11-judge en banc panel to rehear the case.

The decision published Monday sided with Rizo.Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) is the first US senator to give birth while holding office.

Duckworth’s second child, Maile Pearl Bowlsbey, was born Monday, making Duckworth one of 10 female lawmakers who have given birth while serving in Congress. But all those women were members of the House of Representatives when they had their children, including Duckworth, who had her first child while serving as a representative in 2014.

Bryan, Abigail and I couldn’t be happier to welcome little Maile Pearl as the newest addition to our family and we’re deeply honored that our good friend Senator Akaka was able to bless her name for us—his help in naming both of our daughters means he will always be with us. https://t.co/KXyNf65KxA — Tammy Duckworth (@SenDuckworth) April 9, 2018

Beyond being a milestone for the (mostly male and older) Senate, Duckworth, in a January interview she gave to the Chicago Sun-Times’s Lynn Sweet, described her struggles to get pregnant, including a miscarriage she suffered during her 2016 Senate campaign. Duckworth had her daughter at 47 while she was serving in the House, and her second child will be born shortly after she turns 50. “I’ve had multiple IVF cycles and a miscarriage trying to conceive again, so we’re very grateful,” she told Sweet.

Duckworth was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2013. She had previously worked in the Obama administration’s Department of Veterans Affairs. She served in the Iraq War in 2004 and lost both her legs after her helicopter was shot down. In 2016 she ran for an Illinois Senate seat, defeating Republican incumbent Sen. Mark Kirk.

Duckworth also talked about the challenges of taking maternity leave while representing her state in Congress. She planned to take 12 weeks’ paid leave but told Politico’s Women Rule podcast in February that she was trying to figure out a way to work with her party’s leadership so she could still participate in critical voters while she’s out. “You’re not allowed to bring children onto the floor of the Senate at all, so if I have to vote and I’m breastfeeding my child, what do I do, leave her sitting outside?” said Duckworth.Charles Murray and his decades-old work on IQ and race, published in his 1994 book The Bell Curve, is back in the news because of a mini feud between “new atheist” author and podcaster Sam Harris and Vox’s own Ezra Klein. Andrew Sullivan, the punditocracy’s original champion of Murray’s thinking on genetics, decided to jump in as well.

Harris and Klein and Sullivan have, at this point, spilled plenty of words limning their disagreements. And Harris, for his part, sees himself as exclusively defending The Bell Curve’s empirical claims about IQ, which is fine, but it’s important to consider Murray’s work with a view toward actual American public policy, which has been deeply influenced by Murray over the years, and which Donald Trump is looking to take in an even more Murray-esque direction.

The Bell Curve — co-authored with Richard Herrnstein — is, after all, not a work of scientific research but rather a political book written by one of the most prominent conservative policy entrepreneurs in America as part of a larger ideological project. Like several of Murray’s other books, including Losing Ground, In Our Hands, and Coming Apart, the basic subject of The Bell Curve is what should be done to help the disadvantaged in America. And the four books all reach the conclusion that, roughly speaking, we should do as little as is politically possible.

What’s more, despite the mythmaking around Murray, nobody has silenced or stymied him. He is one of the most successful authors of policy-relevant nonfiction working in America today. He’s ensconced at the center of the conservative policy establishment as an emeritus scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. In 2016, he won the Bradley Prize, a prestigious conservative award that carries a $250,000 stipend. He regularly publishes op-eds in the Wall Street Journal. The New York Times reviewed Coming Apart twice. Tom Edsall featured it in a column (he says it raises “issues that are rarely examined with the rigor necessary to affirm or deny their legitimacy”), and David Brooks recommended it twice, lauding the “incredible data,” along with the analysis. PBS built an interactive around it.

To debate whether his ideas deserve to be part of the national debate is pointless, since the fact is that they are already central to it. After a long slog through the book, Murray and Herrnstein arrive at their central point. They write:

The technically precise description of America’s fertility policy is that it subsidizes births among poor women, who are also disproportionately at the low end of the intelligence distribution. We urge generally that these policies, represented by the extensive network of cash and services for low-income women who have babies, be ended.

Murray’s ideas are plain wrong. Diversity is demonstrably good for society and the economy, not the reverse. Social programs can and do improve lives. Murray’s influence has damaged the interests of millions of people. Murrayism does harm on an ongoing basis, and, far from having been shut out of the discourse, it as at the heart of the ideological agenda that currently governs the United States.

What The Bell Curve says about policy

The Bell Curve is a long book that says a lot of things, many of which, as Murray’s partisans like to point out, are not especially controversial in academic psychology.

By the same token, Karl Marx’s work is full of observations that are well within the consensus of the economics profession — that high levels of unemployment reduce wages for the employed, that firms seek to maximize profits, that market economies are prone to sporadic crises, etc. What makes a controversial book controversial is that some of its content and its major conclusions are controversial, and that is true — and then some — for Murray.

The actual conclusion of The Bell Curve is that America should stop trying to improve poor kids’ material living standards because doing so encourages poor, low-IQ women to have more children — you read that correctly. It also concludes that the United States should substantially curtail immigration from Latin America and Africa. These are controversial policy recommendations, not banal observations about psychometrics.

Murray’s critics are frequently accused of mischaracterizing him, so I want to quote, at length, what he says the upshot of this is (emphasis in the original):

We are silent partly because we are as apprehensive as most other people about what might happen when a government decides to social-engineer who has babies and who doesn’t. We can imagine no recommendation for using the government to manipulate fertility that does not have dangers. But this highlights the problem: The United States already has policies that inadvertently social-engineer who has babies, and it is encouraging the wrong women. If the United States did as much to encourage high-IQ women to have babies as it now does to encourage low-IQ women, it would rightly be described as engaging in aggressive manipulation of fertility. The technically precise description of America’s fertility policy is that it subsidizes births among poor women, who are also disproportionately at the low end of the intelligence distribution. We urge generally that these policies, represented by the extensive network of cash and services for low-income women who have babies, be ended. The government should stop subsidizing births to anyone, rich or poor. The other generic recommendation, as close to harmless as any government program we can imagine, is to make it easy for women to make good on their prior decision not to get pregnant by making available birth control mechanisms that are increasingly flexible, foolproof, inexpensive, and safe. The other demographic factor we discussed in Chapter 15 was immigration and the evidence that recent waves of immigrants are, on the average, less successful and probably less able, than earlier waves. There is no reason to assume that the hazards associated with low cognitive ability in America are somehow circumvented by having been born abroad or having parents or grandparents who were. An immigrant population with low cognitive ability will — again, on the average — have trouble not only in finding good work but have trouble in school, at home, and with the law.

These claims about the baleful impact of social assistance spending are not uncontroversial claims about science. Indeed, they are not claims about science at all. And since they constitute what Murray himself views as the upshot of his book, and because Murray is a policy writer rather than a scientist, it is correct and proper for fair-minded people to read the book for what it actually is: a tract proposing the comprehensive revision of the American welfare state along eugenicist lines.

The Bell Curve set the stage for Trumpist immigration policy

Unlike on social welfare policy, Murray does not outline a specific immigration policy agenda. But in chapter 15, he writes that “the rules that currently govern immigration provide the other major source of dysgenic pressure” and remarks enigmatically that while earlier waves of immigrants may have been beneficial, “the self-selection process that used to attract the classic American immigrant — brave, hard working, imaginative, self-starting, and often of high IQ — has been changing and with it the nature of some of the immigrant population.”

He complains that “the nation’s political ground rules have yet to accept that the intelligence of immigrants is a legitimate topic for policymakers to think about” and eventually concludes “the kernel of evidence that must also be acknowledged is that Latin and black immigrants are, at least in the short run, putting some downward pressure on the distribution of intelligence.”

Murray’s intellectual influence on the current trajectory of American immigration policy is obvious. His warning about the dysgenic impact of Latin American and African immigration is echoed by President Trump, who recently remarked that there are too many arrivals from “shithole” countries, and in the Republican Party’s ongoing conversion to the cause of sharp cuts in legal immigration. Trump’s immigration proposals do not specifically reference IQ, but his drive for a switch to what he terms a “merit-based” immigration system is clearly animated by a Murray-esque concern that the wrong kind of people are moving to the US.

Murray wrote The Bell Curve to advance an agenda

The proposal to block immigration from Latin America and end social assistance to poor children is, to be clear, not an incidental aside in a book whose main purpose is to familiarize people with some psychometric research. The authors themselves, on page 549, do an admirable job of squarely posing the question “what good can come from writing this book?”

They offer a fourfold answer that consists entirely of hopes to change public policy for what they believe will be the better.

First: Social engineering should be “highly targeted” at the “small segment of the population” that “accounts for such a large proportion” of social problems, while “the vast majority of Americans run their own lives just fine, and policy should above all be constructed so that it permits them to do so.”

Social engineering should be “highly targeted” at the “small segment of the population” that “accounts for such a large proportion” of social problems, while “the vast majority of Americans run their own lives just fine, and policy should above all be constructed so that it permits them to do so.” Second: Policymakers to need to design policies that work well for people who may not be as smart as the kind of people who are likely to be in a position to design policies. “There are hundreds of ways to frame bits and pieces of public policy so that they are based on a realistic appraisal of the responses they will get not from people who think like Rhodes scholars but people who think in simpler ways.”

Policymakers to need to design policies that work well for people who may not be as smart as the kind of people who are likely to be in a position to design policies. “There are hundreds of ways to frame bits and pieces of public policy so that they are based on a realistic appraisal of the responses they will get not from people who think like Rhodes scholars but people who think in simpler ways.” Third : “Much of public policy toward the disadvantaged starts from the premise that interventions can make up for genetic or environmental disadvantages, and that premise is overly optimistic.”

“Much of public policy toward the disadvantaged starts from the premise that interventions can make up for genetic or environmental disadvantages, and that premise is overly optimistic.” Fourth: We should care less about gaps in life outcomes between different racial groups because “group differences in cognitive ability, so desperately denied for so long, can best be handled — can only be handled — by a return to individualism. A person should not be judged as a member of a group but as an individual. With that cornerstone of the American doctrine once again in place, group differences can take their appropriately insignificant place in affecting American life. But until that cornerstone is once again in place, the anger, the hurt, and the animosities will continue to grow.”

The book concludes with the thought that since individuals differ in ability, a fair society in a procedural sense is very unlikely to be an egalitarian society in the sense of outcomes.

Professional tennis tournaments, for example, are not a rigged game. Nonetheless, a tiny number of players amass the vast majority of the prize money. Not because anyone is cheating, but because some people are better than others at tennis. That’s not an unfamiliar point to political theorists; Michael Young’s 1958 classic The Rise of the Meritocracy is a book-length critique of what he saw as an emerging elite of skill, and John Rawls’s landmark work of political philosophy, A Theory of Justice, argues at length that a just society must offer a good dose of substantive equality and not just formal equality of opportunity for roughly the kinds of reasons Murray offers.

That said, it must be noted that while Murray calls on elites to be a bit more humble about themselves, his work is very much not a call for substantive equality.

Much is sometimes made of Murray’s support for the creation of a universal basic income program, but one must be clear that his thinking on this differs from that of most UBI proponents in three ways:

One, he does not actually think that providing people with a UBI is a good idea. As he writes in his 2006 book, In Our Hands: “Imagine for a moment that the $2 trillion that the US government spends on transfer payments were left instead in the hands of the people who started with it. If I could wave a magic wand, that would be my solution.” The UBI is a compromise with the realities of public opinion, not something he backs on the merits.

Two, his goal in promoting UBI is to make the welfare state less generous, not more generous. In exchange for creating a UBI, he wants to eliminate Social Security and Medicare, Medicaid and all other federal health programs, all means-tested social assistance (SNAP, Section 8 housing vouchers, TANF, and the earned income tax credit), and all federal assistance to students including veterans programs, Title I, and Pell Grants.

Three, his UBI enacts a massive cut to total state spending on assistance — according to Murray, “as of 2014, the annual cost of a UBI would have been about $200 billion cheaper than the current system. By 2020, it would be nearly a trillion dollars cheaper.” To give a sense of scale here, all of Obamacare cost about $2 trillion over 10 years. Murray’s UBI would cut $1 trillion from social spending in one year. This is a plan to slash redistribution to the poor, not make it more generous.

Importantly, Murray’s idea is that once we eliminate the entire welfare state, we will replace it with a UBI program that provides a flat level of financial assistance per adult. A single mom raising two kids would receive no more than a childless man, and a married couple with one child would receive more than the single mom. That somewhat defies common sense, but The Bell Curve’s preoccupation with the problem of “encouraging the wrong women” to have children clarifies that the goal is to avert the alleged dysgenic impact of improving the material living conditions of low-income children.

Actually, helping people in need is good

Much of the rhetorical purpose of The Bell Curve seems to be devoted to muddying the waters between the claim that there are limits to how much reasonable policy interventions can do to equalize everyone’s abilities and social outcomes, and the claim that there is virtually nothing useful we can do with activist policy to help people. But while the former idea is well-grounded (so well-grounded that I’m not sure anyone denies it, including people who misguidedly, root and branch, reject the whole idea of general intelligence), the latter idea is completely wrong.

This skepticism about helping pervades Murray’s entire body of work, from Losing Ground, a book-length argument that the war on poverty was a counterproductive failure, which proclaims that “when reforms finally do occur, they happen not because stingy people have won, but because generous people have stopped kidding themselves,” to Coming Apart’s conclusion that a European-style welfare state is useless because “people need self-respect, but self-respect must be earned — it cannot be self-respect if it’s not earned — and the only way to earn anything is to achieve it in the face of the possibility of failing.”

Even when tasked with making the case for a UBI in a public debate, Murray was clear that his argument for it isn’t that the cash would help those who receive it but that its existence would encourage other people to be meaner to those in need:

Let’s think of the guy who is your complete screw-up. He drinks too much, he can’t hold on to a job, and he runs out of money 10 days before the end of the month. Well, under the UBI, he can no longer plead helplessness. His friends and his relatives can say to him, as they cannot say now, “Okay, we aren’t going to let you starve, but you’ve got to get your act together, and don’t tell us there’s nothing you can do, because we know you’ve got a thousand bucks hitting your bank account next month. You’ve got to start dealing with your problems.” That’s good. That kind of interaction, multiplied millions of times around the country, is having friends and relatives deal with human needs in ways that bureaucracies inherently are unable to deal with them.

Murray’s arguments about the spiritual inadequacies of social welfare provision are baffling to me, but the IQ-based argument mooted in The Bell Curve at least makes sense. Because people’s underlying capacities vary considerably, you’re not going to design a social policy that overcomes that intrinsic inequity.

That’s almost certainly true. Given everything we know about athletic ability, for example, it’s clear that no matter what we do, some people will always be more adept skiers than others. On the other hand, there’s also an obvious reality that most Americans (myself included) don’t get taught to ski as kids, and consequently, the whole average level of skiing competency in the United States is much lower than it could be if we set about trying to raise it.

Now, of course, a massive national campaign to make us all better skiers would be a stupid waste of time and resources.

But the following ideas are not stupid:

As a society, we can, and should, take decisive action to reduce environmental contamination and improve the material living conditions of poor children and their parents. The evidence that doing this will have broad secondary benefits for cognitive development is overwhelming.

Meanwhile, though creating a school that is consistently better than an average school is (for understandable reasons) quite difficult, it appears to be possible and it does work — and not just for a narrow cognitive elite. Certain charter school networks produce consistently superior results — especially for low-income and minority kids — compared to mainstream public school systems. And Roland Fryer has shown that traditional unionized public schools that adopt some of these charters’ main pedagogical innovations produce similar results.

Individual schoolteachers vary in quality (like practitioners of other professions), with students taught by average teachers earning significantly more as adults than those taught by teachers in the bottom 5 percent of the distribution. A year’s worth of instruction by a great teacher induces $400,000 in additional earnings from a 20-student classroom. Something as simple as judicial decisions mandating that states equalize their school funding formulas seems to produce positive educational results for poor kids.

All of which is to say that the fatalism Murray promotes about social betterment is entirely misguided, and attempting to implement his reform of the welfare state would lead to not only massive short-term suffering but a massive erosion of our long-term prospects as a society. Yet unfortunately, Murray-style thinking is already very influential in American politics.

Murrayism is very influential in American politics

Despite the popular claim among Murray supporters that he’s been silenced and unfairly maligned, his views have shaped — and still shape — American policy outcomes.

Though the United States is generally quite a bit richer than Western Europe, the material living standards of American children are generally worse, with about 11.8 percent of US children living in absolute poverty (as indicated by the US poverty line), compared to only 6.2 percent of German or 3.6 percent of Swedish children. This is in large part because the US is already an outlier in terms of its refusal to provide cash support to parents.

Instead, the United States essentially eliminated substantial cash assistance to poor mothers in the mid-1990s. Murray’s biography page at All-American Speakers boasts that Murray provided “the intellectual foundation for the Welfare Reform Act of 1996,” and the fee for a Murray speech is in the $20,000 to $30,000 range. Altering the old, and genuinely very flawed, welfare system in Murray’s preferred direction rather than moving toward a universal child allowance meant that not only did the United States maintain its abnormally high level of child poverty, but it witnessed a substantial increase in deep poverty.

This relates in important ways to intelligence. A growing body of academic research — which includes DNA testing to control for potential genetic factors — indicates that the stress of growing up in poverty does concrete neurological damage to children’s brains over and above the issues with exposure to toxic chemicals. Murrayism traps poor children in a cycle where they have worse opportunities for intellectual development and then that underdevelopment is used as evidence that little can or should be done to improve their economic status.

And Republican politicians are seeking to proceed piecemeal with the Murray approach to social policy. Congressional Republicans made several runs at rolling back Medicaid expansion, and now the Department of Health and Human Services is working with GOP-run states to try to tighten eligibility requirements and reduce enrollment. State-level action to make SNAP benefits harder to access has become routine, and the GOP only dropped its plans for a big 2018 push to apply “welfare reform” principles to in-kind benefits programs because Democrat Doug Jones’s Senate special election win ensured the votes wouldn’t be there.

Murray’s views on immigration policy have emerged as the dominant school of thought coming out of the White House and are supported by the Republican Party as a whole, despite evidence that the restrictionism has no society-wide upside.

Even small aspects of this agenda that are already being implemented, like the rollback of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, are economically harmful to most native-born Americans and the overwhelming preponderance of economic evidence suggests that the larger restrictions now on the table would have an even bigger negative impact on the economy.

Concern about the dysgenic impact of immigrants and assistance to low-income families, in short, has in fact become an impediment to both overall national prosperity and specifically to poor kids’ brain development and life prospects. And racial demagoguery is a key reason why.

What does race have to do with any of this?

One thing Murray’s defenders tend to get more right than his critics is that the racial portions of The Bell Curve are relatively marginal to the overall project (as Nathan Robinson writes at Current Affairs, Murray’s bizarre non-policy book Human Accomplishment makes far more provocative claims on race), which, despite its prurient interest in racial gaps, is fundamentally about economic class. Race is, however, central to the political project of maintaining a stingy welfare state.

Indeed, cross-sectional evidence marshaled by Alberto Alesina and Ed Glaeser for their 2004 book, Fighting Poverty in the US and Europe: A World of Difference (you can read their main findings here) concludes that racial animosity is the main explanation for America’s relative stinginess to poor families while experimental evidence shows that increasing the salience of racial conflict promotes reactionary politics and specifically confirms that associating means-tested social assistance with black people leads many whites to become more skeptical.

African Americans and Latinos are disproportionately poor in the United States, but most recipients of social assistance are, in fact, white. Despite the complaint that critics are throwing around charges of racism to silence Murray, the reality is that promoting a heavily racialized view of the overall question of whether we should try to help poor families or punish them serves as a useful marketing gimmick for both books and legislation.

Murray does have a side agenda that is race-specific, however. Near the very end of The Bell Curve, he writes, somewhat euphemistically, “that group differences in cognitive ability, so desperately denied for so long, can best be handled — can only be handled — by a return to individualism” rather than with policies that seek to specifically address or remedy racism or racial disadvantage.

Talking to Harris on his podcast last year, Murray denounced an idea he calls “the equality premise,” arguing that the idea “that all groups of people only have differences in outcomes because of racism or sexism or inappropriate institutions, that assumption has created huge harm.” Affirmative action policies in college admissions, he argues, actually hurt black and Latino students by creating a “mismatch” between their abilities and those of their white and Asian peers, which leads to elevated dropout rates. (Matthew Chingos, who has researched the determinants of college completion in detail, says this isn’t true, and in fact, “students were most likely to graduate by attending the most selective institution that would admit them.”)

But Murray’s critique of affirmative action admissions, though incorrect, is a politically influential viewpoint in the United States rather than one in desperate need of signal-boosting. The Justice Department is backing away from consent decrees that aim to address racial inequities in policing, the Department of Housing and Urban Development is gutting fair housing enforcement, and a ProPublica report last year revealed a broad administration-wide push for all agencies to scale back civil rights enforcement generally. Instead of waging war on racial discrimination, the Trump administration is, in line with Murray’s recommendations, waging war on affirmative action policies.

The reality, however, is that the evidence that race-specific disadvantages exist and that race-specific remedies can help is overwhelming.

Recognizing how race works in America is important for policymaking

That women earn less than men and black people earn less than white people in America is well-known. But a landmark new study published last month by the Equality of Opportunity Project found a striking pattern in the interaction of these issues. While black women earn less than white women, that earnings gap essentially vanishes when you account for the fact that white women on average have richer parents than black women. But the earnings gap between black men and white men persists even with this control.

There is no plausible genetic explanation for this. Instead, it seems that black men suffer from a race-specific disadvantage that impairs their earnings. This, in turn, reduces the material living conditions of black girls, which impairs their earnings too. The exact mechanism at work is unclear, though the gender specificity suggests that perhaps the criminal justice system is playing a key role.

It’s also important to understand that while Murray’s specific remarks about race science tend to be hedged and a bit vague, and at times to profess a fair degree of agnosticism about the actual magnitudes, his discussion of why this is worth bringing up at all is very clear and sweeping — he believes, despite vast evidence to the contrary, that America needs to stop thinking about racial discrimination and race-conscious solutions.

It seems almost ridiculous to need to argue this, but racial discrimination is a quite real and salient feature of American society. Employers, for example, discriminate against job applications that feature stereotypically “black” names, and so do public officials when deciding what correspondence to answer.

But conversely, attentiveness to race can be useful in crafting policy solutions. Early studies of racial matching (or lack thereof) between teachers and students showed that black teachers have higher academic expectations for black students than non-black ones have. More recent inquiry shows that this has concrete effects, with black students seeming to learn more from black teachers. Promoting the message that African Americans suffer from irremediable intellectual incapacity would be actively harmful in this context, while trying to take affirmative measures to ensure fairer treatment of black students and adequate representation of African Americans as classroom leaders would make it better.

Similarly, an earlier study from the Equality of Opportunity Project showed that black and Latino kids with exceptional math skills are less likely to grow up to be inventors than similarly skilled white and Asian kids, and the research offered some suggestive evidence that a lack of role models may be an issue here.

And understanding the existence of discrimination in the labor market is critical to understanding the impact of different micro and macro policies. That includes everything from the finding that employer drug testing helps black job applicants because it lets them overcome negative stereotypes to the fact that African Americans benefit disproportionately from aggressively pro-employment monetary policy because a tight labor market makes discrimination more costly for employers and thus more surmountable.

Race, in short, continues to be a real and underrated factor in how American social and economic institutions function. And while raising the salience of racial issues can be counterproductive in some contexts by undermining political support for anti-poverty measures, it can be critical in other areas to improving the way schools, labor markets, and the criminal justice system work.

To put it bluntly, insisting that we pay more attention to ambiguous evidence about the role of IQ heritability in driving group differences is not a disinterested gesture of scientific inquiry, but a political move initiated by political polemicists who aim to heighten racial salience where it’s counterproductive and diminish it where it could be constructive.

People of goodwill who really do simply believe in open inquiry ought to take a good, hard look at the overall context in which this topic arises and think carefully about what exactly it is that they are trying to say.

Why is this discussion important?

Though he tends to back away from it under pressure, Murray is admirably clear in the conclusion to The Bell Curve and elsewhere about why he thinks it’s important to discuss IQ and heredity — he believes that focusing on this issue will build political support for restricting immigration from poor countries and reducing economic assistance to poor families. As a bonus, he hopes that throwing in specific hypotheses about group differences will build political support for eliminating race-conscious policymaking and curbing efforts to address race-specific disadvantage. The truth, however, is that these are not underrated policy ideas that are in need of amplification in the public arena.

They are, rather, terrible policy ideas that currently exert more influence over policymaking than they deserve and ought to be rebutted.

Scientific exploration of human genetics, of course, ought to continue, and we ought to be open-minded about what it may discover. From what we know so far, it really is clear that smart parents tend to have smart kids, but it is also very clear that a wide range of policy interventions, ranging from environmental cleanup to social welfare provision to improving schools, raise kids’ cognitive abilities and improve their labor market outcomes. It is also very clear that race is significant as a social phenomenon in the United States in ways that create meaningful disadvantages for members of minority groups and that attention to racial issues can lead to better outcomes.

Genetic research can tell us things about the harmful implications of racial inequities. Biomedical research on the development of pharmaceuticals and other health care technology, for example, often does not reflect the ethnic diversity of the American population, which means that we are often developing health interventions that don’t serve minority groups effectively.

Sam Oh, an epidemiologist at the University of California San Francisco Center for Genes, Environment, and Health, offered as an example to NPR that “African-Americans and Puerto Ricans don’t respond as well to some of the most common asthma controller medications,” even though these groups would benefit enormously from more effective treatment, since they are disproportionately likely to live in high-contaminant environments where asthma is common.

But to say that actual scientists should continue doing scientific research into the genetic bases of human cognition is a far cry from saying that lay journalists and policy analysts ought to go out of our way to promote the hypothesis that America’s class system reflects irremediable aspects of human biology. This is an idea that exerts too much rather than too little influence over American politics and public policy, and the racialized version of the hypothesis that Murray is known for is particularly damaging.

The notion that poor families deserve less help than they get because they are a cognitively disadvantaged group who will respond to assistance via overbreeding that undermines the quality of the national stock is not an unexplored suggestion in American history. But it is a uniformly pernicious one that continues to exert a powerful negative influence on the lives of millions of people — reenforcing traditional status hierarchies while immiserating the country as a whole by preventing vast swaths of the population from reaching their full potential to prosper and contribute.Bill Cosby paid Andrea Constand nearly $3.4 million in a 2006 settlement, a Pennsylvania district attorney revealed during open statements on the first day of Cosby’s retrial Monday.

The amount of that settlement — $3.38 million — had not been made public before Montgomery County District Attorney Kevin Steele addressed it on day one of the retrial centered on allegations that Cosby drugged and molested Constand in his Pennsylvania home in 2004. Judge Steven O’Neill agreed last week to allow the jury to hear the details and the previously undisclosed sum of the settlement.

Cosby’s defense team had lobbied to include the settlement as evidence, which they will likely use to portray Constand as a gold digger after the comedian’s wealth. Cosby’s team will call another witness, a former Temple University employee who worked with Constand, who is expected to testify that Constand told her that she could fabricate a claim of sexual assault to get a payout from Cosby. The judge had barred the witness, Marguerite “Margo” Jackson, from testifying at the first trial.

But the details of the 2006 settlement could also favor of the prosecution — which is likely why Steele got ahead of the defense and wove it into his nearly 75-minute opening statement. Steele said Constand pursued the civil suit in 2005, after Montgomery County prosecutors declined to bring criminal charges. The settlement and accompanying confidentiality agreement kept her silent for a decade, until Montgomery County prosecutors reviewed the allegation following renewed public attention on the case after dozens of women came forward to say Cosby had drugged and sexually assaulted them. Steele emphasized that the district attorney’s office approached Constand in 2015, not the other way around.

Still, the settlement is tricky for both sides. Again, Cosby’s lawyers are likely to try to paint Constand as an opportunist, but now that jurors have heard the multimillion-dollar figure, they might question why Cosby paid such an eye-popping sum if he were innocent of the charges, as he has maintained. At the same time, the jury might hear that figure and believe Constand already won a very favorable outcome; why send Cosby to prison for potentially the rest of his life if she already benefited?

Cosby’s team will pick up with their opening arguments on Tuesday, but the settlement revelation capped off a wild first day of Cosby’s retrial. A topless protester, who painted her body with the names of women who have accused Cosby of sexual misconduct, was arrested outside the courthouse on Monday. The demonstrator, Nicolle Rochelle, is a former actress who appeared on The Cosby Show as a child.

A topless protester is wrestled to the ground after jumping in front of actor Bill Cosby on the first day of his sexual assault retrial. #cosby #news #protest pic.twitter.com/6xQMYZ06ad — David Maialetti (@davidmaialetti) April 9, 2018

Opening statements were delayed after Cosby’s team submitted a motion to dismiss juror 11, a white man, after he allegedly told a fellow prospective juror (who was not selected) that he thought Cosby was guilty. The judge reviewed the motion with the defense and prosecution for most of the morning but allowed juror 11 to stay on the panel.When Sacramento, California, police officers on March 18 confronted Stephon Clark in his grandmother’s backyard, they appeared to believe that he was holding a gun. In the dark of night, they opened fire — shooting 20 rounds and hitting the 22-year-old eight times, mostly from the back, according to an autopsy commissioned by the family.

It turned out, though, that the officers had made a huge mistake: What they thought was a firearm was actually a cellphone.

This kind of situation isn’t new. Officers have shot people after mistaking wrenches and badges for guns. Cops have shot people thinking that they’re reaching for a firearm when they’re really pulling up loose-fitting shorts. Police have shot multiple people thinking that a toy gun was a real firearm.

Behind all these incidents lies what seems to be a constant fear that a gun may be present.

According to criminal justice and policing experts, police have good reason to be fearful. The US has a tremendous amount of civilian-owned guns — far more than any other country in the world. Based on recent estimates, there are more firearms in America than there are people. That presents a constant potential threat to police.

“Police officers in the United States in reality need to be conscious of and are trained to be conscious of the fact that literally every single person they come in contact with may be carrying a concealed firearm,” David Kennedy, a criminologist at John Jay College, told me. “That’s true for a 911 call. It’s true for a barking dog call. It’s true for a domestic violence incident. It’s true for a traffic stop. It’s true for everything.”

This is one potential reason, experts said, that the US has far more police shootings than other developed nations. A 2015 analysis by the Guardian found that “US police kill more in days than other countries do in years.” Between 1990 and 2014, police in England and Wales shot and killed 55 people.

In just the first 24 days of 2015, the US surpassed that toll of fatal police shootings. The differences are not explained by population, since the US is nearly six times as populous as England and Wales, but, based on the Guardian’s count, has hundreds of times the fatal police shootings.

So far, however, there hasn’t been much empirical research on the question of whether more guns in America lead to more police shootings — in large part because the US has long done a poor job tracking killings by cops, making them difficult to study.

Vox and John Roman, a senior fellow at NORC at the University of Chicago, decided to put this to the test. Our results are suggestive: They indicate that weaker gun laws and higher rates of gun ownership do, at the very least, correlate with more killings by police officers (including shootings and other incidents of lethal force).

That suggests that while America has to address a whole host of issues to bring down its levels of police killings — from department-level policies to systemic racism — it also may be prudent to start thinking of police killings as inherently linked to America’s gun problem in general.

Police killings correlate with state gun ownership rates and gun control laws

For this analysis, Roman and I analyzed data for police killings to see if there was any correlation with gun control laws and gun ownership rates across states.

Roman combed through the police killing data from the Police Violence Report, verifying it with other reports and the Washington Post’s database, to get an idea of how many police killings there were in 2017. We then compared police killing rates for each state with the state’s population (based on Census data), a composite score for state’s gun control laws (based on a National Rifle Association database), and gun ownership rates (based on a 2013 national survey).

The results: There is a correlation between killings by police officers and states’ gun control laws and gun ownership rates. The stronger the gun control laws, the fewer police killings. The higher the gun ownership rates, the more police killings. (You can see the raw data here and the comparison data here.)

This is a crude analysis, not a peer-reviewed study.

So caveats apply: Correlation is not causation. The NRA score doesn’t differentiate between the strength of different gun control laws, instead assigning one point to each of the laws included in the database. Also, the survey used for state-level gun ownership may not have picked up a large enough sample size for some low-population states, such as Hawaii. And the analysis didn’t deploy any rigorous controls to rule out other possible factors.

But the findings are echoed by a 2017 study, published in the American Journal of Public Health, that found that stronger gun laws are associated with fewer fatal police shootings. “When we controlled for sociodemographic factors, states in the top quartile of legislative strength had a 51% lower incidence rate than did states in the lowest quartile. Laws aimed at strengthening background checks, promoting safe storage, and reducing gun trafficking were associated with fewer fatal police shootings,” the researchers concluded in the study.

“One of the most reasonable take-homes is that … when police are less often in situations in which they might reasonably fear that a gun is going to be pulled, they’re less likely to react with the use of lethal force,” Aaron Kivisto, the study’s lead author, told me.

This would not only apply to cases like Clark’s, where police turned out to be wrong, but also to justified police shootings in which the perpetrator really did pose a deadly threat to cops or others. By mitigating the chances anyone has a gun, stricter gun laws may make all sorts of dangerous encounters less likely — and that could, based on Kivisto’s study, save a lot of lives.

So while guns don’t explain the whole story, killings by police officers do appear to be associated with gun laws and gun ownership rates. At the very least, this topic warrants more thorough empirical work.

The findings align with the claims of criminal justice experts, who have told me that one reason the US’s criminal justice system is so punitive — including through police shootings — is in part a result of genuinely higher levels of deadly gun violence.

US police have to constantly fear guns

As a breakthrough analysis by UC Berkeley’s Franklin Zimring and Gordon Hawkins in the 1990s found, it’s not even that the US has more crime than other developed countries. This chart, based on data from Jeffrey Swanson at Duke University, shows that the US is not an outlier when it comes to overall crime:

Instead, the US appears to have more lethal violence — and that’s driven in large part by the prevalence of guns.

“A series of specific comparisons of the death rates from property crime and assault in New York City and London show how enormous differences in death risk can be explained even while general patterns are similar,” Zimring and Hawkins wrote. “A preference for crimes of personal force and the willingness and ability to use guns in robbery make similar levels of property crime 54 times as deadly in New York City as in London.”

This is in many ways intuitive: People of every country get into arguments and fights with friends, family, and peers. But in the US, it’s much more likely that someone will get angry at an argument and be able to pull out a gun and kill someone.

This is something that police in the US have to constantly fear. In day-to-day work that is often inherently confrontational, it’s a lot easier in the US for those confrontations to turn deadly.

“It’s an obvious, common-sense observation,” Tracey Meares, a policing expert at Yale Law School, told me. “In situations where police officers say, ‘I was in fear for my life,’ and later substantiate that with, ‘I thought the person had a gun,’ the reasonableness of someone’s assumption that somebody could possibly have a gun is naturally related to the prevalence of guns in the environment.”

Kennedy of John Jay College called it “a very, very powerful dynamic” in America. For his policing research, Kennedy has traveled all around the developed world, from the US to Canada to Europe to Japan. “In none of these other settings do police officers feel this way or do the police have these sorts of conversations and concerns,” he told me.

That’s not to say that people in other countries are always unarmed. In some places, like Glasgow, Scotland, they’ve had big problems historically with knife crime. But the reality is non-firearms are simply much less likely to carry a deadly threat. (Indeed, Meares pointed out that UK police are often trained to disarm people armed with knives through communication, their bare hands, and nonlethal weapons — something that is simply much more difficult with guns, given the much higher risks.)

So for US police, the prevalence of guns creates a unique problem. In short, Kennedy said, “it affects every single contact they have with members of the public.” This is not just a matter of perception, he added, but “an objective fact” of being a police officer in the US. And it “changes how people behave” — not just police, but civilians who also, particularly in historically neglected neighborhoods, have to be always cognizant of the heightened risk of gun violence.

There is research that suggests police should be wary of the abundance of firearms out there. A 2015 study, published in the American Journal of Public Health, concluded that every 10 percent increase in firearm ownership correlated with 10 additional officers killed in homicides over the 15-year study period.

Other studies have also linked more access to guns to more gun deaths, including homicides, suicides, and domestic violence. For example, a 2013 study, also published in the American Journal of Public Health, found that, after controlling for multiple variables, each percentage point increase in gun ownership correlated with a roughly 0.9 percent rise in the firearm homicide rate.

Police officers have to constantly keep all of this in mind in their work. The end result is they are more guarded, more fearful, and, in some cases, perhaps more likely to shoot.

Guns are not the only explanation — but they are a part of it

As with the link between guns and gun deaths more broadly, gun ownership rates and gun control laws are not the only contributors to killings by police officers. Other research, for example, has linked police shootings to structural racism, which speaks to the vast racial disparities seen in police use of force. Policies at the department level — which can often encourage escalation instead of deescalation — play an important role as well. And laws that give police wide latitude to use force may be part of the issue too.

But experts and the limited research so far suggest that the abundance of guns and gun laws in America likely play a role. So stricter gun laws could help reduce killings by police officers.

We already know that restrictions on firearms lead to fewer deaths in other areas. A 2016 review of 130 studies in 10 countries, published in Epidemiologic Reviews, found that new legal restrictions on owning and purchasing guns tended to be followed by a drop in gun violence — a strong indicator that restricting access to firearms can save lives.

We don’t have similar definitive proof that there is a causal mechanism between stricter gun laws and fewer police shootings. But at the very least, the possibility should be a part of the broader discussion about the disproportionate amount of police violence in America.Bill Cosby is back in a Pennsylvania court Monday, facing a retrial after a jury failed to reach a verdict last year. The charges — aggravated indecent assault, for allegedly drugging and molesting former Temple University employee Andrea Constand — are the same. But this time, Cosby is on trial in a post-#MeToo world.

Cosby’s trial, which could last about a month, may be the first real test of the power of the #MeToo movement. A year ago, a jury heard testimony from Constand and one other woman who said the comedian had drugged them and engaged in sexual acts. Now, in this second trial, the judge will allow five of Cosby’s other accusers to testify in court about their encounter with the comedian.

These women will speak against the backdrop of a national conversation about the prevalence of sexual harassment and assault. It points to a larger question looming over this retrial: Just how much has the world changed in the 10 months since the jury deadlocked on whether to believe Cosby’s accuser?

Since then, accusations from multiple women have caused high-profile alleged harassers to lose their jobs and their social standing — but Harvey Weinstein, Charlie Rose, and their ilk haven’t actually been convicted in court. The Cosby trial may reveal whether the broader social reckoning translates to the criminal justice system.

The allegations against Cosby

About 60 women have come forward in recent years with allegations against Bill Cosby, which span almost five decades, from the 1960s to 2008. Many told a strikingly similar story of being handed a drink or being given pills, and, then, in half-conscious patches, recall being molested or raped by the comedian once known as “America’s Dad.” Others say Cosby groped them or attempted to drug them.

The statute of limitations has long expired for most of these accusations. Cosby is on trial for just one allegation from 2004. He faces three counts of aggravated indecent assault and, if found guilty, could be sentenced up to 10 years in prison for each.

Constand met Cosby in 2002, when she worked as the director of operations for the Temple University women’s basketball team. Cosby, a former Temple student, served on the university’s board of trustees.

Constand said she considered Cosby, then in his 60s, a mentor. In January 2004, the then-30-year-old said she went to his Pennsylvania home to discuss her career. He offered her an “herbal” remedy — three blue tablets — to help with stress, Constand told investigators in 2005. He also brought her a glass of wine. She took the pills and began to feel unfocused, unsteady. Her legs, she said, felt like “jelly.”

“I was unable to move my body,” Constand told investigators. “I was pretty much frozen.” Cosby, she said, penetrated her with his fingers while she was in this “paralyzed” state. She came to with her bra undone. Cosby gave her a muffin and walked her to the door.

Constand reported the incident to police in 2005, about a year after the alleged incident occurred. Cosby, when interviewed by authorities, described the encounter as consensual, saying that they engaged in heavy “petting” and that he touched her breasts and “private parts.” He said the pills he gave Constand were over-the-counter Benadryl.

The Montgomery County district attorney declined to prosecute the case in 2005. Constand sued Cosby in civil court, and 13 “Jane Does” with similar allegations against Cosby signed on as potential witnesses. A few came forward publicly at the time, though they never testified because Cosby settled with Constand for an undisclosed sum in 2006.

Almost a decade later, as more and more women brought accusations against Cosby in 2014 and 2015, the spotlight returned to the Constand case and helped push the Montgomery County prosecutor to reexamine the allegations. In December 2015, as the 12-year statute of limitations was set to expire, prosecutors charged Cosby with three counts of aggravated indecent assault.

The case went to trial in summer 2017. Prosecutors deployed three major pieces of evidence. The first was Constand’s testimony.

The second was Cosby’s deposition in Constand’s civil suit, which the New York Times published in July 2015. In it, Cosby admitted he gave women quaaludes — a sedative used as a party drug in the 1970s — to have sex with them. He called it “the same as a person would say have a drink.” (He said he didn’t give the women drugs without their knowledge and tried to defend the sexual encounters as consensual.)

The third piece was the testimony of another accuser, Kelly Johnson, a former assistant at the William Morris talent agency, who said that Cosby gave her a “big white pill” at the Hotel Bel-Air in 1996 that left her incapacitated. When she regained awareness, the skirt of her dress had been pulled up, and she was on a bed next to Cosby, where he massaged lotion onto her hand and placed it on his penis.

The defense, in cross-examination, tried to discredit Constand and undermine her timeline of the assault, focusing on inconsistencies in her interviews with police about the date of the alleged assault. (Cosby’s lawyers gave the same treatment to Johnson, referring to gaps in her story as “selective amnesia.”) Cosby’s team described the encounter with Constand as consensual. The defense also claimed that because Constand said Cosby had previously made sexual overtures toward her, she was aware of his interest when she went to his house that night. (Constand identifies as gay, though that information could not be presented in court.)

Cosby’s lawyers only called one witness, a local detective who spent about 10 minutes on the stand. Cosby, who has maintained his innocence, did not testify in his defense.

The jury deliberated, and after six days of deadlock, Judge Steven O’Neill declared a mistrial. One juror told NBC News that the panel was split down the middle on Cosby’s guilt; another juror told CNN that two holdouts prevented the jury from convicting Cosby. At least one juror publicly questioned Constand’s attire on the night of the alleged assault; others seemed to have doubted Constand’s veracity. “You could believe from his testimony what he did, but not from hers,” a juror said after the trial.

What’s changed for Cosby’s second trial

Cosby’s retrial will be different in at least one crucial way: More women will be speaking up with Constand. Judge Steven O’Neill will allow the prosecution to call as many as five of Cosby’s accusers to testify at the trial. (The prosecution had asked the judge to allow 19 women to testify.) Those women will come from a pool of eight witnesses whose allegations are the most recent, going back to 1982.

According to the Philadelphia Inquirer, prosecutors will likely call Janice Dickinson, a model who said Cosby drugged and raped her in Lake Tahoe in 1982; Heidi Thomas, who said when she was 24, Cosby drugged her and tried to force her into oral sex in Reno, Nevada, in 1984; Janice Backer Kinney, who alleges Cosby drugged and assaulted her in 1982, when she was 24; Lise Lotte-Lublin, who said that in Las Vegas in 1989, Cosby gave her shots and straddled her on a table before she blacked out; and Chelan Lasha, who met Cosby in Las Vegas in 1986 as a 17-year-old, where he gave her a blue pill and shots. She says she remembers him humping her before blacking out.

The judge only allowed one witness, Johnson, to testify at the last trial, and according to the New York Times, O’Neill did not give his reasoning when he ruled that the five other women could now take the stand. He has not yet ruled on whether he’ll allow the prosecution to call 14 additional witnesses to corroborate the allegations of those five women.

The five additional testimonies could help make clear that Cosby is accused of a pattern of sexual abuse. Bad-character evidence — basically, misdeeds or crimes from someone’s past — are usually not permitted in court, but Pennsylvania law does allow for witnesses who, in their testimony, can reveal a specific alleged pattern by the defendant — in this case, drugging women to take advantage of them in their impaired state.

But Cosby’s team has also won some major victories in pretrial hearings. O’Neill will allow the jury to hear how much Constand received in her confidential 2006 civil settlement with Cosby. The judge is also permitting the defense to call as a witness a former Temple employee, Marguerite “Margo” Jackson, who will reportedly say that Constand made up the details about her encounter with Cosby to get “money to go to school and open a business.”

O’Neill did not allow the Jackson to testify at the first trial, but her now-admissible testimony and the revelation about Constand’s settlement will likely be deployed by Cosby’s team to spin the narrative of Constand as motivated by money.

O’Neill still must decide on another motion that could also favor the defense: whether to exclude Cosby’s 2005-’06 deposition about giving women quaaludes. The Philadelphia Inquirer reports that O’Neill has hinted he will not permit the deposition in the second trial because he’s allowing the five additional women to testify. “The evidence has changed in this case, pure and simple,” O’Neill said during pretrial hearings. “And I don’t know what it is going to look like.”

Ruling the quaaludes testimony inadmissible would be a huge victory for the defense. Rather than having to deal with the fact that Cosby’s own words could incriminate him, they can focus on picking apart the accusers’ accounts.

Cosby’s attorneys also tried to pressure O’Neill to recuse himself from the case, claiming he was biased because his wife counsels survivors of sexual assault. O’Neill has refused to step down, calling the defense’s argument that his wife’s job would influence his decision as “faulty, plain and simple.”

Cosby’s retrial unfolds amid the #MeToo movement

Sexual assault allegations against Cosby began to circulate in earnest toward the end of 2014, when Cosby reemerged on a standup tour and had plans for an NBC sitcom and Netflix show and after a standup clip of comedian Hannibal Buress joking about Cosby being a rapist went viral. Dozens and dozens of women started speaking out. It felt like the start of a reckoning.

By now, about 60 women have come forward with sexual assault allegations against Cosby. Some were young models or actresses who attended meetings with Cosby on the promise of reading a script or getting career advice. Many kept their silence for years, assuming their word against that of a famous comedian would not be believed.

“I couldn’t put a name to it. I didn’t say accosted,” Joan Tarshis, a journalist and publicist who said she was assaulted in 1969, told New York magazine in 2015. “I didn’t know what to call it. The difference between this and somebody else’s rape in the dark alley is that his face would be before me every week on TV.”

Yet the women who once feared telling the truth about Cosby for years revealed themselves, and found the public was finally listening and starting to believe them. It started, in many ways, the surge to come. Sexual harassment accusations eventually ousted Fox News chair Roger Ailes in the summer of 2016; Bill O’Reilly followed from Fox News in April 2017. The New York Times published its exposé on Weinstein in October 2017. Famous actresses and household names accused a powerful Hollywood director of sexual assault, and silence was shattered. Survivors, women and men, spoke out — about Matt Lauer, about Kevin Spacey, about Roy Moore, about Al Franken.

Still, for all of the concerns that the movement denies men “due process,” most of the #MeToo claims of harassment have been litigated in the media — not in court.

But what unfolds during Cosby’s trial will be hard to separate from the national debate happening outside it. “Please don’t put me on #MeToo,” Cosby quipped to a young reporter earlier this year. Potential jurors were asked their opinions about the #MeToo movement. The judge, at team Cosby’s request, banned any buttons or paraphernalia that might express support for the movement.

Cosby’s trial also shows the limitations of justice for the women who alleged the comedian assaulted them. The statute of limitations has long expired for most of the allegations against him, though some of the Cosby survivors have become advocates for changing statute of limitations laws for sexual assault, and have had victories in Nevada, Colorado, and California.

Cosby does face a slew of civil litigation, most on hold until after the criminal case. One relates directly to allegations against Cosby: a civil suit in California from Judy Huth, who alleges Cosby molested her at the Playboy Mansion when she was 15.

The other cases involve defamation, with women claiming Cosby’s public smears maligned their reputations. These lawsuits seek to prove that the women are telling the truth about Cosby’s misconduct, and force Cosby to prove he didn’t assault them.

The strategy, which the Cosby accusers have in many ways pioneered, is the same approach now being used in the Summer Zervos case against Donald Trump.There’s a lot of backstory to this podcast, which is covered in more detail in this piece.

The short version is that Sam Harris, host of the Waking Up podcast, and I have been going back and forth over an interview Harris did with The Bell Curve author Charles Murray. In that interview, which first aired almost a year ago, the two argued that African Americans are, for a combination of genetic and environmental reasons, intrinsically and immutably less intelligent than white Americans, and Murray argued that the implications of this “forbidden knowledge” should shape social policy. Vox published a piece criticizing the conversation, Harris was offended by the piece and challenged me to a debate, and after a lot of back-and-forth, this is that debate.

But even if you’re not interested in the backstory, I think this discussion — which is also being released on Harris’s podcast — is worth listening to. Harris’s view is that the criticism he and Murray have received is a moral panic driven by identity politics and political correctness. My view is that contemporary IQ results are inseparable from both the past and present of racism in America, and to conduct this conversation without voices who are expert on that subject, and who hail from the affected communities, is to miss the point from the outset.

So that’s where we begin. Where we go, I think, is more important: These hypotheses about biological racial difference are now, and have always been, used to advance clear political agendas — in Murray’s case, an end to programs meant to redress racial inequality, and in Harris’s case, a counterstrike against identitarian concerns he sees as a threat to his own career. Yes, identity politics are at play in this conversation, but that includes, as it always has, white identity politics.

To Harris, and you’ll hear this explicitly, identity politics is something others do. To me, it’s something we all do, and that he and many others refuse to admit they’re doing. This is one of the advantages of being the majority group: Your concerns get coded as concerns; it’s everyone else who is playing identity politics.

Even if you’re not interested in the specifics of our debate, I think this discussion goes to some important questions in American life — questions that drive our culture and politics today. I hope you enjoy it.

A quick note: A transcript of the podcast is below, as per usual. But if you’ve read these transcripts before, you’ll know I typically edit them down for length and clarity. In this case, Harris and I agreed to post our conversation unedited save for vocal tics (“um,” “ah,” etc.), logistics, and sound issues, so I have left the transcript faithful to the original audio (and huge thanks to Emily Stewart for her help on this). If you have the time to listen to our discussion, I’d urge you to consume it that way instead.

Sam Harris

Almost exactly a year ago, I had Charles Murray on my podcast. Murray, as many of our listeners will know, is the author of the notorious book The Bell Curve. It has a chapter on raising IQ and differences between racial measures of IQ that was extremely controversial. Murray is a person who still gets protested on college campuses more than 20 years later.

While I have very little interest in IQ and actually zero interest in racial differences in IQ, I invited Murray on my podcast, because he had recently been de-platformed at Middlebury College. He and his host were actually assaulted as they left the auditorium. In my view, this seemed yet another instance of kind of a moral panic that we were seeing on college campuses. It caused me to take an interest in Murray that I hadn’t previously had. I had never read The Bell Curve, because I thought it was just ... It must be just racist trash, because I assumed that where there was all that smoke, there must be fire. I hadn’t paid attention to Murray. When I did read the book and did some more research on him, I came to think that he was probably the most unfairly maligned person in my lifetime. That doesn’t really run the risk of being much of an exaggeration there.

The most controversial passages in the book struck me as utterly mainstream with respect to the science at this point. They were mainstream at the time he wrote them and they’re even more mainstream today. I perceived a real problem here of free speech and a man’s shunning and I was very worried. I felt culpable, because I had participated in that shunning somewhat. I had ignored him. As I said, I hadn’t read his book, and I had declined at least one occasion where I could’ve joined a project that he was associated with. I declined, because he was associated with it, because I perceived him to be radioactive.

So, I felt a moral obligation to have him on my podcast. In the process of defending him against the charge of racism and in order to show that he had been mistreated for decades, we had to talk about the science of IQ and the way genes and environment almost certainly contribute to it. Again, IQ is not one of my concerns and racial differences in IQ is absolutely not one of my concerns, but a person having his reputation destroyed for honestly discussing data — that deeply concerns me.

I did that podcast, again exactly a year ago. Vox then published an article that was highly critical of that podcast. It was written by Eric Turkheimer and Kathryn Harden and Richard Nisbett. This article, in my view, got more or less everything wrong. It read to me like a piece of political propaganda.

I reached out to you by email. I felt this article was totally unfair. It accused us of peddling junk science and pseudoscience and pseudo scientific racialist speculation and trafficking in dangerous ideas. Murray got the worse of it, but at minimum, I’m painted as a total ignoramus, right? One line said while I have a PhD in neuroscience I appear to be totally ignorant of facts that are well known to everyone in the field of intelligence studies.

Ezra Klein

I think you should quote the line. I don’t think that’s what the line said.

Sam Harris

The quote is, this is the exact quote: “Sam Harris appeared to be ignorant of facts that were well known to everyone in the field of intelligence studies.” Now that’s since been quietly removed from the article, but it was there and it’s archived.

[I went back and looked into this and, as far as I can tell, the original quote that Harris is referring to is this one: “Here, too briefly, are some facts to ponder — facts that Murray was not challenged to consider by Harris, who holds a PhD in neuroscience, although they are known to most experts in the field of intelligence.” Here is the first archived version of the piece if you want to compare it with the final. — Ezra]

That’s what I was reacting to. I sent you an email. I was pretty pissed, because again, I felt I was treated totally unfairly, as was Murray. I was especially pissed that you declined to publish an article that came to us unbidden, that came to you unbidden. It was unbidden by me or Murray, but from Richard Haier, who is the editor-in-chief of the journal Intelligence, in a far more mainstream voice on this issue then Nisbett or Turkheimer or Harden. He came to our defense, and that would have done a lot to correct the record, but you declined to publish that.

We went round and round by email. I got increasingly exasperated over just how I perceived you in the email exchange. Well, there was some talk of us doing this podcast together, but then I pulled the plug on that, because I felt it would be totally unproductive. At the end of the email exchange I said, “If you continue to slander me, I will publish this email exchange.” Because I felt that people should understand the actual backstory here and how this happened and why I’m not doing a podcast with you.

Then you did actually publish one more article from Turkheimer that took a shot at us, but basically we went radio silence for a year about as far as I know. Then what happened is there was an article published in the New York Times by David Reich, a geneticist at Harvard, which made some of the same noises that Murray and I had made. Murray retweeted it saying, “Well this sounds familiar.” Then I retweeted it taking a snide dig at you, saying something like, “I hope Ezra Klein is on the case, racialist pseudoscience never sleeps.” Then you responded writing yet another article about me and Murray.

I felt this article was just as unfair as anything that had preceded it. In particular I felt that you had summarized our email exchange in a way that was self-serving and that I didn’t agree with. That prompted me to publish the emails. I will be the first to admit — and I think you will agree with this — that that backfired on me. The public perception of my publishing those emails was that it was not a good look for me at all. Most people who came to those emails cold thought I was inexplicably angry and that you seemed very open to dialogue and it just, people had to do a lot of work to understand why I was pissed, and most people didn’t do that work.

I’m not saying that everyone who did the work, who listened to the podcast and read all the articles would take my side of it, but anyone who didn’t do the work thought that I was somehow the aggressor there and somehow, in particular, the fact that I was declining to do a podcast with you was held very much against me.

That caused me to change my mind about this whole thing, because I realized this is not, I can’t be perceived as someone who won’t take on legitimate criticism of his views. I went out on social media just to see if, in fact, people really wanted us to attempt this. After 40,000 or 50,000 people got back, I think it was 76 percent said yes, I decided that I was up for a podcast with you and you had already said you were up for a podcast with me, so here we are.

Again, much of that is described from my point of view, but I think the timeline is accurate.

Ezra Klein

The only thing I would say here is that you didn’t email me. What happened is that this piece published out. I tweeted it out. You tweeted a public challenge to me to come on your show.

Sam Harris

Okay, yes, that’s true.

Ezra Klein

Your producer emailed me to come on your show. I emailed your producer and said, “Hey can you connect me to Sam? We should talk about this.” Then our emails began.

Sam Harris

That’s true the first contact was on Twitter.

Ezra Klein

Which is not a big deal I just want to note that.

Sam Harris

Totally true. All right, let’s start with you. What don’t I get? Why is your criticism of me and Murray valid? Give me your take on all this.

Ezra Klein

All right, well, I appreciate that summary.

Obviously, and I’m sure we’ll get into this stuff, I have disagreements with which articles are fair and which aren’t, but I don’t think that that is where I want to begin this. I’m sure we’ll go through that. And people can read the original Vox articles — they’ll all be linked in my show notes, I assume, Sam, they’ll be linked in yours — they can read our emails to each other. They can read my article. They can listen to the original podcast. If you would like to be a Sam Harris and Ezra Klein completist, the option is very much there.

I listened to your housekeeping episode the other day, so I think I have some sense, Sam, of where you are coming into this, and I want to give you a sense of where I am in the hopes that it will be productive. Something you’ve said over and over and over again to me at this point is that to you, from the beginning, I’ve been here in bad faith. The problem is that I’ve come to this, coming to slander you, to destroy your reputation, to silence you. And I really take that as a signal failure on my part. I have not been able to persuade you, and maybe I will be today, that I really disagree with you strongly — I think some of the things you’re trafficking in are not just wrong, but they’re harmful — but I do so in good faith.

I’m here because I want to persuade you. One of the tricky things here is that I was not that involved in the original Vox article, I was editor-in-chief at the time, but I didn’t assign or edit it. I stand by it — things you publish when you’re editor-in-chief ultimately are on you — and I actually think it’s a good piece. But there are times when I can only speak from my perspective, not from the perspective of other people who wrote other things.

But the way I read the conversation you had with Murray, and I think you gesture at this in your opening here, you begin that conversation by really framing it around your shared experience responding to politically correct criticism.

You say, and I’m quoting you here, “in the intervening years,” — so the intervening years since Murray published The Bell Curve — “I ventured into my own controversial areas as a speaker and writer. I experienced many hysterical attacks against me and my work. I started thinking about your case” — your case being Murray’s case — “a little again, without ever having read you, and I began to suspect that you were one of the canaries in the coal mine that I never recognized as such.”

So you say explicitly in the opening to that podcast, that in the treatment of Murray, you saw the seeds of later treatment of you. I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about this, because something that I’ve been trying to do here is see this from your perspective.

Here is my view: I think you have a deep empathy for Charles Murray’s side of this conversation, because you see yourself in it. I don’t think you have as deep an empathy for the other side of this conversation. For the people being told once again that they are genetically and environmentally and at any rate immutably less intelligent and that our social policy should reflect that. I think part of the absence of that empathy is it doesn’t threaten you. I don’t think you see a threat to you in that, in the way you see a threat to you in what’s happened to Murray. In some cases, I’m not even quite sure you heard what Murray was saying on social policy either in The Bell Curve and a lot of his later work, or on the podcast. I think that led to a blind spot, and this is worth discussing.

I like your podcast. I think you have a big platform and a big audience. I think it’s bad for the world if Murray’s take on this gets recast here as political bravery, or impartial, or non-controversial. What I want to do here, it’s not really convince you that I’m right. I don’t think I’m going to do that. It’s not to convince you to like me, I don’t think I’m going to do that either, I get that.

What I want to convince you of is that there’s a side of this you should become more curious about. You should be doing shows with people like Ibram Kendi, who is the author of Stamped from the Beginning, which is a book on racist ideas in America which won the National Book Award a couple of years back. People who really study how race and these ideas interact with American life and policy.

I think the fact that we are two white guys talking about how growing up nonwhite in America affects your life and cognitive development is a problem here, just as it was a problem in the Murray conversation. And I want to persuade you that that some of the things that the so-called social justice warriors are worried about, are worth worrying about, and that the excesses of activists, while real and problematic, they’re not as a big deal as the things they’re really trying to fight and to draw attention to. Maybe I’ll take a breath there and let you in.

Sam Harris

All right. Yeah, okay that’s a great start.

I guess there’s a lot to respond to there. I guess the first thing I want to say there are two things I regret here, both in our exchange and in my podcast with Murray. I should just put those out first I think.

The first is that I was, as you said, very quick to attribute malice and bad faith to you in the email exchange. I may have done, it’s quite possible I did this when it wasn’t warranted. The reality is, the background here, which you alluded to, is that I am so battle-scarred at this point, and I’ve dealt with so many people who are willing to consciously lie about my views and who will just play the evasion game endlessly.

I’ve got people who edit the contents of my podcast to make it sound like I’ve said the opposite of what I’ve said. Then people like Glenn Greenwald and Reza Aslan forward these videos, consciously knowing they’re misrepresenting me. There’s been so much pushback about this. There’s been so much correction that at this point the possibility that it’s not conscious is just, the chance of that is zero. So, I’m dealing with people on daily basis who are just happy to smear me dishonestly simply to see what will sticks. In fact, when I published out emails, the tipping point for me was to see that Glenn Greenwald, Reza Aslan, and you in a single hour on Twitter had all hit me with the stuff that I perceive to be totally dishonest.

My fuse is pretty short. I am the first to admit that. If I treated you unfairly, attributing bad faith when you were just led by a sincere conviction that I had made an error, or that you were arguing for something that was so important and that I wasn’t seeing it, that is on me.

Now that said, I think your argument is, even where it pretends to be factual, or wherever you think it is factual, it is highly biased by political considerations. These are political considerations that I share. The fact that you think I don’t have empathy for people who suffer just the starkest inequalities of wealth and politics and luck is just, it’s telling and it’s untrue. I think it’s even untrue of Murray. The fact that you’re conflating the social policies he endorses — like the fact that he’s against affirmative action and he’s for universal basic income, I know you don’t happen agree with those policies, you think that would be disastrous — there’s a good-faith argument to be had on both sides of that conversation. That conversation is quite distinct from the science and even that conversation about social policy can be had without any allegation that a person is racist, or that a person lacks empathy for people who are at the bottom of society. That’s one distinction I want to make.

The other thing that I regret, which I think is, this is the thing you are taking me to task for, and I understand it, but I do regret that in the preface to my podcast with Murray, I didn’t add some full discussion of racism in America. The reason why I didn’t, or certainly at least one reason why I didn’t is that I had, maybe two months before that, done a podcast with Glenn Loury, the economist at Brown, who happens to be black. Glenn is fantastic. He’s got his own podcast, the Glenn Show, which everyone should watch. Glenn was on my podcast, and we were talking about race and violence in America. And I prefaced the conversation with a fairly long statement about the reality of white privilege and the past horrors of racism. When I got to the end of it, Glenn pretty much chastised me for thinking that it was necessary for me to say something like that just because I’m white. The fact that any conversation about race and violence, especially coming from a white guy like me, has to be bracketed with some elaborate virtue signaling on that point.

I mean, he basically said — these aren’t his words, but this was his attitude — he basically said, “Obviously, since you’re not a racist asshole, it can go without saying that you think that you understand that slavery was bad and that Jim Crow was bad and that you totally support civil rights.”

His take on my saying that was not a total surprise, given who Glenn is. But the fact that he viewed it as fairly pathetic that I felt the need to do that and that it couldn’t just go without saying, I remembered that.

Obviously, your point is well taken. I mean, two white guys talking about differences in IQ across races, or across populations. I mean, if ever there is a time to signal that you understand that racism is still a problem in the world, that’s it. While we did say some things that I think should still have been fully exculpatory — I mean, for anyone paying attention, I think it should be obvious, with a modicum of charity extended to us, that Murray and I are not racist, and that what we were saying was not coming from a place of racial animus. But that is, I mean, that is the backstory for why I didn’t have some kind of elaborate framing of the conversation.

Ezra Klein

This is good, because I think this gets much closer to the meat of where we actually disagree. Something I want to be clear about is what I think was wrong in that podcast is not that you didn’t virtue signal. It’s not that you didn’t come out and say, “Hey, listen, just before I start this up, I want everybody to know I’m not a racist.”

And by the way I’m not here to say you’re racist, I don’t think you are. We have not called you one. I actually think we should talk later about literally just what racism is, how we use that word in this conversation.

But my criticism of your podcast and, by the way my criticism also of Murray, and this is useful, because I can work backwards through your answer here, is not that you didn’t excuse yourself. It’s that in a conversation about an outcome of American life — How do African Americans and whites score on IQ tests in America today? What happens when somebody sits down and takes the test today? — that is an outcome of the American experiment, an experiment we’ve been running in this country for hundreds of years. You did not discuss how race and racism act upon that outcome. You did not discuss it.

I mean, amazingly to me, you all didn’t talk about slavery or segregation once. What I’m saying here is not that you lack empathy — although in a different space, I think you have a sense of what Murray is going through that is different from your sense of what other people who are hurt in this conversation go through, I do believe that — but as it comes to the way you actually conducted the conversation, I’m arguing that you lacked a sense of history, that you didn’t deal in a serious way with the history of this conversation, a conversation that has been going on literally since the dawn of the country. A conversation that has been wrong in virtually every version, in every iteration, we’ve had in America before.

The other thing I want to say about this, and this gets very importantly to Charles Murray’s work. You’re a neuroscientist. And so I get that you look at Murray and you look at The Bell Curve and what you see are the tables and the appendices and the scientific version of Charles Murray.

I’m a policy journalist. My background is I live in Washington, DC, I cover politics. Charles Murray — not just to me, what he literally is — is what we call a policy entrepreneur. He’s somebody who his entire career has been spent at Washington think tanks. He’s at the American Enterprise Institute, where I have a lot of friends, and I respect that organization quite a bit. He argues in different ways and throughout his entire body of work for policy outcomes.

His book before The Bell Curve is called Losing Ground. It’s a book about why we should dissolve the Great Society programs. By the way, when he was selling that book, he said, “a lot of whites think they’re racist, and this is a book that tells them they aren’t.”

Then he came out with The Bell Curve and we’ll go through this. I’ll quote this back to you, but in The Bell Curve’s final chapter, he says, Why did I do any of this? Why did I talk about any of this? Him and Richard Herrnstein, obviously the co-author of that book. He says, The reason I did it is because we in America need to re-embrace a politics of difference. We need to understand that we are cognitively different from each other, not just by race, but other folks too, but by race as well, and that understanding that changes what we should do in social policy.

He literally says, and again I can quote this to you if you’d like, he says, for one thing, we have all these low cognitive capacity women giving birth, and by having the social supports for poor children in this country, we are subsidizing them to give birth. What we need to do is take those subsidies away. These women, who according to his book are disproportionately African American, their poor children should not get as much federal support when they are born, so they are disincentivized to have as many children.

He also says that we have all these folks who are Hispanic coming up over the border, that our immigration policy is letting in too many low-IQ people. While he’s not quite as prescriptive in that part, he’s pretty clear that he wants us to change our immigration policy, in order to resist dysgenic pressure.

The other thing you brought up his UBI work. The reason I bring this up is that, the reason Charles Murray’s work is problematic, is that he uses these arguments about IQ — and a lot of other arguments he makes about other things — to push these points into the public debate, where he is very, very, very influential. He’s not by any means a silenced actor in Washington. He gives Congressional testimony. He won the Bradley Prize in 2016 and got a $250,000 check for it. His book on UBI, it is completely of a piece with this. I reviewed that book when it came out. It’s an interesting book, people should read it, but it is a way of cutting social spending. According to Murray’s own numbers, he says it would cut social spending by a trillion dollars in 2020. To give you a sense of scale, Obamacare costs two trillion dollars over 10 years.

This is another book in a different way that is a huge argument for cutting social spending, which in part he justifies by saying, we are trying to redress racial inequality based on an idea that it is a product of American history, when in fact it is some combination of innate and environmental, but at any rate, it is not something we’re going to be able to change, and so we should stop trying, or at least stop trying in the way we have been.

Sam Harris

Okay. Ezra, again you can’t conflate his views on social policy with an honest discussion of empirical science. Those are two separate conversations. You can agree about the data, or disagree in a good faith way about the data, and have a separate conversation about what to do in response to the data and then disagree in a good faith way about that.

Now I’m not defending Murray’s view of what the social policy should be. I’m open-minded about universal basic income. I think there can be a good faith debate about many of these topics. It’s a completely separate conversation, and I totally share your concern about racism and inequality.

Again, I have no interest in using science to establish differences between races. But the problem is, and I have publicly criticized people who do have an interest in using science that way, and one of my critical questions of Murray was why pay attention to any of this stuff? I’ve said publicly that I didn’t think his answer was great on that. I’m not interested in paying attention to this stuff, and yet I have to, in order to have conversations like this.

But the problem is the data on population differences will continue to emerge whether we’re looking for it or not. The idea that one should lie about these data, or pretend to be convinced by bad arguments that are politically correct, or worse that it’s okay to malign people, or even destroy their reputations, if they won’t pretend to be convinced by bad arguments. That’s a disaster. Morally and politically and intellectually, that is a disaster, and that’s where we are.

That’s my criticism of what you have done at Vox and what Turkheimer and Nisbett and Harden have done. The truth is, for whatever reason, however noble it is in your head, you’ve been extraordinarily unfair to me and Murray. Now especially to Murray.

I just want to give you a couple of examples here. I think we have to go in to this issue of, you just claimed you didn’t call us racist, right? You didn’t use the word racist, I’ll grant you that. You used the racialist, which you know most people will read as racist. But even if that is an adequate way to split the difference, everything else you said imputed, if not an utter racial bias and a commitment to some kind of white superiority, you say again and again that, here’s a quote from your article. This is actually the subtitle of the article. I called the podcast with Murray “Forbidden Knowledge.” You said, “it isn’t forbidden knowledge, it’s American’s most ancient justification for bigotry and racial inequality.” This is what, we’re shilling for bigotry and racial inequality.

Then you convict Murray and, again this is a quote, “being engaged in a decades-long focus on the intellectual inferiority of Africa Americans.” Now honestly, okay that is a smear. Murray has not been focused on African-Americans. He’s been waging a decades-long battle to survive being scapegoated by people who insinuate that he’s a racist. The nature of that battle is to continually try to, you have to keep touching this issue to get the slime off of you.

But, as you know, The Bell Curve was not focused on race. There’s just one chapter on race, and the truth is that, and you almost eluded this in what you just said, the truth is that Murray is just as worried about unearned privilege as you are. I mean, he’s just worried about a different kind of privilege. You could call it IQ privilege. The Bell Curve is an 800-page lament on this type of privilege. Again, it has nothing in principle to do with race. Murray is just as worried about the white people on the left side of the IQ distribution as black people, or Latinos, or anyone else.

It would be just as true to describe him as having been involved in a decades-long focus on the superiority of Asians over white people, because that’s also part of the story. You might ask yourself why you didn’t do that.

I want to read a quote from Murray on my podcast, because this is, again, I’m not at all arguing for his social policies. I just want us to be fair to the man. This is a quote:

If there’s one thing that writing The Bell Curve did, it sensitized me to the extent to which high IQ is pure luck. None of us earn our IQ. Whether it’s by nature, or by nurture. We aren’t the ones who did the nurturing. Hard work and perseverance and all those other qualities are great, but we can’t take credit for our IQ. We live in a society that is tailor-made for people with high IQs. The people who got the short end of the stick in that lottery deserve our admiration and our support if they’re doing everything right.

That’s the end of the quote. So he is worried about a world where success is determined by a narrow range of abilities, and these abilities, whether they come from nature or nurture, are distributed unequally. That’s guaranteed to be true. We just know that that they can’t possibly be equal, both among individuals and across groups, and when you’re talking about the averages in groups.

He’s totally committed, as I am, and, again, I don’t know how many times you have reiterate this in a podcast to make it stick, that the punchline here is that everyone has to be treated as an individual, that we have to get past thinking about groups. I mean, there’s more variance within a group than between groups, and everyone has to be encountered on their own merits. He’s totally clear about that.

So to paint him as callous and as racist and as essentially a white supremacist. Again, you’re talking, he’s fixated on the inferiority of blacks on your account. It is irresponsible and unethical, and that’s the kind of wrong that I was trying to address by giving him a platform on my podcast. That is what produced so much outrage in me in our email exchange.

Ezra Klein

When I hear this. I actually really wonder how much ... I want to be careful here. I know Charles Murray. When I wrote my very first piece as a journalist in Washington, it was a piece about poverty, I interviewed him for it. I’ve reviewed his books. I’ve talked with him. My wife is writing a book about UBI actually. He’s quoted in the book. I do not want Charles Murray silenced, and he’s a lovely guy interpersonally. There’s no doubt about that. The quote you read from him about luck, I want to put a pin in that, because there’s a whole conversation I want to have with you about that quote. If Charles Murray followed what that quote implies, I think things would look very different with him and with my view of his career.

But I do think I need to go through some of what you said here. First, I don’t know how much you understand Charles Murray’s career. As I said, his first book is Losing Ground. It’s a book about the Great Society. It’s a book —

Sam Harris

But wait, just in the interest of time and basic human sanity. I’m worried that you’re going to do is, all the stuff you’re going to cover is irrelevant, because one, I’ve said —

Ezra Klein

Sam, I’ve let you had your say. I’m just going to —

Sam Harris

No, I just want to. Okay that’s fine, but I just want to prevent your and listener frustration here, because if you go on for 10 minutes, for me to only say well again his social policies are not social policies I’m advocating —

Ezra Klein

Don’t worry. We’re going to go through all this, and I don’t mean this to be sharp, but you don’t give short answers yourself. We’re just going to have to indulge the other one here.

His first book is Losing Ground. It’s about dissolving the welfare state. Again, he says about that book, a lot of whites think they’re racists, I’m going to show them they’re not.

The next book is The Bell Curve. The way Murray often defends The Bell Curve is by saying, “Hey, look it only had this one chapter on race and IQ.” He’s completely, or actually a couple of chapters, but he’s completely right about that. The chapters where that is mentioned, they are not the bulk of the book.

But I’m actually a publisher of pieces. I work with a lot of authors on book excerpts. The furor around The Bell Curve is not around the book, which it’s a long book, most people haven’t read it. It’s that the part of the book that he had excerpted on the cover of the New Republic under Andrew Sullivan — the cover of the New Republic, it just says in big letters, “Race and IQ.” The reason that is the part people focus on is that they pulled the most controversial part of the book and made it a huge deal. I know that authors, when they don’t want their most controversial part to define the work, they don’t let you excerpt that. So one, I don’t think Murray’s blameless there.

His next book is honestly weirder. I don’t know if you’ve read, or even got familiar with Human Achievement, the next book?

Sam Harris

I’ve read, just to be on the record here, I’ve read The Bell Curve, and I’ve read Coming Apart, and that’s all. Coming Apart just spells out his concern about the cognitive stratification of society.

Ezra Klein

So Human Achievement is a book where Murray, and this comes right after The Bell Curve — and when I describe this book I almost feel like people are not going to believe me, but go look it up — Murray wants to quantify the human achievements of different races. The way he does that is he looks in a bunch of encyclopedias and he literally counts up the amount of space given to the accomplishments of artists and philosophers and scientists from different places. He uses that to say white Europeans have done the most to push forward human achievement. One criticism that I and other people have of Murray is that he often looks at indicators that reflect inequality and uses them to justify inequality. That book is one of the most massive correlation-causation errors I can possibly imagine.

So now the next thing you said is that in doing this that I’m conflating two things. I’m conflating just a calm discussion you two ha about the science with the social policy agenda. I want to read you actually what was said in your discussion with Murray about this, because this is actually why I’m interested in it.

When you were talking with Murray, one thing — I think to your credit — is you repeatedly asked him, why do this at all? Why have this whole discussion about race and IQ? What are we doing here?

You say, “Why seek data on racial differences at all? What is the purpose of doing this?” Murray responds, and, again, I’m quoting:

Because we now have social policy embedded in employment policy, in academic policy, which is based on the premise that everybody is equal above the neck, whether it is men, or women, or whether it is ethnicities. When you have that embedded that into law, you have a variety of bad things happen.

Then you ask it again. You say, “Needless to say, I’m sure we can find hate supremacist organizations who love the fact that The Bell Curve was published and admonish their remembers to read it at the first opportunity. Why look at this? How does this help society get more information about racial difference?”

Murray, again, I’m not going to read the whole thing, because I think that would be dull, gives a long answer about affirmative action and why it is bad. So, I am not the one conflating this, number one. I am listening to the conversation you had. I’m listening to the conversation you had, I’m a close reader of Murray’s work, and the reason I care about this stuff is I care about what the actual social policy outcomes are. The final thing —

Sam Harris

Ezra, then you don’t know what I mean by conflate. I got to clarify this. This confusion. This is just ...

Ezra Klein

You can respond to everything when I’m done, I promise. I will shut up and let you talk.

Sam Harris

Okay.

Ezra Klein

The final thing that you did in your answer to me here, what you said again and again, is people “pretending” to believe politically correct ideas. People pretending to believe bad evidence.

A couple things on that. I don’t doubt your sincerity in this, but I can assure you that Nisbett and Paige Harden and Eric Turkheimer and me, we actually believe what we believe. One of the things that has honestly been frustrating to me in dealing with you is you have a very sensitive ear to where you feel that somebody has insulted to you, but not a sensitive ear to yourself. During this discussion, you have called me, and not through implication, not through something where you’re reading in between the lines, you’ve called me a slanderer, a liar, intellectually dishonest, a bad-faith actor, cynically motivated by profit, defamatory, a libelist. You’ve called Turkheimer and Nisbett and Paige Harden, you’ve called them fringe. You’ve said just here that they’re part of a politically correct moral panic.

I do think that you need to do a little bit more here to credit the idea that there just is a disagreement here. It’s a disagreement in part because people are looking at different parts of this with different emphasis, but also a disagreement because people look at this issue and see different things. I often hear you on your podcast talk about how it’s important to try to extend the idea of the sincerity. One thing I’ve not done is assume that you don’t believe what you believe. Everybody here is trying to have an argument about something that is important, that in Murray’s words should feed into how we order society, what we do to redress racial difference. That’s not just a high stakes conversation. It’s also one where people just disagree.

Sam Harris

Yeah, okay. So untangling a bit of confusion here. I guess there is two topics here that I should address.

I think we have to talk about what it means to insinuate that someone is racist, but, the conflation issue. My claim is that you’re conflating — I get that you hate his social policies, I get that you see that he thinks his social policies are justified by what he thinks empirically true in the world of data and facts and human difference. There’s a connection there, and you’re worried that if one takes the data seriously in the way that he takes it seriously, or if one endorses his interpretation of the data from psychology, or psychometrics, or behavioral genetics, that that will lead to social policies that you find abhorrent, or that you think will produce a massive amount of inequality, or suffering, or something wrong.

I get that. But the conflation is, is that talking about data is one thing. Talking about what should be done in light of the facts that you acknowledge to be true, or are likely to be true, is another. There can be good faith disagreements in both of those conversations. Those conversations are not inextricably linked. What I am noticing here is, and what I’ve called a moral panic, is that there are people who think that if we don’t make certain ideas, certain facts, taboo to discuss, if we don’t impose a massive reputational cost in discussing these things, then terrible things will happen at the level of social policy. That the only way to protect to our politics is to be — again, this is a loaded term, but this is what is happening from my view scientifically — is to be intellectually dishonest. To be led by confirmation bias.

Confirmation bias is a real thing. This is the situation I think we’re in. Everything you’ve said about the politics and the historical wrongs of racism, which you wrote about a lot in your last piece, I totally agree with, and I’m probably more aligned with you politically than I am with Murray, which is to say that I share your biases. I share the bias that is leading you to frame the matter the way you’re framing it.

Again, I probably should have spelled this out in the beginning of my podcast with Murray, and I didn’t for reasons I described. I don’t think it would’ve made a bit of difference, but I still should’ve have done it. I think it would’ve been called anodyne the way Nisbett et al. called our talking about individual difference anodyne. But I think everything you say about the history of racism is true. I think you are probably, you could well be on the right side of a good debate about social policy, and your concerns here are totally understandable. I get all of that. So, I get why you feel, this goes to the charge of bad faith against you, which in this conversation I admitted might have been unfair. You might not be the Glenn Greenwald character I read you to be at a certain point in that email exchange.

Let’s just assume, as you say, that you feel intellectually scrupulous and ethically righteous, okay? I know what it’s like to feel that. You feel this way because you’re concerned about racism. You’re horrified by the history of racism, and you feel that the kinds of social policies that Murray favors would be disastrous. Again, I’m not arguing for those social policies, but your bias here and your connection to the political outcomes, when you’re talking about the empirical science, is causing you to make journalistic errors. It’s causing Nisbett and Turkheimer to make errors of scientific reasoning. These are obvious errors.

I mean, your last piece, you have this whole section on the “Flynn effect” and how the Flynn effect should be read as accounting for the black-white differences in purely environmental terms. Well, even Flynn rejects that interpretation of the Flynn effect. I mean, he had originally had hoped, he publicly hoped, that his effect would account for that, but now he has acknowledged that the data don’t suggest that. There are many errors of this kind that you and Nisbett and Turkheimer are making when you criticize me and Murray. You criticize Murray for errors that he didn’t make.

And in order for you to imagine that I’m equally biased, because you must imagine bias on my side, why am I getting it so wrong? Why am I looking at the same facts that Nisbett and Turkheimer and Harden are looking at and I am getting it absolutely wrong? You have to imagine that I have an equal and opposite passion, that I feel equally righteous, but it’s pointing in the opposite direction. I would have to be a grand dragon of the KKK to feel an equal and opposite bias on these data. You’ve already said you don’t think I’m a racist, but that’s what it would have to be true of me to be as biased as you are, again, understandably, given the history of racism on these data. It’s just not the case.

I mean, what you have in me is someone who shares most of your political concerns and yet is unwilling to — again, a loaded word — lie about what is and is not a good reading of empirical data and what is and is not a good argument about genetics and environment and what is reasonable to presume based on what we already know.

Again the problem is that even if we never look for these things again, even if we follow this taboo and decide that it’s just, there is no ethical reason to ever look at population differences, we will be continually ambushed by these data. They’re just going to spring out of our study of intelligence generically, or human genetics generically. It’s happened on other topics already, and people try to keep quiet about it, because again the environment journalistically and politically is so charged.

My criticism of you has been from day one that you are contributing to that political charge, and it’s totally unnecessary, because the political answer is so clear. The political answer is we have to be committed to racial equality and everyone getting all the opportunities in life for happiness and self-actualization they can use. We’re nowhere near achieving that kind of society. The real racists are the people who are not committed to those goals.

Ezra Klein

There is so much there.

I actually really appreciate that answer, because I think it helps open this up. So let me say a couple things here.

One of the things I’ve come to think about you that I actually did not come into this believing is, you’re very quick to see a lot of psychological tendencies, cognitive fallacies, etc. in others that you don’t see applying to yourself, or people you’ve written into your tribe. You say words in there like confirmation bias, etc., to me about how we’re looking at Murray. The whole thing I just told you is that Charles Murray is a guy who works at conservative think tanks, whose first book was about why we should get rid of the welfare state, who is, his whole life’s work is about breaking down social policy.

To the extent that I have any biases that flow backwards from political commitments, so does he. We’re all —

Sam Harris

Okay. But what’s my bias?

Ezra Klein

Hold on Sam. I’m going to go through this.

Sam Harris

But what’s my bias?

Ezra Klein

I promise you I will get to your bias very quickly.

I do want you to know, you mentioned James Flynn here. To prepare for this conversation, I called Flynn the other day. I spoke to him on Monday. His read of the evidence right now, and this is me quoting him. He says, “I think it is more probably than not that the IQ difference between black and white Americans is environmental. As a social scientist, I cannot be sure if they have a genetic advantage or disadvantage.” That is what James Flynn thinks of Monday.

Then you asked me — and I think this is a good question, because I think this gets to the core of this and it gets to where I tried to open us up into — your view of this debate is that to say that you have a bias in it is to say, in your terms, that you’re like the grand dragon of the KKK. That the only version of a bias that can be influencing what you see here is a core form of racism. That’s actually not my view of you, but I do think you have a bias.

I think you have a huge sensitivity, let’s put it that way, and you have a lot of difficulty extending an assumption of good faith to anyone who disagrees with you on an issue that you code as identity politics. There’s a place actually where I think you got into this in a pretty interesting way. I went back and I read your discussion with Glenn Loury.

At the beginning, when you’re talking about why you chose to have Glenn on the show, you say, “My goal was to find an African American intellectual, who could really get into the details with me, but whom I also trusted to have a truly rational conversation that wouldn’t be contaminated by identity politics.” To you, engaging in identity politics discredits your ability to participate in a rational conversation, and it’s something, as far as I can tell, that you do not see yourself as doing.

So here’s my question for you: On that specific quote, what does it mean to you, particularly when you’re talking about something like race, to have your ideas contaminated by identity politics?

Sam Harris

Well, what I mean by identity politics is that you are reasoning on the basis of skin color, or religion, or gender, or some particular trait, which you have by accident, which you can’t change — you fell into that bin through no process of reasoning on your own, you couldn’t be convinced to be white or black — and to reason from that place as though, because you’re you, because you have the skin color you have, certain things are true and very likely incommunicable to other people who don’t share your identity. I view this as this as the most unhappy game of Dungeons and Dragons ever. People have these various stories of victimology that if you do arithmetic one way, one group trumps another. Another way it gets reversed.

This strikes me as a moral and political and intellectual dead end because the things that are really true, the things that will really move the dial with respect to human wellbeing — I view my career as being totally committed to amplifying good ideas and criticizing bad ideas, insofar as they relate to the most important swings of human wellbeing. My concern is, how can the future be better than the past? How can we get to a world where we cancel the worst effects of bad luck, given that some people are hugely lucky and some people aren’t? How can we cancel this, with respect to wealth and health and everything else? How can we get to a world where the maximum number of people thrive?

I view identity politics as among the worst pieces of software you can be running to try to get there. I want to get to a world where, I mean, it’s Martin Luther King’s claim about the content of your character, rather than the color of your skin. That is the goal, and if you want to reverse engineer that goal, giving primacy to identity is one of the worst things you can do. That is my, that’s how I would frame it.

Ezra Klein

That’s super helpful. Here’s my criticism of you. I don’t think you realize that the identity politics software is operating in you all the time and, I think it’s strong.

When you look at literature on the conversation about race in America, you often see the discussion broken into racists and anti-racists. That’s something that you’ll read often in this debate. I think there’s something else, particularly lately, which you might call anti-anti-racism, which is folks who are fundamentally more concerned, or fundamentally primarily concerned, with the overreach of what you would call the anti-racists. And, actually that’s where I think you are.

One of the things that I hear in you is that, whenever something gets near the questions of political correctness — the canary and the coal mine for the way you yourself have been treated — you get very, very, very strident. They’re in bad faith. They’re not being able to speak rationally. They’re not being able to have a conversation that is actually going forward on a sound evidentiary basis. The thing that I don’t think that you’re self-reflective enough about — and I apologize, because I know that “I” statements are better than “you” statements, but I do want to push this idea at you for you to think about it — is that there are things that are threats to you. There are things that are threats to your tribe, to your future, to your career, and those threats are very salient.

You see what happens with Charles Murray, the kind of criticism he gets, and that sets off every alarm bell in your head. You bring him on the show and you’re like, “We’re going to fix this. I’m going to show that they can’t do this to you.” You look around and you say, “Ezra, you think we shouldn’t take away all efforts to redress racial inequality? But that’s a bias. You’re just being led around by your political opinions, where I am standing outside the debate acting rationally.”

To me that’s actually not what’s happening at all. I think you’re missing a lot, because you are very radically increasing the salience of things that threaten your identity, your tribe — which is not the craziest thing to do in the world, t’s not a terrible thing to do, we all do it — without admitting, or maybe even without realizing, that’s what you’re doing.

I think that there is a lot of discussion like this in the public sphere just generally at the moment. There are a lot of white commentators, of which I am also one, who look at what’s happening on some campuses, or look at what happens on Twitter mobs, or whatever, and they see a threat to them. The concern about political correctness goes way, way, way, way up. Then the ability to hear what the folks who are making the arguments actually say dissolves. The ability to hear what the so-called social justice warriors are actually worried about dissolves. I think that’s a really big blind spot here. I think it’s making it hard for you to see when people have a good faith disagreement with you, and I also think it’s making harder for you to see how to weight some of the different concerns that are operating in this conversation.

You’re so concerned about Murray and what has happened here, when again, he’s an extremely successful scholar in Washington.

Sam Harris

That’s actually confusion. That’s a point of confusion.

Ezra Klein

I mean, in your whole show, Sam, you’ve had 120-some episodes, and — I could have miscounted this, I totally take that as a possibility here — but you’ve had two —

Sam Harris

It’s amazing you would think this is relevant, but yes, you can give me the numbers.

Ezra Klein

I think you’ve had two African Americans as guests. I think you need to explore the experience of race in American more and not just see that as identity politics. See that as information that is important to talking about some of things you want to talk about, but also to hearing from some of the people who you’ve now written out of the conversation to hear.

Sam Harris

So this is the kind of thing that I would be tempted to score as bad faith —

Ezra Klein

I’m shocked!

Sam Harris

In someone else, but actually, I think this is a point of confusion, but it is, nonetheless, confusion here.

Your accusation that I’m reasoning on the basis of my tribe here is just false. I mean, I spend, this is the whole game I play, this is my main focus in just constructing my worldview and having conversations with other people. When I’m thinking about things, that are true that stand a chance of being universal, that stand a chance of scaling, these are the kinds of things that are not subordinate to a person’s identity. They’re not the things that will be true by accident of birth, because you happen to have been born in India and are Hindu, right? I mean, this is the problem I have with religious sectarianism. This is the problem I have with nationalism or any other kind of tribalism that can’t possibly scale to a global civilization that’s truly cosmopolitan, where when you’re reasoning among strangers, you have to converge on solutions to problems that work independent of who you happen to be.

I mean, this is why John Rawls’s veil of ignorance thought experiment was so brilliant. To design a just society, a great heuristic, is to think of the society you would want, not knowing who you’re going to be in it. That’s the perfect nullification of the logic of identity politics. You have to figure out what would be good for everyone before you realize what the color of your skin is.

The reason why I’m defending Murray to the degree that I have been is not because I have this incredible sympathy with him because he’s a white guy like me.

I defend Muslim reformers who are not white and ex-Muslims who are not white. I’ve spent way more time defending Ayaan Hirsi Ali than Charles Murray, and she’s the victim of the same kind of leftist stupidity, frankly. Her demonization has the exact same structure that Murray’s does. I have spent an enormous investment of time and money, frankly, defending Ayaan. So your charge is false with respect to my motivations.

There are so many layers of confusion here. I mean, this is just a, again it’s not just yours, it’s everybody’s. It’s got to be a majority of both our audiences. I want to say something about this notion of what’s at stake here, because in your recent piece you talk about Murray’s focus on the inferiority of blacks.

Ezra Klein

Intellectual inferiority.

Sam Harris

But you also use just inferiority of blacks are inferior as well. Go back and look at the piece.

But this notion of inferiority, I mean, no one talks about inferiority who’s actually having a dispassionate argument on this topic of IQ testing. It absolutely does not map on, I can only, I’m not going to pretend to be a mind reader, but it certainly doesn’t map on to my view of this situation.

I mean, for instance, I would bet my life that my IQ is lower than John von Neumann’s was. The chances of that being true are 100 percent. Of course this is mere speculation, but this is speculation that you could bet the fate of the world on. Despite what Turkheimer says in his article, in his tweets, you can make very high probability speculations. Do you think I’m inferior to John von Neumann? Do you think I think I’m inferior to John von Neumann?

Ezra Klein

Two things here. One, when I talk about what Murray says specifically I do use intellectual inferiority. I got the piece out in front of me.

I do think, 100 percent, without doubt, that when we have, in American life, over and over and over again, said that African Americans are intellectually less capable than whites, that has been — yes, that is a way of saying that they are inferior and it has been a way of treating them as if they are inferior. It is been a way of justifying social outcomes that are unbelievably unequal and unfair that have been going on until, I mean, they’re going on in the present day.

You know, something that you said in here, Sam, I think is important, because, while you called it confusion, I still am not clear on which part is actually confused.

What I would argue about this is recognizing that there are folks who it is easier for us to hear from and harder is part of gathering the information about the world for us to understand what is true. During our email exchange, let me use this as an example. You wrote to me, again quoting here, “If James Flynn is right, if Flynn is right, than the mean IQs of African-American children, who are second- and third-generation upper middle class, should have converged with those of the children of upper middle class whites. But as far as I understand they haven’t.”

I think that sentence right there, that is not having enough experience, or having thought hard enough, or dug into the literature. I mean, there are different ways of learning about the world, of course, but about people who’s experience is different than yours.

I mean, I’ll give one example that I actually said to you in these emails. African American families making $100,000 a year tend to live in neighborhoods with the same income composition as white families making $30,000 a year. To say that you have an African-American family that is middle class or upper middle class and that their experience is now so similar to that of whites that somehow the environmental atmosphere around them has equalized, I think that is something that is being missed and that, the way you—

Sam Harris

But Ezra what’s being missed—

Ezra Klein

I’ll just finish on this point. The way you leverage identity politics here is a way of not forcing yourself to see some of that.

Sam Harris

Okay, but this is something you’ve done by implication, more or less every time you’ve touched this topic. You’ve suggested that Murray is trying to establish that the differences between the mean IQs in various groups are genetic, right? He’s not. He’s simply suggested that there’s good reason to believe that genes and environment both play a part.

That is a safe assumption for basically everything we care about physically and mentally. That is as safe an assumption in behavioral genetics as can be made. It’s an assumption that Turkheimer, Nisbett don’t want to make for patently political reasons, I would argue, but it is, I mean, I can’t tell you, every single scientist I spoke to before I did my podcast with Murray who’s close to these data, scientists who don’t want to publicly defend him, because they don’t want to have to have conversations like this, agreed that what had been done to him was absolutely disgraceful and that his reading of the science is fine.

Richard Haier, who came to our defense, again unbidden, put his reputation on the line to argue for that. My experience as a person who is getting ready to have a conversation with Murray, wondering whether or not he should do it, wondering whether or not this is just, maybe this guy is a racist who’s distorted the science, my experience was of encountering scientists who were basically in hiding on this topic, scientists who’s names would be well known to you, people who have stellar reputations, but who don’t want to go near this for all the trouble it causes them.

Just to give you another sense of the picture, of the context in which we’re having this conversation. The original Vox article landed on the hate watch page at the Southern Poverty Law Center website. In a stream that talks about neo-Nazi hate groups and the Atlanta bomber, there’s me and Murray. That’s not an accident. That’s not a gratuitous misreading of the article. That is the taboo I’m talking about. We are now purveyors of hate.

Let’s take this off race and IQ for a second, because this is something that would’ve been probably just as radioactive and it just happened to break the other way and nobody noticed.

I think it was three years ago, or four years ago. I think it was 2014 where there were some, there were reports about Neanderthal DNA. I think it’s David Reich whose op-ed in the New York Times kicked off our latest skirmish, I think it’s based on his work. It was found that most human beings are walking around with around 2.7 percent Neanderthal DNA. At the time, but it was found that the only people who don’t have Neanderthal DNA are black people, people who directly descend with some isolation from Africa, from the rest of the human community.

At the time I tweeted, this is now 2014, I tweeted, “Attention all racists, you are right. We are special, or whites are special. We’re part Neanderthal. Blacks are just human.” It just was a trolling of the world’s racists.

Now the fact that I tweeted that should give you as a journalist some indication of what I think about white supremacy. But what if the data had broken the other way? What if the only people on Earth, who were part neanderthal, were black? What then? What would have happened to anyone who reported those data? What would’ve, would that have been an example of trafficking in the most deeply harmful tropes? It’s just pure good luck it broke the other way. And yet, this is the kind of thing that will keep coming at us. This is the problem that you appear to be unprepared for, okay? It’s a problem that you, in the face of which you appear to be willing to believe people who are not speaking with real integrity about data, because it serves political ends. You appear to be willing to help destroy people’s reputation who take the other side of these conversations.

The problem is this: We know that we will discover things about populations that can appear invidious and appear politically inconvenient. And we don’t know when we will discover them. We know that there is enough variation both genetically and environmentally that if we looked at differences among the Inuit and the Koreans and people from Latin America, we’re going to find differences, and again, these differences don’t always make white people look good. The Asian IQ data is the reverse of the black-white difference thus far, psychometrically, and no one is worried about Asian privilege.

We’ve got Asians suing Harvard University today, because they’re being excluded from Harvard, and that’s the other side of this affirmative action question. We have to figure out some way to solve this. The political response, the basic political response, I mean the policy response, is open to good-faith debate. But the basic one has to be not identity politics but a commitment to basic fairness for all individuals, no matter what nominal group they seem to be a part of, because, again, these groups are poorly defined. Most of these groups are defined based on people’s self-identification, and then you can find out genetic analysis that they don’t even come from where they thought they came from.

Whatever, however you define a group, you will find difference, and to treat those differences as in principle radioactive, that is just a bad strategy going forward. It will produce political harm. It will produce intellectual harm and it is what explains the fact that I have people, reputable scientists in my inbox, who have totally taken my side in this, but who are too afraid to say so publicly. The reason why they should be afraid is proven by the fact that I’m now on the Southern Poverty Law Center website as a hate monger.

Ezra Klein

A couple things here.

One, I just want to call out that you keep doing this thing where you say, “There all these people who disagree with me, and they disagree me because they’re not willing to read the data with integrity.” I am not telling you you’re not reading the data with integrity. You keep telling others that and I think —

Sam Harris

No, you called me a pseudoscientist and a junk scientist over and over again.

Ezra Klein

The scientists, Nisbett and Paige Harden and Turkheimer, said that they believe Murray’s interpretation of this, ultimately, is pseudoscience and is way, way, way out in front of the data. I

Sam Harris

But you know Turkheimer has apologized for that. What do you with the fact that he’s apologized for that?

Ezra Klein

I spoke with him yesterday. He holds all the same views on this, but that he feels that that wasn’t helpful to the debate, which is nice of him. He may be, you know, it’s good to keep the debate’s temperature down, but that doesn’t change his view.

Sam Harris

Okay, but if it’s junk science, then it’s disagreement about the actual science.

Ezra Klein

I think you’re going to have to ask Turkheimer what he thinks on this. I think you’re misreading him. At any rate, I think it would be not useful for us to spend our time on that.

David Reich, in the very article that you sent to me, his view on this is that whatever we think now is going to be proven wrong, that whatever confidence we have now, is going to be shown to be incorrect. The ideas and the information coming down the pike are going to surprise us. So, the argument of Turkheimer, Paige Harden, Nisbett, in the piece that, again, people should go to the show notes and read these pieces, is that, who knows? Maybe some time in the future we’ll find this, but right now there’s no reason to believe it.

Sam Harris

I don’t know what “it” is in this case.

Ezra Klein

That there is a negative IQ difference that is in part genetic for African Americans. That is the “it.” Now one thing that you say I say is that I keep saying Murray calls this genetic. He does, he’s pretty clear there’s a genetic component. So you are in the piece. I can quote it back, but it’s completely true that he says, I don’t know what the numbers are.

What is interesting about the move Murray makes, and this is the thing that I call out in my piece and have talked about a bit, is that what Murray is intent on showing is that genetic or environmental, it can’t be changed, it’s immutable.

He says, “There is this notion” — this was in your podcast — “there is this notion that if traits were genetically determined that’s bad and if they’re environmentally determined that’s good, because we can do something about them if they’re environmental. If there’s one lesson that we’ve learned from the last 70 years of social policy, it is that changing environments in ways that produce measurable results is really, really hard. We actually don’t know how to do it, no matter how much money we spend.”

If you go read both the original and the second Vox pieces, they are primarily about this claim. They are primarily about the claim that we cannot change these outcomes. They are primarily about the claim that if you move people into adoption into high-income families, they have a 12 to 18 point IQ change. There is tons and tons of evidence — now we’re getting into my world again — in the realm of social policy, of not just effects from social policy on one generation, but multi-generational effects from things like Medicaid and so on.

One place where I think this is important is that, a lot of the debate here and the reason people care about it, is that if you’re saying things are immutable, often people say they’re immutable because they’re genetic. Murray actually says they’re immutable really no matter what.

If you say they’re immutable, that’s actually a way — and this is what Murray does, again explicitly and repeatedly both on your show and in other places — is say that because they’re immutable, that really means that this is not on us. This is not on us, white America, or America broadly, and we don’t have to kind feel so bad. We can embrace the politics of difference. We can begin removing some of these social supports. Don’t need to have as much affirmative action. Don’t need this employment nondiscrimination stuff. We can cut the size of the social welfare state.

He wants to do things that stop pushing people up as much and then, of course, and this is where this has always gone in American history, then when people don’t advance, folks will look at that and say, “Hey look, they’re not advancing. They’re not closing the gap quickly enough. That just goes to show the problem is innate.”

This is something you brought up earlier when you brought up that quote from Murray about luck, and I think it’s an important conversation. I think that if you follow Murrayism on this, if you were doing it without the political commitments he brings to it, it actually takes you to a very radical and interesting place.

If you say that our IQ is genetic and environmental, but at any rate, it’s not our fault, because we don’t choose either one of those, and there’s not much we can do about it. Not just our IQ, but something you’ve said is that, you know, a lot of traits come down like this — the big five personality traits, determination. Look, you can connect genetic inheritance to divorce. I think it’s a .2 or .4 correlation. So, if you begin to believe that, actually you begin to ask the question of, should, do we deserve what we have?

Should society be vastly more redistributed than it actually is? Should we be much less within this construct that what we’re getting, we’re getting because of hard work and determination and intelligence and the application of our talents? In fact, we need to move to something that is, I’m not literally advocating this, but more in the range of full socialism.

What I think is so interesting about the way he takes this debate — and I recognize this is not somewhere you took the debate, but I do think this is a useful thing to talk about — is that if you really did believe things immutable, if you really did believe that this was our inheritance both environmental and genetic and we can’t do much about it, then I think the implications of that are radical, and the implications aren’t that you take away help from people. It’s that you say pretty much what all of us has is primarily illegitimate. We didn’t do anything to earn it. I just happened to be born with the collection of talents that got me where I am. And as such, what we should spread around in society is much more vast.

Funnily enough, I don’t ever see people take that attitude on this. Again, the history of these ideas in America is they tend to be used to justify the status quo, not radically more generous versions of the status quo, but I do think that’s interesting, and I don’t understand why people don’t take that leap. I think that the implication of this is, it’s luck, and if you want to believe that — and, again, I don’t believe they’re immutable, I don’t think that’s what the evidence shows — but if you do believe they’re luck, I don’t think it takes you where he went in your conversation.

Sam Harris

Okay, there is some more confusion here.

I’m sorry, but I think your representation of the state of the science is very Nisbettian, and that’s not an accident. Then one wonders why you wouldn’t publish the other side of a good faith scientific debate, especially when you have someone like me complaining about the harms reputationally that come with publishing only one side.

Ezra Klein

Do you want a quick answer on why we didn’t publish Haier?

Sam Harris

Sure.

Ezra Klein

During this, and people heard your explanation at the beginning, but we publish a Vox piece. The Vox authors were getting a lot of criticism from you and others, which is reasonable, it’s a debate. During this, you were emailing me and you publicly challenged me to a debate.

There’s no guaranteed response from somebody’s handpicked expert and I mean, that’s not how the New York Times op-ed page works or the Washington Post. But, it’s a reasonable ask to make. If you had come to me and you had said, “Hey look I don’t think this piece was fair to me. I think this guy Haier wants to write something, take a look at it.” I might have open to that, but what you did was you came to me and you said, “Let’s debate.”

I had agreed to do it, and not only that, I’d agreed to release the debate to Vox. So people were going to hear you defend your position. Now you were backing off of that and demanding instead that I publish a handpicked expert, and that’s just not the way this works.

Sam Harris

But it wasn’t handpicked. This guy came out of the blue. I didn’t even know who he was at that point.

Ezra Klein

Well, somebody you preferred who had your views. I thought that I was giving you the opportunity to respond that you wanted, and now you were privately trying to pull that back and do something different. That to me was just actually bad faith, for the record.

Sam Harris

Okay, what you should understand, and I’ve said this many times, is that the opportunity to respond is no opportunity at all. It’s the opportunity to continually to be slimed by association with these seemingly radioactive ideas. It’s the opportunity to seem to care about racial difference, even though you don’t, just in an effort to prove that you were not guilty of a racially biased misreading of the empirical data.

It’s not an opportunity that I want. It’s not an opportunity that I’m happy to take in this conversation. Again, I would just take it back to something as superficial as the Neanderthal data. Had that broken the other way and the factual claim to make is that black people are part Neanderthal and white people aren’t, right? It’s the opposite, but had it gone the other way, you look like a racist asshole even paying attention to that, right? There’s just no way to talk about it, given all of the associations with race and Neanderthals and all the rest.

What I’m saying is that we have to grow up. We have to treat our audiences like adults and not like dangerous children who will plunge into some toxic politics if you talk about the science in a disinterested and dispassionate way. And we have to stop sliming people with the worst motives when they find themselves in the possession of these kinds of facts, or even when they argue for social policies that you don’t agree with.

Now again, I’m not defending Murray’s social policy. I don’t happen to agree with socialism, because I think it doesn’t interface with human selfishness in the right way so as to leverage human energy in the right way, so as to produce good societies. I think we know that socialism doesn’t work. But I am very sympathetic with some engineering of a tide that lifts all boats. I don’t know if that’s universal basic income or some other way to redistribute much more than we do. And as we get into a world of more and more abundance, I think that has to be the solution. I’ve written a lot about wealth inequality. I’ve worried about wealth inequality. You can Google up, I think my first article on the topic is titled “How Rich is Too Rich?” You can go down the rabbit hole after that. But this is something that I’ve spent some time on.

If you know my views on free will, you’ll know that I think it’s all luck, even if these things about us are changeable. The problem is, yes, it’s hard to change your IQ. We don’t know of an environmental intervention that reliably changes people’s IQ. Murray is right about that. We don’t know how much, I’m not saying that we know that the differences between various groups in IQ is all genetic, or even mostly genetic. But it’s certainly prudent to assume that genes are involved for basically every difference we’re going to find.

That is an argument that I could have with Turkheimer. It’s a losing argument, because everybody thinks this is toxic to even talk about, but I don’t think Turkheimer is being honest about the science there. There is no scientist I’ve spoken with in a sidebar conversation who thinks he’s being honest with the science there. Again, these are names that would be well known to you, but who don’t want to touch this with a 10 foot pole.

Ezra Klein

Sam, you said already, in this answer, that the thing you can’t do and this discussion just slime people’s motivation. I would say, and again, I really urge people to go read these pieces. Nobody tried to slime your motivations. They said you were wrong, and they actually said this is really wrong. It’s dangerous.

Sam Harris

You said our conversation was of a piece with the worst crimes, social crimes in American history. The onus was on us to prove we’re not Nazis. I mean, that was the implication of what Turkheimer wrote.

Ezra Klein

They did say something actually about that.

Sam Harris

No they didn’t use the word Nazi, yes.

Ezra Klein

Something you brought up a couple times is something I wrote in my piece, and I am actually very happy to talk about this. I say that the belief that African-Americans are genetically less intelligent than whites, and then also inferior in other ways, which I’m not saying you guys said, is our oldest, most ancient justification for racial inequality and bigotry. Do you disagree with that? When you look at American history, when you look at what we said at the dawn of this country and all the way through the 1950, the 60s, when I say that, am I wrong?

Sam Harris

In a sense you’re wrong. I agree with the spirit of it. I think you could say the Bible is just as much of a justification, the notion that the race of Ham came under a curse and that these races have a separate theological stature. You had Bible-thumping racist maniacs defending slavery and without any reference to science. That’s a great American tradition.

I think tribalism is at the bottom of it and perceiving other people who look different and sound different from yourself as ineradicably different. I think that is a problem we must outgrow, and I fully agree with the social concerns that follow from noticing how far we have to go in outgrowing that.

Ezra Klein

One of the things I detect in this conversation, this maybe gets to something we discussed that we would talk about later and maybe we’ve hit that point. Something I detect here is the idea that, and I want to think about how to phrase this carefully, because I want to do it without making you defensive, is that ideas can only fit into this lineage if they are being said with racial animus, if they are being said by someone who doesn’t like the people they’re talking about.

I think an important thing when we study the history of racism in this country is that it has always had a scientific wrapper. It has always been not something people thought they were doing because they were hateful, it was something they thought they were doing, because it was true.

I quoted in my piece Thomas Jefferson, who, brilliant man, like a brilliant genteel man —

Sam Harris

But a slaveholder, too.

Ezra Klein

Not just a slaveholder but a particularly vicious one. But one of the reasons I quoted him is that the end of The Bell Curve, one thing Murray does is endorse the idea that a correct understanding of stratified cognitive capacity, which operates racially and in other ways, should make us re-embrace what he calls a Jeffersonian politics of difference.

He quotes Jefferson talking about how important it is to understand that people in society are fit for different uses, they’re fit for different places. I think now we look back at Jefferson and say, “That’s ridiculous the way you’re talking about it. It is grotesque.”

But when Jefferson was doing it, he felt himself being genteel when he was saying that African Americans cannot compose thoughts above the level of plain narration. We now look at that and say, in the country that created James Baldwin, you think that? But Murray — and I’m not accusing of holding Jefferson views on race, he clearly doesn’t — but he then, in a very different way, comes out and says, “Look, we just need to accept that people are different, as Thomas Jefferson taught us.”

Sam Harris

Do you doubt that people are different? I just said that I’m not as smart as John von Neumann, do you think maybe secretly I am as smart as John von Neumann?

Ezra Klein

I doubt that we have, given the experiment we have run in this country, given the centuries of slavery and segregation and oppression, given locking people out of jobs, out of good schools, out of building wealth, out of going into top professions, out of being part of the social networks that help you advance; the amount of violence and terror and trauma that we have inflicted on African Americans in this country, I absolutely doubt — I truly, to the core of my being, doubt — that we are at a place where any of us should have confidence saying that the differences we see in individuals now reflect intrinsic group capacity. I think that at every other point in America history where we have said that —

Sam Harris

But even Murray wouldn’t say that.

Ezra Klein

That is exactly what Murray says. That at every other point in American history.

Sam Harris

Again, there is confusion creeping in here.

Ezra Klein

There is not confusion.

Sam Harris

Okay, I’ll try to sort it out in my next volley.

Ezra Klein

You’ll sort it out. Of course. At every point in American history where we have made that argument, we now look back — and, I mean, this is not going way back. Segregation, my mom was alive in segregation. Charles Murray was alive during segregation. We’re talking, I think, it’s within the week of the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King’s assassination. This is not ancient history, it is recent history.

I think we look back and say, “Man, they really had it wrong.” You quoted back at me something that I think either I say it, or the Vox authors say it, now I don’t remember, but that, yeah, if you’re having a version of this conversation again, then it is incumbent on you to say why you’re so sure it will be different this time.

Murray does say he thinks that some combination of genetic and basically immutably environmental characteristics make it so we can’t do much about this and there just are big differences between the groups, and it’s just going to remain that way, and American politics need to rearrange itself around that reality.

Yeah, I strongly disagree, and I disagree because of American history. That is why my fundamental criticism of that conversation was that you needed to deal more with the history of this conversation and the history of this country.

Sam Harris

Okay, but even in this conversation you are unwilling to differentiate scientific fact and scientific data and reasonable extrapolations based on data, from past injustices in American history, these are totally separate things —

Ezra Klein

No, we disagree on what a reasonable extrapolation from the data is.

Sam Harris

Okay, but what we can’t disagree about is that one, that the two sides of that conversation about scientific data appear to be given a very different moral treatment by you. Turkheimer and Nisbett are well-respected scholars. Murray and I are people who need to be conjoined with this horrid history, where our conversation is described as disastrous and dangerous and horrific and trafficking in the most harmful tropes, where we land on the hate speech page of — not even speech, just the hate page — of the Southern Poverty Law Center. Where I have scientist who are effectively in hiding telling me we’re right about the scientific conversation. That is just the status quo here.

I’m saying that’s dysfunctional, and I’m saying it is unethical. That’s one point. That is a completely separate problem from the problem of racism and the problem of racial inequality. You feel that somehow this status quo problem of just how hard it is to talk about these things is justified, because of how bad racial inequality has been in the past and I’m saying that it’s —

Ezra Klein

I think there is what you would call confusion here. I do think it’s just important to say this. I have not criticized you, and I continue to not, for having the conversation. I’ve criticized you for having the conversation without dealing with and separating it out and thinking through the context and the weight of American history on it.

Sam Harris

The weight of American history is completely irrelevant to—

Ezra Klein

It can’t possibly be irrelevant on something that even you admit is environmental!

Sam Harris

No, the only thing that is relevant. Yes, but that part of the conversation has been had. You don’t have to talk about slavery. You don’t have to talk about the specific injustices in the past to have a conversation about the environmental factors that very likely keep people back. I completely agree with you that it is right to worry that the environment for blacks, or for any other group that seems not to be thriving by one metric or another, that the environment almost certainly plays a role. And the environment, we just know that the environment plays a role across the board in behavioral genetics. There’s no one who’s arguing that any of these traits — forget about intelligence, anything we care about — is 100 percent heritable. It’s just that nothing that complex is 100 percent heritable.

And again, I have zero interest in establishing differences among races, and my reading of Murray and, again, he said this on my podcast several times, his focus is not on groups, his focus is on individuals. It’s just a fact that individuals find themselves with whatever cognitive toolkit they have, however they got it, based on genes and environment, and we have a society that is massively rewarding specific tools.

No one on Murray’s side of this debate is saying that all social self-worth is indexed by IQ scores. No one is saying that, and this is the point I was trying to make when I said, “Look I am inferior to John von Neumann?” I don’t think so and I don’t think you think so.

What’s at stake here is not a person’s intrinsic worth, right? And using words like inferior completely loads the dice here. It’s a highly charged, moralistic assertion, which just does not map onto any sane person’s thinking about this. Yes it mapped on to Thomas Jefferson’s thinking about this, but to summarize what I’m doing with the slaveholders of our distant past and talk about these things as though it’s a single set of ideas, it’s completely unfair journalistically, and it has the consequence that I’ve described.

Ezra Klein

Let me ask you a question on this. Let me try to think about how to phrase this question.

You say that it is unfair, journalistically, to put your conversation within the lineage of the conversation going all the way back in American history and all the way, as you say, the pre-American history — in fact, in my piece, I quote Voltaire and Hume and others — that at each point European-descended white men of scientific mind looked around them, looked at the society they saw, looked at the outcomes people had in the society they saw, looked at the science pulled from those outcomes, right? And it was called science back then too. And said, “You know what? What we are seeing here is a result of innate differences between the races.”

We’ve not even talked through questions of what it even means to talk about races and the way that has changed over time, but I’ll just bracket that. It’s been justified in different ways with different kinds of science, but now we look back and we say, “Oh man, they did not know what they were talking about. That was ridiculous. I mean, look at what was going on in their society.” They looked and they ran their studies and they ran the numbers and they said, “You know, there’s just a difference here. There’s a difference here and that is why things are turning out the way they are.”

Tell me why it is unfair to put your conversation in that lineage. Why the burden of proof is not actually on you to say here is why it is different this time. Here is why we are at a point, either in American history, or science, or whatever, where we are certain that nobody in 50 years is going to look back at us and say that. Because scientifically what, the scientists who are on my side of this argument, think, and they include James Flynn and many others, they say that’s where we are here.

Sam Harris

Not quite, but okay.

Ezra Klein

I just quoted him to you. Again, I just spoke to him two days ago.

Sam Harris

No, but it was still a misleading summary of what he said. I know what he’s on record saying here. You’re interpreting it in a way that you like, I understand that.

Ezra Klein

James Flynn just said to me two days ago that it is consistent with the evidence that there is a genetic advantage or disadvantaged for African Americans. That it is entirely possible that the 10-point IQ difference we see reflects a 12-point environmental difference and a negative-two genetic difference.

Sam Harris

Sure, sure, many things are possible. We’re trying to judge on what is plausible to say and, more important, I am worried about the social penalty for talking about these things, because, again, it will come back to us on things that we don’t expect, like the Neanderthal thing. That comes out of left field. Had it gone another way, all of a sudden we can’t talk about Neanderthal DNA anymore.

There’s no point in having our politics be hostage to these kind of tripwire effects, where you say something that seems politically invidious, merely talking about the data as they are — unless every population of human beings has exactly the same mean and the same variance for every trait we care about, we are guaranteed to be blindsided by these differences that seem important to people who care about differences among groups.

The end game here is to not care about differences among groups, to treat individuals as individuals, and to realize that, yes, people have different sets of gifts and competences and we can change them. We can give people whatever advantages we can, and we should. We’re moving into a future where we’ll be able to change these things about ourselves in very intrusive ways. We’ll be able to change our genes. We’ll be able to change the genes of our kids. We’ll be able to put technology directly into our brains and not everyone will have access to this technology at the same time. This will open a door to another aspect of inequality that could be hugely consequential.

This is all stuff that we have to get ready for, but the way to be ready is to be willing for good and intellectually honest people to be willing to talk about the facts of biology and various things we understand about things like intelligence without losing sight of our political and ethical commitments to one another. Those commitments just have to be to make the world better and to treat everyone fairly and to treat one’s political opponents fairly. There’s a real shortage of people who can do this right now, Ezra, and your style of dealing with this is part of that problem.

It is why, again, you haven’t commented on this. I’ll give you another example, because you don’t like the examples I’ve given. I’ve given you Southern Poverty Law Center. I’ve given the fact that I’ve got scientists contacting me, who won’t go on the record, who fully support me and Murray.

But, I mean, take Andrew Sullivan. I think he’s a mutual friend of ours. I mean, he’s certainly a fiend of mine. He came to my and Murray’s defense. I assume you don’t think Andrew is a racist. He — merely for coming out down on our side of the particular contretemps — he’s being slimed as a racist now. That is the environment in which we’re having this conversation. That’s why I call a moral panic, and it’s not good.

Again, we’re going to be continually played by new data. The basic principle here, scientifically, which Turkheimer has elided in and you seem to want him to elide it, or you seem to be happy that he elided it, is that, yes, it is safe to say that are genetic differences among genetically isolated populations — your point about the conceptual coherence of race is well taken — but based on the ancestry of all the seven billion human beings that currently exist, there are differences among groups. I mean, the fact that you can look at someone — the fact that you can look at me and know that I’m not Korean just by looking at me is a sign of my genetic ancestry — the fact that you can make a best guess as to where someone’s ancestors came from is a sign.

Whether we’re looking for differences among groups or not, we’ll be surprised by things. Yes, it’s true that as Turkheimer said, or, sorry as Reich said, we may have things completely backwards. We’ll find out that certain stereotypes are the opposite of being true. But we might find out that certain stereotypes are true. I mean, Turkheimer used an example in one of his pieces. I think it was this second one where he said, “What if someone does a genetic analysis of materialism, or finds multivariate genes that co-vary with a person’s materialism, and we find that these genes are over expressed among Jews what then?”

He put this out as though like this was going to be radioactive that it’s just going to bowl me over, or bowl anyone over who didn’t care about the black-white data, but all of a sudden care about the Jewish data. But that’s a perfectly legitimate question. I’m not suggesting anyone study that. Again, I would worry about the ethics of anyone who wanted, in the wilderness of all possible things to study, wanted to devote his or her life to studying that.

But that’s the kind of thing that could just emerge from the study of hoarding behavior. Someone studies the psychological problem of hoarding and they study the genetics of it, and then they just happen to discover that the genetics are represented differently in different populations, and Ashkenazi Jews, of which half of my ancestry is, have more of the hoarding genes than other people. Do we deal with that like adults? Or do we vilify the person who merely spoke about the data? That’s the bright line I’m trying to get you acknowledge.

Ezra Klein

So, I think this is actually a good place, as you said, you mentioned end games. I think this is a good place to get the end game, and I’ll let this be my final comment.

Something that you said in there as you can look at you and know you’re not Korean. This where you get into the question of race being a social category that does have, in some cases biological markers, but on which we are now overlaying early genetic science. It’s often not true, of course, for people who are African American, you can look at someone there, and maybe they’re actually from the Caribbean, or maybe they’re half-white, or maybe all kinds of things happen. A hundred years ago, I’m not white, now I am.

You don’t seem to see a lot of people saying, “Hey, like, let’s resuscitate the mid-20th century versions of white races.” Instead, we group what we now think of as white people together. And then there are Hispanics, which are another strangely constructed category, over here.

And so in terms of how all this helps us have a more sophisticated discussion, a discussion that makes us more ready to absorb these findings as they come down the line, I actually don’t really understand it and I don’t think I ever have. If you want to have discussions about very precise population categories, I think that we should come up with good language for doing that. I think that if you read a lot of these studies, people do.

That isn’t what your conversation was about, and it’s not what the conversation in this country has generally been about. Again, I think that if you read someone like Reich or talk to folks in this field, they are precise in a way that American politics often isn’t.

Look, you talked about the stakes of this conversation, and there are stakes to it. Some of them are policy stakes. Those are the ones Charles Murray is fundamentally interested in, ones that when you asked him why you should have this conversation he kept bringing up. There are stakes in how we treat each other and what kind of groups we see in each other. I think using these conversations to become more precise, as opposed to less precise — using these conversations to begin to question social categories that we build for political purposes in this country, as opposed to validate them in strange ways that don’t have consistency across them — I think we could be doing a better job on that.

In all this, what I would say, and I’ll let this be my final point, and I appreciate the time you’ve given to this conversation today, is I think that to have this conversation well, to be ready for what may or may not come down the pike, to be able to talk about this, as you say, like adults, I think that you would be doing your audience a service to let go of some of the feelings you have about what you call identity politics and what you see in others with identity politics and have more conversations about race in America and the way it is built and they way it is seen and the way it acts on people’s life chances.

I think that there is room to have conversations about genetic findings, but because we are mapping those conversations onto social-political realities, having more conversations where you deliver more nuance and more understanding, where you yourself get more understandingVoters in Anchorage, Alaska, have defeated an anti-transgender bathroom measure.

Proposition 1 would have required everyone in Anchorage public spaces to use the locker room and bathroom that aligns with the gender they were assigned at birth — effectively barring trans people from using the facility that matches their gender identity.

Anchorage voted 53-47 against Proposition 1 with nearly all ballots counted, according to Anchorage Daily News.

With the measure’s defeat, existing nondiscrimination protections for trans people that were approved by the Anchorage Assembly in 2015 will remain in place.

These types of measures entered the national spotlight in 2016, when North Carolina passed a sweeping anti-LGBTQ law that included an anti-trans bathroom measure. The state’s law led to a huge nationwide backlash from both the general public and business community, contributing to the defeat of then-Gov. Pat McCrory (R) in his reelection bid against now-Gov. Roy Cooper (D). With Cooper in office, the anti-LGBTQ law was partially repealed.

The national backlash led to huge resistance against measures similar to North Carolina’s across the country, including in Texas, which failed to pass a similar bill last year. And now Anchorage voters have rejected a bathroom measure.

Anti-trans bathroom laws are based on a huge myth

Supporters claim that letting trans people use the bathroom or locker room for their gender identity will allow men to disguise themselves as trans women to go into women’s bathrooms or locker rooms and sexually assault and harass women.

But even if trans people are allowed to use the bathroom or locker room that aligns with their gender identity, sexual assault remains illegal.

There’s also no evidence that nondiscrimination laws — and other policies that let trans people use the bathroom for their gender identity — lead to sexual assault in bathrooms and locker rooms. In two investigations, left-leaning media watchdog organization Media Matters confirmed with experts and officials in 12 states and 17 school districts with protections for trans people that they had no increases in sex crimes after they enacted their policies.

Conservatives usually counter that there are examples of men sneaking into women’s bathrooms to attack women. But as PolitiFact reported, none of the examples cited in the US happened after a city or state passed a nondiscrimination law or otherwise let trans people use the bathroom or locker room for their gender identity. Instead, these seem to be examples of men doing awful things regardless of the law — which has, unfortunately, happened since the beginning of civilization.

One example is a case in Toronto, Canada, which now has a nondiscrimination law, in which a man disguised himself as a woman and attacked women in shelters. But the attacks happened months before Ontario (Toronto’s province) protected trans people in a nondiscrimination law. So the law couldn’t have been the cause.

While the issue is now being used primarily against trans people, historically bathroom fears have been regularly deployed against civil rights causes. It was used against black people to justify segregation — by invoking fears that black men would attack white women in bathrooms. And it was used to stop the Equal Rights Amendment, which tried to establish legal equality between men and women, because opponents claimed it would lead to the abolition of bathrooms for different genders, potentially putting women in danger.

Some people are also, frankly, just bothered by the idea that someone in the same bathroom or locker room won’t share the same genitalia as them.

This gets to the heart of the issue: Bathrooms are places where really private things happen, and that makes people feel vulnerable in all sorts of ways. “People are afraid because they’re exposed,” Kathryn Anthony, author of Designing for Diversity: Gender, Race and Ethnicity in the Architectural Profession, told the Guardian. “There’s a vulnerability we feel in public restrooms we don’t feel in other places.”

But a lot of things happen in public bathrooms that people aren’t comfortable with — and people have managed to deal with it to accommodate others’ rights and needs.

So if it’s not harming anyone, perhaps it’s best, LGBTQ advocates argue, to let trans people use the facility for their gender identity without making them feel ostracized and discriminated against. (Discrimination is a huge contributor to gender dysphoria, a medical condition that some trans people experience that can cause depression, anxiety, and even suicidal ideation.)

But conservative lawmakers have latched on to the insecurity over bathrooms to propagate myths about the power of discriminatory laws to stop horrible attacks in bathrooms and protect people’s privacy. And although these are plainly myths with no evidence behind them, they’ve been used in attempts to perpetuate discrimination since the Jim Crow era.

For more on anti-transgender bathroom bills, read Vox’s explainer.California Sen. Kamala Harris addressed the problem of fatal police shootings of black men and women at a town hall in Sacramento on Thursday, saying that Stephon Clark, who was shot and killed by police last month, shouldn’t have lost his life.

Clark was unarmed, standing in his own backyard, and holding a cellphone when he was shot to death on March 18. The incident has reignited national discussions about race and police use of force, and spurred protests in Sacramento and other cities.

“There is no question that that was a life that should not have been lost,” Harris, a potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, told a crowd of several hundred gathered at a local church. “That is a life that should not have been ended.”

An independent autopsy found that police shot at Clark 20 times after they mistook his cellphone for a weapon. He was hit eight times, mostly in his back. Benjamin Crump, the lawyer representing Clark’s family, has said that the autopsy “contradicts the police narrative that we’ve been told.” Clark’s shooting is still being investigated by the Sacramento Police Department.

Harris has repeatedly spoken out about criminal justice issues, a topic she heavily focused on in her first term as a senator. Elected in 2016, Harris is only the second black woman to serve in the Senate. While her time on the national political stage has been brief, Harris’ name has been featured prominently on lists of potential presidential candidates.

Her comments also stand in stark contrast to the response of US President Donald Trump, who has yet to say anything about Clark’s death. When asked about the president’s stance at a March 28 press conference, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders called the shooting a “local matter.”

The incident follows several high-profile police shootings of black men in recent years. According to the Washington Post’s Fatal Force database, some 294 people have been shot and killed by police in 2018. Sixty of those people were identified as black in news reports. And research has shown that there are significant and persistent racial disparities in police use of force.

Harris previously faced criticism over her handling of police shootings

Harris served as California’s attorney general from January 2011 to the beginning of 2017, and has focused heavily on criminal justice and policing issues since she was first elected to the Senate in 2016.

However, Harris did face criticism while leading the California Justice Department, with some — many of whom supported her political campaign — arguing that she should do more to increase police accountability and independently investigate officer-involved shootings. Some of her biggest critics were black lawmakers, who were hoping she would enact stricter laws on police oversight.

In 2015, Harris did not back legislation that would have required her office to independently investigate fatal police shootings, arguing that local district attorneys were better equipped to handle the matter. Two years later, Sacramento groups angered by Clark’s death have repeatedly protested outside the office of local District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert, demanding that the officers involved in the Clark shooting be charged. The officers currently remain on leave while the investigation continues.

Stephon Clark’s death is expected to be a major factor in the upcoming Sacramento district attorney election.

At Thursday’s Sacramento town hall, which was attended by Clark’s grandmother, Harris seemed to take a strong stance. She used her time at the church to discuss Clark’s shooting and connect it to other issues affecting black communities. “When I look at all the issues that have been presented, by what happened to this young man, I am looking at issues that have been challenging our country for decades upon decades upon decades,” she said.

Harris also spoke about the need for police officers to deal with implicit biases when interacting with communities of color, noting that while she served as attorney general, she had the California Department of Justice review its own training on bias and use of force.

That review led to the creation of a statewide training program aimed at reducing the effects of implicit bias on law enforcement. On Thursday, Harris said that some 2,000 officers in the state have received the training.

The senator also stressed that making officers aware of their biases was crucial. “When your bias is coupled with the fact that you carry a gun, it is something that has to be a priority for us,” she said.

After the event, when Harris was asked if she thought law enforcement held too much political influence, the Los Angeles Times reported that she did not respond directly, but told reporters “there’s no question” that reform is needed.

Harris also held back from commenting on a new proposal from California legislators that would tighten the standard for when officers are allowed to use lethal force.

“I’m looking forward to seeing the language,” Harris told reporters. “I think they’re very interesting. Certainly there’s work to be done.”Last year, an undocumented immigrant teenager tried to get an abortion while in the custody of the United States government. When she had already begun the abortion procedure, government officials discussed whether they could stop her from terminating her pregnancy using a method of abortion “reversal” that is not supported by science.

The teenager’s story, reported by Carter Sherman of Vice News, is part of a larger pattern. The Office of Refugee Resettlement, headed by E. Scott Lloyd, is responsible for caring for undocumented, unaccompanied minors. Since shortly after President Trump took office, it has adopted a policy to attempt to prevent those minors from getting abortions. In addition to considering the “reversal” procedure, which was never performed on this teenager, the office has tried to keep minors from being taken to abortion clinics, required them to get anti-abortion counseling, and even sought to punish lawyers who helped a teenager win her case and get the procedure.

These measures, advocates say, are in direct violation of the constitution. Under Roe v. Wade, “the government can’t ban abortion for anyone,” said Brigitte Amiri, a senior staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union’s Reproductive Freedom Project. But that argument hasn’t swayed ORR or Lloyd, a longtime opponent of both abortion and contraception.

The ACLU is engaged in a months-long legal battle to ensure that minors in ORR custody have abortion access. On March 30, the group scored a victory — a US District Court judge ruled that ORR could not block minors from getting the procedure, pending the result of a class action suit. Government lawyers have asked for a stay and plan to appeal this decision, according to the New York Times.

Meanwhile, in a deposition released at the end of February, Lloyd said he does not believe unaccompanied minors have a constitutional right to an abortion. According to another deposition, filed on April 4, Lloyd also required staffers to give a minor an anti-abortion booklet and read a graphic description of an abortion procedure. His office’s efforts to keep young people from terminating their pregnancies are a major part of a larger agenda, shared by many in the Trump administration, of restricting access to reproductive health care.

The Trump administration considered subjecting a teenager to a treatment unsupported by science

On March 3, 2017, a 17-year-old in the custody of ORR in Texas took the first dose of medication to induce an abortion, Sherman reports at Vice. She told authorities the pregnancy was the result of rape, and had already obtained the judicial bypass necessary for minors in Texas to get an abortion without parental notification.

Medication abortions typically consist of two pills, taken 24 to 48 hours apart. After the teenager took the first pill, however, the acting director of ORR, Kenneth Tota, sent a memo to staff saying shelters could not let minors get abortions without written permission from the ORR director. The memo mentioned the Texas teenager, referring to her as “the UAC” or “Unaccompanied Alien Child.”

“If steps can be taken to preserve the life of the UAC and her unborn child, those steps should be taken,” Tota wrote.

The same day he sent the memo, an official at the shelter housing the teenager sent an email questionnaire to the clinic supervising her abortion, Sherman reports. “To the best of your knowledge and clinical practice,” one of the questions read, “is the administration of progesterone following administration of Mefiprix, but before the administration of Cytotec, for the purpose of aborting a chemical abortion process, widely practiced?” (Vox has also reviewed the email.)

Mifeprex and Cytotec are two drugs used in medication abortion. “Mefiprix” appears to be a misspelling; elsewhere in the email, the spelling “Mefriprix” is also used.

The answer to the official’s question was no — the administration of progesterone to stop or “reverse” a medication abortion is not widely practiced. It is an experimental technique supported by some anti-abortion advocates, despite a lack of research to back it up.

In 2012, two doctors published a case series on seven patients treated with progesterone after taking the first pill in a medication abortion regimen, according to the New York Times Magazine. In four cases, the fetus survived. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has been critical of the case series, noting that it was not a controlled study and therefore does not prove that the progesterone, rather than some other factor, caused the fetuses to live. In fact, ACOG noted in a 2015 statement, simply missing the second abortion medication pill might allow a fetus to survive, since the first pill, on its own, doesn’t always result in an abortion. What’s more, progesterone, while usually safe, can have cardiovascular and neurological side effects.

That hasn’t stopped a number of state legislatures from introducing bills based on the idea that abortions can be reversed with progesterone. Laws in Arkansas, Arizona, and South Dakota require that patients be told about the possibility of abortion reversal as part of mandatory abortion counseling, according to the Guttmacher Institute.

In the case of the teenager seeking an abortion last March, the clinic never responded to ORR’s questions, Sherman reports. The teenager was taken to a hospital and examined, but there’s no evidence she ever received progesterone. Ultimately, she was allowed to take the second medication and complete the abortion.

But at least for a time, the federal government appears to have considered putting her through a medically unsupported procedure to stop her from continuing with an abortion she’d requested. As reporter Robin Marty put it on Twitter, “the Trump administration had discussions about performing medical experiments on an undocumented minor simply because she was in their custody and they thought they could.”

The reversal discussion was part of a larger pattern in the Trump administration

Since Trump took office, the ORR, part of the Department of Health and Human Services, has tried to restrict access to abortion for multiple minors in its care. In October, ORR blocked a 17-year-old identified as Jane Doe from leaving a Texas immigration shelter to get an abortion; the ACLU filed suit on her behalf, and she ultimately won her case and was able to get the procedure.

Since then, the ACLU has worked on behalf of three more unaccompanied minors seeking abortions, identified as Jane Roe, Jane Poe, and Jane Moe. Roe and Poe were able to get the procedure, and Moe was released to a sponsor and is no longer in federal custody, Amiri told Vox.

ORR’s efforts to block abortions for minors are “absolutely unconstitutional,” Amiri says. “Essentially vetoing their decision to have an abortion” she explains, “is a blatant violation of the holding in Roe v. Wade that says that the government can’t ban abortion.”

But it remains ORR policy to require unaccompanied minors to get the director’s permission for an abortion. In a December deposition in a case before a federal district court in California, released by the ACLU at the end of February, Lloyd said he believes that, because of their immigration status, unaccompanied minors do not have a constitutional right to an abortion.

This is not the government’s official position on unaccompanied minors — the Trump administration has argued that it is not actually infringing on minors’ constitutional rights, since they could get an abortion by returning to their home countries or finding someone to sponsor them in the United States, allowing them to leave ORR custody. “If they choose not to exercise these options, HHS does not believe we are required to facilitate the abortion,” a spokesperson said in a December statement, according to Vice.

Still, both Lloyd’s position and the government’s slightly modified official version have serious implications. By arguing that unaccompanied minors have no constitutional right to get an abortion in the United States, the government is essentially saying “that they do not qualify as ‘person[s]’ under the Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and 14th Amendments,” Perry Grossman and Mark Joseph Stern write at Slate. “Put simply, undocumented women are not people for constitutional purposes.”

If Lloyd, the official in charge of caring for unaccompanied minors in the United States, believes they are essentially non-persons under the constitution, the consequences could be severe. Lloyd, who was appointed as ORR director by Trump in spring 2017, also said in the December deposition that he believes abortion is the destruction of human life. However, as Ema O’Connor reports at BuzzFeed News, he added that he does not think his beliefs would prevent him from discussing abortion with minors in a “neutral” way.

Lloyd also said he had never, to his knowledge, approved a request for an abortion. And he and his office have taken many steps to dissuade minors from having the procedure. In addition to considering abortion “reversal” and blocking transportation to clinics, ORR has also required unaccompanied minors to receive anti-abortion counseling at crisis pregnancy centers and has notified family members in their home countries of their intent to get an abortion, without the minors’ consent, Amiri said. In one case, a minor’s advocate cautioned that her father might retaliate against her mother if they were notified about their daughter’s intended abortion; ORR notified the parents anyway, Amiri said.

In another case, Lloyd met personally with a minor to try to talk her out of the procedure, according to the ACLU. In the December deposition, Lloyd confirmed that the meeting took place, but said she had already decided not to have an abortion. He said they discussed her pregnancy “generally.”

In another deposition, filed on April 4, Lloyd said that he had required a minor to read a booklet produced by the Texas Department of State Health Services that makes false claims about links between abortion and breast cancer, infertility, and depression, according to Slate. He also required a staffer to read to the minor a description of an abortion procedure, to ensure she had “informed consent.” Lloyd said he had not required pregnant minors to listen to similar descriptions of childbirth or C-sections.

“When there’s a child in the program who is pregnant,” Lloyd “has been reaching out to her and trying to help as much as possible with life-affirming options,” an HHS spokesperson told the Washington Post in October. “He by law has custody of these children, and just like a foster parent, he knows that that’s a lot of responsibility and he is going to make choices that he thinks are best for both the mother and the child.”

Lloyd has a long history of advocating against abortion and contraception, as Rachel Siegel outlines at the Post. “Contraceptives are the cause of abortion,” he wrote in a 2011 essay. “In fact, if we did not have contraceptives in this country, we would not have anywhere near the abortion rate we do now.” In 2009, he argued that women using taxpayer-subsidized contraception should have to “promise not to have an abortion if the contraception fails, which it often does.”

He is one of several anti-abortion advocates now serving in Trump’s HHS, as Vox’s Julia Belluz notes. Others include Charmaine Yoest, the former president and CEO of Americans United for Life and now an assistant secretary at HHS, and Matthew Bowman, who once worked for the anti-abortion group Alliance Defending Freedom and recently helped craft the Trump administration’s weakening of the contraceptive coverage mandate.

Overall, Trump has stocked the department with appointees who favor restricting access to reproductive health care; efforts to keep unaccompanied minors from getting abortions are part of that larger agenda. When asked by Vox for a comment, an HHS spokesperson responded, “We do not have additional comment at this time.”

The future of abortion access for unaccompanied minors remains uncertain

Although Jane Doe and the teenager described in Sherman’s story have already gotten their abortions, the Trump administration is still fighting the issue in court. The government has petitioned the Supreme Court to vacate the decision in Jane Doe’s case and to consider disciplinary action against Doe’s lawyers, a tactic Dahlia Lithwick and Mark Joseph Stern at Slate called “a flagrant effort to crucify the individual attorneys who represented Doe, and to terrify likeminded lawyers into acquiescence.” The Supreme Court is scheduled to meet to decide whether to take that case in mid-February, Amiri said.

Meanwhile, it may be only a matter of time before another case like the one Vice documented comes to light. “At any given time, there is a minor in custody who would at least want abortion information,” Amiri said.

According to a court declaration by an ORR official, 420 pregnant minors entered ORR custody between October 1, 2016, and September 30, 2017. Eighteen minors requested abortions, 11 received them, and five “rescinded their request” (two minors were placed with sponsors and may or may not have had abortions). Amiri believes more minors may have desired abortions but gone uncounted by ORR. “There are probably many young women who are considering abortion or just want information about their options and their requests fall on deaf ears,” she said.

The ACLU has filed a motion for class certification to help all unaccompanied minors get access to abortion without interference from ORR. On March 30, US District Court Judge Tanya Chutkan granted the motion, meaning the ACLU can move forward with a class-action suit. According to BuzzFeed, it may be at least six months before a trial begins. Lawyers for the Trump administration have asked for a stay of Chutkan’s decision and plan to appeal.

In the meantime, Chutkan has ruled that ORR cannot stop unaccompanied minors from getting abortions. “ORR’s policy is premised on the notion that the Director is entitled to exercise complete control over [minors’] reproductive decisions by virtue of the fact that they are undocumented minors in ORR custody,” Chutkan writes in her opinion. “The adoption and implementation of such a policy is itself sufficient to raise constitutional flags.”It’s official: The number of women running for the US House of Representatives this year has broken a record, a new analysis from the Associated Press has found.

309 women, Republicans and Democrats alike, have filed candidacy papers to run for the House, eclipsing the previous record of 298 set in 2012, according to data from the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University that AP analyzed. And that number is likely to grow in the coming months.

Number of women running for US House seats sets record.

https://t.co/8yZtTA9YGF pic.twitter.com/jXVuQeIelA — Red T Raccoon (@RedTRaccoon) April 5, 2018

The surge in female candidates is being driven by backlash to President Donald Trump and is an extension of the historic Women’s March after he was inaugurated. That is in part reflected by the fact that far more Democratic women candidates are running than Republicans.

“I think Trump’s victory proved to women — if you did not support him — you could draw two conclusions,” top Hillary Clinton aide Jennifer Palmieri recently told me in an interview. “One: Women were only meant to go so far, and men like that were meant to win in America, or we were playing by an outdated set of rules that women politicians and women in business followed for decades.”

The current representation of women and men in Congress is severely lopsided. Women make up less than 20 percent of Congress. Out of 535 total members, there are just 22 women senators and 83 women representatives.

And to be sure, the historic number of women candidates is still outnumbered by men running in 2018.

Women in 2018 aren’t just running for Congress — they’re running for all levels of government, from local to federal. Emily’s List, the Super PAC focused on electing pro-choice female candidates, released numbers showing that 34,000 women interested in running for office have reached out to the organization. (Not all are running.)

That is an astronomical increase in the number of women interested in running for office who contacted Emily’s List during the 2016 campaign, which numbered about 920. To try to match the outpouring of interest, the Super PAC has since released a free webinar with tips for women on how to start a campaign and fundraise.

Outside of US House races, there are 40 women running for governors races so far, beating the record of 34 in 1994, according to the Associated Press. There 29 women running for US Senate, a number that will likely grow since more states still have filing deadlines. (This is not yet a record; that was set in 2016 when 40 women Senate candidates ran.)

Officials at Emily’s List and other women recruitment organizations like Emerge America say many of the women interested in running in 2018 have told them they didn’t think they were qualified to run for office in the past. That changed when they saw Trump get elected.

Palmieri told me recently she thinks women’s attitudes about how they want to run a campaign are also changing — with fewer women wanting to play by the rules men have set for them in politics.

“I think women now are saying, ‘Yes, I can do this job as well as a man, but I don’t want to. I want to do it the way I want to do it,’” Palmieri said. “That’s reflected in the numbers of candidates. I think it’s going to result in more empowerment for women and a democracy and government that’s more representative of the people it governs.”It’s no secret that hate crimes against Muslims have been on the rise.

In one recent incident, an anonymous group in the UK declared Tuesday, April 3, to be “Punish a Muslim Day.” They circulated leaflets in several UK cities calling for people to attack Muslims in various ways, by “using gun, knife, vehicle or otherwise,” and advocated for burning and bombing mosques.

And in the US, studies show that in 2015 and 2016, hate crimes and attacks against Muslims skyrocketed. According to a 2017 Pew Research center analysis, which relied on FBI statistics, assaults on Muslims have “easily surpassed” post-9/11 levels.

One factor that experts often point to is the rise of Donald Trump.

As a presidential candidate, Trump made frequent use of anti-Muslim rhetoric, saying things like, “I think Islam hates us,” and suggesting that he was not opposed to the idea of a Muslim database. After taking office, Trump signed an executive order barring people from several Muslim-majority countries from entering the US. He’s appointed people who have espoused anti-Muslim views to key Cabinet positions. And he’s even circulated anti-Muslim videos to his tens of millions of Twitter followers.

But Khaled Beydoun, a law professor and the author of a new book called American Islamophobia: Understanding the Roots and Rise of Fear, argues that there’s something much more complex going on. According to Beydoun, Islamophobia — fear and hatred of Muslims and the religion of Islam — has deep roots in American history.

I called Beydoun to find out more about Islamophobia in America — and what he told me was surprising. He explained that this type of racialized hatred is not limited to Muslims; it also impacts non-Muslim Arab Americans and South Asian Americans, among others. And anti-Muslim sentiment isn’t solely a problem on the right in America, he pointed out. The left also has a problem with Islamophobia.

Our conversation has been lightly edited for clarity and length.

Alexia Underwood

How would you sum up the argument of your book?

Khaled Beydoun

Essentially, it’s that even though Islamophobia animates a modern form of bigotry ... the essence of the hate is not new. It’s deeply rooted in American political discourse. It’s deeply rooted in American law. It’s deeply rooted in American framings of who was a citizen and who was not. But it’s been given a new face — a new caricature — as a consequence of the war on terror, and then intensified by the rhetoric of, mainly, President Trump.

Alexia Underwood

You write that Trump proved that Islamophobia was an effective campaign tactic. How has this played out during his administration? Have things gotten worse for Muslims in the US under Trump?

Khaled Beydoun

During his campaign, Trump adopted this strategy of full-fledged, explicit, and bellicose rhetoric against not only Muslims but a whole range of people.

I’m sure you remember pundits and analysts on television, even scholars, saying that Trump is only doing this to win the race, and that once he was actually in office he’d do away with that intense rhetoric.

We saw otherwise, obviously. Only a week into his administration, Trump signed the executive order now known as the first rendition of the Muslim ban, or the travel ban. What many thought was mere rhetoric to mobilize voters quickly evolved — or devolved — into Islamophobic policy during the early stages of his presidency.

He weaponized that rhetoric into real policy impacting Muslim communities.

Alexia Underwood

There’s a lot of talk about how Islamophobia is particularly strong among right-wing US politicians, but you point out that it’s also very present on the left.

Khaled Beydoun

Yeah, definitely. Islamophobia, largely on account of it being so closely tied and tethered to Trump, is caricatured as exclusively a form of hate that comes from people on the right. We almost conflate Islamophobia with right-wing politics, which is really simplistic. It glosses over the idea that you have individuals on the left engaging in and propagating Islamophobia.

President Obama established this state-sponsored program called Countering Violent Extremism. As a consequence of this program, his surveillance of Muslim communities actually was broader and more intense than the Bush administration — and Obama was lauded as one of the most, if not the most, progressive presidents in our country’s history.

Another example are popular media personalities and pundits like Bill Maher. I was a fan of his show, Real Time With Bill Maher, and I sometimes still find myself watching it because it’s a space for really vibrant and important discussion on a range of issues. Bill Maher is somebody who is very left-wing on a range of issues, like the LGBTQ community and the environment.

But he veers entirely away from that when it comes to Muslims and Islamophobia, and espouses this clash of civilizations, this narrow view of Islam as being a faith that is entirely antithetical to the West — that Muslims are a pariah that need to be policed and dealt with by the state.

Alexia Underwood

You also say in the book that it’s not just Muslims who have been targeted. Talk more about what you mean.

Khaled Beydoun

When we think about Islamophobia and who it victimizes, it’s important to be nuanced. So your average Joe and Jane living down the street who might be ignorant or misinformed about Islam, who adopt a racialized view of who Muslims are, these are private Islamophobes. Private Islamophobes can victimize and target non-Muslims.

A quintessential example is Balbir Singh [Sodhi], a man who was killed in Arizona in September 2001. He was a gas station owner, a Sikh man who had a turban and a beard, and he was the first post-9/11 hate crime, or hate murder.

He wasn’t a Muslim, but because Sikh men fit within this racialized caricature some people have of Muslims, they can be victims to private Islamophobia. Obviously there are South Asian men who are Hindu or Christian or atheist or agnostic. On the West Coast, a lot of Latino men kind of fit within the physical caricature of how people perceive Muslim men.

The state, whether it be the federal government or even local government, is different. They have a more nuanced and developed understanding of Islam as a consequence of 9/11. They know, I think, at this juncture, based on the war on terror mandate, that Muslims are racially diverse and ethnically diverse, diverse in regard to ideology, and so on.

Alexia Underwood

You mention Black Lives Matter in the book. How does Islamophobia affect a group like Black Lives Matter? How would you connect those two?

Khaled Beydoun

Islamophobia intersects with Black Lives Matter in dynamic and distinct ways. A large number of African Americans are Muslim; we know that anywhere between 25 and 33 percent of the entire Muslim population here, in the states, [is] black. When we think about violent policing, we think about these issues that the Black Lives Matter movement has committed to addressing and dismantling.

I think it’s also important to frame Islamophobia as another aspect of white supremacy. Specifically, war on terror programming, when we think about the state-sponsored Islamophobic programs that I talk about in the book, whether it be counter-radicalization in the Patriot Act, the Muslim ban, and so on.

These are also tools that are tied to white supremacy. The ultimate, primary objective of Black Lives Matter is to dismantle and do away with white supremacist structures and policies from the state, and that is also the objective of a movement that’s looking to do away with structural Islamophobia.

The victims of Islamophobia, racist policing, the school-to-prison pipeline and so on, can be black Muslims, they can be Latino Muslims, they can be indigent and working-class Muslims. It’s important to frame that these movements intersect and that they converge in really dynamic ways.

Alexia Underwood

Do you see these movements working together to combat this type of discrimination?

Khaled Beydoun

One of the positive developments in the context of this current, intense moment is that Islamophobia has become a mainstream social justice issue.

It’s something that Muslims, but also non-Muslims, are talking about. I’m doing these talks at universities, and you can talk to, for example, a Chinese-American undergraduate at UCLA who knows what Islamophobia is, who has a nuanced understanding that it’s being extended by the state, and it’s been unleashed by private individuals.

That, to me, is really eye-opening, and I think it marks progress. It foreshadows, I think, even greater strides being made in the future — the idea that there’s a whole range of new communities that are mobilized and committed to fighting Islamophobia in all of its forms.

A second thing is that Muslim America right now has a sizable and growing crop of leadership. Leadership that are really fluent and literate in the language of racial and social justice. I think that’s partly a credit to the Black Lives Matter movement, to be frank with you. I think a lot of younger-generation Muslim-American leaders were really politically empowered, mobilized by the BLM movement.

So I want readers to understand that Islamophobia is comprehensive: that it’s not only this form of hate and violence coming from individuals on the fringe. It’s far more complex than that. It’s important to see that it’s something that is spearheaded by state policy, and that it’s deeply entrenched, it’s deeply rooted. It’s not a new phenomenon.

I also think it’s a cornerstone racial justice issue, and I hope that that commitment [to fighting Islamophobia] doesn’t fade away when Trump steps down.Police have shot and killed another black man after mistaking an object he was holding for a gun — but this time, they have evidence he was pointing it at civilians and police officers.

Five New York City officers responded to multiple 911 calls on Wednesday that a man in Brooklyn was pointing a silver gun at people in the streets. Shortly before 5 pm, officers approached the man. According to New York City Police Chief Terence Monahan, the man “took a two-handed shooting stance and pointed an object at the approaching officers, two of whom were in uniform.” Four of the cops fired 10 rounds in response, killing the man.

In the aftermath, the officers found that the man had been holding a bent silver pipe with a knob attached to it, not a firearm.

None of the police officers were equipped with body cameras. But the police department on Thursday released a video of surveillance footage, showing the man pointing the object at people — and allegedly police off-camera — as if it were a gun.

New video and 911 call transcript excerpts from yesterday’s police involved shooting in #Brooklyn. NYPD received several calls from neighborhood residents about a man pointing a gun at people on the street.



View yesterday’s remarks by @NYPDChiefofDept: https://t.co/yW8E6o6JGj pic.twitter.com/jw1FNoi7Ob — NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) April 5, 2018

The victim was identified by media outlets as Saheed Vassell. He was described by people who knew him as “polite” and “kind.” He was known to be mentally ill, having bipolar disorder. He had a 15-year-old son.

Witnesses told the New York Times that the officers fired almost immediately after arriving. There were conflicting reports on whether the cops tried to talk with the man before firing.

The identities of the police officers involved have not been released. New York’s attorney general is investigating the shooting, according to CNN.

The shooting comes a few weeks after the police killing of Stephon Clark, who was shot on March 18 in Sacramento, California, in the backyard of his grandparents’ house when police mistook a cellphone he was holding for a gun. The two officers who opened fire — shooting 20 rounds total — said they believed Clark was advancing toward them and posed a threat. According to an autopsy commissioned by Clark’s family, Clark was hit eight times from behind or the side.

The Clark and Vassell shootings have become the latest incidents of police use of force to draw national media coverage since the police shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014 — with critics arguing that they’re yet more examples of the vast racial disparities in how police use force.

Black people are much more likely to be killed by police than their white peers

Based on nationwide data collected by the Guardian, black Americans are more than twice as likely as their white counterparts to be killed by police when accounting for population. In 2016, police killed black Americans at a rate of 6.66 per 1 million people, compared to 2.9 per 1 million for white Americans.

There have also been several high-profile police killings since 2014 involving black suspects. In Baltimore, Freddie Gray died while in police custody, leading to protests and riots. In North Charleston, South Carolina, Michael Slager shot Walter Scott, who was fleeing and unarmed at the time. In Ferguson, Missouri, Darren Wilson killed unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown. In New York City, NYPD officer Daniel Pantaleo killed Eric Garner by putting the unarmed 43-year-old black man in a chokehold.

One possible explanation for the racial disparities: Police tend to patrol high-crime neighborhoods, which are disproportionately black. That means they’re going to be generally more likely to initiate a policing action, from traffic stops to more serious arrests, against a black person who lives in these areas. And all these policing actions carry a chance, however small, of escalating into a violent confrontation.

That’s not to say that higher crime rates in black communities explain the entire racial disparity in police shootings. A 2015 study by researcher Cody Ross found, “There is no relationship between county-level racial bias in police shootings and crime rates (even race-specific crime rates), meaning that the racial bias observed in police shootings in this data set is not explainable as a response to local-level crime rates.” That suggests something else — such as, potentially, racial bias — is going on.

One reason to believe racial bias is a factor: Studies show that officers are quicker to shoot black suspects in video game simulations. Josh Correll, a University of Colorado Boulder psychology professor who conducted the research, said it’s possible the bias could lead to even more skewed outcomes in the field. “In the very situation in which [officers] most need their training,” he previously told me, “we have some reason to believe that their training will be most likely to fail them.”

Part of the solution to potential bias is better training that helps cops acknowledge and deal with their potential prejudices. But critics also argue that more accountability could help deter future brutality or excessive use of force, since it would make it clear that there are consequences to the misuse and abuse of police powers. Yet right now, lax legal standards make it difficult to legally punish individual police officers for use of force, even when it might be excessive.

Police only have to reasonably perceive a threat to justify shooting

Legally, what most matters in police shootings is whether police officers reasonably believed that their lives were in immediate danger, not whether the shooting victim actually posed a threat.

In the 1980s, a pair of Supreme Court decisions — Tennessee v. Garner and Graham v. Connor — set up a framework for determining when deadly force by cops is reasonable.

Constitutionally, “police officers are allowed to shoot under two circumstances,” David Klinger, a University of Missouri St. Louis professor who studies use of force, previously told Dara Lind for Vox. The first circumstance is “to protect their life or the life of another innocent party” — what departments call the “defense of life” standard. The second circumstance is to prevent a suspect from escaping, but only if the officer has probable cause to think the suspect poses a dangerous threat to others.

The logic behind the second circumstance, Klinger said, comes from a Supreme Court decision called Tennessee v. Garner. That case involved a pair of police officers who shot a 15-year-old boy as he fled from a burglary. (He’d stolen $10 and a purse from a house.) The court ruled that cops couldn’t shoot every felon who tried to escape. But, as Klinger said, “they basically say that the job of a cop is to protect people from violence, and if you’ve got a violent person who’s fleeing, you can shoot them to stop their flight.”

The key to both of the legal standards — defense of life and fleeing a violent felony — is that it doesn’t matter whether there is an actual threat when force is used. Instead, what matters is the officer’s “objectively reasonable” belief that there is a threat.

That standard comes from the other Supreme Court case that guides use-of-force decisions: Graham v. Connor. This was a civil lawsuit brought by a man who’d survived his encounter with police officers, but who’d been treated roughly, had his face shoved into the hood of a car, and broken his foot — all while he was suffering a diabetic attack.

The court didn’t rule on whether the officers’ treatment of him had been justified, but it did say that the officers couldn’t justify their conduct just based on whether their intentions were good. They had to demonstrate that their actions were “objectively reasonable,” given the circumstances and compared to what other police officers might do.

What’s “objectively reasonable” changes as the circumstances change. “One can’t just say, ‘Because I could use deadly force 10 seconds ago, that means I can use deadly force again now,’” Walter Katz, a California attorney who specializes in oversight of law enforcement agencies, previously said.

In general, officers are given lot of legal latitude to use force without fear of punishment. The intention behind these legal standards is to give police officers leeway to make split-second decisions to protect themselves and bystanders. And although critics argue that these legal standards give law enforcement a license to kill innocent or unarmed people, police officers say they are essential to their safety.

For some critics, the question isn’t what’s legally justified but rather what’s preventable. “We have to get beyond what is legal and start focusing on what is preventable. Most are preventable,” Ronald Davis, a former police chief who previously headed the Justice Department’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, told the Washington Post. Police “need to stop chasing down suspects, hopping fences, and landing on top of someone with a gun,” he added. “When they do that, they have no choice but to shoot."

Police are rarely prosecuted for shootings

Police are very rarely prosecuted for shootings — and not just because the law allows them wide latitude to use force on the job. Sometimes the investigations fall onto the same police department the officer is from, which creates major conflicts of interest. Other times the only available evidence comes from eyewitnesses, who may not be as trustworthy in the public eye as a police officer.

“There is a tendency to believe an officer over a civilian, in terms of credibility,” David Rudovsky, a civil rights lawyer who co-wrote Prosecuting Misconduct: Law and Litigation, previously told Amanda Taub for Vox. “And when an officer is on trial, reasonable doubt has a lot of bite. A prosecutor needs a very strong case before a jury will say that somebody who we generally trust to protect us has so seriously crossed the line as to be subject to a conviction.”

If police are charged, they’re very rarely convicted. The National Police Misconduct Reporting Project analyzed 3,238 criminal cases against police officers from April 2009 through December 2010. They found that only 33 percent were convicted, and only 36 percent of officers who were convicted ended up serving prison sentences. Both of those are about half the rate at which members of the public are convicted or incarcerated.

The statistics suggest that it would have been a truly rare situation if the officers who shot and killed Vassell were charged and convicted of a crime.“I would totally go with treating it like any other crime, up to and including hanging.”

That’s how Kevin Williamson, very briefly a columnist at the Atlantic, articulated his views on the proper punishment for women who get abortions in a September 2014 episode of his National Review podcast.

The Atlantic had already come in for some criticism for hiring Williamson; he tweeted in 2014 that “the law should treat abortion like any other homicide” and added that hanging was an appropriate penalty.

Williamson’s defenders had tried to spin the tweet as a one-off aberration, an offhand comment for which the columnist should get a pass, or even a “second chance.” New York Times op-ed columnist Bret Stephens wrote, for instance, that Williamson’s critics “show bad faith when they treat an angry tweet or a flippant turn of phrase as proof of moral incorrigibility.”

Feminists and other reproductive rights advocates were, rightly, outraged. When a pundit tweets that he supports the death penalty for abortion, why not believe him? Why assume he was just being “flippant”?

The surfacing of the podcast brought the debate to a head. Williamson was fired on Thursday, with Atlantic editor-in-chief Jeffrey Goldberg forced to conclude that his new hire did, in fact, believe what he said he believed. “The language he used in this podcast — and in my conversations with him in recent days — made it clear that the original tweet did, in fact, represent his carefully considered views,” Goldberg reportedly said in a letter to staff.

Williamson will not be able to use the platform of the Atlantic to expand on his views on abortion and hanging. But that doesn’t mean his basic argument — that women should be punished for having abortions — is going away. In fact, Williamson’s statements were never the kind of fluke his defenders claimed. They were statements of a real policy agenda, one shared by some abortion opponents — and one that may be gaining more power in an administration that’s been overwhelmingly supportive of anti-abortion goals.

“For heaven’s sake, it was a tweet”

After the Atlantic announced on March 22 the hiring of Williamson, a former writer for National Review, critics took issue with a number of his past statements. In addition to the abortion comments, he has compared a black child to a “primate,” called trans actress Laverne Cox “an effigy of a woman,” and accused Bernie Sanders of leading a “national-socialist movement,” as Jordan Weissman notes at Slate.

Goldberg defended his decision to hire Williamson in an internal memo to Atlantic staffers, writing that he would “prefer, all things being equal, to give people second chances and the opportunity to change.”

“I’ve done this before in reference to extreme tweeting (third chances, too, on occasion), and I hope to continue this practice,” he continued.

Meanwhile, Stephens, the Times columnist, argued that a single mention of hanging as a penalty for abortion wasn’t enough to get worked up over. “I jumped at your abortion comment, but for heaven’s sake, it was a tweet,” he wrote in a column framed as an open letter to Williamson. “When you write a whole book on the need to execute the tens of millions of American women who’ve had abortions, then I’ll worry.”

“Let he who is without a bad tweet, a crap sentence or even a deplorable opinion cast the first stone,” Stephens added.

Hanging women for having an abortion isn’t a random idea. It’s a real policy proposal.

The podcast comments, highlighted by Media Matters on Wednesday, make it a little harder to dismiss Williamson’s position on abortion as a single bad tweet. What’s more, calling for women to be severely punished for getting abortions is not merely “a flippant turn of phrase.” It’s an actual policy recommendation, endorsed by prominent political figures.

In March 2016, Donald Trump said in an interview with MSNBC’s Chris Matthews that “there has to be some form of punishment” for women who get abortions. His campaign later issued a statement reversing that position, which stated that in the event of a state or federal abortion ban, “the doctor or any other person performing this illegal act upon a woman would be held legally responsible, not the woman.”

Trump has never been particularly consistent on the subject of abortion, and his response to Matthews seemed at the time like the ill-considered reply of someone who hasn’t thought much about the issue. But his willingness to support punishment for women terminating pregnancies feels significant at a time when multiple state lawmakers are advocating just that.

More recently, Bob Nonini, a state senator from Idaho and candidate for lieutenant governor in the state, said during a candidate forum on Monday that “there should be no abortion and anyone who has an abortion should pay.” When asked if he supported the death penalty for abortion, he nodded, and he confirmed that position in a later interview with the Associated Press.

He appeared to reverse his position a day later, saying in a statement that “prosecutions have always been focused on the abortionist.”

“There is no way a woman would go to jail let alone face the death penalty. The statute alone, the threat of prosecution, would dramatically reduce abortion. That is my goal.”

However, others in Idaho have brought up the idea of prosecuting women, according to the AP. The group Abolish Abortion Idaho is backing a ballot initiative that would charge both women and doctors with first-degree murder in the case of an abortion. Idaho state Sen. Dan Foreman tried to introduce similar legislation last year, but it never got a hearing.

More mainstream anti-abortion groups have generally avoided calls to punish women for getting abortions, instead often casting women as victims whose lives are harmed by the act of ending a pregnancy. However, the Trump administration’s reproductive health policy, which has included an embrace of anti-abortion groups and individuals as well as the appointments of many federal judges considered friendly to the anti-abortion cause, may have emboldened state lawmakers and others to push more punitive legislation.

Related How Trump helped inspire a wave of strict new abortion laws

A bill introduced in Ohio in March would ban all abortions and allow criminal charges against doctors as well as patients who get the procedure. The bill would categorize an abortion as a homicide, meaning doctors and patients could get life in prison or the death penalty, according to NPR.

Williamson may be gone from the Atlantic, but the point of view he espoused is alive and well. Now, as when he was hired, suggesting that women be punished for getting abortions is not an idle speculation or flippant joke. It’s an all-too-real proposal being floated in multiple states, and one that had the support, at least at one point, of the man who is now our president. That’s something no one should forget, no matter what Williamson does next.Five years into his papacy, Pope Francis is a polarizing figure. To his supporters, he’s a much-needed change for the church. He’s a reformer whose willingness to model Christlike behavior (from washing the feet of Muslim migrants to asking “who am I to judge” LGBTQ people) heralds a new, more welcoming brand of Catholicism. For many — especially in the secular media — Francis’s change in tone from his predecessors has made his papacy unquestionably successful.

But over the past few years, conservative Catholic voices have emerged to criticize the pope’s approach and methods. Much of this criticism centers around Francis’s tacit approval of parish priests giving communion to divorced-and-remarried couples. It’s a controversial practice forbidden by the Catholic catechism on the grounds that divorce is not considered permissible. While Francis’s supporters defend his decision to, essentially, separate out (more rigid) church doctrine from (more lenient) parish practice, his critics argue that doing so threatens the moral consistency of the Catholic Church.

Among the most visible critics of Francis in the secular media is the New York Times columnist Ross Douthat. His pointed criticism of Francis’s papacy has been a recurring refrain of his national column, and his new book, To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism, was released last month. It’s a clear, concise, and fair summary of the conservative case against Francis. And whether or not that case is accurate, it’s worth engaging with.

Much of Douthat’s book is, for lack of a better term, very inside-baseball. It’s an extremely detailed look at the institutional machinations and political jockeying of a particularly complex bureaucracy.

But for Catholics and non-Catholics, progressives and conservatives alike, it’s vital to understand — if not necessarily to agree with — Douthat’s argument, and the argument of many of Francis’s conservative critics. The debate over Francis’s papacy is both a narrow, political debate about the future of the Catholic Church and a broader debate over the nature of ethics, modernity, and liberalism.

The Catholic view of marriage and divorce is central to Douthat’s argument

While Douthat criticizes a number of Francis’s decisions as pope, the bulk of his argument rests on Francis’s handling of the church’s approach to divorced-and-remarried couples — an issue highly representative of Francis’s approach as a whole.

Within the Catholic tradition, marriage is seen as indissoluble: the result of a sacred covenant between the couple, the church, and God. Divorce, therefore, is not permitted (although, in some cases, the church can grant an annulment: a decree that the marriage in question was never valid).

For this reason, divorced-and-remarried couples are generally not permitted to receive the Eucharist (i.e., communion) during Mass — neither are, in theory, LGBTQ couples or unmarried cohabiting couples. Unlike in Protestant traditions, Catholic doctrine states the communion wafer and wine are the transubstantiated body and blood of Jesus Christ. This makes the Eucharist particularly significant. Receiving the Eucharist for Catholics isn’t just about participating in a communal activity. It’s about becoming one with Jesus Christ.

For Douthat, Francis’s approach to divorced-and-remarried couples is at the heart of a bigger problem

This brings us to Pope Francis and the controversy at the heart of Douthat’s critique. Influenced, in part, by his friend and colleague the progressive German theologian Walter Kasper, Francis has repeatedly challenged the idea that remarried Catholics should be permanently barred from receiving communion.

Francis (or Kasper) has never suggested that the Catholic Church should allow divorce. Francis’s logic is that, as he writes in one of his apostolic exhortations, the Eucharist is “not a prize for the perfect but a powerful medicine and nourishment for the weak.”

In other words, the Eucharist should be available to those whose sexual lives put them at odds with the formal doctrines of the Catholic Church, so long as they have expressed a sincere desire to live within the Catholic faith more generally. The Francis-Kasper view is that the church should balance justice with mercy: recognize the complicated nature of sexual sin and prioritize welcoming as many Catholics as possible to the communion table.

Such a philosophy is in keeping with Francis’s wider sense of what the church should be, and of his own role as pope. Francis seems to see himself as a pastor first, a theologian second, one whose priority is to treat the church as a “field hospital” for sinners in need of spiritual succor. To his defenders, his choice to draw a distinction between Church doctrine and practice “on the ground,” so to speak, is a clever way of allowing the Church to balance its principles with its practice so that it can focus on its main mission: bringing all people to know and love Christ.

That said, Douthat characterizes Francis’s approach to divorced-and-remarried couples and the Eucharist as something of a disingenuous workaround. For Douthat, Francis is trying to have it both ways — offering conservatives “the formal teaching of the church” while giving liberals “a permission slip for pastoral experiments.”

Francis has gone through what might be called “formal channels” in terms of advocating for allowing divorced-and-remarried Catholics to receive communion: He has attempted to influence formal church synods, like the 2014-’15 synods on the family, with a moderate degree of success.

The official power a pope has to “change” church doctrine is debatable and complicated. Since 1870, the pope can unilaterally speak infallibly on matters of doctrine when invoking the right to speak “ex cathedra,” but this right has almost never been used. The pope is responsible for safeguarding Catholic doctrine and cannot directly contradict it but can interpret or expand it. More formal or sweeping codifications of change in interpretation are generally done collectively, through ecumenical councils.

Generally speaking, Catholic doctrine is understood to be unchangeable but subject to development or interpretation. There is greater room for change when it comes to ecclesiastical practice — say, the doctrine of priestly celibacy, which only dates to the 12th century — than when it comes to theology proper (say, whether marriage is indissoluble).

Generally speaking, though, Francis’s unilateral approach to advocacy has been unconventional. At times, he bypasses the church hierarchy entirely, for example by making controversial statements to secular journalists, or telling parishioners directly to go ahead and take communion in defiance of their priest’s orders (as he did with one unmarried Argentinian woman living with her boyfriend).

Among the methods Douthat objects to most is Francis’s decision to bury a proposed policy change in a single footnote. In a passage in his 2016 apostolic exhortation Amoris Laetitia dealing with couples in non-church-sanctioned relationships, Francis writes: “it is possible that in an objective situation of sin ... a person can be living in God’s grace ... while receiving the Church’s help to this end.” A footnote clarifies that this can “include the help of the sacraments.” In other words: Priests can use their own judgment when it comes to giving communion.

It was a canny, even brilliant, political move on Francis’s part. His words were technically nonbinding. Not only was he not speaking ex cathedra (the rarely used mechanism by which popes can speak “infallibly”) but he had also chosen to use an apostolic exhortation — a more informal mode of address — to get his point across. This strategy allowed him to circumvent accountability for his statement within the church’s senior teaching body, even as his controversial footnote (which was widely reported in secular media) gave local priests license to tacitly allow remarried couples to take communion.

It was, as Douthat notes, also a politically risky move, one that essentially licensed a division between formal church teaching and parish practice. “[By] issuing such an ambiguous document,” Douthat writes, “Pope Francis had pushed Catholicism toward ... devolution, toward a geographical and cultural variation in what his church would teach.”

Francis’s papacy presents an institutional challenge for the church

Francis’s approach, To Change the Church argues, is problematic for two separate reasons.

First of all, Francis is, in Douthat’s view, destabilizing the very nature of the papal office. If he exercises his unilateralism in the progressive direction, what’s to stop an archconservative successor from doing likewise, until the total mood of the church becomes indistinguishable from that of its current pontiff? Douthat wonders, fairly, whether “the ease with which a rhetoric of ... obeying ... ‘this Pope, this present Pope’ can be used to justify reversal of prior teaching.”

Douthat’s argument is at its most effective when he criticizes Francis on these political grounds. He argues that Francis’s papacy is dangerous because it puts the church, as an institution, in jeopardy. If he moves the church in a “liberalizing” direction like that shared by, say, Anglicans, he risks challenging what is distinctive about Catholicism in order to hold on to the would-be faithful. Douthat points out, fairly, that churches that have tried to “liberalize” end up hemorrhaging their members anyway, and that Mass attendance has been flat under Francis.

”Liberal Catholicism’s difficulty,” he writes, “is that it has the most appeal to Catholics with the loosest connections to the Church ... it can do well in opinion polls of all Catholics ... and still fail to generate the level of commitment that induces men and women to give their lives in service to the faith.”

Douthat does, however, tend to elide the Catholic Church’s ideal of being unchanging with its historic expression. “The papacy’s claim to be a rock of unchanging teaching,” as Douthat puts it, has more often than not been just a claim.

For most of the church’s history, both doctrine and practice have been in flux. Scripture and church fathers alike have been interpreted in wildly diverging ways (the progressive Catholic magazine Commonweal has a fine detailed rundown of the varying history of major Catholic thinkers’ approach to remarriage).

The history of the church, after all, is the history of councils and controversies. The nature of grace, the nature of free will, and the nature(s) of Jesus Christ have all been codified through vigorous, sometimes violent, debate. Church doctrine may have been “unchanging,” but interpretations of that seemingly unchanging doctrine, from the 324 Council of Nicea to the 1545-’63 Council of Trent to the 1962-5 Vatican II, have differed variously.

Douthat’s characterization of the church as an unchanging, unified body, thrust into chaos by modernity, and the pope as a distinct threat to that unity, is overstated.

As I’ve argued before, much of our contemporary conception of the Catholic Church as this kind of historic monolith is rooted in the church of the 19th century: a time when the church was already redefining itself in opposition to so-called “modernity” precisely by becoming more conservative and codified.

Furthermore, there is precedent, albeit on a smaller scale, for alterations in Catholic teaching at the level of church practice (again, as distinct from change in doctrine). The first Catholic catechism, for example (which dates from 1566), demands that married couples abstain from sex before receiving the Eucharist, something not demanded by the present catechism (which only dates from 1992).

Douthat’s objection to change in the church reflects a wider distrust of situational ethics

Douthat’s wariness of a “liberalizing” church touches not just on Catholicism per se, but on a wider question of modernity and ethics. Throughout his book, a consistent strain of his critique is that Francis is moving away from the church’s objective moral standards toward suspiciously “situational ethics” (basically, the idea that the right thing to do in some circumstances may not be the right thing to do in others).

Writing sympathetically about the conservative church leaders behind the dubia, an open letter expressing objections to Amoris Laetitia, Douthat characterizes their objection as rooted in “whether the church’s traditional opposition to situation ethics still held ... and whether the church now taught that ... ’individual consciences could discern ‘legitimate exceptions to absolute moral norms.’”

Do “situational ethics” — the idea that, for example, there might be instances in which a priest morally should give communion to a remarried couple — lead inexorably, as Douthat implies, to moral relativism: a wholesale rejection of objective “right” and “wrong” totally incompatible with religion altogether?

As Douthat writes, “If God wills the suspension of his own law when things get particularly difficult or complicated, whenever too much emotional or physical suffering would be imposed, from the point of view of every Christian who ever suffered or even died for the sake of their hardest passages, the gospels look less like revelation than a somewhat cruel trick.”

There’s a robust Christian (if usually Protestant) tradition of defending such a situational stance on the grounds that it’s in keeping with the biblical portrayal of Christ himself. Christian Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard’s “suspension of the ethical,” for example, argued for a religious ethics based not on objective rules but on love toward’s one fellow man.

The 20th-century Catholic theologian Karl Rahner saw a “poor Church of sinners, the tent of the pilgrim people of God, pitched in the desert and shaken by all the storms of history, the Church laboriously seeking its way into the future, groping and suffering many internal afflictions ... a Church of internal tensions and conflicts.” That view led him to condemn “the reactionary callousness of the institutional factor.” Rather, his views on ethics draw a distinction between essential and existential ethics.

Moral norms, for Rahner, come secondary to a personal, religious conception of God’s will — something that has led to Rahner, too, being accused of “situational ethics.” There is space within the Catholic tradition for a kind of situational ethics that doesn’t automatically collapse into moral relativism.

On a theological level, therefore, there is precedent for Francis’s stance. By dividing pastoral care from doctrine — by welcoming remarried couples to the Eucharist — priests might be said to be taking a Rahnerian approach to theological ethics.

The debate over Francis’s papacy is as much about modernity as it is about doctrine

Still, by challenging moral relativism more broadly, Douthat nonetheless raises an important point. He joins his voice with those of critics from across the political spectrum who have expressed doubts about our cultural trend toward moral relativism, and more widely, toward what Polish sociologist Zygmunt Bauman called “liquid modernity”: the idea that in late modernity, a person’s identity and self are, basically, fluid.

The question Douthat is asking is an important one, and one that’s itself having something of a cultural moment. Should we automatically assume that our current (post-sexual revolution, post-digital revolution, neoliberal, capitalist) cultural mores are the right ones? Is there something worthwhile in looking beyond the present, to the morals and mores of a past tradition, even if it means being out of step with modern views on divorce?

It’s the same question being asked on the right, by, for example, the increasingly popular Canadian psychiatrist Jordan Peterson, with his focus on gender essentialism and bringing back so-called “masculine virtues.” It’s also the question being asked on the left by the Washington Post’s Elizabeth Bruenig, whose Catholicism and socialism are intertwined, and who makes frequent and pointed criticisms of capitalism and the way our much-vaunted ideals of personal “freedom” are inextricably linked to oppression. (Incidentally, it’s also the question being asked by Pope Francis, who frequently castigates the “throwaway culture” of modern capitalism.)

These challenges to modernity can be found across the political and religious spectrum. (And they’re not new: Catholic criticisms of “modernity” have been around almost as long as “modernity” itself — just read the novels of Graham Greene or Evelyn Waugh, two 20th-century novelists Douthat has praised.)

In Peterson, Douthat, and Bruenig alike, we see a willingness to challenge “liquid modernity” in favor of some form of codified (and more challenging) limitations on personal freedom. In some cases, it’s fair to condemn some of these thinkers’ nostalgia (particularly Peterson’s) as intertwined with a more noxious nostalgia for the racism or sexism of an “easier” time. But the point Douthat and his cohorts are making — that “progress” shouldn’t be lauded for its own sake, and that our own “modern, liberal” cultural values should be investigated as thoroughly as the “outdated” Catholic ones — is still a valid, even vital one.

The conservative case against Francis may be overly simplistic. Douthat’s argument is stronger when it comes to the politics of the institutional church than when it comes to theology proper. The Catholic tradition — with its centuries’ worth of dynamic disagreement — is historically far more “liquid” than his book suggests.

That said, for Catholic and nonreligious reader alike, Douthat’s book asks the necessary questions. Even if it doesn’t always answer them.It’s been nearly two years since the mass shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, that killed 49 people — widely believed to be an act of aggression against the club’s LGBTQ clientele and “undeniably a homophobic hate crime.” There’s now conclusive evidence that the shooter wasn’t intending to target LGBTQ people at all.

In fact, he allegedly had no idea Pulse was a gay club, and simply Googled “Orlando nightclubs” after finding that security at his original target, a major shopping and entertainment complex, was too high, as reported by ClickOrlando.com.

This evidence dramatically changes the mass shooting’s narrative; politicians and individuals across the political spectrum had positioned it as an anti-LGBTQ hate crime. Instead, the new evidence suggests, the Pulse nightclub shooting was intended as revenge for US anti-terror policies abroad.

The evidence emerged during the trial of the shooter’s wife, Noor Salman, whom the federal government charged with aiding and abetting and obstruction of justice. Federal prosecutors argued that Salman had helped her husband plan and orchestrate the attack. She was acquitted by a jury last Friday, a rare occurrence when most defendants accused of terror charges accept plea deals and the average conviction rate in such cases is above 90 percent.

The shooter’s motive was apparently revenge for United States bombing campaigns on ISIS targets in the Middle East. He had pledged allegiance to ISIS’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and during the Pulse shooting posted to Facebook, “You kill innocent women and children by doing us airstrikes. ... Now taste the Islamic state vengeance.” In his final post, he wrote, “In the next few days you will see attacks from the Islamic state in the usa.”

Salman’s attorneys introduced evidence showing that, far from assisting the shooter, she was a victim of her husband’s abuse, including frequent beatings and sexual assault.

The Pulse nightclub shooting was the deadliest attack on LGBTQ people in American history, and liberals and conservatives — including then-presidential candidate Donald Trump — assumed the shooting was based on the victims’ sexual orientation and gender identity. Trump and other Republicans attempted to use their response to the shooting to argue that they were true pro-LGBTQ advocates because of their support for immigration restrictions aimed at Muslims.

In a speech on June 13, the day after the shooting, Trump said, “This is a very dark moment in America’s history. A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub, not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens, because of their sexual orientation.” The following day at a North Carolina rally Trump said, “We want to live in a country where gay and lesbian Americans and all Americans are safe from radical Islam, which, by the way, wants to murder and has murdered gays and they enslave women.”

During Trump’s speech at the Republican National Convention where he accepted his party’s presidential nomination, he said, “Only weeks ago, in Orlando, Florida, 49 wonderful Americans were savagely murdered by an Islamic terrorist. This time, the terrorist targeted the LGBTQ community. No good. And we’re going to stop it. As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology.”

But the evidence shows otherwise. The shooter didn’t target LGBTQ people — he didn’t even realize Pulse was a gay-oriented nightclub, asking a security guard at the club where all the women were just before he started shooting.

After a mass shooting, observers, including journalists, often search for a motive, sometimes even before the first victims have been identified. But the Pulse shooting proves that initial narratives about mass shooters’ motivations are often wrong — and those narratives can be far more powerful than the truth.The past few weeks have seen a spate of spiritually focused films. From I Can Only Imagine (about a Christian music group) to God’s Not Dead: A Light in Darkness (about a church struggling to rebuild after a fire) to Paul: the Apostle (about, well, Paul the apostle), this spring has seen a wealth of Christian movies that center on questions of faith and doubt. But the problem, as Vox’s Alissa Wilkinson has already pointed out, is that many of them aren’t very good.

All too often, Wilkinson writes, contemporary faith-based films don’t deal meaningfully with the challenges of faith. Instead, they function as feel-good material, reinforcing white evangelical Christians’ narrative that they’re the most persecuted group in America. “These movies are successful,” she writes, “largely because they know their base. That base is large, and it pays to support movies that make it feel represented. Vitally, that base also believes it’s being persecuted. “

All too often, films purporting to be “Christian” in nature are saccharine and unchallenging — easy tales of good versus evil in which faith is rewarded with an untroubled, happy ending. Characters spout Bible verses or Hallmark platitudes. Atheists either see the error of their ways and convert or die horribly (or sometimes both). It’s the cinematic equivalent of what German theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer called “cheap grace.”

As Wilkinson writes of God’s Not Dead: A Light in Darkness, the franchise is guilty of precisely that cheapness: “The greatest offense of the God’s Not Dead series may be its failure to imagine for its audience what a truly radical belief in a living God would look like. The movies, crippled by their own narcissistic inward turn, prove their imagination is far, far too small.”

Whether or not you’re Christian, questions of faith and doubt, good and evil, are worth engaging with. And Christians deserve a good film about faith: a film that shows the triumph of good over evil without cheapening that struggle. They deserve a film whose grace is not cheap but dearly won.

I’m talking, of course, about David Lynch’s Blue Velvet.

Blue Velvet — a 1986 neo-noir about sexual voyeurism, sadomasochism, corruption, and rape — is hardly an obvious spiritual movie. It’s been denounced by critics as deeply misogynist and self-indulgently violent. Roger Ebert infamously gave the film just one star, criticizing its abrupt tonal shift from small-town surrealism to noir brutality — saying that Blue Velvet “pulled so violently in opposite directions that it pulls itself apart.”

But the way Lynch balances an unflinching look at pure evil with an authentic faith in the possibility of human salvation makes Blue Velvet as much a spiritual film as it is a disturbing one. (And some Christians agree: The progressive, mainline Protestant magazine the Christian Century named it its 1986 movie of the year.)

It would be foolish to argue that Blue Velvet is a specifically, intentionally Christian movie. (Lynch was raised Presbyterian but now identifies as spiritual, without a specific religious affiliation.) But Lynch’s treatment of redemption and unearned forgiveness in the face of horrific evil bears a strong resemblance to the idea of grace in the Christian tradition: as something that is not “earned,” but rather offered freely; something that does not negate the difficulties of the world but rather offers hope beyond it.

Lynch uses the noir genre to set up, and subvert, our expectations

Blue Velvet’s plot is simple. Jeffrey, a college student (played by Kyle MacLachlan), has taken time off from school to care for his ailing father in the small town of Lumberton. One day, while walking home from the hospital, he comes across a severed ear in the woods. With the help of the sheriff’s sunny teenage daughter, Sandy (Laura Dern), Jeffrey starts to investigate the case.

But Jeffrey’s curiosity turns to voyeuristic obsession, as he gets himself embroiled in the sordid story of Dorothy Vallens (Isabella Rossellini), a fragile nightclub singer. Dorothy’s son and husband (whose ear Jeffrey has found) are being held hostage by a psychopathic gangster, Frank Booth (Dennis Hopper). Frank uses his leverage over Dorothy to demand brutal and degrading sexual favors from her, sex that Dorothy seems to have become psychologically dependent on.

As Jeffrey gets more and more entangled in Dorothy’s story, he also becomes complicit in her tragedy. He winds up naked in her closet during an investigation gone wrong, watching Frank rape her through a peephole. Upon discovering him, Dorothy, desperate for any kind of human contact, violently demands he become her lover. Soon, Jeffrey is balancing his investigation into Dorothy’s husband and child’s whereabouts, a blossoming romance with Sandy, and his secret, increasingly sadomasochistic affair with Dorothy.

We think we know where this story is going to go. After all, Blue Velvet has all the aesthetic hallmarks of a film noir. There’s an investigation into the seedy underbelly of a small town. There’s a detective protagonist who discovers that the very people he thought he could trust — including, it turns out, the sheriff’s office — are actively complicit in unspeakable horrors. There’s a sultry femme fatale, leading our protagonist into moral dissolution.

But noirs have a very particular moral (you might even say theological) framework. The fundamental assumption of the noir, from The Maltese Falcon to Chinatown, is that the world is a terrible place, devoid of any meaning, and every attempt to solve its problems results in things getting even worse. Noirs are tragedies not only on the level of the individual characters — although the protagonist and femme fatale alike usually end up worse off at the end of the story than when they started — but on the level of the whole narrative world. There is no God in noir, nor is there grace.

But Lynch subverts all that. He uses the noir tropes to set up our expected ending — Sandy finds out about Jeffrey’s betrayal, Frank kills Dorothy, Jeffrey finishes the film far more bitter and hardened than he started — only to give us something totally unexpected.

About two-thirds of the way into the movie, we get the “expected” reveal scene. Dorothy, bruised and dazed from another round of Frank’s abuse, shows up naked on Sandy’s doorstep, looking for Jeffrey. Sandy realizes that Jeffrey has been cheating on her. Her face contorts into a terrible sob — an expression so cartoonishly broad that’s since been memorialized as a meme. She shouts at him to get out of the house.

But then something unexpected happens. Sandy forgives Jeffrey. She gets medical assistance for Dorothy, tenderly comforting her as she helps her into an ambulance. She calls Jeffrey after she has calmed down, telling him that she loves him, despite what he’s done. Jeffrey, in turn, tracks down and kills Frank Booth, allowing Dorothy to be reunited with her son (Frank has already killed her husband). Jeffrey and Sandy end up together, and happy. Dorothy ends up happy too — our final image of her is her playing with her beloved son.

On one level, critiques like Ebert’s are right: Blue Velvet does indeed exhibit a major tonal shift, going from a horrific rape scene to a brightly lit, Donna Reed-style happy ending. But that shift is precisely the point. By denying the viewers our expected ending — an ending as brutal, bleak, and sexually charged as the genre demands — Lynch challenges us to envision the possibility of grace. Blue Velvet ends with a redemption that has, symbolically, been bought through the forgiveness Sandy offers, which Jeffrey does not deserve.

Throughout Blue Velvet, Lynch plays with the idea of complicity, especially as it pertains to sex and violence. Jeffrey’s narrative curiosity — what the hell is this ear doing here? — morphs into full-on sexual perversion. His desire to know what happens becomes indistinguishable from his desire to witness Dorothy undergo increasingly degrading sexual situations. He becomes, at least in part, complicit in Dorothy’s suffering.

And we, as audience members, are complicit too. Like Jeffrey, we watch Dorothy’s rape, and — implicitly — let it happen. On both a narrative and sexual level, Jeffrey (and we) expect a kind of consummation: a fulfillment of our expectations. This story of sex and death has to end with, well, death.

Lynch also uses this subversion of expectation during Blue Velvet’s sex scenes. It would be easy to argue that those scenes are de facto exploitative. But Lynch specifically shoots the rape scenes to be as bizarre and surreal as possible, designed to make the viewer uncomfortable rather than aroused. There’s little lingering over female flesh, and the off-putting strangeness of Booth’s kink — calling Dorothy “Mommy” and himself “Baby” — highlight just how repulsive what’s happening really is.

Likewise, Lynch allows Dorothy to be a complicated character, not just a victim to be gawked at voyeuristically. She sexually assaults Jeffreys in their first encounter, mirroring the rape she has just experienced. She is likewise psychologically dependent on her torture, even going so far as to ask Jeffrey to slap her during sex. But Lynch refuses to see her as either just a “victim” or a doomed, villainous femme fatale, but a difficult woman who has internalized her abuse in toxic ways.

Dorothy is both victim and perpetrator (like pretty much everyone in the movie except for Frank) — but, Lynch implies, she is still worthy of redemption. Neither her rape nor her crimes deny her a happy ending: She ends the movie not only alive and well but also reunited with her son.

The key to Blue Velvet is its ending

Refusing to grant us the ending we “want” — an ending that would make us complicit in the sex and violence and cruelty of Lumberton — Lynch very consciously, even artificially, grants us the ending we need. Human kindness and the will to forgive triumph over Frank’s aesthetic brand of “sexy evil.”

About halfway through the film, Sandy tells Jeffrey about a dream she had:

I had a dream. In fact, it was on the night I met you. In the dream, there was our world, and the world was dark because there weren’t any robins and the robins represented love. And for the longest time, there was this darkness. And all of a sudden, thousands of robins were set free and they flew down and brought this blinding light of love. And it seemed that love would make any difference, and it did. So, I guess it means that there is trouble until the robins come.

It’s an odd monologue, one that seems overly mystical in a film about the degradation of daily existence. But Sandy’s dream ultimately comes to pass. At the end of the film, a reunited Jeffrey and Sandy find a robin in their kitchen window. In its beak is a cockroach, a reference to the bugs we saw earlier swarming over the severed ear. The robin is awkwardly animatronic, artificial-looking. But that artificiality only heightens the ending’s strength.

Happiness, goodness, forgiveness — none of these are narratively exciting or “sexy.” But as Lynch has been telling us throughout the film, what is “exciting” and what is spiritually good are two different things entirely.

Unlike God’s Not Dead, Blue Velvet doesn’t pretend that God always rewards the good and punishes the wicked, or that faith is all that’s necessary to improve your life. The film takes evil seriously. But, it suggests, that’s not all there is. It offers a narratively challenging “happy ending” — a story of beauty and goodness in defiance of evil — that, for Christians, is at the heart of their faith.Men could be falsely accused of sexual harassment or assault. Women could lose out on opportunities at work because men will be afraid to work with them. The punishment for less severe forms of sexual misconduct could be the same as for more severe offenses.

These were among women’s top concerns about the #MeToo movement in a nationwide survey Vox conducted with the media firm Morning Consult in March. Each of these concerns was held by a majority of women we surveyed — 63 percent were very or somewhat concerned about false accusations, 60 percent were worried about lost professional opportunities, and 56 percent were worried about perpetrators getting the same punishment for different misdeeds.

A Pew report, released on Wednesday, identified some similar concerns, with 21 percent of women saying that the increased focus on sexual harassment would lead to decreased opportunities for women in the workplace, and 31 percent saying that women falsely claiming sexual harassment or assault is a major problem today.

In some workplaces now, “You have to tiptoe around people. You can’t even be yourself,” said one woman in a focus group Vox conducted with the polling firm PerryUndem. “That’s a problem I think a lot of men are facing.”

But those concerns don’t mean that women are ready to write off #MeToo. In our survey, a majority of women said they supported the movement. And in the four focus groups Vox and PerryUndem conducted, women of all ages talked about how necessary and overdue they believed it was — even as they voiced their fears about the movement’s consequences.

For many women, concerns are rooted in worry for the men in their lives

In the focus groups, several women expressed worry that men in their families — men they described as caring and respectful of women — would be falsely accused or otherwise harmed as a side effect of #MeToo.

One woman, 36, who asked that her name not be used, voiced concern about the current workplace climate and its effects on her father. Recently, she said, a woman at her father’s workplace asked for help moving a box. When he said, “Yes, dear, I’ll get that for you,” the woman told him never to call her “dear” again.

“He was so upset when he got home,” his daughter said in the focus group. “He was like, ‘I didn’t mean anything by it.’”

Shar’Ron Maxx Mahaffey, 64, was concerned about men being wrongfully accused of harassment or assault. “I have a son, and I cannot imagine, with the level of respect he shows me and his sisters and my sisters, that he could ever do something like that. But what if someone just accused him of doing it?” she asked. “Am I just supposed to take her word for that, knowing who my son is?”

A 26-year-old woman, who asked to remain anonymous, also said she worried about false accusations, especially after a young woman’s account of a date with comedian Aziz Ansari, during which she said she felt pressured to have sex, went viral on the website Babe.net.

“It just makes me fearful for my brothers and people like that,” she said, “because her word was taken as fact immediately.”

The Ansari story was a point of contention for several women in the focus groups. “I feel like that area was really gray,” said a 33-year-old woman, who asked that her name not be used.

“I felt the woman going public about Aziz Ansari was painting an unfair picture of him,” she told me in a follow-up interview. “I feel like he was being lumped in with predators.”

“I’m not saying he’s perfect or that he acted like a saint,” she added, “but I think that it was unfair to paint him as a sexual assaulter and potentially, you know, bring down his career.”

But women’s misgivings have not led them to abandon #MeToo

In our focus groups, women who were worried about the potential ill effects of #MeToo generally supported the movement as a whole.

Both women who expressed concerns about the Ansari story also described their own personal, positive connections to #MeToo.

The 26-year-old woman said she had made a report to human resources at her previous job, on behalf of a co-worker who was harassed, but nothing was done. “I found out HR actually just got mad at her,” she said. What struck her about #MeToo, she said, was the universality of experiences of sexual harassment: “Regardless of political orientation or race, all women have experienced this stuff.”

The 33-year-old woman said her mother had recently told her that, as a journalist in the 1960s, she’d dealt with sexist assumptions about how she became successful: “People would say, ‘Who are you sleeping with?’”

Things have changed for women in the workplace since the ’60s, the woman told me, and #MeToo stands to change them even more. “The feeling of empowerment and confidence that it’s giving women,” she said, is “going to really help all the more women to rise at work and to become fully equal with men.”

Mahaffey, who was worried about her son being falsely accused, also described her own experiences with harassment and was optimistic about the effect of #MeToo on future generations of women: “It’s empowering for my daughters and granddaughters to know that they’ll be heard,” she said.

Vox also saw broad support for #MeToo in the nationwide survey. Though majorities of women had certain concerns about #MeToo, 69 percent of women said they strongly or somewhat supported the movement, and 54 percent said the movement represented their interests somewhat or very well.

Women were also optimistic that #MeToo would bring about positive change. Seventy-three percent said it was very or somewhat likely that the movement would make women feel more comfortable reporting sexual assault and harassment, and 66 percent believed it would make men more conscious of inappropriate behavior. Fifty-two percent of women said it was very or somewhat likely that women would experience lower rates of sexual assault and harassment as a result of #MeToo.

Women’s concerns are often rooted in a desire for the movement to succeed

Women who supported #MeToo were actually more concerned than women as a whole about some potential ill effects of the movement. Sixty-eight percent of #MeToo supporters were very or somewhat concerned about false accusations, for instance, compared with 63 percent of all women. Likewise, 68 percent of supporters were concerned about women losing out on work opportunities, compared with 60 percent of women as a whole.

It’s not surprising that women who were supportive of #MeToo were also more likely than average to have certain concerns, said Sarah J. Jackson, a professor of communication studies at Northeastern University who studies racial and gender justice activism. People who support the movement “understand the stakes,” Jackson said.

In her recent interviews with feminist Twitter users, she said, she found a keen awareness of the ways feminist causes can be undermined — an awareness that false rape accusations, for instance, can be portrayed in ways that harm anti-rape activism as a whole.

“It makes sense that women who are invested in the movement — are invested in having greater conversations and greater solutions to things like sexual harassment and sexual assault — would be hyperaware of the potential political and cultural discourses that could interrupt that process,” she said.

The anti-#MeToo backlash that followed the first wave of public reports of sexual misconduct last year often seemed to place women in two opposing camps. On one side were supporters of #MeToo, who were extremists intent on destroying men, according to their critics.

“They believe they are fighting an insidious, ubiquitous evil — the patriarchy — just as the extreme anti-Communists in the 1950s believed that commies were everywhere and so foul they didn’t deserve a presumption of innocence, or simple human decency,” Andrew Sullivan wrote for New York magazine in January. “They demand public confessions of the guilty and public support for their cause … or they will cast suspicion on you as well.”

On the other side, in this view, were #MeToo opponents — or at least reasonable skeptics who disapproved of Harvey Weinstein but thought that the movement in general was engaged in dangerous overreach. In January, Daphne Merkin speculated in a New York Times op-ed that during the Golden Globes, “many of us, including many longstanding feminists, will be rolling our eyes, having had it with the reflexive and unnuanced sense of outrage that has accompanied this cause from its inception, turning a bona fide moment of moral accountability into a series of ad hoc and sometimes unproven accusations.”

But what we found in both our focus groups and our survey was that by and large, #MeToo supporters are also skeptics. They have considered — sometimes more than the average woman — the possible negative outcomes of the movement, and the ways the movement could be compromised or fail. And their thinking has led them not to calls for men to be summarily fired with no investigation or recourse, but to complex conversations about what a fair workplace would look like for men and women.

When it comes to #MeToo in the workplace, women don’t have all the answers. But they are asking nuanced questions.

As the #MeToo movement matures, the conversations around sexual harassment are beginning to move from outrage at particular men — Harvey Weinstein, Matt Lauer, Mario Batali, Roy Moore — to questions about the best way to reform workplaces, industries, and society as a whole. These are complex questions with no easy answers.

When #MeToo backlash was at its height, some critics of the movement doubted women’s ability to consider complexity — to distinguish, for instance, between the allegations against Weinstein and those against Ansari. Our survey and focus groups offer a concrete rebuke to this idea — both individual examples and numerical evidence showing that women across America are thinking about #MeToo in a nuanced way.

The findings don’t prove that any specific concerns about #MeToo are valid — or that they’re not. What they do show is that women are more than capable of having the complicated discussions necessary to bring #MeToo into the future — indeed, they are already having these conversations, whether critics are listening or not.

For months, men have expressed concerns about what’s permissible in the #MeToo-era workplace. “Have we gotten to the point now where men can’t say, ‘That’s a nice dress’ or ‘Did you do something with your hair?’” a Los Angeles sales associate named Steve Wyard asked the Associated Press in December. Meanwhile, Real Time host Bill Maher and others have opined that young people are oversensitive when it comes to harassment.

In our focus groups, however, many women of all ages expressed complex, even conflicted, views on appropriate workplace behavior. One woman, a 61-year-old executive assistant, said that in a previous job, the CEO called her into his office for help with his computer. When she sat down, he put his arms around her from behind. She reported the incident to human resources, she said, but nothing happened. Their attitude, she said, was, “he’s CEO and he’s going to be protected at all costs. I’m just, you know, a worker.”

The woman also described a different incident that didn’t trouble her in the same way. She had recently lost 40 pounds, and a member of her company’s board said, “I just wanted to compliment you on how wonderful you look with the weight off.” She “felt fine” about this compliment, she said, and she didn’t necessarily want to see such comments made off limits as part of #MeToo.

Rashaun Armstrong, 31, who works in sports, expressed a similar sentiment. Sometimes, she said, in spring, a male co-worker will make a comment like, “Rashaun, you’re really wearing that dress.” She doesn’t mind. “I have nice legs or whatever and, in the winter, no one gets to see them,” she said, laughing. “It’s not so bad.”

Armstrong also said she had been sexually harassed at work in a way that singled her out for her race. On a conference call, a co-worker in another city suggested a bizarre role-playing scenario, in which he would play George Zimmerman and she would wear a hoodie like Trayvon Martin.

“I am the only black girl there,” Armstrong told me in a follow-up interview. “It was the worst sort of come-on comment I’ve ever gotten.” Still, she said, she was ultimately less troubled by this incident than by sexist assumptions that didn’t necessarily constitute harassment, but that limited her ability to move forward in her career.

“What bothers me is when people assume I don’t know something about sports, or people talk down to me, like I don’t know something,” she said in the focus group. “That, I feel, is what’s keeping me from advancing.”

“Sometimes I wish that this conversation was just broader in general,” she added.

The next phase of #MeToo will require difficult conversations. But women are ready.

Some criticisms of the #MeToo movement have implied that women can’t be trusted to have complex conversations or to make distinctions between different types of behavior. As Moira Donegan wrote at New York magazine’s the Cut, “The idea that women are skeptical, that we can think and judge and choose for ourselves what to believe and what not to,” is “still seen as radical.”

And yet the women in our focus groups repeatedly displayed skepticism, discernment, and the ability to balance their concern for multiple ideals at once. Their perspectives made the #MeToo movement feel like not just an opportunity to reckon with sexual harassment and assault, but an opening for, as Armstrong put it, broader conversations — conversations about what makes a fair workplace, a positive sexual experience, an equitable relationship.

Women have long been having such discussions in private, but in recent months, #MeToo has offered an opportunity to have them in a more sustained and public way, one that might lead to changes at workplaces, at schools, between partners, and in families.

Jackson recalled one such conversation, which took place at a panel on which she spoke. When the allegations against Aziz Ansari came up, one audience member — who said she supported #MeToo — argued that young women who wanted to be “sexually liberated” and go up to men’s apartments should expect sexual advances.

Other members of the audience, which was largely made up of young women, said that going to someone’s apartment shouldn’t invalidate a woman’s right to make decisions about her body, and the comment ultimately led to a larger discussion about women’s agency and safety.

“Even if people were made to feel uncomfortable,” Jackson said, “a roomful of young people got to observe how to have this conversation in public, how to disagree about this productively in public, what the different perspectives that study and think about this might have to say about this in public.” That kind of public debate, she said, is “useful in the long run.”

As a woman in one of our focus groups put it, “The conversations are happening now, finally.”

“We’re identifying the culprits,” she added, “but what comes next?”

It’s not an easy question. But it’s one that women, who are thinking deeply and carefully about #MeToo and its ramifications, are more than prepared to answer.Whether and how a child is punished for acting up in school could depend on his race, a new report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found.

The report found that black students in K-12 schools are far more likely to be disciplined — whether through suspension or referral to law enforcement — than their counterparts of other races.

This chart shows the topline finding, demonstrating that black children are overrepresented based on their actual population in the student body:

This was true no matter the type of punishment:

No matter the type of school:

And no matter the rate of poverty at the school:

GAO noted that “disparities in student discipline such as those presented in this figure may support a finding of discrimination, but taken alone, do not establish whether unlawful discrimination has occurred.” So these charts may show discrimination, racial bias, and systemic racism, but there could be other factors involved.

When taken together, though, the charts present a damning picture: One would have to assume that whatever other factors are involved would have to apply across all types of punishment, all kinds of school, and no matter the rate of poverty — and apply particularly to black kids.

There is also good research showing the reality of racism in America. A 2014 study, for example, found that people generally view black boys as older and less innocent starting at the age of 10. “Children in most societies are considered to be in a distinct group with characteristics such as innocence and the need for protection,” Phillip Goff, an author of the 2014 study, said in a statement. “Our research found that black boys can be seen as responsible for their actions at an age when white boys still benefit from the assumption that children are essentially innocent.”

Another study released in 2017 produced similar results, finding that Americans overall view black girls as less innocent and more mature for their age, from ages 5 to 14. Survey respondents were more likely to say that black girls, compared to white girls, need less nurturing, less protection, to be supported less, to be comforted less, are more independent, know more about adult topics, and know more about sex. The researchers described this as the “adultification” of black girls.

If people are more likely to view black children as less innocent and older, they may be more likely to accept harsher punishments against these kids. The GAO study suggests that may be the case — and it’s backed by other research.

This is not the first report to find something like this

It would be one thing if the GAO report was the first with findings like this, but there’s a lot of research and data that shows black kids are disproportionately punished in schools:

Federal civil rights investigations have found that black students are punished more harshly than white students in schools even when black and white students engage in identical or similar behavior.

Black students with disabilities are almost three times as likely to experience out-of-school suspension or expulsion as their white counterparts, and twice as likely to experience in-school suspension or expulsion, according to a report from the National Center for Learning Disabilities.

Although black boys face higher rates of school discipline than anyone else, a report from Columbia Law School’s Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies found that black girls are six times as likely to be suspended as white girls, while black boys are three times as likely to be suspended as white boys.

A study published in Sociology of Education analyzed a data set of more than 60,000 schools in more than 6,000 districts. It found that schools with relatively larger minority and poor populations are more likely to implement criminal justice-oriented disciplinary policies — such as suspensions, expulsions, police referrals, and arrests — and less likely to connect them to psychological or behavioral care.

Boys with imprisoned fathers are much less likely to possess the behavioral skills needed to succeed in school by the age of 5, a study published in Sociological Science found. Black children, who are more likely to have imprisoned fathers, are therefore more likely to be set on a bad course before they start kindergarten.

The harsher punishments are part of a decades-long trend. As lawmakers and politicians began enacting “tough on crime” policies in the 1970s through the ’90s, some of the concepts have trickled down to schools, which started outsourcing discipline to school resource officers and referrals to the juvenile justice system.

This has created what some critics refer to as the “school-to-prison pipeline.” Essentially, as school punishments become harsher — and especially as they increasingly involve police — they create a pathway for students to get involved in the criminal justice system fairly early on in their lives, which can heighten the risk of delinquent or criminal activity in the future. (For one, a criminal record makes it harder to get and hold down a legal means of income.) And since black kids are disproportionately affected, this pipeline reflects the broader racial disparities in the criminal justice system as a whole.

Put another way: These are places that are supposed to educate children and lead them to happy, productive lives. But these policies may be having the opposite effect for a specific segment of the population.The fatal police shooting of Stephon Clark in Sacramento last month reopened the national conversation about race, policing, and police violence, and California lawmakers are now proposing legislation that would restrict when police officers can use lethal force.

On Tuesday, state legislators announced that they had introduced a measure that would allow officers to use deadly force “only when necessary’ rather than ‘when reasonable,’” said Sacramento Assembly member Kevin McCarty, one of the bill’s sponsors.

Supporters of the new policy say that it’s an important distinction, especially in light of several recent high-profile police shootings of unarmed black men and women.

“Clearly the current standard ... isn’t enough to prevent the unnecessary deaths of members of the community, particularly people of color,” said Lizzie Buchen, a legislative advocate with the American Civil Liberties Union of California, at a press conference announcing the legislation. “It’s given legal cover to killings that have devastated communities, and resulted in people feeling less safe.”

The legislation, which is supported by members of California’s Legislative Black Caucus, Black Lives Matter Sacramento, the NAACP, the Anti-Police Terror Project, and other groups, would make California the first state in the nation to restrict officers’ ability to shoot to only when there is an immediate risk of death or bodily harm.

Supporters of the California measure say it would not prohibit officers from using force to defend themselves in dangerous situations. But a group representing California police officers criticized the legislation, calling it a “dangerous new step.”

The new policy “deceptively pretends that creating a checklist of what constitutes necessary force instead of reasonable force is something more than irresponsible legislation,” the Peace Officers Research Organization of California, the largest group representing law enforcement in the state, said in a statement. “The end result is that the public will be placed at greater risk.”

The new proposal comes days after an independent autopsy found that Clark, an unarmed, young black man, was shot at 20 times after police mistook his cellphone for a weapon. He was hit eight times, mostly in his back. Benjamin Crump, the lawyer representing Clark’s family, has said that the autopsy “contradicts the police narrative that we’ve been told.”

The shooting sparked protests and national public outcry. It also served as a stark reminder that even as national attention has waned, unarmed black men and women still continue to experience deadly encounters with police.

California police would be restricted from using lethal force except in extreme cases

Clark’s death follows several high-profile police shootings of black men and women in recent years. According to the Washington Post’s Fatal Force database, some 284 people have been shot and killed by police in 2018. Fifty-nine of those people were identified as black in news reports.

Research has shown that there are significant racial disparities in police use of force. While these disparities are most commonly attributed to issues like implicit bias and systemic racism, recent research has also noted that specific factors like high levels of housing segregation and economic inequality also play a role in where police shootings occur and whom they affect.

There’s another factor at play here as well: Police officers are generally given wide latitude to use force. As Vox’s German Lopez has noted, “Legal standards make it difficult to legally punish individual police officers for use of force, even when it might be excessive.”

This standard has long been upheld by the Supreme Court. Two key decisions in the 1980s, Tennessee v. Garner and Graham v. Connor, created a framework for when cops can reasonably use deadly force.

David Klinger, a criminologist with the University of Missouri in St. Louis, told Vox that the first standard allows officers to use lethal force “to protect their life or the life of another innocent party.”

The second standard allows officers to shoot a person who is trying to escape after committing a violent felony, because that person could reasonably be deemed a threat to the community.

Taken together, these decisions form the “objective reasonableness” standard, or the idea that so long as an officer reacted to a reasonably perceived threat, their shooting is justified, even in cases where their perception turned out to be incorrect.

In the years since these two landmark cases, the idea has been challenged in court, but the standard has not been changed. On Monday, the Supreme Court sided with an Arizona police officer who shot a woman holding a kitchen knife at her side, saying in a 7-2 ruling that the officer’s decision to shoot was reasonable. In their dissent, Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg argued that the ruling “tells officers that they can shoot first and think later.”

The new California legislation, if it passes, would enforce a stricter standard. It would instead require that an officer use fatal force only when they have exhausted all other alternatives, and when there is no possibility of deescalating the situation.

Experts on police use of force have had varied reactions to the proposal, with some calling it a positive step while others argue that it would create an undue burden on officers. University of South Carolina criminologist Geoffrey Alpert told CNN that the bill “doesn’t seem to change anything other than the language officers will use when explaining why deadly force was used.”

The legislation has been supported by members of Clark’s family.

At the Tuesday press conference, Cat Brooks, co-founder of the California-based Anti-Police Terror Project, said that the legislation is a step forward. “This bill is not an end-all, be-all,” she said. “But it is a critical step to ensuring that officers think twice before engaging with our communities like they are wartime combatants.”On February 1, 1968, two Memphis sanitation workers, Echol Cole and Robert Walker, were crushed to death when the trash compression mechanism in their truck malfunctioned. Their deaths served as further evidence of the dangerous working conditions sanitation workers in the city had been dealing with for more than a decade.

Soon after, some 1,300 Memphis sanitation workers walked off the job in protest of a volatile mix of dangerous working conditions, poor benefits, inadequate pay, and an inability to form a union recognized by the city.

The strike began on February 12, 1968, and lasted until April, drawing national attention and the support of a number of civil rights figures, including Martin Luther King Jr. He saw the Memphis strike and the workers’ demand for union rights as embodying the goals and values of his fledgling Poor People’s Campaign, a movement that sought to bring a multiracial coalition of religious leaders, workers, and the poor together to fight poverty in a way that intentionally centered the voices of the marginalized.

It was the strike that would bring King to Memphis several times that spring, including on April 4, the fateful day of his assassination at the Lorraine Motel. Shortly after King’s assassination, the striking workers gained union recognition and some benefits, overcoming Memphis Mayor Henry Loeb’s longstanding resistance to reaching an agreement.

Fifty years later, a new generation of activists, religious leaders, and civil rights groups aim to carry forward the legacy of the 1968 sanitation strike. Their efforts began in February, as fast-food workers affiliated with the Fight for $15 movement, which organizes around raising the minimum wage, gathered in Memphis and dozens of other cities, joining a new iteration of the Poor People’s Campaign to fight for racial and economic justice, union rights, and a moral revival aimed at lifting up the needs of the working poor.

The actions will culminate in a six-week period of civil disobedience and protest in a number of states this year, eventually fulfilling King’s original goal of bringing the needs of poor people directly to the nation’s capital.

“In Memphis, folks rose up and said, ‘We demand dignity, we demand the right to organize, we demand respect, and we are going to organize to get that respect,” said Rev. Dr. Liz Theoharis, a co-chair of the new Poor People’s Campaign alongside North Carolina Moral Mondays organizer Rev. Dr. William Barber.

“And that compelled people like Dr. King,” Theoharis said, “to see the natural connection between low-wage workers who are fighting racism, fighting the lack of dignity, and fighting economic exploitation and others who are saying we want to be a part of something bigger and we are prepared to fight for our rights and the rights of everyone around us.”

The Memphis strike was about more than its value to the broader civil rights movement, the labor struggle, or even its connection to King’s final campaign.

It was a chance for the city’s black sanitation workers, many of whom had been forced to work long hours in sweltering heat or intense cold with little equipment, lacking benefits, and dismal pay, to assert their rights and claim their dignity (as the strike continued, workers converged on the statement “I Am a Man” as a reflection of their rights and values).

The strike was a reminder of the power of people fighting for better conditions for themselves and their families. Fifty years later, their work has sparked a change that workers today are attempting to emulate.

In 1968 Memphis, “sanitation workers existed in a netherworld between the plantation and the modern urban economy”

The story of the Memphis strike is often woefully abbreviated. In most tellings, it starts with the deaths of Cole and Walker in February 1968, picks up with the involvement of King and his Poor People’s Campaign in March 1968, and trails off after King’s assassination.

These accounts ignore the history of labor, particularly black labor in Memphis and other Southern cities like it. In many of these cities, blacks seeking opportunities in the South beyond sharecropping found themselves in low-wage positions reserved for black employees. Unionizing in many of these jobs was difficult, and even when unionizing did occur, racism within many unions kept blacks and whites from serving as truly collaborative partners.

Through a concerted effort that preyed upon black and white tensions, union busting, and offering low wages, in Memphis, the “income of unskilled workers, both white and black, average[d] less than half of the average in the rest of the country,” according to Michael Honey, a labor and civil rights historian at the University of Washington Tacoma whose book Going Down Jericho Road: The Memphis Strike, Martin Luther King’s Last Campaign captures the history of the strike.

The result was that people of all races, but especially African Americans, found themselves doing intensive labor for little pay. And in Memphis, there was practically no job as demanding as that of a sanitation worker.

“We went through terrible ordeals, having to work in the cold; we didn’t have sufficient working equipment, didn’t have water to drink,” said Rev. Cleophus Smith, a surviving participant in the 1968 strike who still works in sanitation for the city. “No place to wash our hands. When we went to lunch, we didn’t have anywhere to sit.”

In a phone interview with Vox, Smith, who first started working for the Memphis Department of Public Works in 1967, explained just how grueling the work could be.

Sanitation workers would often need to go into people’s backyards and take trash out of a large 50-gallon drum, placing it in a washtub to more easily bring garbage to the truck. A single drum filled to the brim could require multiple trips to remove all the trash.

“To make the load lighter, we had taken some railroad spikes and punched holes in the bottom of the tub, causing water [collected in the tub, usually from rain soaking the trash] to run out,” Smith said. “We used to put the tubs on our shoulder with the juice running out down on our clothes. At the end of the day, we wasn’t able to get on a streetcar bus because of the stench.”

Workers were often forced to walk home, covered in trash, maggots, and other debris. The city did not provide uniforms, forcing them to wear their own clothes. Things were worse when it rained — not only could a sudden storm catch a man unprepared for working in the weather, but rainy days often saw black workers sent home without pay.

Despite the necessity of their work, sanitation workers were considered the bottom of the Memphis economy, earning just $1.65 an hour (roughly 5 cents more than the federal minimum wage at the time) by 1968.

If white bosses in Memphis were seen as leading the remaining vestiges of plantations in Memphis, then many black low-income workers were seen as working in the vestiges of slavery. As Honey put it in his book, “sanitation workers existed in a netherworld between the plantation and the modern urban economy.”

Those conditions had spurred previous efforts to organize sanitation workers. At the time, workers in the South were far less unionized than their Northern counterparts, and black workers were perhaps the least unionized of these groups. In the years prior to the 1968 strike, black sanitation workers in Memphis had sought to learn more about unionizing only to be fired after attending labor meetings, and a previous effort at a strike in 1966 was curtailed by strikebreakers.

The imbalance of power left men with little recourse should they be injured on the job, something seen by the widows of Cole and Walker firsthand when they received scant compensation or support from the city in the wake of their husbands’ deaths.

Frustration over these conditions, built over decades and aggravated by the truck accident, led the workers to strike, demanding better pay and benefits, as well as a union to advocate for their interests. Many white Memphians hoped the effort would fail, with city officials framing the strike as an illegal threat to public safety.

In its earlier days, union representatives, many of them from the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, sought to frame the strike in purely labor terms, arguing that the city needed to recognize its workers’ calls for a union if it ever hoped to end the strike. But local black ministers and civil rights leaders also saw the workers’ plight as a racial one; their struggle was rooted in the ongoing mistreatment of black Americans in Memphis.

For King, who in 1961 had argued that the “two most dynamic and cohesive liberal forces in the country are the labor movement and the Negro freedom movement,” the issues were deeply connected. He saw his Poor People’s Campaign as bridging the connections between race and class, creating an agenda that would focus on the poor.

It is an agenda that many poor workers say is still needed today.

50 years later, a new campaign to uplift the poor

This past February, when workers in Memphis marched from Clayborn Temple to Memphis City Hall — the same route that the Memphis sanitation strikers walked 50 years ago — carrying signs that say “I AM a Man,” “I AM a Woman,” and “I AM Worth More,” in recognition of the rallying cry of the Memphis strike, they were seeking to honor the work done half a century ago.

“In Memphis, we consider them pioneers,” said Ashley Cathey, a Memphis-based fast-food worker and Fight for $15 organizer, of the 1968 sanitation workers. “Their starting the strike in Memphis made other workers want to stand up and speak out for themselves.”

But striking workers are also hoping to draw attention to the fact that in many ways, things have not changed.

“We’re fighting for the exact same thing sanitation workers fought for 50 years ago,” Frances Holmes, a St. Louis McDonald’s worker, said in a statement. “We can’t end poverty or stamp out racism in this country unless everyone can earn a wage they can live on and has the right to organize. And we will keep on striking, protesting, and even risking arrest until that dream becomes a reality.”

For Terrence Wise, a Fight for $15 organizer from Kansas City, Missouri, who is also working on the new Poor People’s Campaign, the 1968 strike serves as an example of the importance of people organizing and fighting for their own needs.

Wise has been working in fast food for more than 20 years, but he and his wife, a home health aide, still struggle to make ends meet and provide for their three daughters. Despite his years of experience, Wise tells me he still doesn’t make more than $10 an hour. He joined the Fight for $15 not only because he believes that workers should make a living wage, but also because he wants workers in the industry to unionize.

“When we talk about poor people, people forget to put the adjective ‘working poor’ in front of it,” Wise said. “ And I think that is something that Fight for $15 has been working to highlight and you’ll see it on the Poor People’s Campaign as well. Most of the poor people that we are talking about are workers, and that is where we have to see the common thread in both movements — that we are all working Americans; we all face this racial and economic inequality together.”

As Mic’s Aaron Morrison noted in a February 12 story about the Memphis strike, the economic conditions that existed in the 1960s are still uncomfortably close to those of today.

“Nearly 50 years since the late civil rights icon’s assassination, persistent gaps in livelihoods between whites and people of color means that King’s campaign remains unfinished business,” Morrison wrote. He points to a Pew Research Center analysis from 1967 that found that when adjusted to 2014 dollars, the median black household income was $24,700, compared to a median white household income of $44,700.

In 2014, the median black household income was roughly $43,300, compared to a median income of about $71,300 for whites.

Theoharis, the Poor People’s Campaign co-chair, notes that income isn’t the only place where these gaps have persisted. Other issues that heavily affect communities of color, such as mass incarceration and police violence, have only become more skewed with time. “We’ve seen all of the evils that Dr. King was talking about 50 years ago [still] kind of rearing their heads,” she said.

Smith, the surviving Memphis sanitation worker, also says he is still fighting the battles waged in Memphis in 1968. When the strike ended that April with union recognition for the sanitation workers, the city offered them a choice to either use Social Security for retirement or join Memphis’s pension plan.

The workers chose Social Security, only to then discover that the funds would be far less than what they would have received from the pensions. The federal government would not allow the workers to switch back, creating a significant gap in the retirement funds available by the sanitation workers when compared to other city employees. Smith says that’s one reason why being a sanitation worker in the city is still difficult.

In the summer of 2017, the city of Memphis agreed to offer additional compensation to the surviving sanitation workers to help make up the difference, giving each of the 14 a $50,000 tax-free grant to help cover the costs of their retirements. It was welcome relief for Smith. On April 15, he’ll mark 51 years of working for the sanitation department. The next day, on April 16, will be the 50th anniversary of the end of the Memphis strike.

Earlier this year, Smith told me that he hopes to see more workers across industries and racial lines come together to advocate for change. “Let’s get together and work together, pull together and try to make the workforce better,“ he says. “We can’t do it if we are clawing at each other.”Exactly 50 years after the murder of Martin Luther King Jr., America is still far from his dream.

Across measures ranging from criminal justice issues to economic well-being, black Americans still lag far behind white Americans. In some cases, there has been progress since the civil rights era and King’s death. But the situation has actually gotten worse for many black people.

There are myriad reasons for this. Outright racism. Policies that don’t adequately address past and current systemic obstacles for black people, particularly segregation. Policies that make such problems worse — like restrictive covenants, redlining, blockbusting, and steering. And a total lack of attention to key issues, such as the criminal justice system’s neglect of huge racial disparities in just about everything it does, from policing to incarceration.

Whatever the cause, the result is seen in the numbers below: From earnings to getting a college education to incarceration, black Americans generally do worse than their white peers. For all the hope that King professed, America is still a land of racial inequality.

1) Black Americans make much less money than their white peers

It’s not just that black people generally make less money than their white counterparts; it’s that the wage gap between black and white workers has widened steadily since the late 1970s.

A recent study on race and economic mobility found that black men in particular see much less mobility than their white counterparts, even after controlling for hours worked, employment rates, family structure, and a host of other variables. That could help explain how black workers remain so far behind.

2) Black people are still unemployed at nearly twice the rates as white people

How bad is the job market? The numbers suggest that can depend on your race. Historically, unemployment rates have been around twice as bad for black people as their white counterparts.

Racism likely plays a big role in that: Studies have found that when all else is held equal in job applications but the name of the applicant is changed to be stereotypically black as opposed to stereotypically white, the stereotypical white names “were 50 percent more likely to elicit positive responses from employers” — and some research suggests these kinds of disparities have gone unchanged since at least the late ’80s.

3) White family wealth is nearly seven times greater than black family wealth

Given the numbers above, this statistic should be unsurprising: White families hold much more wealth than their black peers. As the Urban Institute noted, this is largely a result of the earnings gap — people accumulate less wealth over their lives if they’re making less money on a yearly basis.

4) Black people are more than twice as likely to live in poverty

The good news is that black poverty rates have declined over the past few years. The bad news is there are still massive racial disparities in who remains poor.

5) Black kids are more likely to grow up in poor neighborhoods than they were decades ago

One of the key components to this story is neighborhoods. As Dylan Matthews wrote for Vox, studies have “found that federal subsidies designed to move poor families out of disadvantaged areas can substantially increase income for poor children when they grow up.”

But, largely due to the persistence of residential segregation, black kids are still much more likely to grow up in a neighborhood with medium or high levels of poverty than their white peers. And in fact, black (and white) kids are actually more likely to live in a high- or medium-poverty neighborhood than they were during the civil rights era — a sign that even as poverty has generally declined, geographic concentrations of poverty have gone up.

6) School segregation remains fairly common

One of the great victories of the civil rights era was the Supreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education that deemed racial segregation in public schools unconstitutional. Yet, as Alvin Chang wrote for Vox, racial segregation in schools has remained stubbornly high — in large part because residential segregation has kept black kids stranded in neighborhoods with mostly black schools and white kids in neighborhoods with mostly white schools.

And while local policy reforms could alleviate the problem, white parents in particular are often resistant to ideas that can spur more integration — fearing that it will make their schools worse.

7) Black-white high school completion gaps have narrowed

Here’s some good news: The gap between black and white completion rates of high school has nearly closed since the 1960s. White Americans are still a little more likely to graduate, but the gap is nowhere as big as it was in the past.

8) The college education gap, however, remains huge

While black and white college graduation rates have increased over the years, white people are still more than 50 percent more likely to obtain a college degree.

9) Black voter turnout has generally trended up for the past couple of decades

The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a tremendous victory for the civil rights movement, notably increasing voter registration and turnout in the South in the years following its passage. In the decades since, black voter turnout has fluctuated from presidential election to presidential election, but it’s generally trended up — and when President Barack Obama was on the ballot, black voter turnout even surpassed white voter turnout.

That doesn’t mean everything is perfect; a 2013 Supreme Court decision weakened the Voting Rights Act, and in the years since, states have more aggressively tried to restrict access to the voting booth in ways that could disproportionately hurt black voters, from strict voter ID laws to cuts in early voting.

10) Incarceration rates have grown a lot — and black people have suffered the most as a result

Responding to waves of crime in the 1960s through the early 1990s, lawmakers around the country passed laws that increased prison sentences and pushed for more incarceration to combat crime. Studies suggest this had only a small effect on crime rates. But it had an enormous effect on black people — who are disproportionately likely to be locked up.

A 2015 review of the research by the Sentencing Project concluded that only 61 to 80 percent of the disparity could be explained by higher crime rates in black communities — meaning as much as 39 percent is attributable to other factors, including, potentially, racial bias or past criminal records influencing a prison sentence.

The result was documented in a 2015 New York Times analysis, which found that there are, in effect, “1.5 million missing black men” in America who could be fathers or workers in their communities but instead are behind bars.

11) Black people are more likely to be shot and killed by police than their white counterparts

There’s no good historical data on this, but we do know that, as it stands today, black people are much more likely to be shot and killed by the police than white people. Studies have suggested that socioeconomic factors and crime rates don’t fully explain the gap — and that racial bias may be a factor, based on research that shows that police officers are quicker to shoot black suspects in video game simulations.

These disparities are one of the issues at the front and center for modern civil rights movements like Black Lives Matter. King, for his part, would have likely appreciated the continuation of these movements: As he said during his historic “I Have a Dream” speech, “We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality.”When I open the Grindr app on my smartphone, I see there’s a 26-year-old man with tanned abs just 200 feet away. He’s called “looking4now,” and his profile explains that he wants sex at his place as soon as possible.

Scrolling down, I find 100 similar profiles within a one-mile radius of my apartment in Boston. I can filter them by body type, sexual position (top, bottom, or versatile), and HIV status.

As a gay psychiatrist who studies gender and sexuality, I’m thrilled with the huge strides we’ve made over the past decade to bring gay relationships into the mainstream. The Supreme Court ruled that same-sex marriage is a constitutional right. Today in Boston, two men can walk down the street holding hands without consequence.

But I’m worried by the rise of the underground digital bathhouse. Apps like Grindr, with 3 million daily active users, and others like Scruff and Jack’d, are designed to help gay men solicit sex, often anonymously, online. I am all for sexual liberation, but I can’t stop wondering if these apps also have a negative effect on gay men’s mental health.

Since there’s little published research on the men using Grindr, I decided to conduct an informal survey and ask men why they’re on the app so much and how it’s affecting their relationships and mental health. I created a profile identifying myself as a medical writer looking to talk to men about their experiences. I received about 50 responses (including propositions).

It’s a small sample size, but enough to give us some clues about how Grindr is affecting gay men. And it doesn’t look good.

Apps like Grindr are designed to make finding sex easy. And that can make them hard to stop using.

The most common reason users gave for going on the app is that sex feels great and Grindr makes it accessible, right at your fingertips. The screen full of half-naked men excites users. With a few clicks, there’s a possibility of meeting a sexual partner within the hour.

Neuroscientists have shown that orgasm causes activation of pleasure areas of the brain like the ventral tegmental area while deactivating areas involved with self-control. And these patterns of activation in men are strikingly similar to what researchers see in the brain of individuals using heroin or cocaine. So when a neutral action (clicking on Grindr) is paired with a pleasurable response in the brain (orgasm), humans learn to do that action over and over again.

This can be a normal pleasure response or it could be a setup for addiction, depending on the situation and individual.

Grindr, intentionally or not, also leverages a psychological concept called variable ratio reinforcement, in which rewards for clicking come at unpredictable intervals. You may find a hookup immediately, or you may be on your phone for hours before you find one.

Variable ratio reinforcement is one of the most effective ways to reinforce behavior, and it makes stopping that behavior extremely difficult. Slot machines are a classic example. Because gamblers never know when the next payout will come, they can’t stop pulling the handle. They hold out hope that the next pull will give them the pleasurable sound of coins clanking against a metal bin, and they end up pulling for hours.

Now imagine a slot machine that rewards you with an orgasm at unpredictable intervals. This is potentially a powerful recipe for addiction and may explain why one user I spoke with stays on Grindr for up to 10 hours at a time, hoping to find the perfect partner for casual sex.

The phrase “addiction” continues to be controversial when it comes to sex and technology, But as John Pachankis, an LGBTQ mental health expert at the Yale School of Public Health, described the impact of Grindr to me: “I don’t know if it’s an ‘addiction,’ but I know it causes a lot of distress.”

For now, it’s hard to know just how many Grindr users feel their use of the app is problematic. Early research on app use and health has focused only on sexually transmitted infections, for instance, rates of HIV among Grindr users, using Grindr to get people tested for STIs, etc.

Just last week, Grindr announced that it will start sending users HIV testing reminders and the addresses of local testing sites (on an opt-in basis). In less pleasant news, BuzzFeed revealed on Monday that Grindr has also been sharing the HIV status of its users with third-party companies. (The company later said it would stop sharing the information.)

Though there is this new attention to sexual health, both Grindr and the research community have been silent on mental health. Yet since 2007, more gay men have died from suicide than from HIV.

This suggests it’s time we start thinking about Grindr’s health effects more broadly. Other dating apps, like Tinder, for example, are now the subject of early research looking at mental health implications. It’s time to do the same for gay hookup apps.

Grindr may provide men with some relief from their anxiety and depression. But it’s temporary.

For some users I talked to, the allure of Grindr was not just the rush to feel good. It was to stop feeling bad. Users told me they log on when they feel sad, anxious, or lonely. Grindr can make those feelings go away. The attention and potential for sex distract from painful emotions.

A staggering number of gay men suffer from depression, with some estimates as high as 50 percent. Because gay men’s anxiety and depression often stem from childhood rejection for being gay, messages of affirmation from other gay men are particularly appealing. Unfortunately, these messages are typically only skin-deep: “Hey man, cute pic. Looking to ****?”

A recent survey of 200,000 iPhone users by Time Well Spent, a nonprofit focused on the digital attention crisis, showed that 77 percent of Grindr users felt regret after using the app.

The users I interviewed told me that when they closed their phones and reflected on the shallow conversations and sexually explicit pictures they sent, they felt more depressed, more anxious, and even more isolated. Some experience overwhelming guilt following a sexual encounter in which no words are spoken. After the orgasm, the partner may walk out the door with little more than a “thanks.”

And yet they keep coming back for that temporary emotional relief. One user told me that he feels so bad after a hookup that he jumps right back on the app, continuing the cycle until he is so tired he falls asleep. Every once in a while, he deletes the app, but he finds himself downloading it the next time he feels rejected or alone.

“We see patients like this almost every day,” Pachankis told me. “Apps like Grindr are often both a cause and a consequence of gay and bisexual men’s disproportionally poorer mental health. It’s a truly vicious cycle.”

Not all Grindr users are addicted and depressed, of course. Some users I interacted with seem to use Grindr in a healthy, positive way. One man I interviewed met his fiancé there; they are excitedly planning their wedding. Some I spoke with said they use the app for sex but haven’t suffered any negative consequences and have control over their use.

Using Grindr may keep men from finding lasting relationships

Why do so many of these men turn to Grindr to begin with? Perhaps Grindr’s popularity is a sign we haven’t made as much social progress as we think for same-sex relationships. The general population seems comfortable with the idea of gay marriage, but it’s still difficult for a gay man to find a partner.

One 23-year-old user told me that the only places he can find gay men are clubs and Grindr, and both are hypersexualized. The cultures of both intimidate him. According to Pachankis, gay culture is often “status-focused, competitive, hierarchical, and exclusionary.” He explains that these traits are common among men generally, but in the gay community, they become amplified in a group that “both socializes and sexualizes together.”

The 23-year-old is afraid of rejection, and Grindr shields him from the pain of in-person turndowns. “My framework now is sex first. I don’t know how to date people in person.”

His relationships, he says, start with casual sex on Grindr. They first meet at 2 am for a hookup. He’ll try to schedule the next sex date a little earlier, maybe 11 pm. Then the next step may be drinks.

But this sex-first approach hasn’t led to lasting relationships for the men I interviewed and is affecting their self-worth and identity. “My self-esteem now is all about my sexual ability,” the 23-year-old said. “I don’t feel confident about myself as a partner in any other way.”

Another user told me he downloaded the app hoping to find a husband. Now he says that when he and a boyfriend (he’s gone through several) fight, his natural response is to open Grindr to “find an alternative” instead of working through problems. He can’t maintain a monogamous relationship because he is constantly cheating.

There may be ways to treat men with problematic Grindr use

The mental health professionals I spoke to are seeing problematic Grindr use in their clinics. And there is little published guidance on how to help those who are struggling.

Doctors I spoke to say the best available tools for treating problematic Grindr use are the ones they use in general sex addiction treatment. Citalopram, a common antidepressant, was shown in one small study to be helpful with sex addiction in gay men. Naltrexone, a drug commonly used for other compulsive behaviors, may work as well.

For more extreme cases, patients could request hormonal implants that turn off testosterone signaling, making sexual cravings less intense. However, even these treatments have modest empirical support at best, and none have been studied for hookup app use specifically.

Dr. Shane Kraus, the director of the behavioral addictions clinic at Bedford Veterans Hospital and an assistant professor of psychiatry at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, says the most promising treatment for problematic Grindr use is likely talk therapy techniques like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT can teach patients to engage in other behaviors that are more productive (though often more difficult and time-consuming than Grindr) to help them feel loved or supported.

Another psychotherapeutic technique known as acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) can help teach patients how to better tolerate the feeling of being alone without logging on to Grindr.

The dynamics of Grindr, though, are complicated, and it can take time to work through all the angles. Are you self-soothing anxiety? Are you addicted to sex? Have you lost interest in your monogamous relationship? Do you think you can’t attain love, so you’re settling for hookups? Did your parents tell you being gay is wrong and you’re searching for acceptance? Ultimately, Kraus explains that therapy can help clarify these kinds of thoughts and feelings, and lead to insights that bring about a healthy change.

He also believes it’s only a matter of time before states and the federal government sponsor research exploring Grindr use and mental health. Grindr did not respond to our request for comment on this piece. But if future data supports what I suspect about the link between Grindr and mental health problems, even small interventions like advertising mental health resources on the app may help to address these users’ suffering.

As we continue to fight to bring gay relationships into the mainstream, we need to keep an eye on Grindr and how it both reflects and affects gay culture. The bathhouse is still around. It’s now open 24/7, accessible from your living room.

Jack Turban is a physician and medical writer at Harvard Medical School, where he researches gender and sexuality. His writing has appeared in the New York Times, Scientific American, and Psychology Today, among other publications. Find him on Twitter at @jack_turban.The United States, along with Britain and France, bombed Syria on Friday night.

The decision to strike came one week after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons against civilians outside Damascus, killing at least 42 adults and children. After that attack, President Donald Trump promised to exact a “big price” on the Assad regime.

The US and its allies deliberated a response over the following week. And then on Friday night, the countries hit three targets — including one on the outskirts of Damascus — all related to Syria’s chemical weapons program: a research center, a storage facility, and an equipment facility and command post.

The map of Syria below shows the targets hit on Friday:

The strikes hit at the “very heart” of Syria’s chemical weapon program and dealt it a “serious blow,” Pentagon spokesperson Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie told reporters Saturday. McKenzie also noted Syria could reconstitute its program and the strikes didn’t take out all of Syria’s chemical weapons facilities, which means Assad could use chemical weapons on civilians again in the future.

Speaking from the White House Friday night, President Donald Trump said the US was “prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.”

But soon after, Secretary of Defense James Mattis gave a different assessment. “Right now, this is a one-time shot, designed to set back the Syrian war machine’s ability to produce chemical weapons.”

Russia has warned of “consequences” after the attacks, with Russian President Vladimir Putin calling the strikes an “act of aggression” that could “have a destructive effect on the entire system of international relations.” Both Russia and Syria claimed on Saturday that “a significant number” of the missiles launched at Syria were shot down, although the Pentagon disputes that. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called the strikes a “crime.”

No American troops were killed, according to the Pentagon, and as of now the US does not know if there were any civilian casualties in Syria.

There are still broader concerns. First, the US strikes may not stop Assad from using chemical weapons, or turn the the tide of seven-year-long civil war. Second, it’s possible Assad’s allies — mainly Russia and Iran — may retaliate against the approximately 2,000 US troops in Syria. And finally, it’s unclear if the US will bomb Syria again if Assad’s forces use chemical weapons once more.President Donald Trump decided to strike Syria on Friday night, and he might incur some unintended consequences — like increasing the risk of getting into a shooting war with Russia.

On Tuesday night, Russia’s ambassador to Lebanon said the Russian military could shoot down any missiles launched at Syria, and even retaliate against the planes or ships that fire the weapons. (As of now, there is no indication that any Americans were hurt in the strike.) But Trump responded to the threat the following morning, egging Russia on with his characteristic bravado.

“Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. “You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!” he added, in reference to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

That exchange came as Trump weighed how to punish Damascus after Assad’s forces carried out a suspected chemical attack on civilians on April 7, killing at least 40 people. Trump promised a big response and has consulted with his national security team and foreign leaders for days about whether, and how hard, to strike the Syrian government.

Here’s where things get complicated: Russia is a staunch Assad supporter and has helped prop up the regime since Russia’s September 2015 intervention in the civil war. Russian warplanes drop bombs in Syria, helping Assad kill hundreds of thousands of anti- government fighters and civilians. Moscow also has Kremlin-linked troops, which it labels as mercenaries, in the country to help fight anti-Assad forces. Some of the mercenaries even attacked American troops.

Trump has repeatedly expressed his desire to improve relations with Russia. But experts tell me there is a chance of a broader US-Russia fight if the strikes go awry.

“The risk is there, but I think it’s small,” Bilal Saab, a defense expert at the Middle East Institute, told me before the Friday night attack by the US, France, and Britain. “But if we kill, deliberately or accidentally, Russian soldiers, there’s a real chance Russia could launch, directly or by proxy, attacks against our troops in Syria.”

That, in the grand scheme of things, is the issue. Russia might look away if American strikes only punish the Syrian government in a relatively limited way. But if the US strikes Russian assets — especially its military personnel — then things could move in a different direction.

“We could stumble into direct conflict very quickly,” says Heather Conley, a European security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank. “The nation is not prepared for this eventuality.”

Both Russia and the US seem to want to avoid an escalation — for now

Washington and Moscow have had some close calls in Syria, but so far they have avoided a serious altercation.

Almost exactly one year ago, Trump launched a military strike on Syria in response to an Assad-ordered chemical weapons attack in rebel-held northern Syria. The United States shot 59 Tomahawk missiles at the al-Shayrat airbase, where Assad had launched the chemical attack on April 4, 2017, that killed more than 80 people. The strikes provoked no significant Russian reaction.

Last June, the US shot down a Syrian warplane. It was the fourth time in a month that the US struck pro-Assad forces, and the first time the US brought down a Syrian military plane since the war’s start. In the aftermath of the incident, Moscow said it would “target” US-led coalition aircraft flying above Syria. It even cut off contact with the US, which was bad news, since Washington and Moscow were in close contact to ensure they wouldn’t get into a military confrontation. That contact has now been restored.

Despite those two incidents, America and Russia didn’t come to blows. But those flare-ups paled in comparison to a very scary — and deadly — firefight this year.

On February 7, Russian mercenaries fired at American troops in eastern Syria. It was the first time in 50 years that US and Russian troops directly fought one another. (America’s 2,000 troops are in the country to fight ISIS; Russian troops are there to help Assad.)

The US repelled the attack, killing around 200 to 300 Russian mercenaries and other pro-government fighters. There were no US casualties. Brig. Gen. Jonathan Braga, who helps lead anti-ISIS operations, told NBC News on March 15 that he was “absolutely concerned” the event could lead to a greater US-Russia fight.

But tensions soon died down. “Russia and the US were able to iron out the dispute,” says Shanna Kirschner, a Syria expert at Allegheny College, “which strongly suggests neither side wanted to escalate at that time.”

“But it’s not a given that continued casualties wouldn’t be a provocation,” she added.

That’s perhaps why Trump may use “smart bombs” to attack Syria, which he alluded to in his Wednesday morning tweet. Smart bombs, typically, can evade missile-defense systems and then precisely hit the target. They can help minimize any unintended casualties, like killing Russian soldiers, if they are near the target the US wants to strike.

Experts believed the US will work with Russia to avoid that outcome. “I suspect that we’ll be communicating with them,” Faysal Itani, a Syria expert at the Atlantic Council think tank, told me before the strikes.

There’s also a political element to this. Trump wants closer ties with Moscow, and even tweeted on Wednesday — right after his missile attack threat — about why the US and Russia should work more in tandem. It’s therefore hard to believe he would imperil the US-Russia relationship by targeting Russian troops during Syria strikes.

Our relationship with Russia is worse now than it has ever been, and that includes the Cold War. There is no reason for this. Russia needs us to help with their economy, something that would be very easy to do, and we need all nations to work together. Stop the arms race? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Russian President Vladimir Putin may not be as concerned with improving Moscow’s relations with Washington, but he also doesn’t want a war, says Kirschner. Plus, starting that fight would suck time and attention away from Putin’s effort to help Assad, and his ongoing war in Ukraine.

The question is, can the US and Russia avoid getting into a broader fight after the US launches missiles at Syria, even if neither side wants this? Fred Hof, President Obama’s special adviser for transition in Syria, told me that “nothing is risk-free.”

“I suspect neither side wants a direct confrontation,” he continued, “but when things go flash-bang, there are always surprises and unintended consequences.”President Donald Trump wants to punish Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad for using chemical weapons against his own people last week. The question is when, or if, Trump will actually give the order — and whether such a strike will be enough to prevent Damascus from using nerve agents in the future.

Trump is considering the strike because of an April 7 chemical attack in Douma, a suburb of the capital, that killed more than 40 people. Syria has denied responsibility, but on Thursday, NBC News reported that the US now has blood and urine samples that indicate exposure to a chemical weapon.

In the immediate aftermath of the attack, Trump said he would exact a “big price” on Assad. But five days after the Douma attack, there’s more confusion than ever about what Trump wants to do.

On Wednesday, Trump tweeted that Russia should “Get ready” because missiles “will be coming” toward Syria. That afternoon, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters that “all options are on the table” when it came to Syria, which suggested that Trump hadn’t actually decided to use force. And on Thursday morning, Trump tweeted he “Never said when an attack on Syria would take place.”

Now it seems like the question of a US strike is one of if, not when. Trump has yet to decide if he will authorize an assault on Syria, although he told reporters on Thursday that decisions will be “made fairly soon.” He’s also waiting to see if the UK and France will take part in any strike.

The problem is the more the US and its allies wait, the more time Syria and Russia — which helps support the Assad regime with warplanes and ground troops — have to prepare for an attack. And should an attack happen, there’s a small but real chance a shooting war with Russia becomes a possibility — especially if the US kills Russian troops.

But that’s not all: Assad has used chemical weapons in attacks on Syrians since 2012, and it’s unclear that a US-led punitive strike will take away the regime’s ability to keep using them. “It’s always very difficult to degrade these types of capabilities using airstrikes,” Rebecca Hersman, a former top Pentagon official on weapons of mass destruction (WMD), told me. “It tends to be a temporary process.”

In effect, striking Syria may seem like the right thing to do, but its effect may be limited.

“That’s a lot of attacks to ignore”

It’s worth stepping back to understand why Assad has used chemical weapons so often — and why he’s likely to continue doing so in the future.

Assad’s forces launched around 200 chemical attacks since the start of the war, Hersman told me, with mostly no response from the US. But when the US did respond — like when Trump had the Pentagon launch 59 Tomahawk missiles at Syria last April after an earlier chemical weapons attack — Assad went on to conduct over 20 more chemical attacks.

“That’s a lot of attacks to ignore,” says Hersman, who is now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank in Washington.

This is why some experts believe the US should strike Syria soon, prompted by the attack in Douma last Saturday. “This is about holding Assad accountable for crimes against humanity,” Andy Weber, also a former top WMD official at the Pentagon, told me. “Assad has been able to conduct multiple attacks unpunished.”

But if Trump does decide to strike Assad, the operation won’t be so easy — and it could cause even more problems.

Hitting Syria won’t be easy

The US has the world’s strongest military, but it might face some challenges as it tries to seriously punish Assad for the chemical weapons attack.

Syria has already moved some of its aircraft to protect them from possible strikes. Some US officials told Reuters on Wednesday that Assad’s forces could put Syrian planes near Russian military positions to deter the US from ordering a strike that could hit Russian forces. Killing Russian troops — or even destroying Moscow’s planes — could escalate the already rising tensions between the White House and the Kremlin.

Syria also has an advanced missile defense system that could potentially down missiles shot by Western fighter jets or ships. Right now the US has two missile-carrying destroyers in position to attack Syria, along with warplanes and submarines. Britain, meanwhile, could direct its fighter jets and refueling aircraft currently engaged in the nearby anti-ISIS mission.

Moscow, expectedly, could help Assad defend his forces from the US and its allies. Russian Ambassador to Lebanon Alexander Zasypkin said Tuesday that the Russian military could shoot down any missiles the US launched at Syria, adding that Russia could shoot back at American planes or ships. Russia has stationed some of its most powerful warplanes in Syria, which Moscow may mobilize to impede any US-led campaign to bomb the Assad regime.

Let’s say, though, that the US manages to destroy the helicopters the regime uses to drop chemical weapons without killing any Russians. What then?

Sadly, it’s unlikely that Assad will stop using chemical weapons. He knows he can get away with other, smaller attacks once Trump and Western leaders focus their attention elsewhere. That’s why Hersman and Weber believe the West needs to respond more aggressively, and with more tools, the next time Assad uses chemical weapons.

“A one-time attack may not achieve all of our objectives,” he told me.

In practice, that means the US and its friends should always respond to a chemical attack in Syria with a combination of military, diplomatic, and economic moves. Options for those responses include strikes, if necessary, but also sanctioning the regime or diplomatically ostracizing countries that support it, especially Russia and Iran. Assad, in theory, would then increasingly realize he will face a penalty every time his forces use chemical weapons.

At this point, though, it doesn’t seem like Trump is willing to go further than a limited missile strike. And that means Trump is pretty much guaranteed to face another moment like this, and probably sooner rather than later.Republicans were unfazed by the deficit impact of their $1.5 trillion tax cut when they passed it. Now they are trying to make deficits unconstitutional.

The House is scheduled to vote on a balanced budget amendment Thursday. Though several states require their legislatures to pass a balanced budget every year, the federal government does not have the same requirement. In fact, many economists argue it’s necessary for the federal government to go into debt for the greater good of the economy. Nevertheless, balanced budget amendments are something of a white whale on the right. And many conservatives believe it is the only way to actually enact spending cuts.

There’s no question the United States is in a lot of debt, but Democrats are quick to point out the irony of Republicans pushing a balanced budget amendment now: On Monday, the Congressional Budget Office — the independent official body that measures the impact of legislation — reported that deficit spending will increase by $11.7 trillion over the next 10 years, $1.58 trillion of which is because of the Republican tax cuts and the omnibus spending bill.

For decades, Republicans have campaigned on cutting federal spending and reducing the national debt. And while there’s an ongoing debate among economists over how big an actual threat the deficit is, Republicans, now in control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, have done just the opposite.

The bill the House plans to vote on this Thursday would be one of the first steps in amending the US Constitution to bar the government from spending more than it brings in in federal revenue. Changing the Constitution requires approval from two-thirds of the House and Senate and then it must be passed by three-fourth of state legislatures. Republicans currently hold 32 of 50 state legislatures.

This is all very unlikely to happen. But Republicans are pushing it anyway. It reveals a deeply unpopular partisan agenda to make deep cuts to everything from food stamps to health care.

The balanced budget amendment has had many lives

Both Republicans and Democrats have used the idea of a balanced budget amendment as a political tool for a long time.

The movement really started in the late 1970s, when Republicans brought up a balanced budget amendment to rein in spending under Jimmy Carter’s administration. Over time, its popularity has grown and waned on both sides of the aisle. Even California Gov. Jerry Brown, who was running against Carter for the Democratic nomination, supported it at the time. He’s since had a change of heart.

There was another push for a balanced budget amendment after Ronald Reagan-era tax cuts ballooned the deficit. Activist groups like the National Taxpayers Union began to push for a constitutional convention on the balanced budget amendment to achieve this goal. These groups have continued to fight for the cause. But the amendment has failed every time — in 1982, and again in 1986, and in 1995, and so on. The last time Congress voted on a balanced budget amendment was in 2011.

Now, Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) gets a vote on a version of this amendment. The amendment would ban deficit spending, require that spending not exceed 20 percent of gross domestic product, and require a majority to increase taxes and three-fifths majorities to raise the debt limit.

The basic idea is that the government won’t rein in its spending (or raise taxes) on its own, and only a constitutional amendment can force Congress to do it.

But as Slate’s Jim Newell points out, even Goodlatte’s bill gives Congress an out:

Just after requiring that “total outlays for any fiscal year shall not exceed total receipts for that year,” we get a provision allowing Congress to override that “unless three-fifths of the whole number of each House of Congress shall provide by law for a specific excess of outlays over receipts by a rollcall vote.”

In other words, lawmakers can add a waiver for any extra spending they want to — something that would likely happen given the nature and history of spending negotiations. These kinds of laws are often easily circumvented, like in 2011, when the Obama-era impasse over deficit reduction ultimately resulted in the 2013 sequester. Lawmakers made sure to raise the budget caps every year after that.

This is Republican budget theater

While fighting to pass tax cuts, Republicans steered clear of talking about the deficit. Many rejected reports from the CBO and offered rosy economic growth projections instead. They even passed a waiver to ensure the tax bill wouldn’t automatically trigger a sequestration across some major mandatory spending programs, like Medicare, federal student loans, and agriculture subsidies under the 2010 deficit management pay-as-you-go law.

But almost immediately after the tax bill passed and the sequester was averted, House Republicans seemed to remember their longstanding concerns about the national debt and began eying ways to trim government spending, targeting everything from food stamps and Medicaid to Social Security and Medicare.

The CBO says the national debt will likely be equal to the size of the GDP in 10 years, and if Congress chooses to extend Republican tax policies, those deficits will only grow larger. So far, under a Republican-led Congress, the deficit is expected to grow to $804 billion this fiscal year, which ends on September 30 — about $665 billion more than in 2017.

And so Republicans who supported the tax cuts and many who supported the $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill that will keep the government open through September 30 and fund the military at historic levels are now behind an initiative to make deficits illegal.

Welcome to the latest development of what has been a year of Republican budget theater. Even conservatives, who have long railed against deficit spending (but who mostly voted for the tax bill) are calling this vote on the balanced budget amendment insincere.

“There is no one on Capitol Hill, and certainly no one on Main Street, that will take this vote seriously,” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) told Politico.

As a messaging bill, this vote reveals an unpopular part of the Republican agenda

There’s no question that the balanced budget amendment is a messaging bill, giving Republicans the chance to go home to their constituents and say that they voted in favor of fiscal responsibility.

But as such, it highlights the part of the Republican agenda that’s unpopular. To balance a budget, you can do one of two things: raise taxes or cut spending. Republicans cut taxes last year, and their ideas to cut spending (reforming entitlement programs like Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security) are deeply unpopular.

In fact, when Republicans attempted sweeping Medicaid cuts earlier this year — a proposal to block-grant Medicaid that would ultimately cut more than $700 billion from the program over the next 10 years — it proved so unpopular that it was one of the leading reasons the Obamacare repeal effort tanked altogether.

Medicare and Social Security continue to stand alongside Medicaid as some of the most popular federal spending programs. Earlier this year, only 12 percent of Americans said they wanted Congress to decrease Medicaid spending, according to a poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation. A Pew study found only 10 percent of Republican-leaning Americans wanted to reduce funding for Social Security, and 15 percent wanted to decrease spending on Medicare.

And Democrats are quick to point this out.

“Their real goal is to end Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security as we know it,” Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said.

Correction: This article previously stated a constitutional amendment has to be approved by two-thirds of state legislatures. It has to be approved by three-fourths. We regret the error.In January 2017, when then-White House press secretary Sean Spicer tried to claim that President Donald Trump’s inauguration was the most-watched in history, it felt like the beginning of a new, dark era of politics and public life.

As it has matured, the Trump era of conservative politics is increasingly defined by its tribalism and fear and the fracturing of our sense of a shared reality.

And it’s pretty disorienting.

I’ve spent much of the past several years reporting on political psychology, asking the country’s foremost experts on human behavior some variation of, “What the hell is going on in the United States?”

Thankfully, at a time when we really need answers, they often deliver.

Here are the social science lessons I keep coming back to, to help me explain what’s happening in America in the Trump era. Perhaps you’ll find them helpful too.

Rooting for a team alters your perception of the world.

We can be immune to uncomfortable facts.

Leaders like Trump have special powers to sway public opinion.

People don’t often make decisions based on the truth.

Political opponents are often really, really bad at arguing with one another.

White people’s fear of being replaced is incredibly powerful.

It’s shockingly easy to grow numb to mass suffering.

Fake news preys on our biases — and will be very hard to stamp out.

Conspiracy theories may be rampant, but they’re a specific reaction to a dark, uncertain world.

An uncomfortable theme you might notice here is that our leaders, the groups we were born into, and, increasingly, our echo-chambered media ecosystems can bring out the worst psychological biases that exist in all of us.

In other words, no one, be they Democrat or Republican, is inherently stupid. “At the end of the day, we’re all human beings and we use the same psychological processes,” Dominique Brossard, a communications researcher at the University of Wisconsin Madison, recently told me.

Consider this a primer on what current events and politics can bring out in the human mind. And be warned: It’s not always pretty.

A version of this piece originally published in March 2017. This has been updated to reflect current events, new studies, and other reporting I’ve done since then.

1) Motivated reasoning: rooting for a team changes your perception of the world

Psychology has been called “the hardest science” because the human mind comes with so many messy inconsistencies. Even the best researchers can get tangled up in them. What’s more, it can take decades to establish a psychological theory, which could be torn down in a month with new evidence. But despite its flaws, psychology is still the best scientific tool we have to understand human behavior.

The key psychological concept for understanding politics, and one of the oldest, is motivated cognition, or motivated reasoning. It often means that rooting for a team alters our perception of reality.

In the 1950s, psychologists noted how fans of two football teams came to very different conclusions about who was at fault for rough play, despite the fact that the fans were watching the exact same footage. The psychologists concluded it was like the two sets of fans were watching a different game.

Our teams are lenses through which we interpret the world. In a more recent experiment, researchers showed participants a video of a protest that had been halted by the police. Half the subjects were told the protest was of an abortion clinic. The other half were told it was a protest against the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy.

People inclined to support abortion rights thought the protesters were more disruptive in the abortion clinic condition. People who had strong egalitarian ideals were more likely to express support for the protesters for LGBTQ rights. Again, it was the same exact footage. All the changed were who the participants thought the protesters were.

One crucial thing to know about motivated reasoning is that you often don’t realize you’re doing it. We’re quicker to recognize information that confirms what we already know, which makes us blind to facts that discount it.

Which is perhaps why being on a team makes us more susceptible to believing in and remembering false news stories. In a 2013 study, liberals were more likely to (falsely) remember President George W. Bush being on vacation during the Hurricane Katrina disaster in 2005. Conservatives were more likely to say they remembered President Barack Obama shaking hands with the president of Iran (which never happened).

And it can cause us to rationalize the logically absurd. Consider how the head of the conservative Family Research Council suggest Trump should get a “mulligan” for his alleged affair with a porn actress.

When the status of our teams changes, so do our opinions. When Gallup polled Americans the week before and the week after the presidential election, Democrats and Republicans flipped their perceptions of the economy, even though nothing had actually changed about the economy. What changed was which team was winning. The economic prospects of the country suddenly looked a lot better for Republicans once their candidate won.

We’re so prone to seeing the world in terms of us versus them that psychologists start seeing people exhibit group bias when they’re randomly sorted into arbitrary “blue” teams and “red” teams in an experiment.

But the fact that our group preferences are so quickly formed means they’re also easily changed: We start to view people in a more positive light if we start to view them as a compatriot. “We’re not hardwired to hate or [be] hostile to out-groups,” says Mina Cikara, a neuroscientist who studies intergroup bias at Harvard University. “All of these processes are flexible.”

2) Evolution has likely left us with an ideological immune system that fights off uncomfortable thoughts

There’s a reason we engage in motivated reasoning, a reason facts often don’t matter: evolution.

The human mind is a clever tool. We’ve used it to send rockets to the moon, and to invent wondrous things like pizza and air conditioning. But why did we evolve such cleverness in the first place?

One hypothesis: We became so smart to to be able to cooperate in groups. We’ve since adapted these skills to make breakthroughs in topics like science and math. But when pressed, we default to using our powers of mind to protect our groups.

In this light, motivated reasoning is an adaptation that helps bonds us to others and aids our survival. It helps our group members share a common reality. It guides us to favor the people we see as “us” and shun people we see as “them.”

It also forces us to avoid uncomfortable facts that could harm our groups. You can see this immune system working in action. It’s a “motivated ignorance,” and psychologists can see it work in real time.

A 2017 experiment published in the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology presented partisan participants with two options. They could either read and answer questions about an opinion they agreed with — the topic was same-sex marriage — or read the opposing viewpoint. If the participants chose to read the opinion they agreed with, they were entered into a raffle pool to earn $7. If they selected to read the opposing opinion, they had a chance to win $10.

You’d think everyone would want to win more money, right? More money is better than less money.

No. A majority — 63 percent — of the participants chose to stick with what they already knew, forgoing the chance to win $10. “They don’t know what’s going on the other side, and they don’t want to know,” Jeremy Frimer, the University of Winnipeg psychologist who led the study, said in an interview.

In another test, Frimer and colleagues essentially asked participants to rate how interested they were in learning about alternative political viewpoints compared to activities like “watching paint dry,” “sitting quietly,” “going for a walk on a sunny day,” and “having a tooth pulled.”

The results: Listening to a political opponent isn’t as awful as getting a tooth pulled, but it’s trending in that direction. It’s certainly a lot more awful than taking a leisurely stroll.

This is a key point that many people miss when discussing the “fake news” or “filter bubble” problem in our online media ecosystems. Avoiding facts inconvenient to our worldview isn’t just some passive, unconscious habit we engage in. We do it because we find these facts to be genuinely unpleasant. They insult our groups and, by extension, us. So we reject these facts, like our immune system would reject a pathogen.

“The brain’s primary responsibility is to take care of the body, to protect the body,” Jonas Kaplan, a psychologist at the University of Southern California, said in a 2017 interview. “The psychological self is the brain’s extension of that. When our self feels attacked, our [brain is] going to bring to bear the same defenses that it has for protecting the body.”

And here’s a final sticking point that keeps people away from facts. It’s often not the facts themselves that people fear and avoid. It’s where they lead.

This is called “solution aversion,” and it helps explain why many conservatives are wary of the science of climate change; many solutions to climate change involve increasing government oversight and regulations. Similarly, perhaps, this is why so many Trump supporters discredict the FBI’s investigation of Russian meddling. The possible conclusion — that Trump’s election was doctored by outside influences — is unsettling.

3) Leaders like Trump have enormous power to sway public opinion

We’re motivated to believe what our groups believe. In the Trump era, that has yielded some stunning shifts in public opinion.

Most notably, the rise of Donald Trump has coincided with some remarkable changes of mind among Republicans.

In 2015, just 12 percent of Republicans held a favorable view of Russian President Vladimir Putin, according to Gallup. In February 2017, the firm found 32 percent of Republicans liked him, despite mounting concerns that Russia had run a campaign to influence the election.

In 2014, according to a YouGov poll, 9 percent of Republicans considered Russia to be a friend or ally to the United States. In early 2018, that figure was 23 percent.

Or take the issue of free trade: Historically, conservatives have been in favor of it. But from 2015 to 2017, Republican support of free trade dropped from 56 percent in 2015 to just 36 percent in 2017, according to Pew.

Researchers have long wondered whether strong shifts in public opinion come from the top down: that partisans simply follow their leaders cues on issues. Or from the bottom up: that leaders try to reflect their followers’ ideology. The Trump era has given us some good evidence that the “follow the leader” effect is real.

In January 2017, two Brigham Young University political scientists designed an experiment to take advantage of the fact that, aside from a few issues like immigration, trade, and a reluctance to disparage Russia, Trump has few consistent policy ideas. They wondered: Will Trump supporters follow him wherever his policy whims go? So right after the inauguration, they ran an online experiment with 1,300 Republicans.

The study was pretty simple. Participants were asked to rate whether they supported or opposed policies like a higher minimum wage, the nuclear agreement with Iran, restrictions on abortion access, background checks for gun owners, and so on.

One-third of the participants read statements where they were told Trump supported a liberal position, like this:

Please indicate whether or not you support or oppose the statement. To increase the minimum wage to over $10 an hour. Donald Trump has said that he supports this policy. How about you? Do you support or oppose increasing the minimum wage to over $10 an hour? Support Oppose Don’t know

The control group of the experiment saw these questions, but they didn’t mention Trump. Another arm of the experiments tested what happened when Trump was said to support conservative policies.

When participants were told Trump supported a liberal policy, Trump supporters were more likely to support it too. They followed their leader. “The conclusion we should draw is that the public, the average Republican sitting out there in America, is not going to stop Trump from doing whatever he wants,” Jeremy Pope, a co-author of the study, said. The effect even held true on questions about immigration. If Trump supported a lax immigration policy, his supporters said they did too.

Past experiments with liberal participants have found a similar effect: Liberals are more likely to support conservative policies when told their leaders support conservative policies. And it’s possible that when people are changing their minds in this manner, they’re not even aware their minds are changing.

You don’t have to look too far in the news to know Trump is particularly adept at polarizing the public. Just look at what happened when he started going after NFL teams and players this past fall for kneeling during the national anthem. Nearly overnight, Trump supporters began to express strong negative feelings about the league. Yes, that’s conservative Americans expressing a dislike of football. Hard to imagine in a previous time.

The takeaway from all of this: Even though Trump remains a largely unpopular president, he still has enormous power to influence the opinions of millions of people who support him.

But it’s also important to not overstate how powerful an effect this is in the mind of Trump voters. It’s not like they’ve been totally brainwashed, their prior convictions replaced with the whims of their leader.

The truth is that many people don’t think all that often, or all that deeply, about policy (except for you, dear Vox reader). When we’re confronted with a hard question like, “What do I think about tax policy,” we often substitute it for an easier question: “What might leaders of my party say about tax policy?”

It’s a cognitive shortcut. And we all use them.

“These shortcuts can be political ideology; it could be religiosity, deference to scientific authority,” says Dominique Brossard, the University of Wisconsin communications researcher. “We defer to organizations and institutions to make sense of things for us.”

Remember, you can be both biased — say, predisposed to believe climate scientists on global warming — and correct.

4) People can understand inconvenient facts. But it’s very hard to make them matter.

Here’s some good news: It’s possible to use fact-checking to nudge people to believe in the truth. Here’s the bad news: People don’t make decisions based on facts.

In a recent experiment, political scientist Brendan Nyhan and colleagues found that Trump supporters were willing to admit Trump misrepresents facts. “But it didn’t have much of an effect on what they felt about him,” Nyhan says.

So facts can sink in, but they don’t always change our behavior and opinions. Let that sink in.

In fact, studies find that people who know more facts about politics are more likely to be stubborn and partisan. We don’t use our smarts to get at the truth. Instead, “people are using their reason to be socially competent actors,” says Dan Kahan, a psychologist at Yale. Put another way: We have a lot of pressure to live up to our groups’ expectations. And the smarter we are, the more we put our brain power to use for that end.

In his studies, Kahan will often give participants different kinds of math problems.

When the problem is about nonpolitical issues, like figuring out the whether a drug is effective, people tend to use their math skills to solve it. But when they’re evaluating something political — let’s say, the effectiveness of gun control measures — math knowledge no longer matters. On these political questions, math knowledge actually makes it more likely for partisans to be biased. “The smarter the person is, the dumber politics can make them,” Ezra Klein explained in a profile of Kahan’s work.

And it’s not just for math problems: Kahan finds that Republicans who have higher levels of scientific knowledge are more stubborn when it comes to questions about climate change. The pattern is consistent: The more information we have, the more we bend it to serve our political aims.

This is another point where the debate over “fake news” is misguided: It’s not the case that if only people had perfectly true information, everyone would suddenly agree.

5) It’s really hard to change political opponents’ minds by arguing with them

The answer to polarization and political division is not simply exposing people to another point of view.

Recently, researchers at Duke, NYU, and Princeton ran an experiment where they paid a large sample of Democratic and Republican Twitter users to read more opinions from the other side. “We found no evidence that inter-group contact on social media reduces political polarization,” the authors wrote. Republicans in the experiment actually grew more conservative over the course of the test. Liberals in the experiment grew very slightly more liberal.

A psychological theory called “moral foundations” can help explain why our arguments often fail spectacularly at changing minds.

Moral foundations is the idea that people have stable, gut-level morals that influence their worldview. The liberal moral foundations include equality, fairness, and protection of the vulnerable. Conservative moral foundations favor in-group loyalty, moral purity, and respect for authority.

Moral foundations explain why messages highlighting equality and fairness resonate with liberals and why more patriotic messages like “make America great again” get some conservative hearts pumping.

Consider the unending gun control debate. Liberals make their arguments for restricting access in terms of protecting the vulnerable, and injustice (i.e., it’s not right that so many Americans have to live in fear of gun violence). Conservatives, meanwhile, ground their case in self-determination (i.e., I ought to be able to protect myself).

The thing is, we often don’t realize that people have moral foundations different from our own. When we engage in political debates, we all tend to overrate the power of arguments we find personally convincing — and wrongly think the other side will be swayed.

In a study, psychologists Robb Willer and Matthew Feinberg had around 200 conservative and liberal study participants write essays to sway political opponents on the acceptance of same-sex marriage or to make English the official language of the United States.

Almost all the participants made the same mistake.

Only 9 percent of the liberals in the study made arguments that reflected conservative moral principles; only 8 percent of the conservative made arguments that had a chance of swaying a liberal. No wonder it’s so hard to change another person’s mind.

The bottom line: It helps to be empathetic when arguing with another person.

6) White people’s fear of being replaced is a powerful motivator

Last August, the white supremacists marching in Charlottesville, Virginia, were not ashamed when they shouted, “You will not replace us,” and, “Jews will not replace us.”

On the face of it, their fear — replacement — is absurd. White people (particularly white men) have been the dominant political and economic class of Americans from before this country’s founding.

But they actually do seem to feel this way. In April 2017, a team of psychologists got a sample of 447 self-identified alt-righters (though not those involved in the Charlottesville rally) in an online survey and led them through a barrage of psychological survey questions. They then compared the alt-righters to an online sample of 382 non-alt-righters.

The survey revealed that the alt-righters were much more concerned that their in-groups were at a disadvantage, compared to the control sample. The alt-right is afraid of being displaced by increasing numbers of immigrants and outsiders in this country. Yes, they see themselves as potential victims.

It’s easy to think these fears are abhorrent and confined to just people on the fringe. But they also do exist, to a smaller degree, among the mainstream, and among people who might not consider themselves to be racist.

These fears of outsiders, fears of replacement, and racial animus have become a powerful political instigator. Forty-one percent of white millennials voted for Trump. And among this group, political scientists find that a feeling that white people are losing out to other races is prevalent. “White millennials who scored high on the white vulnerability scale were 74 percent more likely to vote for Trump than those at the bottom of the scale,” political scientists Matthew Fowler, Vladimir E. Medenica, and, Cathy J. Cohen explain of their results in the Washington Post.

In experiments, when white participants are reminded that a majority of Americans will belong to minority groups in just a few decades, they begin to feel less warm toward members of other races. One test even showed that reminding white people of this trend increased support for Trump.

“People who think of themselves as not prejudiced (and liberal) demonstrate these threat effects,” said Jennifer Richeson, a leading researcher on racial bias who has conducted much of this research.

When people hear of one group rising in numbers, “a sense of a zero-sum competition between groups is activated,” Maureen Craig, who has collaborated with Richeson, says. When people hear about the rise of one group, they automatically fear it will mean a decline in their own. This happens even in well-intentioned people.

What this doesn’t mean is that all white people harbor extreme racial animus. It means fear is an all-too-easy button for politicians to press. We fear unthinkingly. It directs our actions. And it nudges us to believe the person who says he will vanquish our fears.

There’s also this fact to contend with: Negative, scary information is almost always more sticky and memorable than positive information.

And we tend to exaggerate the threat of people we don’t like. A 2012 paper nicely demonstrates this. The test was simple: The researchers asked participants to estimate the straight-line distance from New York to Mexico City. Participants who expressed more animosity toward Mexican immigrants rated Mexico City as being several hundred miles closer to New York than people who felt less threatened. The adversaries, in their minds, appeared to be much closer than they actually were. If people think the wall between the countries is secure, the effect goes away.

Savvy politicians understand that fear is motivating, and craft messages that stoke it. It’s hard to blame people for being afraid, and ideas like border walls might make them feel a bit more at ease. It’s just in our nature. But you can blame politicians who prey on it.

7) It’s shockingly easy to grow numb to the suffering of others

You might think that every time we see a shooting death or we’re reminded that there are millions of refugees and displaced people around the world, we’d all feel greater and greater empathy, and greater and greater sadness.

But no. It’s human to feel numb over time.

There’s a profound and infuriating psychological concept that can help explain increasing numbness in the face of long, slow-burning tragedy like mass gun violence in America. It’s this: As the number of victims in a tragedy increases, our empathy, our willingness to do something, reliably decreases.

This tendency is called psychic numbing. It describes how tragedies turn into abstractions in our minds, and how abstractions are easily attenuated and even ignored.

“There is no constant value for a human life,” University of Oregon psychologist Paul Slovic, the leading expert on psychic numbing, said in an interview. “The value of a single life diminishes against the backdrop of a larger tragedy.”

One of his recent studies demonstrated this simply. Slovic and his colleagues asked participants how willing they would be to donate money to children in need. And all it took was raising the number of victims from one to two to see a decrease in empathy and donations to the children.

In another experiment, Slovic found participants were less likely to act on behalf of 4,500 lives in a refugee camp if the camp had 250,000 inhabitants than if it had 11,000, even though 4,500 lives should be as important in any context. It’s infuriating.

“The feeling system doesn’t really add,” Slovic explains. “It can’t multiply; it doesn’t handle numbers very well.”

That’s why it’s not surprising six out of 10 Americans support a travel ban that, in part, bars refugees from entering America. That many lawmakers aren’t horrified by the possibility of booting tens of millions from health insurance. That the world looked on as millions died in war and genocide in Darfur. That we haven’t really grappled as a nation with the opioid epidemic, which killed 33,000 people in 2015.

It’s not surprising why political leaders often turn a blind eye toward refugees, or grow callous when it comes to the hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants brought to the US as children.

8) Fake news preys on our biases — and will be incredibly hard to stamp out

Hoaxes, conspiracy theories, and fabricated news are nothing new in human history. But today, aided by social media, they spread at alarming speed. And they have terrifying consequences.

Fake news is so pernicious because it preys on our biases. “Fake news is perfect for spreadability: It’s going to be shocking, it’s going to be surprising, and it’s going to be playing on people’s emotions, and that’s a recipe for how to spread misinformation,” Miriam Metzger, a UC Santa Barbara communications researcher, says.

After tragedies like the Parkland, Florida, school shooting or the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013, we’ve seen false news stories and rumors spread on social media at a frightening speed — often outpacing the truth.

Recently, the journal Science published a study validating that feeling — at least when it comes to the spread of misinformation on Twitter. The study analyzed millions of tweets sent between 2006 and 2017 and came to a chilling conclusion: “Falsehood diffused significantly farther, faster, deeper, and more broadly than the truth in all categories of information.” It also found that “the effects were more pronounced for false political news than for false news about terrorism, natural disasters, science, urban legends, or financial information.”

But perhaps even more important is what the study reveals about what’s responsible for fueling the momentum of false news stories. It’s not influential Twitter accounts with millions of followers, or Russian bots designed to automatically tweet misinformation. It’s ordinary Twitter users, with meager followings, most likely just sharing the false news stories with their friends. And it’s perhaps due to a simple reason: False stories are often more surprising than real stories.

What’s frustrating is that algorithms like YouTube’s recommended video feed, or Facebook’s newsfeed, or Google News, often promote false stories (perhaps in part because we tend to find this content engaging).

But each time a reader encounters one of these stories on Facebook, Google, or really anywhere, it makes a subtle impression. Each time, the story grows more familiar. And that familiarity casts the illusion of truth.

Psychologists call this the illusory truth effect. It’s the simple finding that the more often a lie is repeated, the more likely it is to be believed.

When you’re hearing something for the second or third time, your brain becomes faster to respond to it. “And your brain misattributes that fluency as a signal for it being true,” says Lisa Fazio, a psychologist who studies learning and memory at Vanderbilt University. The more you hear something, the more “you’ll have this gut-level feeling that maybe it’s true.”

9) Conspiracy theories may be rampant — but they’re a specific reaction to a dark, uncertain world

Perhaps the darkest consequence of our strange age, where human psychology mashes up against hyperpartisanship and social algorithm-driven media distribution, is how conspiracy theories — often cruel, damaging ones — so easily circulate.

Shortly after the school shooting in Parkland left 17 dead, the No. 1 trending video on YouTube was based on a lie. The video alleged that David Hogg — a 17-year-old survivor of the Parkland shooting, who had become a compelling and sympathetic proponent of gun control, making the rounds on cable news — was an actor.

The pain inflicted by conspiracy theories can be immense: To this day, parents of children slain in the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting are charged with making up the whole thing (including the lives of their children), for example.

Consider the agony of the family of Seth Rich, the Democratic Nationally Committee staffer who was murdered in an apparent robbery attempt in 2016. Despite zero evidence, conspiracy theorists and prominent conservative pundits have been fanning the suspicion that Rich’s murder was orchestrated by the Clinton campaign. “Seth’s death has been turned into a political football,” Rich’s parents wrote at the Washington Post. “Every day we wake up to new headlines, new lies, new factual errors, new people approaching us to take advantage of us and Seth’s legacy.”

Arguably, Trump — who for years boosted the conspiracy theory that Barack Obama was not born in the United States — adds flames to this fire. “Trump, in trying to combat the media, delegitimized the media, and has created an environment in which conspiracy theory is normalized,” Asheley Landrum, a Texas Tech University psychologist who studied motivated reasoning, told me in December.

And rest assured, conspiracy theories spread on the left too.

Conspiracy theories are a type of motivated reasoning, Landrum explains. After the Parkland shooting, conspiracy theories that the teenage survivors were actors could, presumably, undercut their powerful anti-gun message.

But there’s also a more empathetic way to view conspiracy theorists: “It’s a self-protective mechanism people have,” Jan-Willem van Prooijen, a psychologist who studies conspiracy theories, told me last year. The theories are a tool by which people can feel more in control and find explanations in a scary and turbulent world.

People who feel powerless and who are more pessimistic are also more likely to believe in conspiracy theories, van Prooijen finds. And this is where education and outreach can help. Achieving higher levels of education correlates to feeling more secure about the world, and this, in turn, seems to protect against a conspiratorial mindset.

The thought of kids being gunned down at school is horrible. Why wouldn’t we seek refuge in a theory that insists it wasn’t so bad after all?

Further reading: political psychology in the age of Trump

You’ve just read more than 5,000 words on political psychology! Wow. Congrats! I’m impressed.

But if you want to read a few thousand more, here’s what I recommend:More and more Republicans are looking at how the 2018 elections are shaping up and deciding they want no part of them — with Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL) just the latest to announce they won’t run for reelection this year.

This makes 25 House Republicans and three GOP senators who are calling it quits, not counting several more who are stepping down to run for another political office (or who have already resigned). That’s the highest such number for just one party in decades.

Revealingly, only nine House Democrats and zero Democratic senators have so far made the same choice. (Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota resigned due to scandal, but his seat has already been filled by Tina Smith, who will run this fall.) That’s a dramatic discrepancy.

Though the explanations offered for these decisions differ, and though many of these GOP-held seats are in no real danger of flipping to Democrats, these retirements are revealing how members of Congress currently view the national political environment. That is: they think there’s a real possibility of a Democratic wave.

But the trend is more meaningful even than that. These very retirements could help make such a wave even bigger, because it’s generally easier for the opposition party to flip open seats than it is to knock off incumbents.

More Republicans than Democrats are choosing to head for the exits

In trying to read tea leaves from US House retirements, it’s useful to separate out the members who are exiting politics altogether for the time being from those who are just leaving the House to run for another political office.

The 28 retiring Republicans who haven’t announced plans to run for another office are Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN), Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Rep. Dave Trott (R-MI), Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA), Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX), Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Rep. Jimmy Duncan (R-TN), Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA), Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS), Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Rep. Pat Meehan (R-PA), Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC), Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA), Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL).

There are also a few others who have quit or plan to quit in the middle of their term, but their seats will be already be filled by replacements from special elections by the time November 2018 rolls around. These are former Reps. Trent Franks (R-AZ) and Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH), and perhaps also Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX). (Rep. Jason Chaffetz of Utah also stepped down last year, but his seat has already been filled by another Republican who is running again. Rep. Tim Murphy of Pennsylvania also resigned due to scandal, and Democrat Conor Lamb won his seat.)

Viewed in historical context, that number is quite high, as you can see over at FiveThirtyEight. It’s above the 27 GOP incumbents who retired toward the end of George W. Bush’s presidency in 2008, and also above the 21 who retired in the midst of the Watergate scandal in 1974. And it’s the highest number for either party since 1996.

Furthermore, what’s very clearly not normal is the discrepancy between the parties. So far, all of the Democratic senators up in 2018 are running for reelection. And only nine Democratic House members — Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), Rep. Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Rep. Bob Brady (D-PA), Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN), and Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) — are retiring and not running for another office. Another, Rep. John Conyers, (D-MI), resigned due to scandal.

According to FiveThirtyEight’s numbers, the only time in the past 40 years there’s been a bigger partisan discrepancy in this stat was 2008, which turned out to be a Democratic wave year.

Why Republicans are retiring

The discrepancy in retirements between the two parties suggests that many Republicans fear a backlash against their party due to President Donald Trump’s poor approval rating. And that fear will only be exacerbated by sweeping Democratic victories in Virginia’s elections, and overall strong Democratic performance in 2017 and 2018 special elections.

Now, it’s not the case that every Republican retiring personally fears losing reelection, or that all of these retirements open up promising pickup opportunities for Democrats.

Several retirees are in safe red districts and face little danger. A few have explained their choices by citing term limits for committee or subcommittee chairmanships they currently hold. Others may just be getting old and ready to pack it in.

But the national political environment can still be one important factor among many weighing on their decisions. For instance, even some GOP incumbents in no danger of losing may not feel like sticking around if they think their party may be soon fall into the minority.

Others — like Frelinghuysen and LoBiondo, longtime New Jersey Congress members first elected in the 1990s, or Reichert, a Washington Congress member who’s managed to win several times in his Democrat-leaning district — would be the favorites to win if they ran again. But they haven’t faced tough reelection challenges in years, and may simply be reluctant to face a difficult, grueling race with an uncertain outcome.

These retirements help Democratic challengers because open seats are more likely to flip

These retirements aren’t only a sign that the GOP thinks a Democratic wave is coming — they may well help bring it about.

That’s because of something political scientists have dubbed the “incumbency advantage.” A wealth of US historical evidence shows that incumbent politicians do better in elections than nonincumbents do. They’re more likely to win, and open seats are more likely to flip to the other party than are seats where an incumbent is running again are.

Obviously, this doesn’t hold true for all incumbents — sometimes they’ll have unique vulnerabilities, whether that be scandal or a controversial political record. But when you think about it, the incumbent advantage is pretty intuitive. These politicians have won elections in their particular districts and states before. They’ve built up name recognition, become skillful fundraisers, hired experienced staffers, and presumably amassed some knowledge about how best to win.

From that perspective, these GOP retirements are obviously good news for Democrats. It’s likely to help Democratic recruiting too, as potentially strong candidates are often more willing to run in an open-seat contest than to take on an incumbent. (For instance, New Jersey Democrats have been trying to get state Sen. Jeff Van Drew to challenge LoBiondo for years. They’ve never succeeded, but now that LoBiondo’s retiring, Van Drew finally jumped in.)

However, it’s worth noting that the exact size of the incumbency advantage tends to vary by office and by year — and it seems to be much smaller in House elections during wave years. You can see in this chart from FairVote, which estimates how incumbents perform compared to the underlying partisanship of their respective districts.

In more-or-less neutral congressional years without a big wave for one party or the other, FairVote finds the incumbency advantage has recently been somewhere between 3 percent and 7 percent.

But in wave years, the parties’ incumbents’ fortunes sharply diverge. In 2010 and 2014, for instance, Democratic incumbents barely had any advantage at all (0.9 percent and 0.46 percent). And in 2006 and 2008 — two anti-GOP wave years — the Republican incumbent advantage shrank to 2 percent, while Democrats’ rose quite high.

So it’s not necessarily the case that a flood of GOP retirements will make an enormous difference in how House elections turn out — a wave takes down many incumbents too. Still, as Democrats struggle to overcome gerrymandering and other disadvantages, they’re thankful for any edge they can get — and GOP retirements will be tipping the scales more in their favor.House Speaker Paul Ryan is leaving.

Ryan told colleagues that he will not run for reelection at House Republicans’ weekly gathering Wednesday, confirming months of speculation that his time in Washington was coming to an end. He will still serve the rest of his term.

Wisconsin Republicans have until June 1 to announce a bid for his seat. The primary will be held on August 14, 2018. Democrats Randy Bryce and Cathy Myers are already eyeing the R+5 district, which stretches from Janesville to Kenosha, hoping to turn it blue. Ryan’s retirement will likely give them a better chance.

Ryan’s departure has been fodder for congressional chatter for months, ever since Politico’s Tim Alberta reported that in interviews with “three dozen people who know the speaker — fellow lawmakers, congressional and administration aides, conservative intellectuals and Republican lobbyists — not a single person believed Ryan will stay in Congress past 2018.” Until now, Ryan and his office had denied all reports.

Underlying the chatter among Republicans is an understanding that the speakership has always been a thankless job, and has become all the more fraught under the Trump presidency. When Ryan took over the post, his ascendency was meant to usher in a new era in GOP politics, unified behind Obamacare repeal, tax cuts, and dismantling the welfare state. Instead, Ryan has placated a president who has no interest in his agenda, and who in many cases — like on immigration, trade, and entitlement reform — breaks with the party altogether.

Ryan’s conservatism is no longer seen as a uniting force in a fractured Republican House. Instead, Ryan has become an avatar for the Republican civil war. These tensions explain why he wants out.

Ryan’s announcement is a long time coming

Rumors that Ryan would be leaving office began with fervor in December, around the time tax reform was wrapping up. Politico’s Alberta had taken the temperature of Ryan’s inner Washington circle and everyone thought he was on his way out:

In the months following Trump’s victory, he began contemplating the scenarios of his departure. More recently, over closely held conversations with his kitchen cabinet, Ryan’s preference has become clear: He would like to serve through Election Day 2018 and retire ahead of the next Congress. This would give Ryan a final legislative year to chase his second white whale, entitlement reform, while using his unrivaled fundraising prowess to help protect the House majority — all with the benefit of averting an ugly internecine power struggle during election season.

It’s an account of a beleaguered speaker. Even though Ryan is one of the most powerful people in the country, his friends said “he feels like he’s running a daycare center” in Washington, per Politico. Leaving the speakership will allow him to live in Wisconsin with his actual school-age children.

Last month, Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV), who isn’t close to Ryan, let a rumor slip to a local reporter recently that the House speaker was on his way out.

Until now, Ryan has tried to quiet rumors. He called Alberta’s story “rank speculation” and said he’s not “going anywhere any time soon.”

In March, Ryan’s spokesperson AshLee Strong sent Vox a succinct email that said “the speaker is not resigning.” While it’s true he is not resigning, it’s now clear the speculation of his leaving Washington didn’t come out of nowhere.

For Ryan’s colleagues, it’s easy to see why. At the start of Trump’s presidency, congressional Republicans, with control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, set forward an ambitious agenda. They would repeal and replace Obamacare in mere months, pass a major budget deal, and enact massive tax cuts.

Instead, after months of highly visible party infighting, Obamacare repeal failed epically. Republicans deeply underestimated the time they’d spend excusing Trump’s tweets and White House scandals. They managed to pass tax cuts, but lawmakers are already worried the bill won’t be popular enough in November to help them win elections. Meanwhile, Trump, who doesn’t seem interested in talking taxes much, is stuck on the one policy issue that will only deepen party divides: immigration.

Trump has made it hard for Ryan

If it were up to Ryan, Republicans would steer clear of immigration. But Trump is making it impossible to ignore.

Immigration anxiety played a large role in getting Trump elected, from “build the wall” chants and the “Muslim ban” to “murderers” and “bad hombres” jumping over the border — and Trump is eager to stick to it. After announcing his administration would sunset the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, Trump has consistently blamed Democrats for letting the program go into legal limbo.

Lawmakers have seemingly thrown up their hands in frustration over the future of 690,000 young unauthorized immigrants currently protected from deportation under DACA — Ryan especially.

“I don’t think the Republican leadership wanted to be here when it comes to DACA,” Yuval Levin, the conservative founding editor of National Affairs who is in Ryan’s brain trust, said. “They [would] much rather avoid immigration — it divides the party.”

Immigration is among Ryan’s biggest political vulnerabilities in the Trump era of Republican politics. His own views, often said to have been shaped by his mentor Jack Kemp — the pro-immigration New York Republican whom Ryan worked for early in his career and with whom he remained close until Kemp’s death in 2009 — are in stark contrast to the hardliner views espoused by the White House.

In July 2016, Ryan’s primary challenger Paul Nehlen — who has emerged as a political avatar for alt-right internet trolls and had the support of some in Trump’s orbit — showed up at Ryan’s Janesville, Wisconsin, home with a group of four mothers who had ”lost children at the hands of illegal immigrants.” Nehlen is running again this year, and his campaign has drummed up the kind of attacks against Ryan that have long been found on the pages of Breitbart News, the far-right media outlet run by Trump’s former adviser Steve Bannon.

Just read through a couple of articles penned by White House adviser and former Breitbart writer Julia Hahn and it becomes clear that to the movement behind Trump’s presidential victory, Ryan is no different from a “mass amnesty” Democrat. From “Speaker Paul Ryan goes silent as Refugee program claims victims at Ohio,” which Hahn wrote to censure Ryan for not publicly questioning the immigration system after a Somali refugee went on a stabbing spree on Ohio State University’s campus, to “GOP Rep: Paul Ryan’s immigration policy not ‘in best interest of America,’” which Hahn published just prior to House leadership elections, Ryan has long been dogged for having an “expansionist immigration agenda.”

Of course, Ryan’s actual record on the issue is much less straightforward. He has supported hardline policies, voting in favor of fellow Wisconsin Republican Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner’s 2005 bill cracking down on illegal immigration. He’s voted for border fencing and as Mitt Romney’s vice presidential nominee stood for the party’s “self-deportation” proposal, which Democrats found to be laughable.

But he’s also been dovish at times. He supported an early version of a comprehensive immigration push from Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) that would have created a path to citizenship for nearly 12 million undocumented immigrants. And in 2013, he stood with Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), among the most progressive immigration activists in the House, on a stage in Chicago to support a pathway to citizenship.

“He is an outlier,” Levin said of Ryan’s personal views, which are more moderate than those of the immigration hawks dominating the current immigration conversation. But he’s shown a willingness to give hardliners airtime on the issue.

Ask Gutiérrez where he places Ryan’s personal position on immigration today and he says he can’t.

“I can tell you what they were [in] 2013; we were together in April in Chicago,” Gutiérrez told me of Ryan. “I don’t know what they are today.”

Ryan has defended Trump. Trumpkins aren’t as keen to defend Ryan.

Ryan’s downfall is closely tied to his ascension — one that came on the heels of an archconservative revolt.

His predecessor, John Boehner, who also led a splintered Republican caucus, angered House conservatives by seeking votes across the aisle to pass major pieces of legislation — a move that ultimately led to his ouster.

It’s a history conservatives make sure hangs heavy over Ryan’s tenure in leadership.

“I can say it is the defining moment for this speaker,” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC), the chair of the House Freedom Caucus and one of Trump’s confidants, said of Ryan’s role in Congress’s immigration debate at a Heritage Foundation forum early this year. “If he gets it wrong, it will have consequences for him, but it will also have consequences for the rest of the Republican Party.”

In 2015, it was Meadows who moved to oust Boehner from his seat — what became a catalyst to Boehner’s retirement and Ryan’s political rise. Now Meadows chairs a cohort of roughly 40 men who make up the House’s most conservative faction and Trump’s most ardent supporters. The Freedom Caucus wields enough votes to stop any Republican-led legislation in its tracks, and Meadows has a direct line to the president if things don’t go his way, leverage points he’s happy to use.

Ryan has tried to keep the peace within his party — to varying degrees of success. Before taking the speakership, he promised the conference’s most conservative members, who were most wary of his appointment, that he would not move on immigration without the support of the majority of the caucus, also known as the Hastert Rule. Then he added another condition: He said he also wouldn’t bring up a vote on a bill that didn’t have Trump’s support.

Ryan has made apparent efforts to align with Trump. During the 2016 campaign season he would disavow Trump’s racist remarks, but he has now tempered his condemnations. When Trump called a number of African nations “shitholes,” Ryan said it was an “unfortunate” and “unhelpful” comment. As for Trump’s apparent attempts to gain influence over FBI Director James Comey, Ryan said Trump was “just new at this.” He’s even given the president credit where credit was not due on health care and tax reform policy.

But Trump’s supporters inside and outside Congress aren’t as willing to return the support. In September 2017, reports cropped up of conservative efforts to oust Ryan. Axios reported that Meadows had met with former White House adviser and Breitbart executive Steve Bannon to float alternatives for Republican leadership. The Washington Post said the Freedom Caucus was “privately plotting” ways to force Ryan to adopt their hardline agenda.

And while Ryan has made it clear that his role on immigration is to facilitate rather than advance policy, if you ask conservatives like Meadows — whose group of hardliners in the House Freedom Caucus have their hands on the Goodlatte bill, which does not include a path to citizenship and imposes stricter immigration checks — Ryan has had too light a touch. House leadership says it is currently whipping votes for the proposal. Still, without the votes to pass even with only Republican support, conservatives say Ryan is trying to slow-walk conservative legislation.

And after Ryan and Senate leadership pushed through a massive $1.3 trillion spending package that didn’t reflect any conservative policy priorities, from immigration to pro-life language, those same conservatives, with Trump on their side, were more than willing to throw Ryan under the bus.

Ryan’s impossible gamble

The reality in today’s Congress is that many Republicans have had to abandon many of their convictions to align with Trump’s agenda.

Most Republicans have long subscribed to the idea that legal immigration is good. They supported free trade. They don’t see the merit in a 50-foot-high concrete border wall. And when it comes to giving DREAMers a path to citizenship, there’s more division than consensus.

“There were others like [Ryan], like Pence, who were much more moderate on these issues when they were members of the House,” Gutiérrez said. “Remember [former South Carolina Rep. Mick] Mulvaney? Look him up. He was talking in Spanish to his constituents. Because he knows there’s a need. Now, I’m not saying he was pro-immigration, but he said we need to do something about this and stop vilifying Latinos because the Republican Party is going to become smaller.”

So far, Ryan has navigated these ideological gaps by pushing through what he thinks Republicans can get away with. The strategy is becoming more tenuous.

Trump threatened to shut down the government over Republican leaders’ latest policy push: the spending bill, which was largely considered to be the last major policy fight of 2018.

Now the president is eager to pick at the wounds of a failed congressional debate over immigration.

It’s created an impossible gamble for Ryan, whose conference is facing a midterm election cycle where Democrats are determined to win back the majority in the House. The name of the game for Republicans in 2018 is unity. But Trump doesn’t seem interested in that.

It makes sense that Paul Ryan is ready to quit the game.Michael Cohen — Donald Trump’s longtime lawyer and business associate, whom the FBI raided and seized documents from on Monday — doesn’t mince words.

“I’m the guy who protects the president and the family. I’m the guy who would take a bullet for the president.”

“If somebody does something Mr Trump doesn’t like, I do everything in my power to resolve it to Mr Trump’s benefit. If you do something wrong, I’m going to come at you, grab you by the neck, and I’m not going to let you go until I’m finished.”

“I’m warning you, tread very fucking lightly, because what I’m going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting. You understand me?”

Cohen is not a typical lawyer. He’s not even just someone who sent $130,000 in hush money to Stormy Daniels. He’s a man who’s made profane and violent threats to protect Donald Trump, and has called himself Trump’s “fix-it guy.”

But he’s much more than that. For nearly a decade, Cohen worked as a high-level executive in the Trump Organization. In that time, he pursued business deals in the former Soviet Union and even tried to get a Trump Tower Moscow built during the presidential campaign.

Cohen is also a wealthy investor in his own right, with taxi medallion holdings and an eyebrow-raising real estate portfolio. He has family and past financial ties to Ukrainian businesses. He’s the national deputy finance chair of the Republican National Committee. And since last year, he’s been legally representing Trump personally.

Now Cohen is a guy who appears to be in very serious legal trouble of his own. The Justice Department and FBI made the incredibly unusual move of seizing documents from him even though he’s a lawyer — the president’s lawyer! This suggests investigators have what they view as evidence of serious wrongdoing.

And because Cohen worked so closely with Trump for so long, the president could well be in major jeopardy too. Indeed, President Trump responded to the news of the raids with fury, calling it an “attack on our country” and claiming that “many people have said” he should fire Mueller. But to understand why, we have to understand just who Michael Cohen is — and why he’s so important to Trump.

Who is Michael Cohen?

Cohen was born in 1966 in Long Island, New York, the son of an immigrant who escaped a Nazi concentration camp in Poland. He had unusual interests early on, later telling the New York Times that he helped import luxury cars into the US while attending college at American University. Afterward, he got a law degree from the little-known Thomas M. Cooley Law School in Michigan and was admitted to the New York bar in 1992. After a brief stint at a personal injury law firm, Cohen opened up a solo practice.

Around this time, Cohen’s personal life and business interests both became deeply enmeshed in a community of Ukrainian immigrants in New York City. Both Cohen and his brother Bryan married Ukrainian immigrants, and both did business with their wives’ fathers. Cohen and a Ukrainian partner began buying up taxi medallions (the expensive city-issued permits necessary to operate taxis).

Also, Cohen legally represented something called the Ukrainian Capital Growth Fund, he and two Ukrainian partners made failed investments in a gambling cruise business, and he tried to pitch US investors to fund a Ukrainian ethanol company controlled by an allegedly mob-connected oligarch.

All this seems to have made Cohen very rich — he co-owned a fleet of more than 200 taxis by 2003 and became a partner at the law firm Phillips Nizer a few years after that. He dabbled in politics, too: Though a longtime Democrat, he switched to the Republican Party and became the GOP nominee for a 2003 New York City Council race. (His Democratic opponent, future charter school CEO Eva Moskowitz, beat him by 52 percentage points.)

Yet the occasional strange incident occurred along the way. At one point in 1999, Cohen cashed a $350,000 check an NHL player wrote as a loan for a Russian woman. But the woman never got the money, and in a later deposition, Cohen was unable to explain what happened to it, as Anthony Cormier of BuzzFeed News (who, along with his colleagues, has done a lot of great work reporting on Cohen’s past business ties) reported last year.

Cohen has a decade-long history with Donald Trump

Cohen’s entrée into Trumpworld came because he’d used some of his newfound wealth to purchase Trump Organization properties — and encouraged his family and business associates to do the same, in the early 2000s. (“Trump properties are solid investments,” he told the New York Post.) Eventually, he became treasurer of the board of Trump World Tower in New York, which is how he got acquainted with Donald Trump Jr. and eventually his father.

Cohen was in the right place at the right time. A group of unhappy Trump World Tower owners had taken control of the board and accused Trump of financial chicanery. That’s when Cohen stepped in to help out the mogul. Together, Cohen and Trump orchestrated “a coup that culminated in a standoff between [Trump’s] security detail and private guards hired by the disgruntled owners,” the New York Times later reported. They won.

Trump was impressed, and not long afterward, in early 2007, he offered Cohen a job: executive vice president and special counsel for the Trump Organization. The job’s duties were varied. In his first few years, Cohen would be involved in matters ranging from a New Jersey development project to mixed martial arts live events. By 2011, he had taken a leading role in advising Trump on his growing political ambitions, launching a website called “Should Trump Run?” and flying to Iowa to meet with Republican operatives. (Trump didn’t end up running for president in 2012.)

Things were going well for Cohen. He took on an ever-larger role in the Trump Organization, helping to explore potential development projects in both Georgia and Kazakhstan. He then bought four New York City properties for a combined $11 million and within a few years had sold them to various LLCs for a combined $30 million (in transactions that McClatchy’s Peter Stone and Greg Gordon would later flag as oddly lucrative). In early 2015, Cohen shelled out a massive $58 million to purchase an Upper East Side rental building, saying he wanted to convert it into condominiums.

Cohen’s role in the early Trump presidential campaign

In June 2015, Trump began his ultimately successful run for president, and Cohen, still working for the Trump Organization, became a legal adviser to the campaign as well. Very quickly, he made headlines. In July, the Daily Beast prepared a story about an old Ivana Trump deposition in which she said Donald Trump had raped her. Asked to respond, Cohen (falsely) asserted that legally, “you cannot rape your spouse” under New York state law.

In an attempt to stop the story from being printed, he then went on to profanely threaten reporter Tim Mak:

“I will make sure that you and I meet one day while we’re in the courthouse. And I will take you for every penny you still don’t have. And I will come after your Daily Beast and everybody else that you possibly know,” Cohen said. “So I’m warning you, tread very fucking lightly, because what I’m going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting. You understand me?” “You write a story that has Mr. Trump’s name in it, with the word ‘rape,’ and I’m going to mess your life up … for as long as you’re on this frickin’ planet … you’re going to have judgments against you, so much money, you’ll never know how to get out from underneath it,” he added.

The following month, in August, Ukrainian steel billionaire Victor Pinchuk reached out through an intermediary and asked presidential candidate Trump to speak at a conference he was hosting in Kiev. Trump accepted — but soon enough, Cohen sent word back that he’d require a $150,000 donation to the Trump Foundation in return for speaking. The payment has lately drawn scrutiny from special counsel Robert Mueller, the New York Times reported this week.

Then in the fall, Cohen began exploring the possibility of building a Trump Tower in Moscow, with the help of a longtime business associate, Russian-born developer Felix Sater. “I will get Putin on this program and we will get Donald elected,” Sater emailed Cohen. “Buddy our boy can become President of the USA and we can engineer it. I will get all of Putins [sic] team to buy in on this.” (Cohen would later say Sater was just using “colorful language” and “salesmanship.”)

Trump’s company signed a letter of intent to build the Moscow tower in October. In December, the Times reports, Cohen saw a news story about Putin praising Trump and emailed his old friend (apparently Sater) “Now is the time ... Call me.”

Then in mid-January 2016, just weeks before the Iowa caucuses, Cohen even emailed Putin’s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov asking for help with the project. “I am hereby requesting your assistance,” Cohen wrote. “I respectfully request someone, preferably you, contact me so that I might discuss the specifics as well as arranging meetings with the appropriate individuals.” Cohen has said he never got a response from Peskov and claims the company abandoned the project soon afterward.

Cohen’s role in hush money payments

Over the rest of the campaign, Cohen’s most notorious public moment was his odd August 2016 TV appearance in which a CNN anchor pointed out Trump was behind in polls and Cohen repeatedly asked, “Says who?”

Yet it’s his apparent behind-the-scenes work for Trump that has now become so controversial — specifically, his role in arranging hush money payments to two women who said they had affairs with Trump.

On August 6, 2016, former Playboy model Karen McDougal signed a nondisclosure deal with American Media Inc., the National Enquirer’s parent company, in which she’d be paid $150,000 for her story — so the Enquirer could bury it. The company’s chair David Pecker is an ally of Trump’s, and Times has reported that Cohen was “apprised” of the McDougal negotiations as they were taking place.

Then in October 2016, as Election Day drew near, porn actress/director Stormy Daniels threatened to come forward with her story alleging a 2006 sexual encounter with Trump. Cohen had encountered her before — five years earlier, Daniels had told her story to In Touch magazine, but Cohen threatened a lawsuit and the magazine didn’t publish.

(Daniels now says it was around this time that a man threatened her while she was with her daughter in a parking lot. He told her to “Leave Trump alone,” saying, “That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.”)

Cohen wanted to keep Daniels quiet. He created the shell company Essential Consultants LLC and on October 27, 2016, wired $130,000 to Daniels’s lawyers. The following day, Daniels and Cohen signed a nondisclosure agreement — the validity of which is now subject to a lawsuit. Daniels stayed quiet, and not long afterward, Trump won the presidential election.

Things have taken a turn for Cohen in recent months

The publication of Christopher Steele’s Trump-Russia dossier by BuzzFeed News in January 2017 returned Cohen to the national spotlight. The dossier alleged a conspiracy between Trump’s campaign and the Russian government to interfere with the 2016 election and claimed Cohen played a key role in it.

However, Steele’s sources’ claims about Cohen remain completely uncorroborated. Furthermore, Cohen furiously denied its most specific claim about him — that he’d traveled to Prague in August 2016 to meet with Russian officials — and has shown his passport to reporters to back up his denials, at least for that time frame. He’s also sued BuzzFeed and Fusion GPS (the company paid by the Clinton campaign and DNC to compile the dossier) for defamation damages.

Cohen announced later in January 2017 that he would leave the Trump Organization but continue to work as Trump’s personal attorney, in what some observers saw as an effort to hold on to his attorney-client privilege with the new president. He made a “strategic alliance” with the law and lobbying firm Squire Patton Boggs, and the RNC named him national deputy finance chair.

But shortly after Trump’s inauguration, Cohen made headlines again, on a matter of international intrigue. On January 27, 2017, Cohen and his business associate Felix Sater had met with Andrii Artemenko, a pro-Russian Ukrainian lawmaker whom Cohen had known for years. Artemenko gave them a purported proposal for a peace deal between Ukraine and Russia — paired with alleged evidence of corruption that he said could be used to discredit Ukraine’s president. There have been conflicting reports on whether Cohen then delivered this document to the White House and then-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.

And signs of trouble for Cohen soon emerged. The value of his New York City taxi medallion holdings plummeted due to competition from Uber and Lyft (the price dropped from $1.3 million apiece in 2014 to below $200,000). The New York Daily News reported that Cohen and his wife owed more than $37,000 in unpaid taxi taxes. Meanwhile, and apparently separately, Russia probe investigators in both Congress and the executive branch dug into his activities.

Finally, on January 12, 2018, the Wall Street Journal’s Michael Rothfeld and Joe Palazzolo broke the news that Cohen had arranged the $130,000 payment to Daniels — which opened up a whole new world of trouble for him, as he struggled to get his story straight about what exactly happened and what Trump knew about it. And as all this was unfolding, Robert Mueller’s investigators were quizzing witnesses on Cohen’s role in the Trump Organization’s overseas business deals.

What does Cohen’s legal trouble mean for Trump?

The full specifics of why the Justice Department raided Cohen’s office and a hotel he was staying at on Monday aren’t yet known. It is said to have been a “referral” from Mueller to the US attorney’s office based in Manhattan, and ultimately approved by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

The Times reports that agents were looking for records about the hush money payments to Daniels and McDougal. The Washington Post reports that Cohen is “under federal investigation for possible bank fraud, wire fraud and campaign finance violations.” Meanwhile, CNN reports that the warrant even targeted Cohen’s documents related to his taxi medallions.

All this could well be entirely unrelated to the investigation of Russian collusion. On the other hand, if the search should turn up relevant evidence on that front, the Justice Department could turn it over to Mueller’s team. And if Cohen does eventually face charges on unrelated matters, it’s at least possible that he’d flip and offer up incriminating information on Trump as part of a plea deal, should he have any (though he’s emphatically denied that he’d ever do such a thing).

What’s already clear though, is that a raid to seize documents from a lawyer — the president’s lawyer, no less — is incredibly unusual. High-level Justice Department officials and a magistrate judge had to conclude there was probable cause that Cohen had evidence of a federal crime, that he could not be trusted to hand over evidence voluntarily, and that there was reason to believe Cohen had voided his attorney-client privilege by “engaging in crime or fraud,” attorney Ken White writes.

Cohen’s team says that communications between Cohen and Trump were seized. And, accordingly, Trump has responded with panic and alarm — suggesting he is incredibly disturbed by the focus on Cohen, and making what comes next very uncertain indeed.

For more on Michael Cohen and what the FBI raid means for the Trump administration, listen to the April 11 episode of Today Explained.President Donald Trump is making a big push to expand work requirements in the nation’s social safety net, calling on his administration to propose tougher rules for America’s most vulnerable population to benefit from welfare programs.

Trump signed the Reducing Poverty in America by Promoting Opportunity and Economic Mobility executive order privately Tuesday, ordering secretaries across the government to review their welfare programs — from food stamps to Medicaid to housing programs — and propose new regulations, like work requirements.

The executive order calls on federal agencies to enforce current work requirements, propose additional, stronger requirements, and find savings (in other words, make cuts), and to give states more flexibility to run welfare programs.

“Since its inception, the welfare system has grown into a large bureaucracy that might be susceptible to measuring success by how many people are enrolled in a program rather than by how many have moved from poverty into financial independence,” the executive order reads.

The order calls on the Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, and Education departments to use the next 90 days to submit a report with their recommended policies to the White House.

The order doesn’t yet set any new policy, but it does reflect a hardline conservative view of the nation’s entitlement system — one that welfare experts say relies on faulty arguments and could cut off the nation’s neediest from lifesaving safety net programs.

Trump’s executive order implies tougher requirements for safety net programs

The text of the executive order calls for a review of all welfare programs across agencies, something a senior White House official calls a push for a “coordinated” effort across federal and state agencies to reform the welfare system.

But the result could be recommendations that propose drastic changes to programs like Medicaid, which offers health care for low-income individuals; food stamps; and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), which gives poor families financial aid. The administration is also looking at housing programs, the White House official said.

Agencies are ordered to follow nine “Principles of Economic Mobility” to guide their proposed policy changes, including adding work requirements, giving states more flexibility — usually in the form of block grants — consolidating duplicative programs, and encouraging involvement from the private sector.

Put together, this order outlines much of the conservative welfare agenda, which has long promoted cutting welfare programs, either through pushing people off the federal rolls with harsher work requirements or block-granting funding to the states, giving them more purview over how to allocate money to welfare programs.

Trump has long called for tougher requirements to receive welfare benefits but hasn’t been specific on what policies he would like to see and which programs he’d like to target. His order is now calling on his administration to iron out the specifics.

The White House is citing faulty evidence that work requirements work

White House adviser Andrew Bremberg told reporters that Trump’s executive order is meant to “highlight the success” of President Bill Clinton’s 1996 reforms to TANF. Those reforms added work requirements to TANF and fundamentally adjusted how the program’s funding worked, giving money to states in a lump sum and allowing the states to allocate their funding as they saw fit. In the early years, Clinton’s TANF reforms were extremely popular.

But over the past decade, poverty experts have reached a consensus that TANF no longer works, because states stopped using the money for the safety net programs. “TANF is not an effective program,” James Ziliak, director of the University of Kentucky’s Center for Poverty Research, told Vox last year — it’s served fewer and fewer families over the years.

This is a common misunderstanding of the longstanding effects of the 1996 welfare reform effort — and one that conservatives continue to push when proposing cuts to entitlement programs.

A misunderstanding of ’90s welfare reform is not the only faulty evidence the White House used when promoting the order signed on Tuesday. In a fact sheet sent to reporters, the White House cites the effectiveness of food stamp work requirements implemented in Kansas and Maine — the case studies often used to promote work requirements.

“Studies conducted after reforms in Maine and Kansas show that individuals who left welfare and went back to work saw their incomes increase, more than doubling on average; this increase more than offset the welfare benefits they lost. Welfare enrollment also dropped by 75 to 90 percent,” the White House said.

But a decrease in welfare enrollment isn’t an indication of much other than the federal government spending less money.

And a Center on Budget and Policy Priorities audit of the reports on Maine and Kansas found that when actually taking into account the loss of SNAP benefits after being cut off, the difference in income before and after reinstating the work requirements is much less stark than what the White House cited. The total resources (including earnings and SNAP benefits) available to SNAP participants who were cut off was 3 percent lower a year after the cutoff.

In other words, there is no clear indication that reimposing the three-month time limit reduced poverty levels. While CBPP did find some increase in wages, the slight differences aren’t necessarily because of the policy changes.

The CBPP notes that the economy was getting better in 2014 — the same time those work requirements were put into place.

These safety net programs are the last resort for millions of Americans

Republicans have long demanded reforms to the American welfare system, decrying bloated federal handout programs that they claim disincentives Americans from working. They argue that additional work requirements would encourage more people to get out of the cycle of poverty.

While poverty and welfare experts will point out there’s always room for reforms, the statistics paint a very different picture of how some of these conservative reforms actually play out.

For example, food stamp recipients are mostly children and elderly or disabled people. The number of able-bodied adults without dependents is slim, and not nearly enough to make up the numbers in savings that the projections for this proposal indicate. Waste and fraud in the program are also relatively inconsequential.

There is strong evidence that SNAP reduces food insecurity and improves health outcomes, especially among children, who make up the majority of SNAP beneficiaries. But the evidence from randomized studies of work requirements shows that they have little or no effect on poverty — and leave many people who aren’t induced to work without a safety net.

“It’s a false narrative,” Ziliak told me last year of a conservative proposal to cut food stamps. “The evidence shows that the program actually works. Not all programs work. But SNAP actually is one of those that does what it is supposed to be doing.”

As is, SNAP and TANF, which provide services like child care or income assistance, already have work requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents. Those requirements are often waived when the economy is doing poorly and reinstated when the job market is more stable, which is what Maine and Kansas did.

Already conservative lawmakers — like Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) have proposed harsher requirements at the federal level, like tightening the window individuals have to find a job from three months to one month, increasing the number of hours they have to work per month from 80 hours to 100, and extending the requirements to able-bodied adults with dependents.

It’s not clear what the Trump administration plans to propose, but they said reforms to SNAP and Medicaid are front and center.Fearing President Donald Trump might finally follow through on firing Robert Mueller, one Republican senator is pushing Congress to act on his bill protecting the special counsel.

Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC), who has a proposal to check Trump’s power to fire Mueller’s investigation, told reporters he wants the Senate Judiciary Committee to take up his bill.

“It’s a good bill that’s going to have enduring value beyond this presidency. I think the president’s frustrated, I may be if I were in the same position,” Tillis told Politico. “But I do think it’s a bill that’s worthy of a markup in Judiciary and sending it to the floor.”

Trump lashed out against Mueller’s probe Monday, calling it a “witch hunt” and the “end of attorney-client privilege” on Twitter after the FBI raided Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen’s office. Trump told reporters “many people” have told him to fire Mueller, adding, “we’ll see what happens.”

There are currently two bipartisan proposals — one from Tillis and Coons and another from Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) — that would put the decision to fire Mueller in front of a three-judge panel in federal courts. Both pieces haven’t had much momentum.

Many admit Trump’s attacks are getting “more intense.” But as Sen. Mike Rounds (R-SD) said Tuesday, when it comes to actually protecting Mueller, congressional Republicans are quick to come up with excuses.

Asked if Congress should act, Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA) told Vox recently he is “not sure it’s constitutional for us to tell the president who he can fire and can’t fire.”

Even Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), a perennial Trump critic, said he is “not convinced” the two proposals are constitutional. But conversations with legal experts show it’s not that simple.

“It is exasperating that lawmakers rely on such easily debunked constitutional concerns for political cover,” Steve Vladeck, a constitutional law expert with the University of Texas Austin’s law school, said.

The disagreement comes down to a longstanding scholarly debate about the constitutional separation of powers, a Supreme Court case from the 1980s, and a political environment that leaves Republicans reticent to involve themselves in anything Russia-related.

There are two bills to protect Mueller. Neither would actually prevent Trump from firing him.

Two bills have been proposed in the House and Senate to protect Mueller’s investigation — the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, from Graham and Booker, and the Special Counsel Integrity Act, from Tillis and Coons — that follow roughly the same framework: They would allow the White House’s decision to fire the special counsel to be put under judicial review.

Currently, the US attorney general can remove the special counsel “for misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or for other good cause, including violation of departmental policies.” Because Attorney General Jeff Sessions has recused himself from the investigation, in Mueller’s case, the power falls in the hands of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. There is no way for a special counsel to challenge that decision, even if there’s a case for wrongful termination.

These two bills try to fill that gap, establishing some oversight with a three-judge panel (made up of two District of Columbia district court judges and one US Court of Appeals judge). Neither proposal establishes the special counsel as an un-fireable position, nor does either even limit the White House’s power to fire Mueller.

The difference between the bills is when the judicial branch would get involved in the process of firing the special counsel. In the Graham-Booker bill, a special counsel “may only be removed if the Attorney General files an action in the United States District Court” and notifies relevant Senate and House Judiciary committees. In the Tillis-Coons bill, the special counsel must be informed in writing of the specific reason for being fired and is given a course of action to appeal the decision after the fact.

Whoever loses in court could then appeal to the Supreme Court. In practice, both proposals would actually be extremely modest measures, as Jonathan Turley, a legal scholar with George Washington University Law School, points out.

“[Good cause] is almost an unreviewable standard,” he said. “It would be very difficult for a court to review that kind of language. It’s unlikely that this legislation would materially increase protections for Mueller.”

Until now, the Republicans lawmakers who proposed these bills have downplayed the urgency of passing them into law. Graham said he only sponsored the bill to make his position on the Mueller investigation public. But Trump’s latest comments on the investigation has prompted Tillis to push for some action. Yet, each time Trump mounts another attack against Mueller, Republicans raise concerns that the bills might not be constitutional.

The constitutionality of protecting Mueller’s job, explained

So are these proposals to protect Mueller constitutional? The short answer is likely yes — but it’s not so clear-cut.

The conservative argument is that Congress can’t infringe on the executive authority; that constitutionally, the president maintains the power to control who serves in the executive branch. At a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the constitutionality of the two special counsel bills in September, which included testimony from legal scholars and experts, John Duffy of the University of Virginia School of Law said the “transfer of removal authority from the Executive to the Judicial Branch is almost certainly unconstitutional” under Booker and Graham’s proposal. Others like Vladeck, however, called the effort appropriate and in line with current legal precedent.

The conservative constitutional concerns go back to the 1988 Supreme Court case Morrison v. Olson, a 7-1 decision that upheld the Independent Counsel Act — a statute passed in the wake of Nixon’s firing of the Watergate special prosecutor that created an investigator role completely independent from the executive branch. Justice Antonin Scalia was the single dissent on the case, arguing that the independent counsel was a clear disruption of the separation of powers:

Frequently, an issue of this sort will come before the Court clad, so to speak, in sheep’s clothing: the potential of the asserted principle to effect important change in the equilibrium of power is not immediately evident, and must be discerned by a careful and perceptive analysis. But this wolf comes as a wolf.

Scalia said that a “governmental investigation and prosecution of crimes is a quintessentially executive function.” Despite the Court’s decision upholding the role of an independent counsel, Congress allowed the act to expire in 1999. In its place, there’s the special counsel, the role Mueller holds, which is largely the same on the merits but is not separate from the administration — the cause for a lot of debate among legal scholars.

“The special counsel is the creation of the attorney general or his designated subordinate; as such, the argument could be that any limitations intrude upon executive authority,” Turley said of the proposals to introduce a judicial review in a possible Mueller firing.

Vladeck says it cuts the other way entirely — that there is more room for protection precisely because the special counsel is under the Justice Department’s control.

“I find this public conversation so frustrating. Two things would have to be true for this to be unconstitutional: First, the Supreme Court would have to overrule Morrison and then go past Morrison and rule in the other direction,” Vladeck said, attributing the debate to a “disconnect between folks on the Hill and conservative and libertarian scholars.”

“The bottom line is Morrison v. Olson is still good law and we drafted our bill with that in mind,” Booker, who is sponsoring one of the proposals, said. “There are plenty of constitutional scholars who agree that our bill is on firm constitutional footing.”

The constitutionality debate is ultimately a political one

If Congress were to pursue a bill to add a layer of oversight to any staffing shake-ups in the Mueller investigation, Turley says there could be a “credible challenge to the bills, and it may be a toss-up when it gets to the Court.” To be sure, Congress doesn’t seem too eager to pursue these bills, and the Supreme Court has rarely overturned decisions made in such recent history.

Even so, this debate over constitutionality speaks to Republicans’ reluctance to actively involve themselves in the Russia investigation — a conversation on Capitol Hill that has the potential to change radically, should Democrats regain a majority in the House or Senate.

There’s no question that Trump has repeatedly pushed the line on attacking Mueller and his investigation. He reportedly tried to push Mueller out last June. Congressional conservatives have rallied around the White House in trying to discredit the investigation and the Russia allegations for months.

Two House Republicans, Ohio’s Jim Jordan and North Carolina’s Mark Meadows, known for their close relationship with Trump, even called for Jeff Sessions to resign for allowing the Russia investigation to get out of hand.

Republican leaders have taken a markedly different tone. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell spoke to the credibility of Mueller’s investigation and said it should be allowed to conclude without any impediments.

Senator have also made clear that the stakes of Trump actually firing Mueller would be very high. Graham said firing Mueller “would be the beginning of the end of his presidency,” and Kennedy added that Trump knows better than to fire Mueller. “He’s too smart,” he said.

And when it comes to actually acting, for Republicans Trump actually firing Mueller is the only red line.Special counsel Robert Mueller has gotten a cooperator in the Russia investigation. And he’s testified about what, exactly, happened at a mysterious meeting between a Trump associate and a Russian fund manager in the Seychelles, an East African archipelago nation in the Indian Ocean.

The New York Times’s Mark Mazzetti, David Kirkpatrick, and Adam Goldman reported in March that George Nader — an adviser to the de facto leader of the United Arab Emirates — is cooperating with Mueller’s probe. In a sign of his importance to the investigation, Nader testified before a grand jury.

That’s big because Nader helped organize, and attended, that curious Seychelles meeting on January 11, 2017, shortly before Trump’s inauguration. The meeting brought together Erik Prince, Trump donor and founder of the private security company Blackwater, with Kirill Dmitriev, who manages a Russian sovereign wealth fund and is thought to be close to Vladimir Putin.

Anonymous sources have long claimed to reporters that the purpose of the Seychelles meeting was for Trump’s team to covertly communicate with Putin’s team. After all, it happened just weeks after Jared Kushner reportedly told the Russians that he wanted to set up a back channel through which they could communicate.

But Prince has hotly denied that that’s what happened, including in sworn testimony last year. He said he just made the Seychelles trip for business reasons, that he was in no way representing Trump, and that the meeting with Dmitriev was both entirely unplanned on his end and completely uneventful.

It appears, though, that Nader is telling the grand jury otherwise. The Washington Post’s Sari Horwitz and Devlin Barrett reported that Nader is saying the meeting was “an effort to establish a back channel between the incoming administration and the Kremlin” — and that Mueller has other evidence to that effect, as well.

We don’t yet know the specifics of what Nader is saying as part of his semi-voluntary cooperation (the FBI questioned him at Dulles Airport after a flight and seized his electronics, per the Times). But if Prince was acting on the Trump’s team behalf, it would demolish months’ worth of denials from both him and the White House that he was doing any such thing. It would would raise serious questions about why, exactly, all parties involved were so set on keeping the Seychelles meeting secret.

And on Tuesday, Erin Banco reported for NJ Advance Media that there may be yet more to the Seychelles story. According to Banco’s sources, Mueller is digging into not just one but several Seychelles meetings from 2017 that “wealthy and politically-connected individuals” were involved in. Details on the other meetings and Mueller’s interest in them remain scant for now, but here’s what we know about the January 11 meeting that Erik Prince took part in.

The cast of characters for Erik Prince’s Seychelles meeting

The people present to meet at the Seychelles on January 11, 2017, included the following:

Erik Prince is the founder of Blackwater, the private security/mercenary company that scored big contracts from George W. Bush’s administration (and some of whose employees were accused of killing Iraqi civilians). Prince has since sold Blackwater (which renamed itself) and gone out in search of new lines of mercenary business.

Prince donated about $250,000 to Trump’s campaign and to outside groups supporting Trump and was in contact with Steve Bannon during the transition. He also happens to be the brother of controversial Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.

MBZ, or Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, is the crown prince and de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates. MBZ did business with Erik Prince several years ago — the UAE awarded Prince a contract worth several hundred million dollars “to help assemble an internal paramilitary force,” per the Washington Post. Diplomatically, the UAE regime is close to Saudi Arabia and unfriendly to Qatar and Iran.

George Nader, a Lebanese-American business executive who has a decades-long history in international diplomacy, has lately advised MBZ. He visited the White House several times in 2017. He also at one point consulted for Blackwater.

Kirill Dmitriev manages the Russian Direct Investment Fund, a $10 billion Russian government-established sovereign wealth fund that’s under US sanctions. He’s believed to be close to Vladimir Putin. His fund was until recently part of the Russian government-owned bank Vnesheconombank, or VEB.

Finally, there’s the setting — the Seychelles Islands is a tropical archipelago nation a few hundred miles off the coast of eastern Africa. Its government brags that it is “the kind of place where you can have a good time away from the media.”

The context of the Seychelles meeting

Potentially relevant context for the main Seychelles meeting is that there were several other meetings of the various factions involved the month before, mostly happening in Trump Tower.

On December 1, 2016, Jared Kushner and Michael Flynn met secretly in Trump Tower with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak. Kislyak reported back to his bosses that at this meeting, Kushner said he wanted to set up a secret communications channel between the Trump team and Russia. (Kushner denies that this happened.)

Days later, the Washington Post received an anonymous letter revealing that this secret meeting happened and who was present (though they couldn’t confirm it for several more months). The letter also claimed that at the meeting, Kushner, Flynn, and Kislyak discussed setting up a meeting between a Trump representative and a Russian in some third country, and concluded Flynn was too high-profile to go.

On December 12, Kislyak returned to Trump Tower and met with Kushner’s deputy. Then on the following day, Sergey Gorkov, the head of the Russian government-owned bank VEB, stopped by to meet with Kushner. Again, these meetings remained secret for months.

Then on December 15, 2016, a little over a month after Trump won the presidential election, the United Arab Emirates crown prince, MBZ, flew to the United States. There, he met with several Trump transition officials, including Flynn, Kushner, and Bannon. What was strange about this was that MBZ did not inform the Obama administration that he was traveling to the US, as major foreign leaders usually do. Trump’s team didn’t disclose the meeting either, and it too remained secret for several months.

Erik Prince also visited Trump Tower twice during the transition, to meet with Bannon, he later testified.

What happened in the Seychelles: Erik Prince’s account

Prince’s story of how he ended up going to the Seychelles and what took place there, which he gave under oath to the House Intelligence Committee on November 30, 2017, is as follows:

One day, an aide to MBZ, the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates, invited Prince to fly out to the Seychelles and meet MBZ, offering few details. Prince characterizes the invitation as: “His Highness would like to see you if you can come out to the Seychelles.” Prince says he understood this as an invitation “to talk about potential business.”

So Prince accepted and flew out there on January 11, 2017. A meeting of about an hour ensued with MBZ, “a couple of his brothers,” and others in his entourage. They discussed general issues in the field, but no specific business proposal was made.

Toward the end of the meeting, Prince testified, someone in MBZ’s party casually “mentioned a guy I should meet who was also in town to see them, a Kirill Dmitriev from Russia, who ran some sort of hedge fund.” (Prince did not name Nader in his testimony.)

Prince accepted, and met Dmitriev at the hotel bar one on one for no more than 30 minutes. They discussed general issues in the field, but no specific business proposal was made. Prince then stayed in the hotel that night and left the next morning.

Overall, the meeting with Dmitriev was so uneventful that, he claims, he couldn’t even remember the man’s name a few months later. There was no follow-up to it. And Prince certainly never claimed in any way to be acting on behalf of Donald Trump.

Was this the secret US-Russia backchannel meeting that Kushner reportedly wanted?

The Washington Post was the first to unearth the Seychelles meeting, in a report by Adam Entous, Greg Miller, Kevin Sieff, and Karen DeYoung published in April 2017, which was sourced to anonymous “U.S., European and Arab officials.” Their account of why and how the meeting happened was very different from Prince’s. They write:

Following the New York meeting between the Emiratis and Trump aides, Zayed was approached by Prince, who said he was authorized to act as an unofficial surrogate for the president-elect, according to the officials. He wanted Zayed to set up a meeting with a Putin associate. Zayed agreed and proposed the Seychelles as the meeting place because of the privacy it would afford both sides.

So, per the Post’s sources, it was Erik Prince who said he wanted the meeting, who said he was acting as a surrogate for President-elect Trump, and who asked MBZ’s team to put him in touch with a Putin confidant. The whole purpose of the meeting was to be a back channel between Trump’s team and Putin’s team.

That would sure seem to make sense, since all this happened shortly after Kushner reportedly said he wanted to establish a secret back channel with Russia, and both MBZ and Prince made their own trips to see Trump officials not long after that. However, there was no actual proof of this.

Nader — and Mueller’s investigation more generally — could be providing the proof. It does not appear that Nader has been charged with anything, but the Times reported that when he landed at Dulles Airport on January 17 of this year, the FBI was waiting for him, at Mueller’s behest. They served him with a subpoena, questioned him, and seized his electronics. They’ve questioned him several more times since and he went before a grand jury for testimony.

It’s also worth noting that Michael Flynn has been cooperating with Mueller’s investigators since early December and we haven’t seen any of the fruits of his cooperation yet. Flynn was present in the meeting in which Kushner reportedly told Kislyak he wanted a back channel. He was also present when Kushner and Bannon met MBZ. He may well have told Mueller why the Seychelles meeting happened.

And if the Seychelles meeting was a back channel, what actually came of it?

If it were to be proven that the Trump team wanted to set up the Seychelles meeting, the question would remain about what actually happened there — and why those involved wanted so badly to keep it secret.

One potential topic is, of course, the incoming administration’s foreign policy. In the first Post report on the meeting, their sources claimed that one topic of discussion was “whether Russia could be persuaded to curtail its relationship with Iran, including in Syria,” a topic that was very much of interest to the UAE.

But if this were merely about essentially aboveboard foreign policy discussions, it’s unclear why they would have had to happen with such secrecy, through a back channel. (Rather than just waiting nine days for Trump to be sworn in.)

Was money involved? The Russian who went to the meeting, Kirill Dmitriev, is a moneyman, after all. So is Sergey Gorkov, who met with Jared Kushner in Trump Tower weeks earlier. What’s more, Dmitriev’s fund was until 2016 actually part of the Russian government-owned bank Gorkov runs, VEB.

Furthermore, a recent Times report said that Mueller “appears to be examining the influence of foreign money on Mr. Trump’s political activities,” and has previously asked whether Nader “funneled money from the Emirates to the president’s political efforts.” So he does seem to be following some sort of money trail.

Finally, and perhaps most obviously of all, there’s the possibility that this happened so that Trump’s team and Putin’s could secretly communicate about Russian interference in the 2016 campaign. So far, there’s no specific evidence that that’s the case. But we clearly haven’t heard the last of the Seychelles meeting.Hundreds of National Guard members from Texas and Arizona are already gathering at the US-Mexico border, barely a week after President Trump first floated the possibility in public.

But we still don’t know how many troops will end up deployed there or which states they’ll come from. And we still don’t know what exactly they’re doing, or why they’re needed at a time when border crossings are still way lower than they were for decades.

Trump administration officials defend the lack of detail about the Guard by saying they don’t want to tip off the drug and human smugglers they’re ostensibly trying to disrupt. But the mobilization of the National Guard to the border certainly does not appear to be the result of months of careful planning, to say the least. And the best policy argument for sending the National Guard right now isn’t about anything the Guard will actually do — it’s that simply having the Guard there will be enough to scare people out of trying to come to the US.

Trump’s Department of Defense authorized up to 4,000 National Guard troops ...

When the National Guard deployment was announced last week, administration officials refused to put a number on how many troops would actually be deployed. “We’re not going to the Department of Defense and saying ‘We need X number of people,’” one senior administration official said. “We’re going to the Department of Defense and saying, ‘We need to fulfill this mission.’”

The mobilization order that Defense Secretary James Mattis signed Friday didn’t really define any explicit goals for the mission, though. It did set a number: Up to 4,000 National Guard troops could be mobilized by governors for full-time active duty on the border. (Specifically, Mattis’s order invoked Title 32 of the US Code, which covers training and other full-time Guard duties — and which is exempt from the Posse Comitatus Act’s strict limitations on military activity on US soil.)

But which states those 4,000 troops would come from still wasn’t defined.

... but so far, border states are only sending a fraction of that

National Guard troops from Texas and Arizona have already been sent to the US-Mexico border — but only a few hundred from each state.

One hundred Texas Guard members were already at the border as part of an ongoing support operation. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott sent 150 more troops over the weekend. Their job, according to ABC News, was “to discuss the mission, including how many more guardsmen will be needed” — in other words, 150 Guard troops were sent to decide how many more Guard units to send.

Abbott is now saying that Texas plans to send about 300 more Guard members a week “until we get it staffed up” — saying the total Texas National Guard deployment could be over 1,000 troops. It’s not clear where exactly those troops will be — Texas’s share of the US-Mexico border spans five different Customs and Border Protection “sectors,” and the 150-member weekend delegation met with officials from all five.

Arizona is sending a few hundred more. According to its governor, Doug Ducey, 225 National Guard troops were deployed Monday, and another 113 will be deployed over the next few days. (The Arizona Guard troops were sent to the “Yuma and Tucson sectors” of the border, according to Politico — but since the Yuma and Tucson sectors cover the entire Arizona share of the US-Mexico border, that isn’t terribly specific.)

That’s still only a third of the 4,000 National Guard units that could theoretically be covered under the federal government’s order. And it’s not clear where the rest might come from.

New Mexico’s Republican governor, Susana Martinez, made supportive statements when the Guard mobilization was announced last week, but hasn’t made any specific commitments yet. California’s Democratic governor, Jerry Brown, sounded a lot more skeptical of the need for the Guard, and it’s not clear whether he’ll send any troops at all.

Non-border states could step in to fill the gap. The governors of Arkansas, North Dakota, South Carolina, and Wisconsin have all said they’d send National Guard units if asked. Meanwhile, governors from several other states — including some Republicans, like Brian Sandoval in Nevada — have already said they would not agree to send their state’s National Guard to the border.

The National Guard won’t carry guns at the border and can’t make arrests

Both of Trump’s predecessors got state governors to mobilize National Guard troops at the border, as Vox’s Tara Golshan has explained. George W. Bush called National Guard troops to the border in May 2006, and Barack Obama mobilized 1,200 National Guard troops for border enforcement in May 2010. (In 2014, Texas Gov. Rick Perry mobilized 1,000 National Guard members to the border to help process unaccompanied children from Central America entering the US.)

National Guard troops aren’t sent to the border to literally fight off immigrants — that’s still illegal. The federal government assured the government of Mexico last week that Guard units wouldn’t be armed, and the federal mobilization order said “arming will be limited to circumstances that might require self-defense.”

They aren’t authorized to arrest immigrants, either. In fact, the order Mattis signed doesn’t let Guard units interact with immigrants at all — it said that Guard units would not “perform law enforcement duties or interact with migrants or other persons detained by US personnel” without further approval from the Pentagon. This would prevent the Guard from helping process migrants after Border Patrol agents apprehended them, as they did under Obama.

What does that leave? It’s not clear. Under Obama, the National Guard did some surveillance and intelligence work to help Border Patrol agents track down immigrants — Mattis’s order didn’t clarify whether that would count as “law enforcement” or not.

Under Bush, the National Guard mostly helped build infrastructure like roads at the border. That option is still open.

But it’s also entirely possible that the National Guard will spend the bulk of its time under Trump in 2018 the same way it spent most of its time under Obama in 2010: standing around.

Border crossings are at historic lows — and many people coming are seeking asylum

In March 2018, the last month for which statistics are available, Border Patrol agents caught 37,393 immigrants attempting to cross the US-Mexico border.

The month before President Obama mobilized the National Guard, 55,237 immigrants — one and a half times as many — had been apprehended. And in April 2006, the month before Bush did it, Border Patrol apprehended 126,538 immigrants — more than three times as many as there were last month.

Because border crossings are seasonal, looking at March versus April isn’t a perfect comparison. But here’s another way to look at it: From January to March 2018, an average of 30,012 immigrants were apprehended crossing the border each month. During that same time period in 2010, before Obama’s mobilization, the average was 46,312. And from January to March 2006, months before Bush called on the National Guard, the monthly average was 128,979.

It might seem backward to measure how secure the border is based on how many people are being caught, but that’s the way Border Patrol has historically done it. It was the basis for Trump’s brag a year ago that he’d set records for border security. Now, apprehensions are a little higher than they were a year ago but still haven’t returned to the levels they were at before the Great Recession — or for decades before that. (The average March under Obama saw about 46,600 apprehensions; the average March under Bush saw 132,325.)

Furthermore, many of the people who are coming to the US right now are people who are trying to turn themselves in to Border Patrol as a way to seek legal status in the US. They’re unaccompanied children, or families, from Central America; they might be trying to claim asylum because they fear persecution or torture in their home countries.

National Guard troops can certainly help process those people, helping set them up with asylum officers to screen them and coordinating with other agencies to transfer them into custody while they wait for their cases to be resolved.

But that’s not what the Trump administration says it’s doing. It says it’s mobilizing the National Guard because there’s a threat.

The best argument for deploying the National Guard is to deter people from coming to the US to begin with

Deploying the National Guard to help guard the border won’t have a huge impact on drug smuggling, which is much more common through ports of entry — airports, seaports, road crossings — than by sneaking across the border. And it won’t prevent people who are trying to cross the US to seek asylum from being able to do so.

What administration officials are explicitly hoping it does is send a message to people who haven’t yet left their home countries to seek asylum but are considering doing so. “For individuals thinking about paying a smuggler to come up to the United States right now, that would be an unwise investment,” a senior administration official said Wednesday.

The argument here — made by Obama’s administration as well as Trump’s — is that the journey from Central America to the United States is a horrific one that people must be prevented from taking at any cost. Because people make a horrific journey out of hope of legal status on the other side, shutting that down will deter them from the horrible journey.

The decision to migrate is always made by a mix of “push factors” — the things that compel you to leave where you are — and “pull factors,” the things that compel you to go some specific place else. Immigration hawks tend to believe that any leniency in US policy — or even any discussion of a potential future leniency — is one of the most powerful “pull factors,” and that ending that pull is a good reason not to be lenient.

While some academics insist that stricter enforcement doesn’t really affect immigration patterns, most analysts agree that it’s certainly a factor; after all, people decide to migrate if the rewards outweigh the risks, and if the reward is unlikely that makes the risk less palatable.

In the first few months of Trump’s presidency, way fewer people — especially way fewer children and families — tried to enter the US than had in the previous months, and Trump happily took credit for it. He might even have deserved it.

Apprehension data of the past several years shows that after the US cracks down on people seeking humanitarian protections, fewer people — especially fewer children and families — are willing to try.

It certainly appears to be the case that at least some people were deterred from trying to come to the US because they were worried about what Trump would do to them if they did (though that doesn’t necessarily mean they were safe in their home countries).

But the effect didn’t last, because the Trump administration couldn’t drastically change how it treated people who said they feared persecution, or who were coming alone as children or in family groups. It was hemmed in by the law. Even as it deploys National Guard troops to the border, the administration is trying to push Congress to change those laws.

It may be the case, in other words, that even the people deploying the National Guard to the border don’t see it as a permanent solution but a stopgap to scare people out of trying to come to the US until Congress makes the US a less welcome place for them. The question is whether even a National Guard-protected border will really be scarier than the countries they’re trying to leave.A month into his presidency, Donald Trump lamented that the US no longer wins wars as it once did.

“When I was young, in high school and college, everybody used to say we never lost a war,” Trump told a group of US governors last February. “Now, we never win a war.”

Dominic Tierney, a professor at Swarthmore College and the author of multiple books about how America wages war, may know the reason why.

He believes the US can still successfully fight the wars of yesteryear — World War-style conflicts — but hasn’t yet mastered how to win wars against insurgents, which are smaller fights against groups within countries. The problem is the US continues to involve itself in those kinds of fights.

“We’re still stuck in this view that war is like the Super Bowl: We meet on the field, both sides have uniforms, we score points, someone wins, and when the game ends you go home,” he told me. “That’s not what war is like now.”

The US military is currently mired in conflicts in countries like Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, and Yemen. It’s hard to see any end in sight — especially an end where the United States is the victor, however that’s defined.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Alex Ward

During his first year in office, Trump got the US more deeply involved in wars, with the goal of defeating terrorists in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, and Somalia. But has this put the US on course to end these fights?

Dominic Tierney

Victory may be asking a lot.

Since 1945, the United States has very rarely achieved meaningful victory. The United States has fought five major wars — Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War, Iraq, Afghanistan — and only the Gulf War in 1991 can really be classified as a clear success.

There are reasons for that, primarily the shift in the nature of war to civil conflicts, where the United States has struggled. Trump himself recognized this: He said on the campaign trail numerous times that we used to win wars and we don’t win anymore. And he has promised to turn the page on this era of defeat and said that we were going to get sick and tired of winning.

But will he channel that observation into winning wars? I doubt it.

The nature of war continues to be these difficult internal conflicts in places like Afghanistan, where the United States has struggled long before Trump ever dreamed of running for president.

Alex Ward

So what constitutes victory in war today, and has that changed from the past?

Dominic Tierney

The famous war theorist Carl von Clausewitz argued that war is the continuation of politics by other means. So war is not just about blowing things up — it’s about achieving political goals.

The United States, up until 1945, won virtually all the major wars that it fought. The reason is those wars were overwhelmingly wars between countries. The US has always been very good at that.

But that kind of war has become the exception. If you look around the world today, about 90 percent of wars are civil wars. These are complex insurgencies, sometimes involving different rebel groups, where the government faces a crisis of legitimacy.

The US has found, for various reasons, that it’s far more difficult to achieve its goals in these cases. The three longest wars in US history are Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan — all from recent decades, all these complex types of civil wars.

Alex Ward

On its face, this seems to be a paradox: The US can win on the battlefield against a major military force, but we can’t seem to win these smaller wars.

Dominic Tierney

Yes. And even more surprising: It’s when the US became a superpower and created the best-trained, strongest military the world has ever seen, around 1945, that the US stopped winning wars.

The answer to the puzzle is that American power turned out to be a double-edged sword.

The US was so powerful after World War II, especially after the Soviet Union disappeared, that Washington was tempted to intervene in distant conflicts around the world in places like Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan.

We ended up intervening in countries where we had little cultural understanding. To illustrate this, in 2006 — at the height of the Iraq War — there were 1,000 officials in the US embassy in Baghdad, but only six of them spoke Arabic.

In addition, the US military has failed to adapt to this new era of war. The US military has this playbook for success against countries: technology, big-unit warfare, and so on. And when we started fighting insurgents, it was natural that we would turn to that same playbook.

Alex Ward

So we might not have much cultural understanding of the places where we’re fighting, but we have greater technology and better fighting forces. Why can’t we overcome this obstacle?

Dominic Tierney

The reason, again, comes down to the difference between an interstate [more traditional] war and a counterinsurgency, or nation-building mission.

One difference is that we cannot easily see the enemy. In an interstate war, the enemy is wearing uniforms, we know where they are on a map. In a counterinsurgency they are hiding in the population.

Now, the US military is capable of hitting any target with pinpoint accuracy using the latest hardware. But what if we don’t know where the enemy is? A lot of that technology, which is really impressive, turns out to be irrelevant.

Alex Ward

It seems like we have two problems here. We haven’t corrected our way of thinking to deal with insurgencies or civil wars, and then we keep getting involved in those kinds of wars, despite the fact that we’re ill-prepared to deal with them.

Why do we keep falling into this trap?

Dominic Tierney

One answer is we basically believe in illusions — the idea that nation-building and counterinsurgency will be avoided.

Look at Iraq, where the United States believed it could topple Saddam Hussein and basically leave as quickly as possible. We would overthrow the tyrant and then the Iraqi people would be free to create their own democracy. That was based on massive overconfidence about what would happen after Hussein fell.

So why do we go to war if we hate counterinsurgency and we struggle at it? The reason is the White House convinces itself it doesn’t need to stabilize or help rebuild a country after a war. But it’s not just the Bush administration — think of the Obama administration too.

Barack Obama was a very thoughtful president and talked at length about his foreign policy thinking. At the heart of the Obama doctrine was “no more Iraq War.” And yet he basically made the same mistake in Libya, where there was very little planning for what would occur after Muammar Qaddafi was overthrown in 2011. In fact, Obama went on the record saying that the Libya intervention was his worst mistake a president.

Alex Ward

So if it really is a bunch of wishful illusions and incorrect assumptions, how do we avoid that? We have tons of evidence that things don’t go our way when we get involved in these kinds of wars. We don’t seem to learn from our mistakes.

Dominic Tierney

We don’t learn very well from history. Presidents convince themselves that the next time will be different.

The lesson Obama took from Iraq was not to allow any US ground forces to get involved in nation-building. Since Obama was willing to support regime change, the end result was going to be the overthrow of Qaddafi with no real plan to stabilize Libya.

If a thoughtful president like Obama — who was very cognizant of the errors of Iraq — can do that, it suggests that any president would be capable of doing that.

Alex Ward

It seems like one of the problems is that we’re involving ourselves in these wars with little preparation. How do we solve that?

Dominic Tierney

We need better language training, cultural training, more resources for special forces — and that would mean less money spent on nuclear attack submarines, for example.

Second, once we improve America’s ability for stabilization missions, we deploy the US military with greater care and fight fewer wars. That means when we do fight, we have a better plan to win the peace.

Alex Ward

But then there’s another problem: Sometimes groups like ISIS arise, and US leaders and many Americans want the military to take them out. So when the president is faced with the option to target a group like ISIS with airpower, some would argue that it’s better, politically, to do that.

Dominic Tierney

The US doesn’t think several moves ahead. The US military is good at taking out bad guys. But the removal of the bad guy creates a power vacuum, and that power vacuum is filled by somebody else.

In Afghanistan, we created disorder and then the Taliban returned — the power vacuum there was also filled by ISIS. And in Iraq, the vacuum was filled by militant groups, most notably al-Qaeda in Iraq. In Libya, the vacuum was filled by a complicated range of militant groups.

The mood in the US is: “We just killed ISIS, let’s go home and close the book on the ISIS war.” Well, there’s more to the story.

Alex Ward

The Trump administration says it will pay less attention to defeating terrorists and will now focus more on battling back growing Chinese and Russian power.

That new strategic focus means we’ll change the kinds of weapons we buy and the kind of training our troops do. But I don’t see the US stopping its fight against terrorism. Does this preparation for a different style of war — while still fighting another — put the US in an awkward position?

Dominic Tierney

I think it does.

There is a desire to shift from difficult nation-building missions toward countering great-power challengers like Russia and especially China. But this isn’t very new. The Obama administration wanted to pivot to Asia and the China challenge. And then what happened? We ended up being engaged against ISIS.

I tend to think that the pivot to China is sort of like Waiting for Godot — it never arrives. And I think the United States is going to get drawn back into these civil wars and these kinds of messy conflicts, particularly in the broader Middle East. The odds of conflict between the US and China are very low; the odds of the US engaging in another civil war in the next five years are extremely high.

Alex Ward

Based on this conversation, victory in war seems to be how we define it, or, rather, will it to be. The US sets its victory goals low, but we don’t even meet those lower goals. Why can’t we get over this hump?

Dominic Tierney

We’re still stuck in this view that war is like the Super Bowl: We meet on the field, both sides have uniforms, we score points, someone wins, and when the game ends you go home. That’s not what war is like now. Now there are tons of civilians on the field, the enemy team doesn’t wear a uniform, and the game never ends. We need to know there’s no neat ending.

The costs of this problem have been so catastrophic for the United States, in the form of thousands of military lives and billions of dollars spent. It’s time we fundamentally rethink our vision of what war is.Last week, a federal judge ruled that at least one kind of gun ban is constitutional: the assault weapons ban. US District Judge William Young concluded that Massachusetts’s prohibition does not violate the Second Amendment — and dismissed a lawsuit against the law. The decision could eventually end up in higher courts, but for now it’s a big victory for gun control advocates.

The assault weapons ban has become one of the top policy proposals from March for Our Lives and other gun control advocates. But it’s also one of the gun control measures with the least supportive evidence behind it.

The typical argument for the ban: Weapons of war have no place in American communities. These high-velocity, high-capacity weapons are particularly deadly, even more so than other semiautomatic firearms such as handguns. They have also been used disproportionately in mass shootings. And they aren’t needed for hunting or self-defense. So they should be banned altogether.

All these claims have a certain intuitive sense behind them. What they don’t have, however, is a whole lot of empirical evidence, based on my discussions with gun policy experts and researchers. Studies on assault weapons bans have generally ranged from inconclusive to unfavorable toward a ban.

That doesn’t mean an assault weapons ban would have absolutely no effect. Consider the 2017 mass shooting in Las Vegas. In that case, the gunman parked himself on the 32nd floor of a hotel near a country music concert and fired indiscriminately into the crowd with assault weapons — which were also retooled with bump stocks to mimic the firepower of machine guns. He killed 58 people and injured hundreds.

Bump stock or not, it stands to reason that the shooting would have been much less lethal if the shooter didn’t use an assault weapon and used, say, a more conventional handgun instead. The bullets would have had shorter range, and those that hit would have had lower velocity and therefore caused less damage. In a shooting with such a high casualty count, that could’ve translated to potentially hundreds of injuries averted — although the shooter also could have changed his approach without access to assault weapons.

Still, it’s worth putting this in context: This kind of violence is already relatively infrequent. Mass shooting deaths make up less than 4 percent of gun homicides in the US, while shootings with rifles, including assault weapons, make up less than 3 percent. So pushing assault weapons out of circulation wouldn’t have a big impact on overall gun violence in America, even if it has some impact on some particularly awful tragedies.

These are just some of the complications that limit an assault weapons ban’s effectiveness. So while the policy may seem intuitive, there isn’t much evidence to support it — and in a world with limited political capital for gun reforms, those gaps in the research need to be taken seriously.

Previous bans had no significant effect on gun crime

The most cited review of the evidence is a 2013 analysis by researcher Christopher Koper on the effect of the 1994 federal assault weapons ban, which lawmakers let expire in 2004.

The analysis concluded, “The ban did not appear to affect gun crime during the time it was in effect, but some evidence suggests it may have modestly reduced gunshot victimizations had it remained in place for a longer period.”

That was partially, Koper wrote, because the 1994 ban was riddled with loopholes.

To understand why, consider a surprisingly tricky question in this discussion: What is an assault weapon, and how do you define it? For lawmakers, these questions have posed a challenge over the years.

People might have a vision of an assault weapon in their heads — say, a semiautomatic rifle like an AR-15 — but defining what makes that an assault weapon can be difficult. Is it that it’s semiautomatic? Well, there are semiautomatic handguns and hunting rifles too. Is it the high velocity and long range? Traditional hunting rifles can also have those features. Is it the pistol grip? That offers an easy way around the law then — if someone could just remove a pistol grip, then it’s no longer an illegal assault weapon.

Ultimately, the 1994 ban settled on a definition of assault weapons that included, among other features, “pistol grips on rifles, flash hiders, folding rifle stocks, threaded barrels for attaching silencers, and the ability to accept ammunition magazines holding large numbers of bullets,” as well as some specific guns by name and “copies or duplicates” of them, Koper wrote. That captured some handguns, on top of the rifles that people might typically think of as assault weapons.

But the ban was still easily bypassed, Koper noted: “Relatively cosmetic changes, such as removing a flash hider or bayonet mount, were thus sufficient to transform a banned weapon into a legal substitute. In this sense, the law is perhaps best understood not as a gun ban but as a law that restricted weapon accessories.” Gun manufacturers took advantage of this, producing modified versions of previous weapons to make them legal — blowing a big hole in the law.

Plus, guns made and owned prior to the ban were grandfathered in, making them legal to own and transfer. That comprised at least 1.5 million assault weapons in the US at the start of the ban, according to Koper.

This gets into another tricky aspect of banning assault weapons: Do past guns get to stay around, or are there efforts to take those out of circulation through, for instance, a buyback program or a mandatory registration-and-tax scheme (similar to current laws for automatic weapons)? The 1994 ban took the former approach, but March for Our Lives has called for the latter with a new ban.

The 1994 ban was also attached to a ban on high-capacity magazines that carried more than 10 rounds, which Koper suggested was arguably the law’s “most important provision.” That’s in part because this ban also affected the firearms that weren’t covered by the assault weapons ban, so it could affect a much broader level of gun violence. Indeed, a study from February by Koper suggested that high-capacity magazines may be involved more often in typical shooting deaths than previously thought.

But at the end of the day, Koper found that the 1994 ban had no significant effect on gun crime — although it may have had some modest effects if it had been allowed to stay around for longer and over time pushed more assault weapons and high-capacity magazines out of circulation.

Koper’s analysis had two big gaps: It didn’t look at the 1994 ban’s effect on mass shootings, and it didn’t analyze state laws.

For that, the best review of the evidence is an extensive report by the RAND Corporation released in March, which looked at US studies on gun control, including assault weapons bans at the state level.

Here, too, the news is not good for an assault weapons ban. RAND found that the available studies were often contradictory. Focusing specifically on the most rigorous studies, RAND found the evidence for bans’ effects on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines on mass shootings and violent crime in general to be “inconclusive.”

“None of [the studies] provided what we considered to be any kind of conclusive evidence,” Andrew Morral, the head of RAND’s gun policy initiative, told me.

“The studies are pretty weak,” Morral said. “Also, a lot of these bans have been pretty weak” — noting many of the same loopholes that the Koper analysis did.

But what if an assault weapons ban wasn’t weak — and really took these guns out of circulation? The US could, for example, follow Australia’s lead and ban a much broader category of semiautomatic rifles and institute a mandatory buyback program — basically, a firearm confiscation scheme. Would that have a significant effect?

A ban would have little effect on overall gun violence but maybe some on mass shootings

Experts said that even a more effective ban on assault weapons likely wouldn’t have much of an impact on overall gun violence in the US.

That’s because only a small percentage of overall gun violence involves assault weapons, with the great majority of firearm homicides involving more conventional handguns. And Morral said there’s no reason to believe an assault weapons ban would have any effect on suicides, which have in recent years made up around 60 percent of all gun deaths.

In a country with so many gun deaths, cutting even a percentage point or two of overall gun deaths could still save hundreds of lives a year. But in terms of addressing America’s overall gun problem, it just wouldn’t have a big impact.

Still, experts said that an assault weapons ban may have a significant effect on the lethality of mass shootings.

Assault weapons’ “functionality is really most relevant in the context of a public mass shooting,” Daniel Webster, the director at the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research, told me.

The research still isn’t good in this area, in large part because there is no single accepted database for tracking mass shootings and what weapons they involve. But there are some analyses that can be drawn on.

Previous research by criminologist James Alan Fox suggests that the 1994 ban did not have an appreciable effect on the number of mass shootings.

But Webster argued that although the ban’s end in 2004 may not have resulted in more mass shootings, it might have resulted in more mass shooting deaths. He also pointed out that since the 1994 ban left so many guns in circulation and therefore could only phase out assault weapons over time, it should be expected that the ban could only have a gradual effect.

Webster cited an unpublished analysis of Mother Jones’s public mass shootings database: “When you fit a statistical model that fits a gradual impact [and looks at a counterfactual in which a ban isn’t in place] … the number of people who are shot in public mass shootings goes down roughly by 10 percent every year that the law was in place.” He cautioned that this is preliminary data, but it suggests that the federal assault weapons ban really did cut the lethality of mass shootings.

Morral, meanwhile, pointed to a 2017 analysis from the gun control advocacy group Everytown, which suggested that assault weapons weren’t used in a majority of mass shootings but did make these events deadlier.

RAND summarized the findings: “Another analysis that focused on mass shooting events involving four or more fatalities between 2009 and 2016 reported that 15 of these incidents (11 percent) involved an assault weapon or high-capacity magazine, resulting in 155 percent more injuries and 47 percent more fatalities compared with other incidents.”

“That’s probably the case: You would get fewer deaths in mass shootings,” Morral said, clarifying that this is based on inference, not the results of specific studies. “That’s not nothing, but it’s a small proportion of total firearm homicides.”

This, then, is where one should expect the effect of a stringent assault weapons ban to fall. And certainly, that would matter to groups like March for Our Lives — which formed after a school shooting in which the gunman used an assault weapon.

But if March for Our Lives wants to address broader gun violence — as it suggested it did during its big Washington, DC, event — then the research suggests that it’s going to have to think about other policies too.

Other gun policies could do more — and have popular support

March for Our Lives has put forward other proposals. Its official five-point plan calls for more gun violence research, strengthening the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, and universal background checks, on top of its demand for an assault weapons ban and a ban on high-capacity magazines.

Based on the empirical research into assault weapons bans, it might be more prudent to focus on the other policies. In a world with limited political capital, the assault weapons ban’s limitations are an important part of the discussion. And while bans on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines (which, again, typically go hand in hand) do have 65-plus percent support in Pew surveys, they face far more opposition from Republicans than other measures — and therefore would struggle to get through a Senate process that would likely require bipartisan support.

“If my child was injured or killed in a mass shooting with an assault rifle, I would be outraged, and I would say that it’s unacceptable, and I would want to ban them — and that’s completely legitimate and appropriate,” Webster said. But, he added, other measures would go further in reducing overall gun violence.

To this end, universal background checks — which are included in the March for Our Lives plan — could help. The RAND report, for one, found evidence that background checks are linked to a reduction in firearm homicides and suicides.

There are other measures not included in the March for Our Lives plan that experts argue could do more to mitigate gun violence. Webster said that gun licensing and permitting schemes — which are a bit like the process of getting a driver’s license, except much more rigorous — are at the top of his list of plausible policy preferences.

He pointed to two of his studies from Missouri and Connecticut that indicated those states’ permit-to-purchase laws reduced gun deaths. These studies are often cited in support of background checks (since getting a permit requires a background check). But Webster said the true strength of these types of laws is the permitting process: “The states that don’t have that [permit-to-purchase requirement], we’re not seeing the robust effects that we see with the permitting.”

A 2013 survey that Webster worked on found that more than 77 percent of Americans would back a gun licensing policy.

After the permit-to-purchase requirement, Webster said states could also do more to raise standards for who can legally own a gun: increase minimum age requirements, extend how long people are barred from buying a firearm after certain offenses and restraining orders, add more offenses to the list of disqualifiers, and so on. And he said lawmakers could enact stricter concealed carry policies.

There are far more things the US could do beyond these measures. The key problem, based on the research, is that America has too many guns, and those guns allow more gun deaths. Anything that successfully restricts firearms and reduces the number of guns in circulation, then, could help reduce gun deaths. To this end, a 2016 review of 130 studies in 10 countries, published in Epidemiologic Reviews, found that new legal restrictions on owning and purchasing guns tended to be followed by a drop in gun violence — a strong indicator that restricting access to firearms can save lives.

But there are political, cultural, and legal considerations in the US that make it very unlikely that lawmakers will do, say, an Australia-style mandatory buyback program anytime soon — even though there is evidence that it saved lives.

Those same political, cultural, and legal considerations also make it important to prioritize the best policies. Given that Congress couldn’t pass even a limited bill mostly focused on background checks after a gunman in 2012 killed 20 children and six others at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, adding additional asks on top of background checks should require good empirical evidence. And so far, bans on assault weapons, especially the limited versions the US has historically done, don’t have that kind of support.Most images of black holes are illustrations. Here’s what our telescopes actually capture.

Share Most images of black holes are illustrations. Here’s what our telescopes actually capture.

Impossibly dense, deep, and powerful, black holes reveal the limits of physics. Nothing can escape one, not even light.

Even though black holes excite the imagination like few other concepts in science, the truth is that no astronomer has actually seen one. We’ve “heard” them, so to speak, as scientists have recorded the gravitational waves (literal ripples in spacetime) emanating from black holes that collided with one another billions of years ago.

But any photo you’ve seen of a dark mass warping spacetime … well, that’s just an illustration. Like this one:

This soon may change. An audacious global project called the Event Horizon Telescope is currently working to piece together an image of a black hole for the first time. And if it does, it will be a remarkable accomplishment. Because as massive black holes are, they’re actually incredibly hard to see up close.

Why no astronomer has ever seen a black hole with a telescope

Black holes are born when massive stars collapse in on themselves and create a region of gravity so intense that not even light can escape its grasp. Astronomers also speculate that some black holes may have been formed in the early chaotic universe after the Big Bang.

The biggest problem with trying to see a black hole is that even the supermassive ones (with masses millions of times heavier than our sun) are relatively tiny.

“The largest one in the sky [is] the black hole in the center of the Milky Way,” Dimitrios Psaltis, an astrophysicist at the University of Arizona, explained in an email. “And taking a picture of it would be equivalent to taking a picture of a DVD on the surface of the moon.”

What’s more, because of their strong gravity, black holes tend to be surrounded by other bright matter that makes it hard to see the object itself.

That’s why when hunting for black holes, astronomers don’t usually try for direct observation. Instead, they look for evidence of the effects of a black hole’s gravity and radiation.

“We typically measure the orbits of stars and gas that seem to circle around very dark ‘spots’ in the sky and measure how much mass is there in that dark spot,” Psaltis says. “If we know of no other astrophysical object that can be so massive and so dark as what we just measured, we consider this as very strong evidence that a black hole lies there.”

We do have indirect images of black holes, however

Some of the best indirect images of black holes come from the Chandra X-ray Observatory. “The friction and the high velocities of material forming out of a black hole naturally produces X-rays,” Peter Edmonds, a NASA astrophysicist and communications specialist working with Chandra, said. And Chandra is a space telescope specially designed to see those X-rays.

For example, the Chandra observatory documented these X-ray “burps” emanating from the merger of two galaxies around 26 million light-years away. The astrophysicists suspect that these burps came from a massive black hole:

Similarly, the fuchsia blobs on this image are regions of intense X-ray radiation, thought to be black holes that formed when two galaxies (the blue and pink rings) collided:

Here are X-rays and sound waves emanating from the central region of the Perseus galaxy cluster — more indirect evidence of a black hole:

And in this GIF, the Chandra telescope saw the largest X-ray flare coming from the black hole suspected to lie at the center of the Milky Way galaxy.

And here’s a zoomed-out image of that X-ray flare.

There may even be as many of 20,000 smaller black holes surrounding the massive black hole at the center of our galaxy.

Recently, a team of researchers found evidence of a dozen black holes within three light years of the galactic center. In the following x-ray image, they’re marked in blue.

Black holes only release X-ray radiation when they consume matter (like from a neighboring star). But these gorging black holes are actually quite rare. More often, black holes remain undetectable. But the fact that scientists were able to find these dozen “bright” black holes suggests there are tens-of-thousands more in this region.

We can see black holes spew massive jets of matter into the universe

This composite image (combining data from Hubble and a radio telescope) shows jets of energy and matter being thrown out of the center of the Hercules A galaxy. These jets shoot out at nearly the speed of light, demonstrating the awesome destructive power of black holes.

This next image shows massive jets that are thought to be propelling away from the black hole at the center of Centaurus A, a galaxy 13 million light-years away. The jets are longer than the galaxy itself.

Astronomers have observed stars orbiting apparent black holes

We can’t see a black hole. But we can observe the effects of a black hole’s extreme gravity on the objects around it. Here’s a very cool illustration of that.

You’re looking at 20 years of data on the stars that live near the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy, called Sagittarius A. And yes, stars — some many times more massive than our sun — are orbiting it.

Star S2, which is marked in the video with a yellow line, is around 15 times as massive as our sun. That’s big. But it’s nothing compared with the black hole, which is estimated to be some 4 million times more massive than our sun. The gravity it produces whips S2’s orbit to around 11 million miles per hour, which is about 200 times the speed the Earth orbits around the sun. (S2 completes one orbit in around 16 Earth years.)

We haven’t directly observed this black hole, but scientists suspect it’s there, because nothing else can explain the orbits of these stars.

“These orbits, and a simple application of Kepler’s Laws, provide the best evidence yet for a supermassive black hole, which has a mass of 4 million times the mass of the Sun,” explains UCLA’s Galactic Center Group, which produced the animation.

Here’s another look at the same phenomenon. This video includes 16 years of observations from the European Southern Observatory. This isn’t an animation — it’s real images of stars sped up by a factor of 32 million. Watch them dance around a mysterious blank center.

We can’t see a black hole yet. But we can “hear” them collide.

When two black holes collide, they unleash a massive wave of gravitation.

Just as sound waves disturb the air to make noise, gravitational waves disturb the fabric of spacetime to push and pull matter as if it existed in a funhouse mirror. If a large gravitational wave passed through you, you’d see one of your arms grow longer than the other. If you were wearing a watch on each wrist, you’d see them tick out of sync.

When two black holes collide, they unleash a massive wave of gravitation. But by the time they reach Earth 1.4 billion years later, those waves have become very faint (like how the ripples from a stone dropped in a pond mellow out the further you get from the stone).

But in the past few years, scientists have been able to listen in on these ripples with LIGO and VIRGO, huge, global experiments that can detect these tiny ripples in spacetime.

Because the waves LIGO detect have a frequency that’s comparable to the range of frequencies we can hear, scientists can pump up the volume and translate them into sound. (Yes, this isn’t exactly what it sounds like, but rather an audio representation of the data. And, yes, the event would have made no noise in the vacuum of space.)

Listen to them here.

Very soon we may see an actual black hole

Because the black hole in the center of our galaxy, Sagittarius A, is so relatively small, and surrounded by so much occluding material, it’s going to take a huge telescope to see it. According to Nature, it would take a telescope 1,000 times more powerful than Hubble to get enough resolution to see it.

An international effort called the Event Horizon Telescope is an attempt to solve this problem. Conventional optical telescopes use bigger and bigger mirrors to see objects smaller and farther away in the universe. The Event Horizon Telescope is doing something similar: It’s creating a virtual telescope the size of the entire Earth.

In April 2017, the Event Horizon team connected radio telescopes at multiple locations across the world — as far-flung as Hawaii and the South Pole — and instructing them all to look toward Sagittarius A for a few days. The network is the result of an international collaboration of 14 research institutions across the world.

Together, these eight telescopes have the power to “count the stitches on a baseball from 8,000 miles away,” as MIT explains. The array generated such a huge amount of data that it was more efficient to fly the data from each of the telescopes to a centralized location than it would be to transfer it over the internet.

Right now, the scientists are in the midst of stitching all that data together. They’re hoping the final image will show the event horizon, the boundary beyond which no light can escape. That event horizon will likely be surrounded by an accretion disc, a bright, incredibly energetic ring of matter that swirls around the black hole. It could look something like this.

Watch: Why every picture of a black hole is an illustrationOn January 12, 2018, the Wall Street Journal broke what appeared to be just another initially outrageous and quickly forgotten Donald Trump scandal.

The president, the Journal’s Michael Rothfeld and Joe Palazzolo reported, had paid porn performer/director Stormy Daniels (birth name Stephanie Clifford) $130,000 in October 2016 as part of a nondisclosure agreement. Daniels, they wrote, had “privately alleged” that she had a “sexual encounter” with Trump in July 2006 following a celebrity golf tournament at Lake Tahoe.

Normally, a president’s past affair with an adult film star would dominate news coverage. But this all happened the week that Trump referred to Haiti, El Salvador, and seemingly all countries in Africa as “shithole” countries, and the intervening months saw news coverage dominated by everything from the Parkland school shooting to Trump’s historic agreement to meet with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un to the omnibus spending bill. It would’ve been understandable if “Donald Trump commits adultery” faded away as a story.

But it didn’t. The Stormy Daniels affair has had remarkable staying power, both because, after weeks of staying quiet, Daniels herself has decided she wants to tell her story, and because Trump and his legal team are going to extraordinary lengths to silence her, including demanding $20 million for violations of the nondisclosure agreement she and her legal team have allegedly already committed.

The story only gained traction after Daniels’s interview with 60 Minutes’ Anderson Cooper was broadcast on Sunday, March 25.

The slow progression of the scandal, however, has made its various twists and turns a bit difficult to follow. Here is everything you need to know about Daniels and Trump’s alleged affair, the “hush agreement” meant to silence her, and her subsequent legal fight to tell her story.

What allegedly occurred in Lake Tahoe

From July 13 to 16, 2006, the Edgewood Tahoe Golf Course hosted the American Century Championship celebrity golf tournament, whose contestants included hockey legend Mario Lemieux, football players Drew Brees and Ben Roethlisberger, talk show host Maury Povich, comedians Ray Romano and Kevin Nealon, former Vice President Dan Quayle, and, of course, Donald Trump. Trump placed 62nd out of 80.

During this tournament, Trump (who married Melania Trump about 18 months earlier, and whose son Barron had been born in March) allegedly propositioned or had sex with at least four women, three of them adult film actresses and the fourth a Playboy model.

jessica drake (who prefers her name be lowercase) says she met Trump in the Celebrity Gift Room “early in the morning” and gave him her phone number. Later that evening, she says, he invited her to his room, and she brought two friends with her. There, she claims, he groped and kissed each of them without consent and conducted what “felt like an interview” while wearing pajamas. Later that night, he offered drake money to come back to his room, and after she refused, she got another call, from either Trump or another man working on his behalf (she couldn’t tell), offering $10,000. She declined.

Stormy Daniels also says that she met Trump in the Celebrity Gift Room. Trump “was introduced to everybody,” Daniels said in an interview for In Touch conducted in 2011. “He kept looking at me and then we ended up riding to another hole on the same golf cart together.” The two had dinner in his room that night; she was, like drake, greeted by Trump’s bodyguard Keith Schiller, and Trump was, as in drake’s story, wearing pajama pants. It’s not clear if the drake and Daniels encounters occurred on the same night.

But unlike drake, Daniels says she consented to sex with Trump; they didn’t use a condom, owing to her latex allergy. She remembers talking afterward, with Trump telling her she was “someone to be reckoned with, beautiful and smart just like his daughter,” presumably referring to Ivanka. (Tiffany was then only 11.)

Daniels recounts repeatedly teasing and mocking Trump in a way that is striking, given Trump’s famously thin skin. “He said that he thought that if he cut his hair or changed it, that he would lose his power and his wealth,” she told In Touch. “And I laughed hysterically at him. … [H]e was like, ‘You know what? You’re really smart. You’re not dumb.’ And I was like, ‘Thanks, dick. What does that mean?’”

Trump, she recalls, kept offering to make her a contestant on Celebrity Apprentice. Once the interaction turned sexual, she was concerned he would attempt to pay her for it. “I do remember while we were having sex, I was like, ‘Please don’t try to pay me,’” Daniels told In Touch. “And then I remember thinking, ‘But I bet if he did, it would be a lot.’”

Daniels recalls hanging out with Trump and Ben Roethlisberger, the Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback, the next night. Trump had to leave before they could be alone again, and asked Roethlisberger to escort her back to her room; Roethlisberger complied.

The third woman at the tournament was Alana Evans, a fellow adult performer and friend of Daniels’s. She told the Today show’s Megyn Kelly in January 2018 that Daniels invited her to “hang out” in a hotel room with her and Trump; she declined, thinking the invitation was for a threesome. (“If you’re inviting me to a hotel room to hang out with another man and a girlfriend of mine, it’s very easy for you to believe there’s going to be more going on than playing cards or Scrabble.”)

But the next day, she says, Daniels told her, “Picture this: Donald Trump chasing me around the bedroom in his tighty whities isn’t something that you ever forget.”

Karen McDougal, the 1998 Playboy Playmate of the Year, who had allegedly begun an affair with Trump the previous month (June 2006), has said she was also at the tournament. There, according to her handwritten account of the affair obtained by the New Yorker’s Ronan Farrow, she sat in a booth with Brees, the New Orleans Saints quarterback. She also claims that she and Trump had sex at the tournament. She reiterated her claim of an affair in a later interview with CNN’s Anderson Cooper.

The next stage: from Lake Tahoe to Stormy Daniels’s Senate run

A lot happened at that tournament, but the ensuing events are more spread out. Here’s a basic timeline.

July 2006-spring 2010: Daniels says she and Trump communicated sporadically by phone. In her In Touch interview, Daniels says they talked “about every 10 days.” She attended the January 17, 2017, launch of Trump Vodka in Hollywood and was photographed arriving:

She says that Trump invited her and her assistant to his personal office in Trump Tower in the winter of 2006-’07, when she was appearing at the New York City strip club Gallagher’s 2000 (a press release dates this to March 2007). This was a period when Daniels was unusually present in mainstream pop culture, due to appearances in the movies Blades of Glory and Knocked Up, which she told In Touch spurred Trump to call her whenever he recognized her.

In early 2008, she says, he contacted her to apologize for having Jenna Jameson, another adult performer, on Celebrity Apprentice. “I think he was afraid I was going to be pissed,” Daniels said. “So he called me and was like, ‘Did you see Jenna Jameson on my show? I didn’t know she was going to go on. That’s bullshit. She made a fool of herself.’ He said, ‘She’s a bimbo. You’re so much better.’ I was like, ‘I didn’t even know about it.’”

The last time he contacted her, she said in the interview, was in the spring/summer of 2010.

July 29 to August 4, 2007: The Discovery Channel hosted Shark Week, and Donald Trump absolutely loves Shark Week. One day that week, in late July, Trump called Daniels to ask if she could meet him at the Beverly Hills Hotel. She says her then-boyfriend gave her a ride there, and Schiller the bodyguard once again walked her in. Trump had a private bungalow, where, as in Lake Tahoe, they ate dinner (with no alcohol, as Trump is a teetotaler).

“The strangest thing about that night — this was the best thing ever,” Daniels recalled to In Touch. “You could see the television from the little dining room table and he was watching Shark Week and he was watching a special about the U.S.S. something and it sank and it was like the worst shark attack in history. He is obsessed with sharks. Terrified of sharks. He was like, ‘I donate to all these charities and I would never donate to any charity that helps sharks. I hope all the sharks die.’ He was like riveted. He was like obsessed. It’s so strange, I know.”

After they finished dinner, Daniels said they “moved to the sofa so he could get a better view of Shark Week.” Trump broke the news to her that she wouldn’t be on Celebrity Apprentice; she recalls being “pretty annoyed.” Then this happened:

He kept rubbing my leg and was like, “You know, you’re so beautiful. I love your little nose, it’s like a little beet.” I go, “Did you say a beet? Like, what the f---?” I started giving him a hard time about it. And he goes, “No, no, no, no! It’s majestic. It’s a very smart nose, like an eagle.” I was like, “Just keep digging, dude. Keep digging that hole.”

But she says she left after about two and a half hours there, and doesn’t mention Trump doing more than kissing her neck.

Daniels and her lawyer would later say that her “intimate relationship” with Trump continued “well into” the year 2007.

2007, date unclear: Former Apprentice contestant Summer Zervos alleges that, while in New York, she met with Trump in his office, where he twice kissed her on the lips without her consent. Later, because she still wanted to achieve her “dream of working for Mr. Trump,” she says she met him at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel, just as Stormy Daniels did.

After she waited about 15 minutes in the living room of the bungalow, she alleges that Trump “came to me and started kissing me open mouthed.” He then, per her account, kept aggressively kissing her and groped her breasts, without her consent and while she repeatedly pulled back and resisted. He “thrust his genitals” at her, and she rebuffed him, saying, “Dude, you’re trippin’ right now.” The two had dinner in the room, but Trump appeared angry and “started saying that he did not think that I had ever known love or had been in love.” She says Trump did not sexually harass her further but rebuffed her future attempts to work at the Trump Organization.

April 2007: Karen McDougal reportedly ended her affair with Trump, over her guilt for sleeping with a married man and anger over Trump’s vulgar remarks to a friend of hers.

May 16, 2007: Radio shock jock Bubba the Love Sponge Clem, who would soon become well known for his then-wife’s sex tape with Hulk Hogan, hosted Daniels on his show, where they discussed famous men she had slept with. Clem will say in 2018 that during this appearance, Daniels told him about her affair with Trump, though neither she nor Clem said Trump’s name during the program.

April 15, 2010: Daniels, who had been considering a bid for the US Senate in her home state of Louisiana, declined to run for the seat. She would later say that during this period, as her exploratory campaign was ending, Trump contacted her for the final time.

Stormy Daniels starts talking to the press

May 2011: Daniels gave an interview discussing Trump to In Touch’s Jordi Lippe-McGraw, which the magazine declined to publish until the scandal broke in January 2018, with the promise of $15,000 in compensation. In the interview, Daniels went into great detail about their sexual encounter at the Lake Tahoe golf tournament in July 2006, their subsequent communications, and the Beverly Hills Hotel encounter.

Her friend Randy Spears and ex-husband (boyfriend at the time of the alleged Trump affair) Mike Moz corroborated her story to the magazine.

May 19, 2011: As part of her cooperation with In Touch, Daniels agreed to take a polygraph test to back up her statements. Seven years later, her polygraph examiner Ronald Slay signed a sworn affidavit stating that Daniels truthfully answered “yes” to three questions:

Around July 2006, did you have vaginal intercourse with Donald Trump?

Around July 2006, did you have unprotected sex with Donald Trump?

Did Trump say you would get on The Apprentice?

For what it’s worth, most serious researchers consider polygraph tests basically useless.

Spring/Summer 2011: In Touch declines to publish the story “because after the magazine called Mr. Trump seeking comment, his attorney Michael Cohen threatened to sue,” according to 60 Minutes’ Anderson Cooper. Daniels is not compensated and, she tells Cooper, was threatened in a parking lot in the presence of her infant daughter shortly thereafter:

I was in a parking lot, going to a fitness class with my infant daughter. T-- taking, you know, the seats facing backwards in the backseat, diaper bag, you know, gettin’ all the stuff out. And a guy walked up on me and said to me, “Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, “That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.” And then he was gone.

October 10, 2011: The gossip blog The Dirty published the first article directly accusing Trump of having an affair with Daniels. Both Trump and Daniels denied the story, and Daniels’s attorney Keith Davidson sent a cease-and-desist letter to The Dirty in retaliation.

August 2016: As the general election campaign between Trump and Hillary Clinton raged, Daniels began talking to Jacob Weisberg, the editor-in-chief of the Slate Group (which owns Slate and Foreign Policy magazines). She told Weisberg about meeting Trump in New York and Los Angeles, including about the Trump Vodka premiere.

“In our conversations, Daniels said she was holding back on the juiciest details, such as her ability to describe things about Trump that only someone who had seen him naked would know,” Weisberg later wrote. “She intimated that her view of his sexual skill was at odds with the remark attributed to Marla Maples.” (The “best sex I’ve ever had” was reportedly how then-girlfriend and future wife Maples described sex with Trump. Trump was still married to his first wife, Ivana Trump, at the time.)

Weisberg attempted to corroborate the story, and while Daniels did not share the contact information of some relevant witnesses (to wit, “Trump’s longtime personal assistant Rhona Graff and his bodyguard Keith Schiller”), he was able to speak with three friends who backed her up.

August 6, 2016: McDougal, the former Playboy model turned fitness specialist with whom Trump allegedly had an affair, signed a nondisclosure deal with American Media Inc., the parent company of the National Enquirer, for which she was paid $150,000 and promised she would be featured on the company’s magazine covers and in its health and fitness columns.

McDougal had, earlier that summer, worked with Keith Davidson (the same attorney that represented Daniels at this point) to reach a deal with AMI to sell the story of her affair with Trump for at least $500,000. But the company, which is run by a close friend of Trump’s, ultimately declined to buy the story. Then McDougal reached out to ABC News, after which AMI came forward with the offer to buy it and bury it.

Davidson and Trump Organization attorney Michael Cohen were reportedly in contact about the deal as it progressed.

October 7, 2016: The Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold published the Access Hollywood tape, in which Trump brags about sexually assaulting women. According to her later lawsuit, this led Daniels to want to tell her story to the media. She engaged in more conversations with reporters at this time, including Weisberg.

October 17, 2016: The Trump Organization’s Cohen created Essential Consultants LLC, as a vehicle to quietly pay hush money to Daniels.

October 18, 2016: The Smoking Gun, a news site specializing in mug shots and legal filings, published a piece by founder William Bastone featuring a photo of Trump and Daniels at the Lake Tahoe golf tournament. The piece added that Daniels “confided to friends that she engaged in a sexual affair with Trump, whom she claimed had promised to help her get cast on The Apprentice or another TV show.”

The story stopped short of outright alleging the two had an affair, quoting Daniels’s ex-husband Mike Moz as saying he was “not under the impression” that Daniels and Trump had had an affair. The piece also alluded to Daniels’s interview with In Touch in 2011, though it didn’t name the magazine.

The piece failed to gain much traction in the chaos of the election’s final days.

Late October 2016: Daniels’s attorney, Keith Davidson, and Trump attorney Cohen negotiated a hush money deal. Daniels texted the deal to Slate’s Weisberg. “Daniels said she was talking to me and sharing these details because Trump was stalling on finalizing the confidentiality agreement and paying her,” Weisberg wrote later. “As an alternative to being paid for her silence, Daniels wanted to be paid for her story.” Slate does not pay for stories, so Weisberg made a counteroffer of an unpaid piece and an appearance on his podcast.

October 26, 2016: To prove that he had the $130,000 necessary to pay Daniels as part of the nondisclosure deal being negotiated, Cohen forwarded to Davidson an email from a bank official confirming he had made a deposit to his checking account. The emails with the bank official were sent using Cohen’s official Trump Organization email, raising questions about the source of the funds.

October 27, 2016: Cohen wired the $130,000 to Davidson, to pass on to Daniels.

October 28, 2016: Daniels and Cohen (on behalf of Essential Consultants) signed the nondisclosure agreement (attached to the end of the following lawsuit by Daniels):

Notably, however, Trump himself did not sign the document.

Throughout the document, Daniels is referred to by the pseudonym “Peggy Peterson” (or “PP”) and Trump is referred to as “David Dennison” (or “DD”), to minimize the odds that their true identities could be made public.

A separate side letter agreement, also attached in the lawsuit, specifies that PP is a pseudonym for Daniels. The original side letter also lists the true names of “David Dennison” and “EC, LLC,” but they are redacted in the version included in Daniels’s 2018 lawsuit. That said, it’s obvious those pseudonyms refer to Donald Trump and Essential Consultants.

The 15-page hush agreement requires that Daniels hand over any still images, text messages, “Instagram message, facebook posting [sic],” or “any other type of creation” by Trump, and bars her from releasing those documents or any private information about Trump (included “alleged sexual partners, alleged sexual actions or alleged sexual conduct”).

The remedies listed in the agreement include the payment of $1 million per breach of the agreement (Daniels is also required to hand over money she earns through disclosing confidential information about Trump). Depending on how a “breach” is defined — $1 million per interview she gives to the press? $1 million per fact about Trump stated in each interview? — that could in theory amount to tens of millions of dollars if Daniels talks extensively to the press.

The agreement is also very clear that Trump and Daniels gave up the right to resolve disputes outside of private arbitration. “Any and all claims or controversies … shall be resolved by binding confidential Arbitration to the greatest extent permitted by law,” the agreement reads.

Some point in October 2016: Fox News reporter Diana Falzone filed a story about the relationship between Daniels and Trump, which was confirmed by Daniels’s then-manager, Gina Rodriguez. The piece was shelved by Fox News leadership.

November 3, 2016: Daniels backed out of a story with the Daily Beast, which was also pursuing a piece about her relationship with Trump. The Beast had secured Alana Evans, who said Trump had propositioned for a threesome at the Lake Tahoe event, as a source.

November 4, 2016: The Wall Street Journal’s Joe Palazzolo, Michael Rothfeld, and Lukas I. Alpert reported that the National Enquirer paid $150,000 to McDougal, purportedly for “two years’ worth of her fitness columns and magazine covers as well as exclusive life rights to any relationship she has had with a then-married man,” but really to quash the story of her affair with Trump.

January 17, 2017: Summer Zervos, the former Apprentice contestant who claims Trump repeatedly sexually harassed her, filed a lawsuit against Trump for defamation.

By denying her allegations, the lawsuit explained, Trump “debased and denigrated Ms. Zervos with false statements about her” by “describing Ms. Zervos’s experience, along with those of others, as ‘made up events THAT NEVER HAPPENED;’ ‘100% fabricated and made-up charges;’ ‘totally false;’ ‘totally phoney [sic] stories, 100% made up by women (many already proven false);’ ‘made up stories and lies;’ ‘[t]otally made up nonsense.’ He falsely stated: ‘Every woman lied when they came forward to hurt my campaign, total fabrication. The events never happened.’”

“His statements are plainly defamatory and caused serious harm,” the suit, filed by Zervos’s attorneys Mariann Meier Wang and Gloria Allred, concluded.

2018: the story goes public in a big way

January 12, 2018: The Wall Street Journal’s Palazzolo and Rothfeld broke the news of the Daniels nondisclosure agreement, $130,000 cash payment, and Cohen’s involvement. In a statement, Cohen told the Journal that Trump “vehemently denies any such occurrence as has Ms. Daniels. … This is now the second time that you are raising outlandish allegations against my client.” Cohen did not address the payment, however.

He also sent a two-paragraph statement by Daniels denying any affair, saying, “Rumors that I have received hush money from Donald Trump are completely false.”

January 17, 2018: In Touch published its interview with Daniels, and an accompanying article. At this point, Daniels’s statement sent through Cohen was still her only public comment.

January 22, 2018: The campaign finance and anti-corruption watchdog group Common Cause filed complaints with the Federal Election Commission and Department of Justice asking them to “determine whether the payment was made by the Trump Organization or some other corporation or individual, which would additionally make it an illegal in-kind contribution to the campaign.”

Under federal law, corporations cannot donate to candidates, and individual contributions are capped at $2,700.

January 30, 2018: Daniels released another statement denying the affair:

Stormy Daniels (going on Kimmel tonight after Trump's State of the Union) issues a new statement saying she is denying having an affair with Trump not because of a settlement but because “it never happened.”



She would also like you to follow her on Instagram.



From @a_cormier_ pic.twitter.com/J11O3WGGz3 — Tom Namako (@TomNamako) January 30, 2018

Later, Daniels would claim that this statement was made “through intimidation and coercive tactics.” She told 60 Minutes’ Anderson Cooper that she was told by Trump’s representatives, “They can make your life hell in many different ways.” She told Cooper she believed “they” meant Michael Cohen.

January 31, 2018: Daniels appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live and deflected questions about the affair. She did, however, say that the signature on the statement she released the day before “does not look like my signature.” She also insinuated that she had signed a nondisclosure agreement.

February 13, 2018: As the story gained steam, and concerns grew that the payment violated campaign finance law, Cohen told the New York Times’s Maggie Haberman, “Neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Ms. Clifford, and neither reimbursed me for the payment, either directly or indirectly. The payment to Ms. Clifford was lawful, and was not a campaign contribution or a campaign expenditure by anyone.”

The same day, Max Tani of the Daily Beast reported that Cohen was shopping a book proposal that touched on the Daniels scandal and commented on his role.

February 14, 2018: In response to those two stories, Daniels’s then-manager Gina Rodriguez told the Associated Press that she and Daniels believed Cohen had, in talking about the transaction with the New York Times and in a book proposal, invalidated the nondisclosure agreement. Rodriguez stated, “Everything is off now, and Stormy is going to tell her story.”

The same day, the gossip site The Blast reported that Daniels had held on to a “Monica Lewinsky-style” dress from her July 2006 sexual encounter with Trump, with his DNA on it.

February 27, 2018: As it became clear that Daniels was going to go public soon, Cohen obtained, on behalf of Essential Consultants, a temporary restraining order via an arbitrator, retired Judge Jacqueline Connor, in California. The order prohibited Daniels from “disclosing or inducing, promoting, or actively inspiring anyone to disclose Confidential information.” Connor issued this ruling ex parte, and Daniels and her legal team were not present or able to contest it.

Under the NDA’s terms, Trump had the clear right to “immediately obtain, either from the Arbitrator and/or from any other court of competent jurisdiction, an ex parte issuance of a restraining order … without advance notice to [Daniels].” But since Cohen, not Trump, obtained the restraining order, its validity would soon become hugely controversial.

March 6, 2018: Daniels and her new attorney, Michael Avenatti, filed suit against Donald Trump and Essential Consultants, asking that the nondisclosure agreement be voided so that Daniels could tell her story, and in so doing officially take the story public and confirm the affair.

In the lawsuit, Avenatti described the arbitration ruling obtained by Cohen on February 27 as “improper and procedurally defective” and “bogus.”

His argument is, fundamentally, about signatures. While the hush agreement purports to bind both Daniels and Trump, Trump did not sign it, either as himself or as David Dennison. Instead, the agreement was initialed and signed by Essential Consultants. Indeed, portions of the contract that are labeled to be initialed by “DD” are instead initialed by Essential Consultants:

“Mr. Trump … did not sign the agreement, thus rendering it legally null and void and of no consequence,” Avenatti wrote in the complaint. He alleged that Trump “purposely did not sign the agreement so he could later, if need be, publicly disavow any knowledge of the Hush Agreement and Ms. Clifford.”

Avenatti’s contention was that Cohen wired Daniels $130,000 even though the agreement was null.

“Because there was never a valid agreement and thus, no agreement to arbitrate,” the lawsuit concluded, “any subsequent order obtained by Mr. Cohen and/or Mr. Trump in arbitration is of no consequence or effect.”

The lawsuit further alleged that Cohen’s public statements on the case also served to void the agreement, or at least suggested that Cohen was treating it as void by talking about matters that Essential Consultants agreed to keep confidential. Finally, the suit claimed that Daniels’s initial denial of the affair was the result of “intimidation and coercive tactics” by Cohen.

March 7, 2018: White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders falsely claimed that the “case had been won already in arbitration,” and reiterated, “there was no knowledge of any payments from the president, and he has denied all these allegations.”

March 9, 2018: Cohen reiterated that he paid off Daniels with his own money, and told ABC News that he actually took out of a line of credit on his home to make the payment.

March 14, 2018: BuzzFeed News, which is being sued by Cohen for libel after publishing the Steele dossier alleging ties between Trump (including Cohen) and the Russian government, sent a letter from its attorney to Avenatti, Daniels’s attorney, asking him to preserve “any and all documents or communications about any relationship and/or sexual encounter(s) Ms. Clifford had and/or was alleged to have had, with President Trump” because they may be relevant to Cohen’s suit.

Letters like this often come before subpoenas, suggesting that BuzzFeed could depose Daniels and offer her a way to document the affair under oath without fear of reprisal.

March 16, 2018: In interviews with MSNBC’s Morning Joe and CNN’s Chris Cuomo, Avenatti alleged that Daniels was “physically threatened” to stay silent on the case. He declined to elaborate much beyond that, but told CNN’s Jake Tapper, “this was not a random threat by some wing nut,” strongly implying someone in Trump’s camp made the threats.

Corrected: Stormy Daniels’ attorney @MichaelAvenatti answers Mika’s question if his client was threatened with physical harm pic.twitter.com/hqGAiqe6yM — Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) March 16, 2018

Also March 16, 2018: In two separate court filings, Cohen and Trump’s legal team escalated their war on Daniels and Avenatti.

In the first, Essential Consultants (the Michael Cohen front group) sought to move the lawsuit Daniels filed from California state court to federal court. In the filing, Cohen and his team claimed that Daniels could owe them and/or Trump $20 million, at least, for at least 20 violations of the nondisclosure agreement, suggesting they planned to financially drain her for pursuing this case.

Avenatti responded in an email to the Washington Post, “To put it simply — they want to hide the truth from the American people. We will oppose this effort at every turn. The fact that a sitting president is pursuing over $20 million in bogus ‘damages’ against a private citizen, who is only trying to tell the public what really happened, is truly remarkable. Likely unprecedented in our history. We are not going away and we will not be intimidated by these threats.”

In the second legal filing, Charles Harder, Donald Trump’s new personal attorney on the case — who previously represented Hulk Hogan in his lawsuit against Gawker for publishing his sex tape, and Melania Trump in a defamation suit against the Daily Mail for claiming she used to work as an escort — joined the attempt to move the case to federal court. The filing also stated that Trump intended to force the case back to arbitration:

March 20, 2018: McDougal, the Playboy model who says she and Trump had an affair contemporaneous to the Daniels relationship, filed a lawsuit against the National Enquirer’s parent company to be released from her own 2016 nondisclosure agreement.

Also March 20, 2018: New York state Judge Jennifer Schecter rules against Trump’s lawyers’ motion to dismiss the defamation case by Summer Zervos, citing the Supreme Court’s ruling in Clinton v. Jones that presidents are not immune from civil suits. While that case was filed at the federal level, Schechter concluded the same rule applies to state lawsuits like Zervos’s.

Trump’s attorneys promised to appeal the ruling.

March 22, 2018: Avenatti, Daniels’s attorney, sent letters to the Trump Organization, City National Bank, and First Republic Bank asking them to preserve records related to the case. In the letter to the Trump Organization, Avenatti alleged that Cohen in February “attempted to interfere” with Daniels’s attempts to hire Avenatti, who brought the case public after her former attorney Keith Davidson sought to keep it private.

Also March 22, 2018: McDougal’s interview with Anderson Cooper on CNN was broadcast, in which she stated she had sexual contact with Trump “many dozens of times,” including five or more times per month. Like Daniels, she said that she and Trump hadn’t used protection.

McDougal recalled, “After we had been intimate, he tried to pay me, and I actually didn’t know how to take that”; she clarified that Trump tried to hand her money, adding, “I don’t even know how to describe the look on my face. It must have been so sad.”

She expressed remorse and apologized to Melania Trump; she said she remembered a time when Trump showed her around his apartment in Trump Tower, saying she felt incredibly guilty when he showed her Melania’s room.

She recalled meeting all of Trump’s children except Barron, and said that Trump complimented her by comparing her to Ivanka: “He said I was beautiful like her. And, you know, ‘You’re a smart girl.’ There wasn’t a lot of comparing, but there was some. I heard a lot about her.”

She stated that she voted for Trump in the 2016 election.

March 25, 2018: Daniels’s interview with Anderson Cooper on 60 Minutes aired. She made public the accusations that Trump’s team sought to intimidate her in the summer of 2011.

March 26, 2018: Michael Cohen’s attorney sent a cease and desist letter to Stormy Daniels after the 60 Minutes interview, accusing her of claiming that Cohen was “responsible for an alleged thug who supposedly visited Ms. Clifford, while she was with her daughter, and made an alleged threat to Mr. Clifford.” While Daniels did allege that one of Trump’s representatives did this, at no point did she actually accuse Cohen. Nevertheless, the letter accuses her of “libel per se and intentional infliction of emotional distress.”

Shortly thereafter, Daniels added a complaint in her lawsuit against Cohen, alleging defamation when on February 13 he stated in reference to claims of an affair that, “Just because something isn’t true doesn’t mean it can’t cause you harm or damage,” implying that Daniels is lying about the affair. This statement, Daniels and Avenatti allege, “exposed [Daniels] to hatred, contempt, ridicule, and shame.”

March 28, 2018: Avenatti files a motion requesting a jury trial to determine if the hush agreement was ever binding, and asking for the right to depose Trump and Cohen for “no more than two hours” each.

March 29, 2018: A federal judge denies Avenatti’s motion, saying it is premature because Cohen and Trump’s prevous motions might resolve the same issues. Avenatti claims the judge’s substantive comments on the case suggested he will ultimately agree with the requests for deposition and a trial.

April 3, 2018: Trump and Cohen’s attorneys filed motions once again requesting the case be settled in secret arbitration.

April 6, 2018: President Trump denies that he knew about the $130,000 payment, adding, “You’ll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael is my attorney. You’ll have to ask Michael.” The reiteration that Trump and Cohen continue to have an attorney-client relationship might increase the odds that one or both will invoke attorney-client privilege to evade questioning. Avenatti responds: “The strength of our case just went up exponentially. You can’t have an agreement when one party claims to know nothing about it.”

Daniels might not win, but Trump’s lawyer is likely screwed

Legal experts disagree about whether Daniels is likely to succeed in getting herself out of the nondisclosure agreement. MSNBC legal analyst Danny Cevallos argues that the weight of the evidence favors the view that the case must be dealt with in arbitration. That all but ensures that Trump will win, and Daniels will have to remain silent.

“Arbitration clauses are generally independent of the larger contract in which they are embedded,” Cevallos writes, citing both US Supreme Court and California Supreme Court cases. “Unless there is a specific attack on the arbitration agreement itself, that part must be enforced, even if Daniels, for instance, asserts the invalidity of the overall ‘Hush Agreement’ that contains it.”

And if Trump prevails and keeps the case in arbitration, he’s basically guaranteed to win arbitration rulings stopping Daniels from speaking out.

George Washington University professor Jonathan Turley is more optimistic about Daniels’s chances — and warns that the case could have major repercussions for Cohen personally. Turley writes that Daniels “may have the stronger legal argument” because Cohen filed the restraining order on February 27 for Essential Consultants, not Trump.

But whether Daniels wins or loses in court, the optics and fallout from the case are still importantly politically. They could even be important legally, in other contexts. Cohen’s story about the case implicates him in legal misconduct. He told the New York Times in February, “Neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Ms. Clifford, and neither reimbursed me for the payment, either directly or indirectly,” which suggests that he conducted substantial business on Trump’s behalf without Trump’s knowledge.

“If he is speaking truthfully that Trump had no knowledge of the payment, he signed a document on behalf of a client (and ostensibly binding the client) without either consulting with his client or securing his consent. That would be a clear ethical breach,” Turley writes. “If he did not have Trump’s consent, his representations to Daniels would appear false and potentially fraudulent.”

The ethical baggage for Cohen doesn’t end there. He could also face censure or even disbarment for making Daniels sign a false statement denying the affair under the New York Lawyer’s Code of Professional Responsibility, which states, “In the representation of a client, a lawyer shall not … Knowingly make a false statement of law or fact.” If Daniels’s allegation says that Cohen coerced her to release the false statement, that could bring even worse consequences for him. Same goes for if he was in any way responsible for the man who threatened Daniels in 2011.

Cohen also appears to have, by getting the February 27 restraining order, engaged in legal practice in California without being a member of the California Bar. That is a misdemeanor punishable by up to a year in jail.

Why the Stormy Daniels scandal matters

The ultimate success or failure of Daniels’s suit also has little bearing on the case’s potential to damage Trump’s presidency. No one really believes the $130,000 that Daniels received is Cohen’s. The more interesting question is whether it came from Trump’s existing campaign money. Hiding a major campaign expense could get the 2016 Trump campaign and its officials into major legal trouble.

And if it wasn’t paid for by the Trump campaign, then it was likely, as Common Cause has contended, an illegal donation to the Trump campaign. The hush money payment was paid to prevent a damaging story about Trump from being released. It was thus, effectively, a donation to his campaign effort, and an illegally large one at that.

Furthermore, any lawsuit, particularly Daniels’s, carries another danger for Trump: the discovery process. As part of preparing his case, Avenatti and the legal team representing Daniels will have the right to depose Trump and demand documents pertinent to the case. Famously, President Bill Clinton’s deposition in the Paula Jones lawsuit led to the perjury and obstruction of justice charges under which the House of Representatives impeached him.

“A lawsuit opens the door, and judges almost always allow for a plaintiff to have a fishing expedition,” Robert Bennett, who represented Clinton in that case, told the New York Times. He added that “Have you paid other people money?” is one such question they could ask and pursue answers to through document dives and testimony by Trump.

Beyond the legal battles, though, there’s the pure optics of this case. It’s 2018: No one really cares if the president had an affair or not, certainly not when the president is Donald Trump.

But people might, perhaps, care that the president, himself worth hundreds of millions or billions of dollars, is trying to extract $20 million or more in damages out of a former lover in an attempt to silence her.

People might care that the president used hush money in such a flagrant way, violating campaign finance norms and perhaps laws as well.

People might care that multiple women appear to have been paid off to not talk about their relationships with Trump. In Michael Wolff’s explosive book on the Trump White House, Fire and Fury, former campaign chair turned White House chief strategist Steve Bannon is quoted as saying of Trump’s personal lawyer Marc Kasowitz, “Kasowitz on the campaign — what did we have, a hundred women? Kasowitz took care of all of them.”

We don’t have 100 names of women Trump allegedly paid off, but we do have the names of McDougal and Daniels.

We also have the names of drake and Zervos, who allege that Trump sexually assaulted them. Adultery is one thing, but if these allegations are true, Trump’s desire to cheat on his wife and the urge to touch women without consent seemed to blend together seamlessly. While McDougal and Daniels say they consented to his advances, drake and Zervos did not, nor did the other dozen-odd women who have accused him of assault or harassment.

Most of these accusations came to light during the 2016 campaign. But the Daniels scandal is correctly shedding more light on them. While Trump did not sexually assault Daniels, he is now using his tremendous wealth and legal power to try to ruin her financially. It fits into a broader pattern of using his power and influence to bully and belittle women to whom he’s sexually attracted. Even if you don’t care about adultery, that should matter.On Friday morning, President Donald Trump tweeted a thing:

Do you believe that the Fake News Media is pushing hard on a story that I am going to replace A.G. Jeff Sessions with EPA Chief Scott Pruitt, who is doing a great job but is TOTALLY under siege? Do people really believe this stuff? So much of the media is dishonest and corrupt! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 6, 2018

The president’s tweet alludes to a rumor that has been going around Washington for months now — the rumor being that Trump wants to oust Jeff Sessions from the Justice Department and replace him with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt.

The rumor was surprisingly given new life just as Pruitt has been dogged by a series of ethics scandals that have put his EPA job in jeopardy, in a report by CNN’s Pamela Brown and Kaitlan Collins. The pair wrote that Trump spoke of replacing Sessions with Pruitt as recently as this week, and is reluctant to fire Pruitt from the EPA because he sees him as a potential Sessions replacement.

If true, the implications would be enormous. Sessions is currently recused from oversight of special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation — but Pruitt wouldn’t be. So Attorney General Pruitt would theoretically be able to shut down the investigation or rein it in.

One would think it would be hard to get Pruitt confirmed by the Senate amid all these scandals. Yet in some versions of the rumor, that’s the point — Trump would use a little-known law to circumvent the confirmation process and install Pruitt in the job temporarily.

But there are real reasons to doubt this rumor too. For one, it appears to have been started, and kept alive, by Pruitt’s allies. For another, the ethics scandals have compromised Pruitt and would make his appointment by dubious and unusual means even more controversial than it already would have been.

It’s very clear that Trump wants Sessions gone

The background is that Trump has been positively furious with Sessions since he recused himself from handling the Russia investigation in March 2017. The probe has since been overseen by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Robert Mueller to take charge of it in May.

After that happened, Trump frequently berated Sessions, both privately and on Twitter for the world to see, in an apparent effort to get the attorney general to resign. The rationale seems to be: If Sessions left, Trump could appoint a new attorney general whom he trusts, who would not be recused, and who could theoretically take over supervision of the Russia probe from Rosenstein.

But Sessions hasn’t taken the bait and has defiantly refused to quit. Unless he changes his mind, that means that if Trump wants Sessions out, he has to fire him. And then he’d have to get a new attorney general confirmed. Confirmation would be no easy feat in the narrowly divided Senate, and would take some time — time during which, one would think, Rosenstein would remain in place supervising the Russia probe (unless Trump fires him too).

Yet there is one alternative here — albeit a legally dubious and sure-to-be-controversial one. In his administration, Trump has frequently used a law called the Federal Vacancies Reform Act to circumvent the usual line of succession in agencies. The law allows the president to temporarily fill an agency vacancy — so long as the new appointee was already confirmed by the Senate for a different position.

This is how Trump put Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney in charge of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and put a Defense Department official in charge of the Department of Veterans Affairs. (There is some legal ambiguity about whether Trump even can use the Vacancies Act to replace someone he fired rather than someone who resigned, but Trump decided to try to use it to replace fired VA Secretary David Shulkin anyway.)

Now, an appointment under the Vacancies Reform Act would be temporary — the appointee can only serve for 210 days. But a whole lot can happen in 210 days, at what seems to be a crucial period for Mueller’s investigation.

Which brings us to Scott Pruitt.

Pruitt’s allies have sent Trump the message that he’d be happy to step in for Sessions

It was in January of this year that the Pruitt-replacing-Sessions rumor first spilled into the media. But the emphasis here was that Pruitt wanted the job, not that Trump was thinking of giving it to him.

Politico’s Andrew Restuccia reported that Pruitt “has told friends and associates that he’s interested in becoming attorney general, according to three people familiar with the internal discussions.” (He added, “It’s unclear whether Pruitt would be on the shortlist for the position.”) Then, hours later, both Reuters and Bloomberg independently confirmed the report that Pruitt has been telling others he was interested in the attorney general job.

The sourcing and speedy corroborations from other outlets here suggest that Pruitt’s allies were deliberately putting out a message — to Trump. The message was that if Trump wanted to finally rid himself of Sessions, Pruitt would be positively eager to step in and replace him.

What Pruitt would do about the Mueller investigation is, of course, not explicitly stated in these reports, though the wink-wink implication seems to be that he’d handle it in a way Trump would prefer.

Pruitt could be appointed under the Vacancies Reform Act since he’s already been confirmed by the Senate to lead the EPA. He’s also a favorite of conservative movement leaders, who have had some qualms about pushing out Sessions.

Two months later, after Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and reporters tried to get ahead of what the next personnel change might be, Vanity Fair’s Gabe Sherman revived the Pruitt-for-Sessions rumor. Citing “two Republicans in regular contact with the White House,” Sherman wrote that “there have been talks” that Trump could replace Sessions with Pruitt.

Yet other reporters responded to this with some skepticism. Elaina Plott of the Atlantic (who co-wrote one of this week’s major Pruitt scoops) tweeted in response to Sherman’s story that Pruitt himself might be floating this.

This rumor has been circulating for months and EPA sources believe it was started by Pruitt himself. https://t.co/Wie0EZdKRk — Elaina Plott (@elainaplott) March 15, 2018

Fast-forward to this week. As Pruitt was being slammed by negative reports about his first-class flights, his lobbyist-owned condo, and his enormous raises for cronies, the Pruitt-for-Sessions rumor was revived again, in that report by CNN’s Pamela Brown and Kaitlan Collins.

The CNN team wrote that Trump “floated” replacing Sessions with Pruitt earlier this very week — attributing this information to a “source familiar with Trump’s thinking”:

“He was 100% still trying to protect Pruitt because Pruitt is his fill-in for Sessions,” one source familiar with Trump’s thinking told CNN. ... Trump is hesitant to fire him because he likes entertaining the idea of replacing Sessions with Pruitt eventually and feels confident that he will continue to advance his agenda at the EPA in the meanwhile.

This is the story that appears to have spurred Trump’s angry, strange tweet.

Is Trump seriously considering this? Who knows!

Trump’s semi-denial that he’s thinking of replacing Sessions with Pruitt is far from rock-solid. He attributes it to the “Fake News Media,” says Pruitt is doing a “great job” but is “TOTALLY under siege,” and asks whether “people really believe this stuff.”

Yet Trump has a habit of calling things fake news that are in fact true. On March 11, he tweeted that he was “VERY happy” with his legal team and that a New York Times report that he’d add another lawyer was “false.” However, just eight days later, he announced he did in fact plan to hire another lawyer, Joseph diGenova, and a few days after that, his lead personal lawyer, John Dowd, exited the team. (DiGenova’s hiring fell through in the end.)

Furthermore, Trump has been known to float a great many possible personnel changes in conversations with friends and allies — a few of which end up happening, most of which don’t.

Still, many reporters have long been skeptical of the rumor, and Jonathan Swan, Axios’s plugged-in White House reporter, tweeted Friday morning that it didn’t make much sense to him, particularly because Trump has lately been complaining about the Pruitt scandal stories:

To be fair to Trump, I've spoken to people who've been either physically around him or speaking to him for the past week and they say this has never come up and given what he's been saying privately they don't believe he could've floated Pruitt for AG in past week as per reports. https://t.co/lPe6jmdXSd — Jonathan Swan (@jonathanvswan) April 6, 2018

Brown of CNN then defended her story and rebutted Swan:

Clearly you haven’t spoken with everyone who has spoken with Trump this week https://t.co/ZjRrBOeZjR — Pamela Brown (@PamelaBrownCNN) April 6, 2018

What all this means for Pruitt’s future at the EPA is also far from clear. Trump expressing confidence in an appointee certainly doesn’t mean he or she is safe. But installing an EPA administrator dogged by corruption scandals at the top of the Justice Department through legally dubious means, and expecting him to then freely cover up other scandals, would be ... a very bold move indeed.Republicans are trying to get Americans excited about their tax bill, but it’s a tough sell.

Even President Donald Trump tossed out prepared remarks on taxes at a roundtable in West Virginia this week. Holding them up, he said, “That would’ve been a little boring,” then tossed them away.

Trump’s quip got laughs, but congressional Republicans who are trying to win in 2018 on a tax cuts message may not find it funny.

Their list of major legislative accomplishments is shorter than they anticipated: They’ve got tax cuts and a conservative Supreme Court justice. While Republicans’ tax plan is more popular today than it was when Trump signed it into law, Democrats continue to sweep once safely red races. Republicans are growing increasingly concerned that tax cuts might not be enough.

“It’s all they’ve got. It’s a one-trick pony,” said Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL) told Politico. “It’s the tax pony, and that’s the only horse they have to ride.”

Traditional conservatives are quick to maintain tax cuts are a winning message. Washington Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, who leads the House Republican conference, said the country hasn’t yet experienced the “full momentum of tax reform” after Republicans lost a special election in a Trump +20 district in Pennsylvania.

“You should not undersell giving almost the entire country a tax cut,” Guy Benson, a conservative pundit and editor at Town Hall, told Vox. “The law is working, and you can use the law as a springboard of talking about what is working.”

But in the field, we’ve seen a different kind of messaging crisis management. In the Trump era of Republican politics, the backup plan to an ineffective economic message has been to wage a culture war.

Fearmongering and race-baiting about MS-13 gangs, Confederate statues, and sanctuary cities are divisive messages that worked for Trump. When polls tighten, we’ve seen Republicans turn to these messages in the final weeks of the race. It’s just not clear it will stanch the bleeding.

The retreat to a race war hasn’t worked

Republicans had an early test of their 2018 messaging in early March. A special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th District — the first after Trump signed the GOP tax cuts into law — was supposed to be a safe Republican race. It was a rural, very white district that Trump had won by 20 points. In spite of all that, Democrat Conor Lamb prevailed.

The loss was interpreted as a major wake-up call for a party that was dead set on putting tax cuts front and center. At the beginning of February, almost two-thirds of GOP ads in the race were about the Republican tax law, according to a Politico analysis. Outside groups spent more than $7 million largely on that message.

Trump came to the state for a conveniently located GOP tax rally in western Pennsylvania in January, and the Republican candidate, Rick Saccone — a man who touted himself as “Trump before Trump was Trump” — defended the tax cuts in a debate against his Democratic opponent, and eventual election winner, Lamb.

When it became clear that it wasn’t enough to secure the lead, Republicans made a sharp pivot; Trump’s March rally for Saccone called on Congress to defund so-called sanctuary cities. By Election Day, the same group’s campaign for Saccone had pivoted sharply to decrying sanctuary cities, as Politico reported:

Since the beginning of March, tax ads have been essentially non-existent. Only two are on the air now — one from the pro-Trump super PAC America First Action which briefly mentions the tax law, and a radio ad from a progressive group attacking Saccone for supporting the law.

It didn’t work. Saccone “backpedaled into cultural issues, and it looked desperate,” Benson said.

But Saccone isn’t the only candidate who has tried the racial attacks strategy. Republican gubernatorial candidate Ed Gillespie failed to mobilize GOP voters in Virginia last November, with campaign ads that tried to pick up on the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, and gang violence. Democrat Ralph Northam’s win was in part attributable to a notable turnout of African-American voters.

Of course, the race baiting has had some successes. Republicans have used the culture wars as their closing argument time and time again. The primaries are rife with nativist sentiment. Kelli Ward, the far-right senatorial candidate in Arizona, ousted incumbent Sen. Jeff Flake from the Republican primary race with a Trumpian “America First” message only to be challenged by Joe Arpaio, the infamous former sheriff who called for detaining people based only on suspicions of their immigration status.

But it’s not at all clear this can work in a general election. What animates a Republican base might only set up the party for failure against energized Democrats.

Trying to be Trump is risky — and often fails

Republicans have a lot of excuses for their losses in Virginia and Pennsylvania: Virginia was a blue state anyway, Saccone was a bad candidate, taxes were a bad strategy in that rural Pennsylvania district in the first place, and Lamb didn’t have a primary challenger.

But there’s another explanation, laid out here by Vox’s Jane Coaston:

The problem for Republicans is that the Trump approach isn’t a replicable model for success. Trump’s scandals are, instead, dragging down the popularity of just about every other figure within the Republican orbit — making it less likely voters would vote for any Republican at all. Republicans in Virginia and Alabama have attempted to take on the Trumpist mantle this year but lost, even in deep-red districts.

In other words, Trumpism only works for Trump.

What we have seen is that the strategy to retreat to cultural wars — the rhetoric that was largely attributed to Trump’s political success — has only opened more doors for Democrats in down-ballot races.

“When you have a really strong candidate with a really strong profile that appeals to a wide swath of the electorate, it’s not credible when you try to convince people that they are a facial tattoo artist,” one Democratic operative said.

After all, the so-called blue wave is happening for a reason.

“They have to be really careful about this. [Republicans’] tried-and-true playbook created this national backlash and an incredibly unpopular president,” the campaign operative said.South Korea’s former President Park Geun-hye has been sentenced to 24 years in prison and ordered to pay a whopping $17 million in fines after being convicted of bribery, coercion, abuse of power, and other charges.

It’s a fittingly dramatic end to a scandal so strange it sounds like something out of a comic book.

Whereas most politicians fall from grace due to banal things like corruption or marital infidelity, the fall of South Korea’s first female president resulted from her relationship with a shadowy figure from an obscure religious cult that critics have derided as a “shaman fortuneteller” with sinister, Rasputin-like influence over Park.

And the whole case broke open because of — wait for it — the competitive world of horse dancing.

The adviser at the center of the scandal, a 60-year-old woman named Choi Soon-sil, is the daughter of the founder of an obscure sect called the Church of Eternal Life and a longtime friend of Park.

Choi was indicted on charges of having manipulated the president for personal financial gain, including using her relationship with Park to coerce large companies into donating almost $70 million to two nonprofit foundations Choi runs.

Prosecutors alleged that Choi then siphoned some of that money for personal use — including to pay for equestrian training for her daughter, a gold-medal champion of dressage, or competitive horse dancing.

It just gets weirder from there.

The mystery woman who upended South Korean politics

The revelations about the astonishing degree of power Park apparently gave to Choi, a private citizen with no official government title or security clearance, shocked South Koreans.

Choi reportedly communicated regularly with the president’s staff, provided input on top political appointments, and received presidential briefings, and, by Park’s own admission, was allowed to edit a number of Park’s major policy speeches. She even apparently controlled the president’s wardrobe, dictating which colors to wear on which days.

The two met through Choi’s father, Choi Tae-min, back in the mid-1970s. A dubious character with a checkered background and multiple pseudonyms, the elder Choi had by that point established a cult-like Christian sect known as the Church of Eternal Life, calling himself a pastor and claiming he could heal people.

The following account of Park’s long and convoluted relationship with the Choi family comes mostly from the Virginia-based blogger known simply as “TK” (“The Korean”) who runs the well-known politics and culture site Ask a Korean.

In 1974, when Park was only 23, her mother was tragically killed in an assassination attempt on Park’s father, who at the time was South Korea’s third president. Shortly after the assassination, the elder Choi sent several letters to the grieving Park, claiming that the soul of her dead mother had visited him in dreams and that Park could commune with her mother through him.

The vulnerable Park took the bait, and the elder Choi soon became a trusted spiritual guide to the young woman.

Choi quickly went about exploiting his new relationship with Park to line his own pockets, setting up various charity foundations that in practice operated as little more than slush funds. When Park’s father was killed in yet another assassination attempt in 1979 and a new leader swept into power, Park, now an orphan, became almost completely reliant on Choi, helping him run the various foundations he had set up during her father’s reign.

When the elder Choi finally died in 1994, his daughter took over her father’s role as Park’s spiritual guide, caretaker, and trusted confidante. And there she remained throughout Park’s own meteoric political rise — all the way to the Blue House, the presidential mansion.

In one of several emotional public apologies Park issued in the wake of the scandal, the president explained, “Living on my own, I had no one to help me with the many private affairs that needed taking care of, so I turned to Choi Soon-sil, whom I have known a long time, for help.” Park, who has never married, said it was “loneliness” that had driven her to lean on the younger Choi’s friendship and guidance.

But it seems the younger Choi didn’t just inherit her father’s spiritual role in Park’s life — she also inherited his role as a talented grifter, leveraging her power and access to the president to fund the nonprofit foundations under her control, just as her father had done.

The champion horse dancer whose antics broke open the whole scandal

Choi is alleged to have diverted some of those funds for her own personal use, including to pay for equestrian training for her daughter, Chung Yoo-ra. And that’s where the whole scandal really broke open: with Chung Yoo-ra, the young gold medal champion of dressage — competitive horse dancing.

As the Korea Herald’s Ock Hyun-ju reports, when Chung was admitted to the prestigious Ewha Womans University in Seoul in 2015, it raised eyebrows among her fellow students — namely, because the administration had evidently allowed her to bring the gold medal she’d won at the 2014 Asian Games to the admissions interview to bolster her application, in violation of the school’s policy.

Her subsequent academic performance and attendance record did nothing to assuage these suspicions, either: Despite not having attended classes, submitted assignments, or sat for exams, she was still marked as present and received top marks in all of her classes for three straight semesters.

“In one case,” Ock writes, “students were given tasks to design their own clothes and turn them in, but Chung only submitted a photo in which she wore branded clothes. Her professor was found to have done the assignment and handed it in for her.”

Students and faculty at the super-competitive women’s private school finally got fed up with all the preferential treatment Chung was getting and in October of this year began holding public demonstrations on campus, eventually pushing the university’s president to resign.

Media coverage of the university scandal quickly began to shift, though, focusing on the much juicier story of Chung’s mother, Choi Soon-sil, and her disturbingly close relationship with the South Korean president, prompting Choi to flee to Germany to escape the increasingly intense media scrutiny.

Then, on October 27, one news outlet hit the jackpot.

The Korean cable TV network JTBC somehow got its hands on what the New York Times described as Choi’s “discarded” tablet computer, which had been left behind in her office — and what it found on there was astonishing. Park’s presidential speeches with Choi's edits marked in red, presidential briefs for cabinet meetings, appointment information for presidential aides, chat messages with presidential aides, the president's vacation schedule, and more were all there, right along with Choi’s selfie in the device’s image gallery.

Choi returned to Seoul two days later, and shortly after, she was detained by the police. She was formally indicted on November 20 on a number of charges, including extortion and abuse of power.

A dramatic end to a dramatic scandal

Public outrage over the level of influence Park had apparently given her unelected personal spiritual adviser sparked weeks of massive public demonstrations in late 2016, some reportedly drawing as many as a million people calling for Park’s resignation. Park’s five-year term was to end in February 2018. Her public approval rating also experienced a precipitous drop, sinking to a whopping 4 percent.

In response, Park was impeached in December 2016 and formally removed from office a few months later.

The New York Times reports that Park didn’t show up in court for her sentencing on Friday. “She has refused to attend any court hearings since October, staying in her solitary prison cell, complaining of poor health and insisting that she is the victim of a political conspiracy,” the Times reports.“The speaker is not resigning,” Paul Ryan’s spokesperson AshLee Strong sent Vox in a succinct email in late March. It was not the first time she’s had to field the question; rather, it was just the latest development in a story that’s been percolating in the halls of Congress for months.

Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) let a rumor slip to a local reporter recently that the House speaker was on his way out. His claim was more specific than some of the gossip that’s been floating around for months; Amodei claimed Ryan would resign in 30 to 60 days and Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) would take his place.

Amodei’s version of events is just some of the speculation that has been spinning around ever since Politico’s Tim Alberta reported that in interviews with “three dozen people who know the speaker — fellow lawmakers, congressional and administration aides, conservative intellectuals and Republican lobbyists — not a single person believed Ryan will stay in Congress past 2018.” Ryan and his office have actively denied the reports.

But on Capitol Hill, the likelihood of Ryan’s departure is no longer a question of will it happen but a matter of when and how. Will Ryan run for reelection first? Probably. Will he push for one more signature achievement, like entitlement reform, before he leaves? That seems less likely.

Underlying the chatter among Republicans is an understanding that the speakership has always been a thankless job, and has become all the more fraught under the Trump presidency. When Ryan took over the post, his ascendency was meant to usher in a new era in GOP politics, unified behind Obamacare repeal, tax cuts, and dismantling the welfare state. Instead, Ryan has placated a president who has no interest in his agenda, and who in many cases — like on immigration, trade, and entitlement reform — breaks with the party altogether.

Ryan’s conservatism is no longer seen as a uniting force in a fractured Republican House. Instead, Ryan has become an avatar for the Republican civil war.

Washington thinks Paul Ryan is on his way out

The rumors began with fervor in December, around the time tax reform was wrapping up. Politico’s Alberta had taken the temperature of Ryan’s inner Washington circle and everyone thought he was on his way out:

In the months following Trump’s victory, he began contemplating the scenarios of his departure. More recently, over closely held conversations with his kitchen cabinet, Ryan’s preference has become clear: He would like to serve through Election Day 2018 and retire ahead of the next Congress. This would give Ryan a final legislative year to chase his second white whale, entitlement reform, while using his unrivaled fundraising prowess to help protect the House majority — all with the benefit of averting an ugly internecine power struggle during election season.

It’s an account of a beleaguered speaker. Even though Ryan is one of the most powerful people in the country, his friends said “he feels like he’s running a daycare center” in Washington, per Politico. Leaving the speakership would allow him to live in Wisconsin with his actual school-age children.

Ryan has tried to quiet rumors. He called Alberta’s story “rank speculation” and said he’s not “going anywhere any time soon.”

“It’s a thought that never entered my mind, let alone discussed it with anybody,” Ryan said on CBS This Morning. “So I really see this as sort rank speculation among the DC Beltway press, speculating these things. I think it was fairly irresponsible speculation. It’s faulty speculation.”

That “speculation,” however, has become casual conversation among lawmakers, according to one Republican congressional aide — likely what led to Amodei’s public recounting of the behind-the-scenes Capitol Hill chitchat. Ryan hasn’t commented on if he would run for speaker again in 2019, should he stay and Republicans keep the House.

For Ryan’s colleagues, it’s easy to see why. At the start of Trump’s presidency, congressional Republicans, with control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, set forward an ambitious agenda. They would repeal and replace Obamacare in mere months, pass a major budget deal, and enact massive tax cuts.

Instead, after months of highly visible party infighting, Obamacare repeal failed epically. Republicans deeply underestimated the time they’d spend excusing Trump’s tweets and White House scandals. They managed to pass tax cuts, but lawmakers are already worried the bill won’t be popular enough in November to help them win elections. Meanwhile, Trump, who doesn’t seem interested in talking taxes much, is stuck on the one policy issue that will only deepen party divides: immigration.

Trump keeps pushing Ryan’s biggest vulnerability front and center

If it were up to Ryan, Republicans would steer clear of immigration. But Trump is making it impossible to ignore.

Immigration anxiety played a large role in getting Trump elected, from “build the wall” chants and the “Muslim ban” to “murderers” and “bad hombres” jumping over the border — and Trump is eager to stick to it. After announcing his administration would sunset the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, Trump has consistently blamed Democrats for letting the program go into legal limbo.

Lawmakers have seemingly thrown up their hands in frustration over the future of 690,000 young unauthorized immigrants currently protected from deportation under DACA — Ryan especially.

“I don’t think the Republican leadership wanted to be here when it comes to DACA,” Yuval Levin, the conservative founding editor of National Affairs who is in Ryan’s brain trust, said. “They [would] much rather avoid immigration — it divides the party.”

Immigration is among Ryan’s biggest political vulnerabilities in the Trump era of Republican politics. His own views, often said to have been shaped by his mentor Jack Kemp — the pro-immigration New York Republican whom Ryan worked for early in his career and with whom he remained close until Kemp’s death in 2009 — are in stark contrast to the hardliner views espoused by the White House.

In July 2016, Ryan’s primary challenger Paul Nehlen — who has emerged as a political avatar for alt-right internet trolls and had the support of some in Trump’s orbit — showed up at Ryan’s Janesville, Wisconsin, home with a group of four mothers who had ”lost children at the hands of illegal immigrants.” Nehlen is running again this year, and his campaign has drummed up the kind of attacks against Ryan that have long been found on the pages of Breitbart News, the far-right media outlet run by Trump’s former adviser Steve Bannon.

Just read through a couple of articles penned by White House adviser and former Breitbart writer Julia Hahn and it becomes clear that to the movement behind Trump’s presidential victory, Ryan is no different from a “mass amnesty” Democrat. From “Speaker Paul Ryan goes silent as Refugee program claims victims at Ohio,” which Hahn wrote to censure Ryan for not publicly questioning the immigration system after a Somali refugee went on a stabbing spree on Ohio State University’s campus, to “GOP Rep: Paul Ryan’s immigration policy not ‘in best interest of America,’” which Hahn published just prior to House leadership elections, Ryan has long been dogged for having an “expansionist immigration agenda.”

Of course, Ryan’s actual record on the issue is much less straightforward. He has supported hardline policies, voting in favor of fellow Wisconsin Republican Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner’s 2005 bill cracking down on illegal immigration. He’s voted for border fencing and as Mitt Romney’s vice presidential nominee stood for the party’s “self-deportation” proposal, which Democrats found to be laughable.

But he’s also been dovish at times. He supported an early version of a comprehensive immigration push from Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) that would have created a path to citizenship for nearly 12 million undocumented immigrants. And in 2013, he stood with Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), among the most progressive immigration activists in the House, on a stage in Chicago to support a pathway to citizenship.

“He is an outlier,” Levin said of Ryan’s personal views, which are more moderate than those of the immigration hawks dominating the current immigration conversation. But he’s shown a willingness to give hardliners airtime on the issue.

Ask Gutiérrez where he places Ryan’s personal position on immigration today and he says he can’t.

“I can tell you what they were [in] 2013; we were together in April in Chicago,” Gutiérrez told me of Ryan. “I don’t know what they are today.”

Ryan defends Trump. Trumpkins aren’t as keen to defend Ryan.

The prospect of Ryan’s downfall is closely tied to his ascension — one that came on the heels of an archconservative revolt.

His predecessor, John Boehner, who also led a splintered Republican caucus, angered House conservatives by seeking votes across the aisle to pass major pieces of legislation — a move that ultimately led to his ouster.

It’s a history conservatives make sure hangs heavy over Ryan’s tenure in leadership.

“I can say it is the defining moment for this speaker,” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC), the chair of the House Freedom Caucus and one of Trump’s confidants, said of Ryan’s role in Congress’s immigration debate at a Heritage Foundation forum early this year. “If he gets it wrong, it will have consequences for him, but it will also have consequences for the rest of the Republican Party.”

In 2015, it was Meadows who moved to oust Boehner from his seat — what became a catalyst to Boehner’s retirement and Ryan’s political rise. Now Meadows chairs a cohort of roughly 40 men who make up the House’s most conservative faction and Trump’s most ardent supporters. The Freedom Caucus wields enough votes to stop any Republican-led legislation in its tracks, and Meadows has a direct line to the president if things don’t go his way, leverage points he’s happy to use.

Ryan has tried to keep the peace within his party — to varying degrees of success. Before taking the speakership, he promised the conference’s most conservative members, who were most wary of his appointment, that he would not move on immigration without the support of the majority of the caucus, also known as the Hastert Rule. Then he added another condition: He said he also wouldn’t bring up a vote on a bill that didn’t have Trump’s support.

Ryan has made apparent efforts to align with Trump. During the 2016 campaign season he would disavow Trump’s racist remarks, but he has now tempered his condemnations. When Trump called a number of African nations “shitholes,” Ryan said it was an “unfortunate” and “unhelpful” comment. As for Trump’s apparent attempts to gain influence over FBI Director James Comey, Ryan said Trump was “just new at this.” He’s even given the president credit where credit was not due on health care and tax reform policy.

But Trump’s supporters inside and outside Congress aren’t as willing to return the support. In September 2017, reports cropped up of conservative efforts to oust Ryan. Axios reported that Meadows had met with former White House adviser and Breitbart executive Steve Bannon to float alternatives for Republican leadership. The Washington Post said the Freedom Caucus was “privately plotting” ways to force Ryan to adopt their hardline agenda.

And while Ryan has made it clear that his role on immigration is to facilitate rather than advance policy, if you ask conservatives like Meadows — whose group of hardliners in the House Freedom Caucus have their hands on the Goodlatte bill, which does not include a path to citizenship and imposes stricter immigration checks — Ryan has had too light a touch. House leadership says it is currently whipping votes for the proposal. Still, without the votes to pass even with only Republican support, conservatives say Ryan is trying to slow-walk conservative legislation.

And after Ryan and Senate leadership pushed through a massive $1.3 trillion spending package that didn’t reflect any conservative policy priorities, from immigration to pro-life language, those same conservatives, with Trump on their side, were more than willing to throw Ryan under the bus.

Ryan’s impossible gamble is getting more impossible

The reality in today’s Congress is that many Republicans have had to abandon many of their convictions to align with Trump’s agenda.

Most Republicans have long subscribed to the idea that legal immigration is good. They supported free trade. They don’t see the merit in a 50-foot-high concrete border wall. And when it comes to giving DREAMers a path to citizenship, there’s more division than consensus.

“There were others like [Ryan], like Pence, who were much more moderate on these issues when they were members of the House,” Gutiérrez said. “Remember [former South Carolina Rep. Mick] Mulvaney? Look him up. He was talking in Spanish to his constituents. Because he knows there’s a need. Now, I’m not saying he was pro-immigration, but he said we need to do something about this and stop vilifying Latinos because the Republican Party is going to become smaller.”

So far, Ryan has navigated these ideological gaps by pushing through what he thinks Republicans can get away with. The strategy is becoming more tenuous.

Trump threatened to shut down the government over Republican leaders’ latest policy push: the spending bill, which was largely considered to be the last major policy fight of 2018.

Now the president is eager to pick at the wounds of a failed congressional debate over immigration.

It’s created an impossible gamble for Ryan, whose conference is facing a midterm election cycle where Democrats are determined to win back the majority in the House. The name of the game for Republicans in 2018 is unity. But Trump doesn’t seem interested in that.

It explains why so many think Paul Ryan is ready to quit the game.The Wall Street Journal recently reported that Special Counsel Robert Mueller has requested that a data analytics company called Cambridge Analytica turn over internal documents as part of its investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election.

Cambridge Analytica specializes in what’s called “psychographic” profiling, meaning they use data collected online to create personality profiles for voters. They then take that information and target individuals with specifically tailored content (more on this below).

So far there’s been a lot of speculation about the potential links between the Trump campaign and Russia, and most of the stories have orbited around the financial dealings of the Trump family and people like Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign manager. But this story is specifically about how team Trump, with the help of this data company, might have facilitated Russia’s meddling in the US presidential election.

So here’s what we know about Cambridge Analytica, its connections to the Trump campaign, and what sorts of things Mueller is likely looking into.

Trump’s digital army

In June 2016, the Trump campaign hired Cambridge Analytica to take over its data operations.

We know from the reporting of Nicholas Confessore and Danny Hakim at the New York Times that Jared Kushner, who was charged with overseeing Trump’s digital operations, is the reason Cambridge Analytica joined the Trump campaign.

Kushner hired a man named Brad Parscale, a Texas-based digital expert who had worked previously for team Trump. According to Confessore and Hakim, Cambridge Analytica convinced Parscale (who has since agreed to be interviewed by the House Intelligence Committee) to “try out the firm.” The decision was reinforced by Trump’s campaign manager, Steve Bannon, who is also a former vice president of Cambridge Analytica.

It’s not clear to what extent Cambridge Analytica helped (Parscale denied that Cambridge was of any use in a recent 60 Minutes interview), but we do know that Trump’s digital operation was shockingly effective. Samuel Woolley, who heads the Computational Propaganda project at Oxford’s Internet Institute, found that a disproportionate amount of pro-Trump messaging was spread via automated bots and anti-Hillary propaganda. Trump’s bots, they reported at the time of the election, outnumbered Clinton’s five to one.

Pro-Trump programmers “carefully adjusted the timing of content production during the debates, strategically colonized pro-Clinton hashtags, and then disabled activities after Election Day.”

Martin Moore, director of the Centre for the Study of Media, Communication and Power at King’s College, told the Guardian’s Carole Cadwalladr that Trump’s campaign “was using 40-50,000 variants of ads every day that were continuously measuring responses and then adapting and evolving based on that response.”

These online ads were spread primarily through bots on social media platforms. The ads that got liked, shared, and retweeted the most were reproduced and redistributed based on where they were popular and who they appealed to.

The benefit of this kind of data is that it allows data companies like Cambridge Analytica to develop more sophisticated psychological profiles of internet users (more data points means more predictive power).

Cambridge Analytica was also able to use this real-time information to determine which messages were resonating where and then shape Trump’s travel schedule around it. So, if there was a spike in clicks on an article about immigration in a county in Pennsylvania or Wisconsin, Trump would go there and give an immigration-focused speech.

When you consider how a few thousands votes in a handful of swing states determined the election, this is no small thing.

Flynn and the Russians

In early July, Shane Harris of the Wall Street Journal released a series of reports that offered some of the most compelling evidence yet that Trump’s campaign colluded with Russian hackers.

Harris interviewed a man named Peter Smith, a pro-Trump GOP operative who sought to acquire the 30,000 deleted emails from Hillary Clinton’s private server. Of the several hacker groups Smith reached out to, at least two had connections to Russia — that’s according to Smith.

Smith told Harris that he was in regular contact with Gen. Michael Flynn, who at the time was one of Trump’s closest confidants — and of course later became Trump’s national security adviser.

Here’s a key passage from the Harris report, which my Vox colleague Andrew Prokop highlighted at the time:

“He [Smith] said, ‘I’m talking to Michael Flynn about this — if you find anything, can you let me know?’” said Eric York, a computer-security expert from Atlanta who searched hacker forums on Mr. Smith’s behalf for people who might have access to the emails. ... ...In phone conversations, Mr. Smith told a computer expert he was in direct contact with Mr. Flynn and his son, according to this expert. ... The expert said that based on his conversations with Mr. Smith, he understood the elder Mr. Flynn to be coordinating with Mr. Smith’s group in his capacity as a Trump campaign adviser.

Harris examined intelligence reports that described the efforts of Russian hackers to retrieve emails from Clinton’s server and pass them along to Flynn, who would then share them with the Trump campaign.

By itself, Harris’s reporting makes no connection to Cambridge Analytica. But in August the Associated Press published a report that helped connect the dots. In an amended public financial filing, Flynn was forced to disclose “a brief advisory role with a firm related to a controversial data analysis company that aided the Trump campaign.”

The “data analysis company” is none other than Cambridge Analytica. The precise amount of money Cambridge paid to Flynn is unknown, as are the details of Flynn’s role.

But we know that congressional and DOJ investigators believe that Trump’s campaign might have helped guide Russia’s voter targeting scheme and that Flynn, who worked for Trump’s campaign and with Cambridge Analytica, is suspected of having extensive ties with Russian operatives.

A Cambridge Analytica spokesperson confirmed to Vox that the company is cooperating with the Russia investigation but flatly denied any wrongdoing.

“As one of the companies that played a prominent role in the election campaign, Cambridge Analytica has been asked by the House Intelligence Committee to provide it with information that might help its investigation,” the statement said. “We believe that other organizations that worked on the campaign have been asked to do the same. CA is not under investigation, and there is no suggestion of any wrongdoing by the company.”

What does Cambridge Analytica actually do?

If you use the internet or social media, you leave behind a digital trail of crumbs. Every post you like, every tweet you retweet, every thread you participate in — it’s all data up for collection and input.

Cambridge Analytica, a company created by Robert Mercer, a billionaire patron of right-wing outlets like Breitbart News, has been swallowing up all the data they can get. They’re not the only company doing this, but they appear to be the most prominent — in part because of their high-profile clients.

In a 2016 speech, Alexander Nix, the CEO of Cambridge Analytica, unfurled the company’s methodology: “We’ve rolled out a long-form quantitative instrument to probe the underlying traits that inform personality,” he proclaimed. “If you know the personality of the people you’re targeting, you can nuance your messaging to resonate more effectively with those key groups.”

By “your message” he means whoever pays the company for its services. But so far the firm has only taken on Republican clients, with Ted Cruz and Ben Carson being the most visible. They also worked on behalf of 2016 pro-Brexit “Leave” campaign, mining online data and using it to target and persuade British voters.

So what are they doing with all that data?

Cambridge Analytica has built models that translate the data they harvest into personality profiles for every American adult — Nix claims to have “somewhere close to 4 or 5 thousand data points on every adult in the US.”

Their models are based on the psychometric research of Michal Kosinski, who in 2013 was still a PhD candidate at the University of Cambridge (hence the name “Cambridge Analytica”). Kosinski and his colleagues developed a model that linked subjects’ Facebook likes with their OCEAN scores. OCEAN refers to a questionnaire used by psychologists that describes personalities along five dimensions — openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism.

Cambridge Analytica has combined this social psychology with data analytics. They collect data from Facebook and Twitter (which is perfectly legal) and have purchased an array of other data — about television preferences, airline travel, shopping habits, church attendance, what books you buy, what magazines you subscribe to — from third-party organizations and so-called data brokers.

They take all this information and use it for what Nix calls “behavioral microtargeting” — basically individualized advertising.

Instead of tailoring ads according to demographics, they use psychometrics. It’s a simple idea, really. Rather than assuming that all women or African Americans or working-class whites will respond to the same message, they target individual voters with emotionally charged content — in other words, ads designed to tug on emotional biases.

The success of this approach hinges on the accuracy of the company’s psychological profiles. But how much can they know about someone’s psyche on the basis of a few tweets or likes? Quite a lot, apparently. In a 2016 profile for Das Magazin, a Zürich-based culture magazine, Kosinski talked about the predictive power of his model.

Here’s how the authors summed it up:

The strength of their [Kosinski and his Cambridge colleagues] modeling was illustrated by how well it could predict a subject's answers. Kosinski continued to work on the models incessantly: before long, he was able to evaluate a person better than the average work colleague, merely on the basis of ten Facebook "likes." Seventy "likes" were enough to outdo what a person's friends knew, 150 what their parents knew, and 300 "likes" what their partner knew. More "likes" could even surpass what a person thought they knew about themselves.

Combine this kind of predictive power with an army of bots and you’ve got a potent propaganda tool. As Woolley told me, “One person controlling a thousand bot accounts is able to not just affect the people in their immediate circle but also potentially the algorithm of the site on which their operating.”

Bots are even more effective, as they’re able to react instantly to trending topics on Twitter and Facebook, producing targeted posts, images, and even YouTube videos.

“The technologies can capture what people are thinking at a particular moment,” Albright told me, “and serve it back to them over and over again.” And with the benefit of psychographic profiling, he adds, they’re able to deliver “content on an individual basis on Twitter and Facebook feeds where people are being grabbed and pulled in certain directions through certain types of posts and stories.

“I’ve called it an emotional leash,” Woolley said.

There’s a lot we don’t know

We don’t know if Flynn actually passed any data to the Russians. Nor do we know if his numerous ties to Russia resulted in collusion.

We don’t know if the Trump campaign coordinated with the Russians to help their disinformation operation. We know only that there are many points of overlap. And if anyone in his campaign did coordinate with Russia, we don’t know if Trump himself was involved in any way.

We don’t know if the data produced by Cambridge Analytica ever found its way to Russians. And if it did, we don’t know for sure how it got there or how much it helped or if the company was aware of it.

We also don’t know how useful Cambridge Analytica’s work was to the Trump campaign. Researchers like Woolley told me that the company’s capabilities are a “bit overblown,” but we simply don’t know. We know only what they’ve admitted publicly about their methods and what they claim to be able to do.

One thing we do know is that data companies like Cambridge Analytica have changed things. Facebook is already under fire for allowing Russia to manipulate its algorithms during the 2016 election. And we’ve likely just scratched the surface in terms of how state actors are able to weaponize information online. The role of companies like Cambridge Analytica in these efforts remains something of a mystery, however.

In any event, no definitive evidence has emerged that connects Cambridge Analytica and the Trump campaign to Russia’s efforts to influence our election. What we’re left with, ultimately, is a ton of smoke and no fire. But if the ongoing investigations conclude that the Trump campaign did help Russia target voters, expect to hear more about Cambridge Analytica.

It’s entirely possible that such collusion could have occurred and the work of Cambridge Analytica had nothing to do with it; however, that would be strange, since targeting voters is precisely what the company was hired to do.Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that did digital work for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign in 2016 and has close ties to Steve Bannon and GOP megadonor Robert Mercer, is in hot water after several recent reports have raised ethical and potentially legal questions about its business practices.

The New York Times and Observer reported that Cambridge obtained private Facebook data — specifically, information on tens of millions of Facebook profiles — from an outside researcher who provided it to them in violation of his own agreement with Facebook.

“We believe the Facebook information of up to 87 million people — mostly in the US — may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica,” Facebook’s chief technology officer wrote Wednesday. CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before a congressional committee on the matter on April 11.

Separately, Channel 4 News in the UK has posted video in which Cambridge CEO Alexander Nix says his firm conducts dirty tricks such as trying to tape its candidates’ opponents accepting purported bribes or sending “some girls around to the [opposing] candidate’s house.” As a result of these reports, Cambridge announced that it would suspend Nix pending an investigation.

Even before all this, though, Cambridge was under scrutiny in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election — both because Nix contacted Julian Assange of WikiLeaks that summer to discuss hacked Democratic emails and because of broader questions about whether Trump’s digital operation collaborated with Russians in some way. (An ABC News report says Mueller’s team has been interviewing witnesses about the campaign’s digital team in recent weeks.)

And while all this has been going on, there’s also been a heated debate in the political world about just what in the world Cambridge Analytica even does — and whether it’s useful.

Are they an ingenious, sinister operation that harnessed big data to power Donald Trump to victory? Or are they — as many who’ve worked with them claim — sort of a joke? Or something in between?

Cambridge Analytica began with a British PR firm that’s been around for decades

Before there was Cambridge Analytica, there was the Strategic Communication Laboratories Group — SCL Group, for short. Founded in 1993 by a British ad man named Nigel Oakes, it is, basically, a messaging and PR firm that’s done work for governments, politicians, and militaries around the world. Its clients included governments and politicians in Indonesia, Thailand, Kenya, the UK, and elsewhere.

SCL tends to describe its capabilities in grandiose and somewhat unsettling language — the company has touted its expertise at ”psychological warfare” and “influence operations.” It’s long claimed that its sophisticated understanding of human psychology helps it target and persuade people of its clients’ preferred message. Lately, its preferred buzzwords have focused on “big data” and “psychographic profiling.”

Yet articles from the Wall Street Journal and the Independent on SCL’s work circa 1999 and 2000 describe what sound like relatively standard political messaging and PR work for the Thai and Indonesian regimes, alongside a penchant for secrecy and ethically questionable activities.

The stories allege, for instance, that SCL tried to place a story in an Indonesian paper based on a purported government document that was apparently fake, and how it repeatedly tried to operate through front and shell groups while obscuring where its funds were coming from. SCL also did more standard things like summarizing news reports for its clients and placing TV ads.

Perhaps most instructive is that both reports describe how in Thailand and Indonesia, SCL set up operations centers full of computers and TV screens that were designed to look quite impressive. Per the Observer, these rooms looked much like the villain’s computer-filled complex from the 1995 James Bond film Goldeneye. (And in fact, SCL hired the company that made that Goldeneye film set to put together a similar ops center.)

What those fancy facilities were actually used for, though, was far less clear. The Independent wrote that “its primary function appears to have been cosmetic,” and quoted an Indonesian source calling it “just like a movie set to impress the clients.”

Some of SCL’s operations ended badly — the Indonesian president the firm worked for was deposed, and the Thai contract concluded with a falling-out and local reports that Oakes had violated the country’s immigration laws. Nevertheless, Oakes and SCL proved remarkably adept at convincing new clients to write them big checks.

After 9/11, the firm began to tout its alleged expertise at anti-terrorism and anti-jihadist messaging at a time when Western governments were eager to pay for such work. (“Psych-ops was big business and people were just chucking money around,” a source told the Observer.)

And finally, in 2013, SCL found a wealthy American who’d give it a great deal of money indeed.

Steve Bannon and the Mercer family worked with the Brits to found Cambridge Analytica

Around 2013, word of SCL’s work reached the ears of Steve Bannon — and he was intrigued. Bannon was then running Breitbart News, but perhaps more importantly, he was a trusted political adviser to Robert and Rebekah Mercer, the father-daughter pair of conservative megadonors. Bannon connected SCL with the Mercers, and the British firm pitched a major expansion of its operation into US politics.

SCL claimed to be able to do a new type of political targeting that would be based on modeling individuals’ personalities (rather than just demographic traits like age, race, or gender, as is traditional). It would do so based on survey questions that measure the Big Five or “OCEAN” personality traits commonly used in psychology research — Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. (You can take the test here.)

It would also use modeling to extrapolate the personalities of people it didn’t directly survey. Then, SCL claimed, it could tailor messaging to better target and persuade voters based on their particular personalities. This, SCL said, was the future of politics.

The Mercers agreed to provide $15 million for this project. To do so, they set up a new company mostly owned by Robert Mercer, with SCL Group executive Alexander Nix as the CEO. It would be named Cambridge Analytica (a name reportedly provided by Bannon, who would also have a stake in the company and serve as a vice president). But according to the New York Times, Cambridge was “effectively a shell,” and all its contract work would be carried out by the SCL Group.

At the core of this new effort would be a vast amount of data that an outside researcher harvested from tens of millions of people’s Facebook profiles — an effort Cambridge Analytica reportedly funded to the tune of $7 million. The data was matched with other records to construct personality profiles on millions of American voters, in hopes that Cambridge could better target them with customized political messaging.

In GOP political consulting circles, Cambridge soon gained a reputation as the Mercers’ somewhat odd pet project. The wealthy hedge fund family would reportedly demand that candidates hire Cambridge if they wanted Mercer money. And after working on various low-profile GOP political efforts in 2014, Cambridge landed a major job with a Mercer-funded Super PAC supporting Ted Cruz’s presidential candidacy. But the gig went poorly — the Cruz team claimed Cambridge’s data was worthless and fought with them over money, according to a later New York Times report.

Cambridge beefed up Donald Trump’s digital operation for the 2016 general election

Eventually, Donald Trump emerged as the GOP nominee-in-waiting. And though Bannon was still a few months away from officially joining the Trump campaign, he made the introduction between Cambridge and Trump’s team. (Bannon owned a stake in Cambridge and was being paid by it at the time.) Various reports name Trump staffers Paul Manafort, Jared Kushner, and Brad Parscale as involved in the decision to bring Cambridge on board, and on June 23, 2016, the campaign signed a contract with the firm.

Trump’s digital team was run by Parscale out of an office in San Antonio, Texas, and Cambridge sent along 13 people to work with them there, Wired reported.

What did they do? Well, in the new Channel 4 News report, Nix, the Cambridge CEO, brags to someone he thought was a prospective client that “we did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy” (though he could be inflating the company’s role).

However, one thing that both Trump aides and Cambridge staffers have since claimed the company did not do for Trump is use the firm’s fancy, futuristic-sounding “psychographic” personality modeling. People from both camps have said, in public statements and to reporters, that the Trump campaign chose to use the RNC’s data file as its raw data, not those tens of millions of personal profiles matched with Facebook data that Cambridge obtained.

If this is true, Cambridge’s work for Trump resembled less sexy, more traditional political consulting. More specifically:

Cambridge oversaw a $5 million placement of TV ads — though the Times reports that the Trump campaign was unhappy with the results, since Cambridge ended up paying for ads on cable channels in Washington, DC.

The firm worked on targeting digital ads and online fundraising.

They did polling of swing states.

However, it should also be noted that, at the same time, other Cambridge employees were working for the Mercer-backed Super PAC “Make America Number 1” that was supporting Trump. This work, they say, was firewalled off from Trump’s campaign (as it legally has to to be).

In the end, Federal Election Commission filings show that the Trump campaign paid Cambridge $5.9 million over the rest of the campaign, and the Wall Street Journal reported that $3 million more went to Cambridge through Parscale’s firm.

During the campaign, Trump’s digital operation was generally thought to be a joke, and Clinton’s team was portrayed as the ingenious data wizards with incredible algorithms. But after Clinton’s shocking loss, people naturally searched for explanations — and Cambridge Analytica was willing and eager to take credit. Not everyone bought it, though — the Spectator’s Paul Wood asked “Are Cambridge Analytica brilliant scientists or snake-oil salesmen?” in December 2016.

Cambridge got its Facebook data through questionable means

Of late, though, Cambridge has faced a new round of scrutiny over just how it got all that Facebook data in the first place — and Facebook, too, is facing major questions about what happened.

The Guardian actually broke much of this story all the way back in December 2015, when Cambridge was still backing Cruz’s presidential campaign. But in March 2018, a former Cambridge employee, Christopher Wylie, provided documents and first-person testimony in both a Times story (by Matthew Rosenberg, Nick Confessore, and Carole Cadwalladr) and an Observer story (by Cadwalladr) laying out, in far more detail, exactly what happened.

Aleksandr Kogan, a Russian-American academic at Cambridge University, got permission from Facebook to pull data via an app he created — but he reportedly claimed he’d use this data only for academic purposes, not commercial ones.

Kogan’s app, “thisismydigitallife,” was a personality quiz Facebook users could take. However, to take the quiz, users had to consent to give the app access to their and their friends’ Facebook profiles.

More than 270,000 people used the app and took the quiz. However, because they consented to give the app access to their friends’ profiles, too, Kogan ended up collecting data from far more. Initially, the estimate was 50 million raw profiles, of which about 30 million could be matched with other records that helped identify people. Now, Facebook says 87 million users’ profiles “may have been improperly shared” with Cambridge.

Cambridge Analytica was the brains behind Kogan’s operation and ended up spending about $7 million on this data, Wylie told the Observer. (It also seems that Bannon gave the new company its name because of all this, since Kogan worked at Cambridge University.)

Facebook says it learned that Kogan had violated its rules by passing on the information to third parties in 2015 and that it subsequently got assurances from Kogan and Cambridge that they deleted the data they’d collected. However, a former Cambridge employee told the Times that “he had recently seen hundreds of gigabytes” of that data still on the company’s servers.

Both Facebook and Cambridge have faced enormous criticism for all this, and as the news was about to break, Facebook announced it would suspend Cambridge, SCL Group, Kogan, and Wylie from its platform.

However, despite Wylie’s dramatic claims that he and Cambridge “broke Facebook,” the harvesting of such data, even from users’ friends who didn’t clearly consent, does seem to have been clearly allowed by Facebook at the time, and many app developers had similar practices. Indeed, Zeynep Tufekci argues that this is an “all-too-natural consequence of Facebook’s business model,” since the company makes money “by profiling us and then selling our attention to advertisers, political actors and others.”

It’s not clear whether any laws were broken here — Andrew Keane Woods runs down some possibilities at Lawfare — but regulators in the US and the UK both say they’re looking into the matter.

Importantly, it hasn’t been shown Cambridge used this Facebook profile info in its work for the Trump campaign. (Wylie left the firm in late 2014, so he can’t speak to that.)

Also, apropos of nothing, Aleksandr Kogan at one point changed his name to “Dr. Spectre,” but then changed it back.

Cambridge’s CEO bragged about doing shady stuff to someone he thought was a potential client

Shortly after Wylie came forward publicly, Channel 4 News in the UK began to publish a series that was the result of a four-month investigation it conducted into Cambridge Analytica.

Channel 4 got a reporter to pose as a wealthy Sri Lankan interested in influencing politics in his home country — and secretly taped Cambridge executives, including eventually CEO Alexander Nix, as they pitched their services to him in a series of meetings.

It was Nix, hoping to close the deal, who said the most attention-getting things. He said the company operates “in the shadows” and that he looks forward “to building a very long-term and secretive relationship with you.” He said that his company could have an operative try to videotape a politician they want to discredit accepting a bribe. “They will offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land for instance,” Nix said. “We’ll have the whole thing recorded on cameras.”

Another possibility, Nix continued, was to “send some girls around to the candidate’s house — we have lots of history of things.” He elaborated, “We could bring some Ukrainians in on holiday with us,” since they’re “very beautiful.” However, he did go on to say, “Please don’t pay too much attention to what I’m saying because I’m just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done.” Nix also told the supposed prospective client that he uses an email service called ProtonMail and sets it to delete all his mail two hours after it’s read, so there will be no “paper trail.”

As the Atlantic’s David Graham notes, dirty tricks like these don’t really have anything to do with big data or psychographic personality profiling. They make Cambridge sound rather more like an ordinary political consulting firm from the shadier side of the business. In any case, Nix’s comments to Channel 4 have created enough of an uproar that Cambridge said it’s suspending him pending an investigation. (What that means for Nix’s position at SCL Group is not yet clear.)

Cambridge Analytica’s CEO also reached out to Julian Assange in search of hacked Democratic emails

Yet the new reports aren’t the only reason Cambridge is under scrutiny. One of the central focuses of special counsel Mueller’s investigation is whether anyone on Trump’s team had inside knowledge about or played any role in the hacking and leaking of prominent Democrats’ emails in 2016.

And we learned last year, via reporting from the Wall Street Journal’s Rebecca Ballhaus, that Nix — Cambridge’s CEO — had contacted Julian Assange of WikiLeaks about just that topic, both just before and after Cambridge signed on with the Trump campaign.

There’s no evidence yet that Nix’s contacts with Assange actually led to anything. But here’s the timeline of what we know happened:

In mid-May 2016, Cambridge began discussions with Trump’s team about work for the campaign.

On June 12, 2016, WikiLeaks’ Julian Assange publicly claimed to have “upcoming leaks in relation to Hillary Clinton,” which he specified were “emails.”

Nix says that it was after he saw this report, in “early June,” that he reached out to Assange to ask if he could get an advance look at those emails. He says that Assange turned him down.

At some point that same month, Cambridge board member Rebekah Mercer talked with an associate about whether they should try to somehow obtain Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails, a source told Ballhaus. (Clinton deleted about 33,000 emails, about half of the total on her server, rather than turn them over to the government because she said they were personal rather than work-related.) Ballhaus’s source claimed Mercer decided not to go through with this.

On June 13, 2016, Cambridge sent a proposed contract to Trump’s team.

On June 23, 2016, the Trump campaign signed a contract with Cambridge to do digital work.

On July 22, 2016, WikiLeaks began posting hacked DNC emails.

In August 2016, Nix emailed Mercer and other Cambridge employees and said that he’d recently reached out to Assange again, and offered to help better organize the WikiLeaks-posted DNC emails, but hadn’t yet heard back.

Both Nix and Assange have said, however, that these overtures never went anywhere. No evidence has emerged to disprove them. Still, this is yet another addition to the list of Trump associates who betrayed at least some interest in getting involved with hacked Democratic emails (and we should keep in mind that the email hackings themselves were a crime).

There have been also questions about whether Trump’s data operation worked with Russia

Finally, separately from Nix’s contacts with Assange, there have been questions for months about whether the Trump campaign’s data operation collaborated with Russian digital efforts to boost Trump or hurt Clinton in some way.

The Wall Street Journal reported in December that Mueller had requested Cambridge turn over the emails of any of its employees who worked on Trump’s campaign. And anonymously sourced reports from McClatchy and Vanity Fair, among others, have said Mueller’s team is looking into whether Trump’s digital operation provided information to Russians to help them determine which American voters to target with their own digital efforts.

As of now, there is no evidence that this occurred, and Mueller’s recent indictment of several Russian individuals and companies for conspiring to interfere with the election through their propaganda work makes no allegations that anyone on Trump’s team was aware of their activities.

But since Cambridge was a major part of Trump’s digital operation, there are some questions about them and their own ties to Russia.

The firm has also claimed to have done work in Russia and Ukraine in the past.

Aleksandr Kogan, who provided that Facebook data, is also an associate professor at St. Petersburg University and got a grant from the Russian government to research social networks.

Cambridge at one point tried to land business from the Russian oil and gas company Lukoil.

Days after WikiLeaks began posting the DNC emails and at the height of the 2016 campaign, Nix was photographed on a polo field with the Russian ambassador to the United Kingdom, according to Mother Jones.

Another odd note is that toward the end of the campaign, Trump foreign policy adviser Michael Flynn signed on to do consulting for the SCL Group. It is not clear what, if anything, Flynn did for them. However, and perhaps unrelatedly, some reports have suggested that Flynn was involved in yet another apparent effort to obtain Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails from Russian hackers in 2016, undertaken by Peter Smith, a Republican consultant unconnected to the Trump campaign. (Flynn has since become a cooperating witness for Robert Mueller’s investigation.)

Meanwhile, many politicos think Cambridge is full of hot air

Last but not least, another angle to all this is that as unsettling as Cambridge’s own claims about its futuristic capabilities may sound — “I made Steve Bannon’s psychological warfare tool,” the Observer’s headline thundered, quoting Christopher Wylie — many Republican political professionals who’ve worked with the firm have generally derided the quality of its work.

Take these tweets from three well-connected political reporters:

BIGGEST SECRET ABOUT CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA: It was (& is) an overpriced service that delivered little value to the TRUMP campaign, & the other campaigns & PACs that retained it — most of which hired the firm because it was seen as a prerequisite for receiving $$$ from the MERCERS. — Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) March 19, 2018

I've talked to many campaign operatives who think Cambridge is a joke. Take it with a grain of salt. Tech/politics is full of people trashing each other to help their own business. But that's all I've ever heard. https://t.co/bGEXpiOkpF — Jon Ward (@jonward11) March 19, 2018

I don't pretend to know anything about tech. What I do know is that *without exception* every campaign I've spoken to that used CA has complained to me *in real time* (before these allegations) that they're useless. https://t.co/080FNqrDGZ — Jonathan Swan (@jonathanvswan) March 20, 2018

As Jonathan Swan says, this isn’t just revisionist history. Complaints about Cambridge were legion during the 2016 campaign and spilled into the press in real time. Even those years-old articles about the SCL Group I mentioned above hint heavily that the firm may be vastly overselling its talents.

But whether Cambridge has really discovered some powerful new digital techniques, or whether they’re relatively ordinary political consultants with a penchant for hyperbolic rhetoric, the firm is now under more scrutiny than ever — and its future looks increasingly cloudy.President Donald Trump just made a big decision on Syria — that doesn’t really seem to change a whole lot, at least for now.

As the Washington Post reports, Trump told military leaders on Tuesday to prepare for a withdrawal from Syria, although he did not set an official return date. But per NBC News, Trump decided to allow the approximately 2,000 troops in Syria to stay there until ISIS is defeated, even though he was unhappy about it.

In a statement after the press reports, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders noted that “the military mission to eradicate ISIS in Syria is coming to a rapid end,” but did not mention concrete plans for an imminent withdrawal.

So, to be clear: Trump is fine with US troops remaining in Syria to vanquish the terrorist group. The question is whether Trump will want US troops to stay in Syria after ISIS’s defeat to help rebuild the country.

Right now, it doesn’t look that way. “I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back home,” Trump said during a White House press conference alongside Baltic leaders on Tuesday, capping a months-long effort to remove US troops from Syria.

But top military and diplomatic officials unanimously disagreed with Trump, a source familiar with the discussions told me. Trump contends US troops could come home because ISIS is essentially defeated; the officials say they need to remain in Syria to ensure ISIS loses and can’t reemerge.

That private disagreement spilled out into the open around the same time as Trump’s Tuesday comments. Gen. Joseph Votel, who leads US forces in the Middle East, told a Washington audience at the US Institute of Peace on Tuesday that “a lot of very good military progress has been made [against ISIS] over the last couple of years, but the hard part, I think, is in front of us.”

He also noted that the military had a role in “addressing long-term issues of reconstruction.” For Votel, that mostly means helping Syrians who fled their homes during the fighting return to improved living conditions.

Brett McGurk, who is in charge of the US-led anti-ISIS diplomatic effort, made a similar case. “We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission. That mission isn’t over. And we’re going to complete that mission,” he said at the same event.

The contradictory stances on the role of US forces in Syria caught US officials by surprise. But Votel and McGurk’s comments might presage a possible broader fight between Trump and his administration, particularly the Pentagon. For example, it’s possible American commanders could slow-roll a troop withdrawal from Syria against the president’s wishes. In a meeting on Tuesday, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis reportedly told Trump that the US was already removing troops from Syria and would continue that practice. That argument, among others, apparently mollified Trump.

Put together, this is not a policy change. US forces will remain in Syria to defeat ISIS, which is why Trump kept them there in the first place after President Barack Obama sent them in. All that’s new in any way is that Trump wants the military to prepare for bringing troops home, something the military certainly planned for already.

So it seems like Trump has listened to his advisers — for now. The question is, how long will he stick with that decision?

The perils of removing US troops from Syria, explained

Simply put, removing all US troops from Syria at this point would be a bad move.

On a larger scale, it would all but assure President Bashar al-Assad victory in Syria. And Assad’s allies — particularly Russia and Iran — would also have more space to set up military bases, as well as fund and arm terrorist groups in the country. In effect, America’s years-long gains in Syria would go away almost overnight.

“Completely abdicating any involvement [in Syria] gives those that we don’t want involved a green light,” says Shanna Kirschner, a Syria expert at Allegheny College.

Removing US troops would also signal to America’s allies in the anti-ISIS fight that the US has abandoned them. The US works with Syrian Kurds to defeat ISIS, but a withdrawal of American forces would leave them alone to battle against Turkey, a NATO ally that has fought a decades-long insurgency against Kurdish separatists in its own country. Syrian Kurds are currently located near the Syria-Turkey border, and Ankara considers Kurdish forces to be a looming terrorist threat.

But there’s a greater irony: Removing US troops soon could ensure ISIS, well, doesn’t go away. “If ISIS is not truly defeated, then we might get pulled back in,” Kirschner told me. So if Trump does pull US troops out of Syria soon, he may have to send US troops back into the country if ISIS reemerges.

Recall that Trump consistently bashed Obama during the 2016 presidential campaign for removing US troops from Iraq, claiming that the move led to the rise of ISIS. (He also said his administration would never telegraph any of America’s military plans — but his demand to start planning for a troop withdrawal does just that.)

Last month, US troops spoke out about the need to continue the anti-ISIS fight. “We’re on the two-yard line. We could literally fall into the end zone. We’re that close to total victory, to wiping out the ISIS caliphate in Syria,” an unnamed US special forces commander told NBC News on March 30. “We’re that close and now it’s coming apart.”

Put together, Trump could empower America’s adversaries, hurt its friends, and possibly doom the US to yet another fight against ISIS should he decide to remove US troops from Syria soon. That’s why Middle East experts, like former top Pentagon official Mara Karlin, think it would be a bad idea: “Pulling [troops] out precipitously doesn’t make any sense.”President Trump is mad on Twitter this week about Amazon, the retail and technology giant whose founder and CEO also owns the Washington Post.

In a series of tweets spread out over days, Trump accused the company of a variety of inaccurate misdeeds, including not paying its fair share of taxes, receiving a sweetheart deal from the United States Postal Service, and setting up the Washington Post as a de facto lobbyist for the company.

The story is of interest because it once again raises one of the scariest prospects of the Trump era — that Trump is seeking to move beyond the venal corruption involved in things like his hotel to a form of systemic corruption where the success or failure of a business enterprise hinges fundamentally on whether its owners and managers are aligned with the ruling regime. The fact that Trump is explicitly injecting the Post into the debate certainly suggests that aspiration on his part.

But nothing appears to be actually happening on Amazon’s core policy interests. Instead, in a practical sense, Amazon — like most big American companies — is benefiting from Trump corporate tax cuts and his lax approach to labor law enforcement, and Trump’s slate of very orthodox conservative judicial nominees will protect the company from the left’s aspirations to wield antitrust law against it.

To the extent that Trump really is moving in the direction of systemic corruption, it appears to involve completely different companies and policy issues — issues he mostly doesn’t tweet about — like Sinclair Broadcasting’s favorable treatment from the Federal Communications Commission. The feud with Amazon, meanwhile, is all for show.

Trump’s charges against Amazon, explained

The president’s charges against Amazon, as tweeted, contain essentially three policy critiques plus the undeniable observation that competition from Amazon has put some other companies out of business:

Amazon does not pay its fair share of taxes.

Amazon does not pay fair rates to the US Postal Service.

Amazon uses Jeff Bezos’s ownership of the Post as a covert lobbying tactic.

These two March 31 tweets sum up the issue well.

While we are on the subject, it is reported that the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars. The Failing N.Y. Times reports that “the size of the company’s lobbying staff has ballooned,” and that... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2018

...does not include the Fake Washington Post, which is used as a “lobbyist” and should so REGISTER. If the P.O. “increased its parcel rates, Amazon’s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.” This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2018

Trump then reiterated Tuesday morning that he is correct about the USPS issue and the senior leadership at USPS is making a mistake.

I am right about Amazon costing the United States Post Office massive amounts of money for being their Delivery Boy. Amazon should pay these costs (plus) and not have them bourne by the American Taxpayer. Many billions of dollars. P.O. leaders don’t have a clue (or do they?)! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 3, 2018

On all of these points, Trump is offering half-truths, which would be bad by the standards of ordinary presidential conduct but by Trump standards is really more of a glass-half-full situation.

Taxes: Under current law, a state may only charge an internet retailer sales tax if the retailer maintains a physical presence in that state. This gives internet retailers a meaningful advantage over brick-and-mortar retailers and has helped Amazon in the past. However, Amazon’s network of warehouses is now so extensive that it actually does pay sales tax in every state that has a sales tax. But in addition to acting as a retailer, Amazon also facilitates “marketplace” sales by third-party companies that do not need to pay sales tax in states where they don’t have a physical presence. Amazon qua marketplace benefits from the no physical presence loophole, but Amazon qua first-party retailer would benefit from closing the loophole, and the company’s official position is that it should be closed.

Under current law, a state may only charge an internet retailer sales tax if the retailer maintains a physical presence in that state. This gives internet retailers a meaningful advantage over brick-and-mortar retailers and has helped Amazon in the past. However, Amazon’s network of warehouses is now so extensive that it actually does pay sales tax in every state that has a sales tax. But in addition to acting as a retailer, Amazon also facilitates “marketplace” sales by third-party companies that do not need to pay sales tax in states where they don’t have a physical presence. Amazon qua marketplace benefits from the no physical presence loophole, but Amazon qua first-party retailer would benefit from closing the loophole, and the company’s official position is that it should be closed. Postal Service: The Postal Service books accounting losses because of the requirement that it pre-fund its pension obligations, and broadly speaking, the problem for the USPS business model is that it’s supposed to benefit from a lucrative monopoly on regular mail delivery but the monopoly is becoming steadily less lucrative over time since people send less mail. Amazon’s parcel delivery business, by contrast, is growing, and USPS says its deal to conduct last-mile deliveries for Amazon is profitable. Both USPS and Amazon operate at an unparalleled scale, so there’s no situation to which to directly compare the pricing involved, and it’s at least theoretically possible that USPS could or should be charging more.

The Postal Service books accounting losses because of the requirement that it pre-fund its pension obligations, and broadly speaking, the problem for the USPS business model is that it’s supposed to benefit from a lucrative monopoly on regular mail delivery but the monopoly is becoming steadily less lucrative over time since people send less mail. Amazon’s parcel delivery business, by contrast, is growing, and USPS says its deal to conduct last-mile deliveries for Amazon is profitable. Both USPS and Amazon operate at an unparalleled scale, so there’s no situation to which to directly compare the pricing involved, and it’s at least theoretically possible that USPS could or should be charging more. Washington Post: The idea that the whole Washington Post newsroom involving hundreds of dedicated journalists is nothing but a publicity operation for Amazon is a ridiculous smear, and to call it a lobbying operation involves a fundamental misunderstanding of what lobbying is about. It’s probably fair to say that a desire to cultivate goodwill among political elites and a reputation as a virtuous and civic-minded figure are part of the reason Bezos bought the Post, though of course this kind of situation is hardly unique in the history of American newspapering.

Something that’s noteworthy is all the charges Trump isn’t leveling against Amazon — a company that’s been controversial for a long time.

Trump isn’t actually doing anything about Amazon

The company has been dogged for years by complaints that it mistreats its warehouse workers, while a new school of left-wing antitrust advocates has been pressing to rethink American competition policy to target Amazon even though it pretty clearly delivers lower prices.

In a practical sense, though, it’s worth noting that Trump isn’t really doing much at all about Amazon. Gabriel Sherman, reporting for Vanity Fair on “Trump’s War on Amazon,” says, “Advisers are also encouraging Trump to cancel Amazon’s pending multi-billion contract with the Pentagon to provide cloud computing services.”

This is a significant deal that faced considerable skepticism from the House Appropriations Committee last month. If congressional Republicans succeed in drawing the president over to their side of the clash with the Pentagon, that could, indeed, scuttle the contract and cost Amazon some money. But a contracting dispute is hardly an existential matter for either Amazon or American democracy, and opposition to the deal seems to primarily reflect the lobbying clout of Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, and other rival cloud computing vendors.

On other fronts, where Trump really could do something, there’s simply nothing happening at all.

The US Postal Service is overseen by a nine-member board of governors appointed by the president, for example, but currently all nine slots are vacant and Trump has not nominated anyone to fill them. He’s also not backing any legislation in Congress that would force Amazon to pay sales taxes on its marketplace transactions, and, indeed, it’s not even clear that a bill like that would damage Amazon’s interests, since Amazon already does pay sales tax on its first-party transactions and many of its competitors do not.

Sherman also reports that Trump is “open” to the idea of “encourag[ing] attorneys general in red states to open investigations into Amazon’s business practices.” But in a practical sense, Trump has been filling the federal judiciary with orthodox pro-business conservatives who give no indication of any interest in changing antitrust doctrine in a way that would disadvantage Amazon. And Trump’s National Labor Relations Board picks have all been uniformly conventional pro-business conservatives with no interest in penalizing Amazon for anything it’s doing on the workers’ rights front.

In other words, while it’s true in principle that Trump’s tweets are raising dire prospects for American democracy, the practical stakes of this conflict appear to be at most a single government cloud services contract but perhaps not even that. All of which naturally raises the question of why the president would pick a high-profile fight that’s mostly for show.

When Trump really wants to meddle, things happen

On Monday, Trump tweeted praise for Sinclair Broadcasting — a national franchise of local television stations affiliated with various networks that has increasingly turned its local news broadcasts into pro-Trump propaganda broadcasts.

So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 2, 2018

Here Trump didn’t mention that there are real policy issues in place. Sinclair is in the midst of trying to complete a $3.9 billion acquisition of Tribune Broadcasting’s stations and needs approval from the Justice Department and the FCC. Sinclair already gained approval from the Trump FCC for one acquisition, complete with a special waiver of rules that would normally prohibit it from operating KCFW of Kalispell, Montana, as a satellite of KECI in Missoula. Sinclair is also asking for some waivers pursuant to the Tribune deal.

Back in October, meanwhile, the FCC rescinded a longstanding rule requiring that broadcast TV stations maintain local TV news studios — a huge boost to Sinclair’s unorthodox centralized model of producing “local” television news.

Trump has, obviously, never tweeted at all about these low-key, financially critically regulatory issues. But it’s precisely in the subtle workings of the regulatory state that the potential for corruption is greatest. The Amazon fracas, by contrast, seems like more bark than bite.

Is there any method here at all?

If you want to interpret Trump as a shrewd operator, there is certainly some logic to his approach here. The fight with Amazon stirs up coalition trouble for Democrats, since big tech’s most vociferous critics are on the left but the technology sector is also one of the most Democrat-friendly swaths of American industry. Getting left-wing Democrats angrier at the Democratic establishment than they are at him has been one of Trump’s more effective political moves over the past few years, and the Amazon gambit arguably fits that pattern.

Going after Amazon’s interests in a more substantive way — through antitrust law, labor law, tax law, whatever — would provoke contention inside Trump’s coalition. Big policy changes would provoke ferocious pushback from the US Chamber of Commerce and other business interests, whereas hostile tweets are simply ignored by a business community that is largely enthusiastic about the vast majority of Trump’s policies.

On the other hand, Amazon is fundamentally a very popular company.

There are 63 million Trump voters in America and 90 million Amazon Prime subscribers. A recent poll found Amazon to be the most trusted of the big tech companies in America, with 66 percent of respondents saying they trust Bezos’s company — poll numbers that either political party would kill for. Indeed, the Harris Poll’s annual reputation quotient poll released on March 13 found that Amazon has literally the best reputation of any big company in America.

Trump’s efficacy at messing with his opponents’ heads, after all, may simply stem from the fact that his actions simply don't make sense. It’s entirely possible that he’s lashing out at Amazon because he’s genuinely angry at Bezos, and that he’s doing so in a way that lacks policy efficacy because he’s simply bad at being president.

After all, just because I know that there are nine vacant seats on the US Postal Service Board of Governors doesn’t mean that Trump knows or that anyone in his inner circle has bothered to inform him of that fact. He’s managed, after all, to have a lower net approval rating than any other president at this point in his term despite what appears to be a healthy economy with low unemployment and rising wages.

And while it’s certainly possible that history will look back on this Twitter feud as the beginning of a frightening new autocratic era in American life, it seems equally likely that it will come to be seen as an example of the kind of floundering ineptitude that led Trump to sinking poll numbers and electoral defeat.America is an exceptional country when it comes to guns. It’s one of the few countries in which the right to bear arms is constitutionally protected. But America’s relationship with guns is unique in another crucial way: Among developed nations, the US is far and away the most homicidal — in large part due to the easy access many Americans have to firearms. These maps and charts show what that violence looks like compared with the rest of the world, why it happens, and why it’s such a tough problem to fix.

1) America has six times as many firearm homicides as Canada, and nearly 16 times as many as Germany

This chart, compiled using United Nations data collected by Simon Rogers for the Guardian, shows that America far and away leads other developed countries when it comes to gun-related homicides. Why? Extensive reviews of the research, compiled by the Harvard School of Public Health’s Injury Control Research Center, suggest the answer is pretty simple: The US is an outlier on gun violence because it has way more guns than other developed nations.

2) America has 4.4 percent of the world’s population, but almost half of the civilian-owned guns around the world

3) There have been more than 1,600 mass shootings since Sandy Hook

In December 2012, a gunman walked into Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, and killed 20 children, six adults, and himself. Since then, there have been more than 1,600 mass shootings, with more than 1,800 people killed and more than 6,400 wounded as of February 2018.

The numbers come from the Gun Violence Archive, which hosts a database that has tracked mass shootings since 2013. But since some shootings go unreported, the database is likely missing some, as well as the details of some of the events.

The tracker uses a fairly broad definition of “mass shooting”: It includes not just shootings in which four or more people were murdered, but shootings in which four or more people were shot at all (excluding the shooter).

Even under this broad definition, it’s worth noting that mass shootings make up a tiny portion of America’s firearm deaths, which totaled nearly 39,000 in 2016 alone.

4) On average, there is around one mass shooting for each day in America

Whenever a mass shooting occurs, supporters of gun rights often argue that it’s inappropriate to bring up political debates about gun control in the aftermath of a tragedy. For example, former Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, a strong supporter of gun rights, criticized former President Barack Obama for “trying to score cheap political points” when Obama mentioned gun control after a mass shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.

But if this argument is followed to its logical end, then it will just about never be the right time to discuss gun control, as Christopher Ingraham pointed out at the Washington Post. Under the broader definition of mass shootings, America has around one mass shooting a day. So if lawmakers are forced to wait for a time when there isn’t a mass shooting to talk gun control, they could find themselves waiting for a very long time.

5) States with more guns have more gun deaths

Using data from a study in Injury Prevention and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Mother Jones put together the chart above that shows states with more guns tend to have far more gun deaths, including homicides and suicides. This has been found across the empirical research: “Within the United States, a wide array of empirical evidence indicates that more guns in a community leads to more homicide,” David Hemenway, the Harvard Injury Control Research Center’s director, wrote in Private Guns, Public Health.

Read more in Mother Jones’s “10 Pro-Gun Myths, Shot Down.”

6) It’s not just the US: Developed countries with more guns also have more gun deaths

7) America is an outlier when it comes to gun deaths, but not overall crime

It would be one thing if the US happened to have more crime than other nations, but the existing data shows that not to be the case. America is only an outlier when it comes to homicides and, specifically, gun violence, according to data from Jeffrey Swanson at Duke University.

As Zack Beauchamp explained for Vox, a breakthrough analysis in the 1990s by UC Berkeley’s Franklin Zimring and Gordon Hawkins found that the US does not, contrary to the old conventional wisdom, have more crime in general than other Western industrial nations. Instead, the US appears to have more lethal violence — and that’s driven in large part by the prevalence of guns.

“A series of specific comparisons of the death rates from property crime and assault in New York City and London show how enormous differences in death risk can be explained even while general patterns are similar,” Zimring and Hawkins wrote. “A preference for crimes of personal force and the willingness and ability to use guns in robbery make similar levels of property crime 54 times as deadly in New York City as in London.”

This is in many ways intuitive: People of every country get into arguments and fights with friends, family, and peers. But in the US, it’s much more likely that someone will get angry at an argument and be able to pull out a gun and kill someone.

8) States with tighter gun control laws have fewer gun-related deaths

When economist Richard Florida took a look at gun deaths and other social indicators, he found that higher populations, more stress, more immigrants, and more mental illness didn’t correlate with more gun deaths. But he did find one telling correlation: States with tighter gun control laws have fewer gun-related deaths. (Read more at Florida’s “The Geography of Gun Deaths.”)

This is backed by other research: A 2016 review of 130 studies in 10 countries, published in Epidemiologic Reviews, found that new legal restrictions on owning and purchasing guns tended to be followed by a drop in gun violence — a strong indicator that restricting access to guns can save lives.

9) Still, gun homicides (like all homicides) have declined over the past couple decades

The good news is that firearm homicides, like all homicides and crime, have declined over the past two decades. (Although that may have changed in 2015 and 2016, with a recent rise in murders nationwide.)

There’s still a lot of debate among criminal justice experts about why this crime drop is occurring. Some of the most credible ideas include mass incarceration, more and better policing, and reduced lead exposure from gasoline. But one theory that researchers have widely debunked is the idea that more guns have deterred crime — in fact, the opposite may be true, based on research compiled by the Harvard School of Public Health’s Injury Control Center.

10) Most gun deaths are suicides

Although America’s political debate about guns tends to focus on grisly mass shootings and murders, a majority of gun-related deaths in the US are suicides. As Dylan Matthews explained for Vox, this is actually one of the most compelling reasons for reducing access to guns: There is a lot of research that shows greater access to guns dramatically increases the risk of suicide.

11) The states with the most guns report the most suicides

12) Guns allow people to kill themselves much more easily

Perhaps the reason access to guns so strongly contributes to suicides is that guns are much deadlier than alternatives like cutting and poison.

Jill Harkavy-Friedman, vice president of research for the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, previously explained that this is why reducing access to guns can be so important to preventing suicides: Just stalling an attempt or making it less likely to result in death makes a huge difference.

“Time is really key to preventing suicide in a suicidal person,” Harkavy-Friedman said. “First, the crisis won’t last, so it will seem less dire and less hopeless with time. Second, it opens the opportunity for someone to help or for the suicidal person to reach out to someone to help. That’s why limiting access to lethal means is so powerful.”

She added, “[I]f we keep the method of suicide away from a person when they consider it, in that moment they will not switch to another method. It doesn’t mean they never will. But in that moment, their thinking is very inflexible and rigid. So it’s not like they say, ‘Oh, this isn’t going to work. I’m going to try something else.’ They generally can’t adjust their thinking, and they don’t switch methods.”

13) Policies that limit access to guns have decreased suicides

When countries reduced access to guns, they saw a drop in the number of firearm suicides. The data above, taken from a study by Australian researchers, shows that suicides dropped dramatically after the Australian government set up a mandatory gun buyback program that reduced the number of firearms in the country by about one-fifth.

The Australian study found that buying back 3,500 guns per 100,000 people correlated with up to a 50 percent drop in firearm homicides and a 74 percent drop in gun suicides. As Dylan Matthews explained for Vox, the drop in homicides wasn’t statistically significant (in large part because murders in Australia were already so low). But the drop in suicides most definitely was — and the results are striking.

Australia is far from alone in these types of results. A study from Israeli researchers found that suicides among Israeli soldiers dropped by 40 percent when the military stopped letting soldiers take their guns home over the weekend. The change was most pronounced during the weekends.

This data and research have a clear message: States and countries can significantly reduce the number of suicides by restricting access to guns.

14) In states with more guns, more police officers are also killed on duty

Given that states with more guns tend to have more homicides, it isn’t too surprising that, as a study in the American Journal of Public Health found, states with more guns also have more cops die in the line of duty.

Researchers looked at federal data for firearm ownership and homicides of police officers across the US over 15 years. They found that states with more gun ownership had more cops killed in homicides: Every 10 percent increase in firearm ownership correlated with 10 additional officers killed in homicides over the 15-year study period.

The findings could help explain why US police officers appear to kill more people than cops in other developed countries. For US police officers, the higher rates of guns and gun violence — even against them — in America mean that they not only will encounter more guns and violence, but they can expect to encounter more guns and deadly violence, making them more likely to anticipate and perceive a threat and use deadly force as a result.

15) Support for gun ownership has sharply increased since the early 2000s

Over the past two decades, Americans have shifted from mostly supporting the concept of gun control to greater support for protecting “the right of Americans to own guns,” according to Pew Research Center surveys. This shift has happened even as major mass shootings, such as the attacks on Columbine High School and Sandy Hook Elementary School, have received more press attention.

16) High-profile shootings don’t appear to lead to more support for gun control in the long term

Although mass shootings are often viewed as some of the worst acts of gun violence, they seem to have little effect on public opinion about gun rights, based on surveys from the Pew Research Center. That helps explain why Americans’ support for the right to own guns appears to have risen over the past few decades even as more mass shootings made the news.

17) Specific gun control policies are fairly popular

Although most Americans say they want to protect the right to own firearms, most also back many gun control proposals — such as stronger background checks, a database to track gun sales, and banning assault-style weapons, according to Pew Research Center surveys.

This type of contradiction isn’t exclusive to gun policy issues. For example, although most Americans in the past said they don’t like Obamacare, most of them also said they like the specific policies in the health care law. Americans just don’t like some policy ideas until you get specific.

For people who believe the empirical evidence that more guns mean more violence, this contradiction is the source of a lot of frustration. Americans by and large support policies that reduce access to guns. But once these policies are proposed, they’re broadly spun by politicians and pundits into attempts to “take away your guns.” So nothing gets done, and preventable deaths keep occurring.This month, the 193 local TV affiliates owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group began running a series of promotional segments, warning of a scourge of “fake news” promoted by “members of the media [who] use their platforms to push their own personal bias and agenda to control ‘exactly what people think.’”

The segments, which echo the Trump administration’s anti-media rhetoric, are eerily uniform across all Sinclair affiliates, so much so that Deadspin’s Timothy Burke was able to edit them together into a supercut showing dozens of Sinclair anchors saying the exact same words.

How America's largest local TV owner turned its news anchors into soldiers in Trump's war on the media: https://t.co/iLVtKRQycL pic.twitter.com/dMdSGellH3 — Deadspin (@Deadspin) March 31, 2018

The video is just the most recent example of Sinclair stations’ strong partisan tilt. A recent paper by Emory University political scientists Gregory Martin and Josh McCrain found that when Sinclair buys a local station, its local news program begin to cover more national and less local politics, the coverage becomes more conservative, and viewership actually falls — suggesting that the rightward tilt isn’t enacted as a strategy to win more viewers but as part of a persuasion effort.

A report from the Pew Research Center last year found that 37 percent of Americans say they frequently rely on local TV for news — not far behind the 45 percent of Americans who say they get news from Facebook, and ahead of the 33 percent who say they look at news websites and apps, the 28 percent who watch cable news, the 26 percent who watch national nightly news, and the 18 percent who still read print newspapers.

That makes the partisan tilt of the hundreds of local TV stations that Sinclair owns concerning, especially since the company’s channels reach 40 percent of Americans.

The uproar over Sinclair’s “fake news” editorial prompted furious rebuttals from the company and an intervention from the president, who spoke up in the company’s defense while attacking CNN and NBC — a somewhat confusing comparison for him to make, as Sinclair owns some 25 NBC affiliates:

So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 2, 2018

But Sinclair’s anti-media promos are hardly an aberration. Sinclair has been steadily growing and acquiring new affiliates in more and more markets for decades. It has, in the process, spread a conservative message enforced by mandates on local news anchors, including requirements that they air partisan commentaries by figures like Boris Epshteyn, Sinclair’s chief political analyst and a former Trump aide in both the 2016 campaign and the White House.

Here, for example, is Epshteyn condemning cable news anchors for their use of “curse words” when reporting on President Trump’s description of Haiti and much of Africa as “shithole” countries. “The allegation is that President Trump said the word once in a private meeting. How is it okay to repeat it and splash it onscreen hundreds of times?” Epshteyn asks.

Epshteyn produces as many as nine conservative, pro-Trump segments a week. The “Bottom Line With Boris” videos are “must-runs,” meaning all 193 Sinclair stations must broadcast them.

Another recent Sinclair segment featured former Trump adviser Sebastian Gorka ranting about the “deep state” and its efforts to sabotage Trump, and was produced by Kristine Frazao, a former reporter and anchor for the Russian propaganda network RT.

The company is set to become more powerful with its planned $3.9 billion acquisition of Tribune Media, which would add 42 stations to Sinclair’s 193 existing affiliates. The deal has to secure approval from the Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and Sinclair has already agreed to sell a number of stations to stay below the FCC’s requirement that TV station owners reach no more than 39 percent of US households with TVs.

Let me repeat that: Sinclair is hitting the absolute maximum level of viewer reach that a broadcasting conglomerate of its kind is allowed to have under federal regulations. The 39 percent figure is actually an underestimate because the FCC undercounts reach provided by ultra-high frequency (UHF) channels; measured accurately, the Tribune deal will let Sinclair reach 72 percent of households, Mother Jones’s Andy Kroll notes.

And unlike Fox News, Sinclair programming comes to people on local TV, on channels affiliated with ABC or NBC or CBS or Fox, many of which have existed in their communities for decades before Sinclair bought them. Millions of viewers of those stations have no idea that they’re watching conservative editorials rather than normal local news, which gives Sinclair incredible power to persuade viewers of conservative ideas.

How Sinclair Broadcast Group became a national giant

Sinclair Broadcast Group began in 1971 with a single station, WBFF in Baltimore, under the company’s founder and owner, Julian Sinclair Smith. In 1986 he ceded control to his four sons, who proceeded to, as GQ’s Wil Hylton noted in a superb 2005 profile of the company, “purchase an unprecedented number of television stations, develop their own programming, and presto, create a network.”

Hylton notes that the Smith family’s strategy was unprecedented in broadcasting. Typically, companies that bought local TV affiliates would specialize in one or two national networks: You’d own, say, 15 to 20 ABC affiliates across different cities, or 15 to 20 NBC affiliates, or maybe a few of each. That way, you only had to deal with one or two national networks for negotiating payments, time slots, and the like.

The Smiths, however, chose to buy up stations indiscriminately. The 193 Sinclair stations include ones affiliated with NBC, ABC, Fox, CBS, The CW, and Univision alike.

Sinclair also began to develop workarounds to FCC regulations barring ownership of more than one commercial station per media market. The Smith brothers had their mother create a shell company to buy up stations that Sinclair legally could not, “promptly leasing the broadcast rights to Sinclair under a loophole known as a Local Marketing Agreement,” as Hylton explains. The FCC figured out what they were doing and fined Sinclair as well as the shell company, but enabled them to keep going with that loophole in the future.

That ability to work around limitations on owning multiple networks in a given city or region has helped fuel Sinclair’s incredible growth. Mother Jones’s Kroll reported that Sinclair is set, after the Tribune deal, to own two or more stations in 69 media markets across 46 of the 50 states. It will have at least one station in 39 of the top 50 media markets and seven of the top 10.

Sinclair’s regulatory gamesmanship was aided, Hylton writes, by its cultivation of relationships with influential politicians. The Smith brothers became prolific fundraisers for their local Congress member, Robert Ehrlich of Baltimore County, Maryland.

“In 1998, Sinclair had filed a request with the FCC to purchase fifteen new stations, some located in cities where the company already owned stations, but FCC commissioner Michael Powell had been reluctant to approve the deal,” Hylton writes. “Ehrlich fired off a series of letters to Powell, mincing no words. He reminded Powell that he was a member of the House committee that oversees the FCC and its budget, questioned whether Powell had been influenced by liberals like Jesse Jackson, and threatened that if the Sinclair request was not approved soon, he would ‘not hesitate to call for a congressional investigation.’ By the end of the year, fourteen of the fifteen purchases were approved.”

When Ehrlich ran for governor in 2002, the Sinclair networks backed him extensively, including by instructing their Baltimore station’s reporters to dig up dirt on the Democratic candidate, Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, according to Hylton.

The Smiths also gave Ehrlich a helicopter to use, free of charge, in violation of state campaign finance rules; Ehrlich, once he won the election, would pay Sinclair $60,000 from the state budget to produce a set of ads that “featured the new governor popping up in people’s homes to help with household chores,” as Hylton put it.

Sinclair has been broadcasting conservative programming for well over a decade

Both Kroll and Hylton date the Smith brothers and Sinclair’s interest in politics to their desire to curry favor with the FCC in the late 1990s, as their aggressive approach in acquiring networks began to attract regulatory scrutiny.

But somewhere along the way, the Smiths appear to have become conservative true believers. In response to a request for an interview from New York magazine’s Olivia Nuzzi this past November, David, the principal Smith brother in the company, declined to talk, writing in an email, “The print media is so left wing as to be meaningless dribble [sic] which accounts for why the industry is and will fade away. Just no credibility.”

This pivot began to deeply influence Sinclair programming in the first term of George W. Bush’s presidency. After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Sinclair ordered news anchors at its local affiliates to read statements in support of Bush and the war on terror: “The management … stands behind the president and our nation’s leaders in the vow that terrorism must be stopped.”

That same year, the company began airing “The Point,” a regular commentary segment from political analyst Mark Hyman, an archconservative prone to saying things like, “Terrorist leaders would dearly love to see President Bush replaced with Sen. [John] Kerry.” (“The Point” ceased airing in 2006, but Hyman returned for regular commentaries in 2010 and continued them until early this year, when he stepped aside for health reasons.)

In 2004, Sinclair announced it would send its own reporting team, including Hyman, to Iraq to report on “good news” stories that the mainstream media was ignoring as the country descended into anarchy and civil war in the wake of the American invasion. “There might be real accomplishments for the U.S.-led occupation, said Mark Hyman, Sinclair’s vice president for corporate affairs, but if so, they are being drowned out by the constant barrage of stories about guerrilla actions against coalition troops,” David Folkenflik, then of the Baltimore Sun, reported.

In April 2004, Sinclair refused to air an episode of Nightline in which Ted Koppel read the names of every American killed in Iraq, saying the episode “appears to be motivated by a political agenda designed to undermine the efforts of the United States in Iraq.”

Later that year, it ordered its affiliates to air a documentary called Stolen Honor: Wounds That Never Heal attacking Democratic nominee John Kerry’s anti-Vietnam War activism and claiming that it contributed to torture of American POWs in North Vietnam; after a public outcry, Sinclair eventually backed down and only aired five minutes of the documentary, plus four minutes of the pro-Kerry documentary Going Upriver.

But in its personnel decisions, the company stuck by its anti-Kerry message. When Sinclair’s Washington bureau chief, Jon Leiberman, called the attempt to air Stolen Honor “biased political propaganda,” he was promptly fired.

Sinclair was back in the news the first week of 2005, when USA Today’s Greg Toppo revealed that Armstrong Williams, a prominent black conservative commentator, had taken $240,000 from the Department of Education in exchange for commentary praising the No Child Left Behind Law. The Government Accountability Office would eventually issue a report declaring the payments illegal.

Sinclair was a key part of the scheme; Williams aired an interview of Education Secretary Rod Paige (his financial patron) on Sinclair networks, as well as interviews with then-House Majority Leader Tom DeLay and Vice President Dick Cheney. While other news outlets cut ties with Williams, Sinclair maintained the relationship after the controversy. Williams even did Sinclair a solid in 2013 when he purchased two TV stations from them to help them avoid FCC ownership rules — while signing deals to make sure Sinclair was still in control.

In 2008, Sinclair raised eyebrows yet again for running an ad attempting to tie then-Sen. Barack Obama to Weather Underground terrorist Bill Ayers. The ad declared that Obama was “friends with Ayers” and that his “political career was launched at Ayers’s home.” (It wasn’t.) This was an ad, not Sinclair original programming — but, the New York Times’s Jim Rutenberg noted, it was an ad that Fox News and CNN declined to run due to legal concerns.

In 2010, Sinclair faced another uproar for running sleazy political ads — this time, a 25-minute infomercial from the National Republican Trust PAC called “Breaking Point.” Here it is, in three parts:

The ads, narrated by E.W. Jackson — an ultra-right-wing minister who has decried yoga as leading to Satanism, and who’d later achieve attention as the Republican nominee for lieutenant governor of Virginia in 2013 — paints a picture of President Obama as a pawn in a shadowy conspiracy meant to “mak[e] billionaire George Soros rich.”

Obama, Jackson says, “does not view America from an America-centric perspective, but instead from an outsider’s point of view, often with hostility.” The video shows clips meant to imply that Obama is a Muslim (like him saying “as-salamu alaykum,” telling an interviewer that “if you took the number of Muslim-Americans, we’d be one of the largest Muslim countries in the world,” and saying, “Islam is a part of America”) with sounds of Muslim prayers and chants of “Allahu akbar” in the background.

“During his presidential election, he wound up with a record-shattering $750 million in his campaign,” Jackson said of Obama. “To this day, he refuses to report from whence it came. One reason might be that some of it originated from the terrorist group Hamas, which also endorsed Obama for president.” (If you want to see from whence it came, here’s the publicly released data on donations to Obama. Hamas is not one of the sources.)

The company repeated these kinds of shenanigans in 2012, releasing a vehemently anti-Obama and pro-Mitt Romney half-hour news special on the Monday before Election Day and airing it on affiliates in Columbus and Dayton, Ohio, and West Palm Beach, Florida. Unlike the 2010 infomercial, this was official Sinclair news programming, not an ad.

Here’s a viewer-recorded video of a portion of the special:

In recent years, the company has dipped even further into conservative advocacy. In 2015, it hired former CBS News reporter Sharyl Attkisson to host a weekly news show; Attkisson had become a prominent Benghazi conspiracy theorist, and claimed that the government had hacked her laptop to delete her writing (it appears that she was mistaken and her backspace key was stuck).

In 2016, the company initially backed Ben Carson, Armstrong Williams’s longtime friend and confidant, as Mother Jones’s Kroll notes. “A precampaign hourlong biographical infomercial about Carson was carried on multiple Sinclair stations, and WJLA, the Sinclair station in DC, ran an ad promoting it,” Kroll writes; the infomercial, predictably, was produced by Williams.

After Carson left the race, the company’s loyalties shifted to Trump. In December 2016, Jared Kushner told a group of business executives that the Trump campaign had cut a deal with Sinclair for better coverage. In exchange for more access to Trump, “Sinclair would broadcast their Trump interviews across the country without commentary, Kushner said,” Politico’s Josh Dawsey and Hadas Gold reported. “Kushner highlighted that Sinclair, in states like Ohio, reaches a much wider audience — around 250,000 listeners — than networks like CNN, which reach somewhere around 30,000.”

In a statement, Sinclair denied the deal was unusual and claimed it had offered a similar deal to the Clinton campaign.

Sinclair’s purchase of Tribune Media in 2017 sparked rampant speculation that Sinclair had ambitions to challenge Fox News as a national force in conservative media, perhaps by taking Tribune’s WGA America (which reaches 80 million households, to Fox News’s 90 million) and turning it into a news network. The hiring of Trump loyalist Boris Epshteyn seemed to further these suspicions, and the “fake news” script only further suggests the company is growing more ambitious in its national programming.

Last Week Tonight and John Oliver captured the overall feel of Sinclair’s coverage, including Epshteyn’s contributions, in a segment last July about the Tribune purchase:

Local stations purchased by Sinclair are in for an alarming change

Last year, the Emory political scientist Greg Martin and Stanford economist Ali Yurukoglu released a landmark paper finding that Fox News’s consistently pro-Republican, anti-Democrat coverage meaningfully shifted votes. They estimated that if Fox News hadn’t existed, the Republican presidential candidate’s share of the two-party vote would have been 3.59 points lower in 2004 and 6.34 points lower in 2008.

Moreover, they found that the company wasn’t maximizing its viewership. It could have been slightly less conservative and gotten better ratings as a result. But instead, it sacrificed viewership to increase its power of persuasion by ramping up the amount of conservative argumentation viewers see, even if doing so cost some Democratic viewers. CNN, by contrast, just set programming in ways that maximized viewership.

Sinclair is doing something similar. Martin and Emory’s Josh McCrain, in a more recent paper, used the fact that Sinclair sequentially buys up affiliates to measure the impact of its ownership on local programming. In particular, they looked at the effect of Sinclair buying 14 new stations in 2017. The results they found were perhaps predictable, but no less striking.

The 14 stations “moved to the right on the ideological dimension … relative to other stations in the same media markets,” they write. “This change brought the acquired stations closer in line with the pattern of coverage at existing Sinclair-owned stations, at the cost of a small decline in viewership relative to the stations’ same-market competitors.”

The viewership decline, they found, was concentrated in Democratic-leaning areas. But it was relatively small, in the scheme of things. “The vast majority of viewers watching before the acquisition date continued to watch afterwards, despite the substantial changes in political content,” Martin and McCrain write. “For these non-switching viewers, the ideological valence of their news diet lurched rightwards following the acquisition.”

Paul Farhi of the Washington Post reached similar conclusions in an investigative piece on what happened when Sinclair bought WJLA, an ABC affiliate in Washington, DC. “In the most recent campaign, WJLA, and Sinclair stations around the country, gave a disproportionate amount of neutral or favorable coverage to candidate Donald Trump compared with his rival, Hillary Clinton, according to internal documents supplied by people at WJLA,” Farhi wrote.

The network was asked to air “must run” stories about Hillary Clinton’s email server and her personal health, but no similar stories about Trump’s tax records. There was, however, a must-run story called “Donald Trump Reflections of 9/11” and a puff piece about women campaigning for Trump.

Many Sinclair viewers don’t know their local news is peddling a conservative message

Say what you will about Fox News, but its viewers more or less know what they’re getting. That doesn’t mean it’s not persuasive — Martin and Yurukoglu’s study demonstrates that it is — but it has been a solidly conservative channel more or less since its inception. Its viewers mostly know that, and its staffers definitely know that.

Part of what’s so concerning about the Sinclair Group is that it’s taking over existing local TV brands, often to the consternation of those stations’ staff. CNN’s Brian Stelter reported that anchors at Sinclair-owned stations responded angrily to the “fake news” script that went viral last week, decrying it as “manipulative” and saying things like, “At my station, everyone was uncomfortable doing it.” Yolanda Harris, one of the anchors behind the biased 2012 election special, tweeted in response to criticism, “didn’t have a choice dude” and “I need my job.”

Mary Nam, an anchor at the Sinclair-owned KOMO in Seattle, also took to Twitter to express her frustration in response to Trump’s tweet about Sinclair:

Actually, this isn't funny at all.

None of it.

When media giants gobble up local news stations, there are repercussions. And since you brought it up first this morning, will your admin green light the Tribune buyout? https://t.co/9Udm54LLOx — Mary Nam (@Mary_Nam) April 2, 2018

A news director at one station wrote in an all-staff email, quoted by Stelter: “Let me be absolutely clear here ... These MUST Run. If they do not, my job is on the line. I don’t say that to scare you by any means but I do say this so you understand how serious SBG is about this project.” (Even so, a Madison, Wisconsin, station is refusing to air the promo, in spite of the danger that puts the affiliate in.)

One Sinclair journalist messaged the LA Times’s Matt Pearce to show a provision in their contract requiring them to pay back 40 percent of their base pay, times the amount of time left in the contract, should they quit. That kind of provision isn’t just punitive — it’s arguably illegal and unenforceable. But it could certainly intimidate staffers out of leaving, even if they strongly disagree with the editorial choices their owner makes.

The past month has seen a deserved focus on the possible role social media, particularly Facebook, plays in spreading political misinformation. But Sinclair is a good example of how political media, including outright conspiracy theorizing, can spread through more mundane and less technologically novel means too. Local news isn’t sexy or new. But it’s a mainstay of millions of Americans’ news diets. And Sinclair is profoundly changing it in a way that helps the Republican Party and the Trump administration.Stop me if you’ve heard this one. A Russian oligarch, a top Russian government official, and a high-end escort take a trip together on a yacht. Months later, after being thrown into a Thai prison, the escort claims she knows about secret Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election. And she says she has tapes.

It sounds utterly absurd. And, to be clear, Anastasia Vashukevich (who also goes by the name Nastya Rybka) may not actually have anything close to what she claims she does. She’s clearly self-interested — she’s trying to avoid deportation back to her home country of Belarus and is asking the US to extradite her in exchange for her information. She also has a history of bizarre self-promotional stunts.

But Vashukevich’s claims have been getting a surprising amount of attention from mainstream media sources — and for some understandable reasons.

For one, that wasn’t just any oligarch she traveled with. It was Russian aluminum magnate and former Paul Manafort employer Oleg Deripaska. That’s the oligarch whom Manafort wanted to privately brief and with whom he seems to have surreptitiously communicated, through an intermediary, while he chaired Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.

For another, it wasn’t just any top Russian government official who accompanied them on Deripaska’s yacht — it was Sergei Prikhodko, Russia’s deputy prime minister, a longtime Putin ally who has a foreign policy portfolio and is a very high-ranking official indeed.

Finally, the idea that Vashukevich might have secretly taped their conversations isn’t just hypothetical. At least once, she clearly did it, recording the two men as Deripaska discussed US-Russia relations. She later posted the video on her public Instagram account, where it sat for many months, essentially unnoticed, until anti-corruption political activist and Putin critic Alexei Navalny discovered it and explained its import in a YouTube video, accusing the deputy prime minister of accepting bribes from the oligarch.

Now, whether Vashukevich actually has 16 more hours of such recordings, as she says, and whether they are as damning as she claims, are different questions — ones we can’t answer yet. But this saga has already had major ramifications — it spurred the Russian government to block Navalny’s website just weeks before Russia’s presidential election, and to threaten to block YouTube and Instagram entirely in Russia as well.

Furthermore, all this revives yet again the many unanswered questions of just what Manafort was really up to during the Trump campaign. Emails between Manafort and a business associate make clear that Manafort, who was badly indebted to Deripaska, wanted to use his newfound prominence to “get whole.” The emails also appear to reference Manafort’s associate having a lengthy meeting with Deripaska and bringing back important messages. They also reference “caviar” — an apparent code for money — in relation to him. And all this unfolded just days before this very voyage.

For now, though, Vashukevich remains in a Thai prison. And the New York Times’ Richard Paddock reports that the FBI has asked to speak to her — but hasn’t gotten permission to do so from Thai authorities.

Vashukevich’s Instagram corroborates her yacht trip

Кофе?) A post shared by Настя Рыбка (@nastya_rybka.ru) on Aug 6, 2016 at 6:29am PDT

Back in early August 2016, at the height of the US presidential campaign, the oligarch, Oleg Deripaska, and the deputy Russian prime minister, Sergei Prikhodko, took a multi-day yacht trip together off the coast of Norway. They invited several high-end escorts along for the trip, including Anastasia Vashukevich of Belarus, who was about 19 years old at the time.

Vashukevich, a frequent social media user, Instagrammed her trip, posting photos and video, apparently unbeknownst to the two men. In one video snippet she posted as part of a montage several months later, the men talk United States relations, and Deripaska says the following (according to a translation provided in Navalny’s video):

We’ve got bad relations with America, because the friend of Sergey Eduardovich [Prikhodko], Nuland’s her name, is responsible for them. When she was your age, she’s spent a month on a Russian whaling boat. She hates our country after this. Why is that?

The “she” is in reference to Victoria Nuland, who was President Obama’s top State Department official overseeing Russian relations and was loathed by many in the Russian government (a diplomatically embarrassing private conversation she had was once taped and leaked). In and of itself, Deripaska’s remark here is hardly a bombshell — but it does tell us that Deripaska was willing to talk about such topics in front of Vashukevich.

Vashukevich’s public Instagram posts of the yacht trip remained unnoticed for more than a year. (Here’s her feed, which is NSFW.) In that time, she wrote a book called Who Wants to Seduce a Billionaire describing what she says was her affair with an oligarch, including a detailed description of a yacht trip with him and a top politician (though she didn’t name either man). Eventually, she went public in the Russian media about her affair with Deripaska.

All this seemed like a salacious but inconsequential story — until Vashukevich got the attention of Alexei Navalny.

A leading Putin critic unraveled this tangled tale in a YouTube video

Alexei Navalny, a lawyer, media commentator, and activist, is one of Russia’s most high-profile critics of Vladimir Putin. He’s organized demonstrations, exposed apparent corruption, and faced charges from the government, and he tried to challenge Putin for president in 2018 before his campaign was blocked by electoral authorities.

One day in September 2017, Vashukevich and a group of other scantily dressed women came by Navalny’s campaign headquarters, at the same time as a camera crew, in an apparent attempt to cause an embarrassing scene for him.

Curious who this group was and what they were up to, Navalny and his team researched them — and eventually disclosed their findings in a highly entertaining 25-minute YouTube video (it’s in Russian but has English subtitles, and my quotes are from those subtitles). “They are some mildly insane activists who, either for money or for the show, take part in some highly unusual events,” Navalny said.

For instance, just weeks after their activity at Navalny’s office, Vashukevich and four other women stood nearly naked outside the US Embassy in what they claimed was a demonstration in support of Harvey Weinstein. One had “Love you Harvey” written on her body, another “Fuck me Harvey.” (Naturally, Vashukevich Instagrammed it.)

In another video, Vashukevich said, “I want to address Alexei Navalny. Alex, one of us will find you and fuck you and post the video of it on the internet. Because of you and those like you, people keep fighting wars now.” Then in February, Vashukevich traveled to Thailand, where she began participating in a “sex seminar.”

After combing social media posts and reviewing Vashukevich’s book, Navalny’s team unraveled basically all of the truly bizarre tale laid out above — and realized just who was with Vashukevich on that Instagrammed yacht trip. Navalny’s interest was in documenting and denouncing what he alleged was the blatant corruption and bribery of Russia’s deputy prime minister.

His video caused an earthquake. Deripaska sued in a Russian court to try to get YouTube to take down Navalny’s video, and to get either Instagram or Vashukevich to take down her posts of him. And a Russian government watchdog agency threatened to block all of YouTube and Instagram in Russia over the matter. Eventually, Vashukevich deleted some of her Instagram posts and Instagram agreed to take down the others. And while YouTube hasn’t removed Navalny’s video, the Russian government blocked Navalny’s website in the country.

But then Vashukevich was arrested — and she claims to have more recordings proving Russian meddling in the US election

That’s where things stood — until February 25, when Vashukevich and several others participating in her “sex seminar” were arrested in Thailand for apparently completely unrelated reasons. (The New York Times reports that “several attendees said that no sex had been involved” in the seminar, and that it was instead about “improving communication and on perfecting the art of seduction.”)

Vashukevich, who has posted Instagram videos and photos documenting her prison experience, is potentially facing deportation because she lacks a work permit. So she has gone public, alleging that she has secret knowledge of Russian interference in the US presidential election — and that she fears she wouldn’t be safe if deported back to Russia or Belarus. An associate of hers who was also arrested wrote a letter to the United States seeking political asylum for the group, saying, “We have important information for USA and we risk our lives very much.”

The Times’s Richard Paddock then interviewed the detained Vashukevich in early March, and she claimed she had more than 16 hours of audio recordings from her trip with Deripaska and Prikhodko. “If America gives me protection, I will tell everything I know,” she said. “I am afraid to go back to Russia. Some strange things can happen.”

“They were discussing elections,” she went on. “Deripaska had a plan about elections.” And she claimed they had conversations with three people who spoke English fluently and who she thought were Americans. (Again, we don’t know whether this is true or self-serving.)

The latest developments, in a follow-up article from Paddock, are that the FBI has tried and failed to get permission from Thai authorities to speak to Vashukevich, and that a Canadian friend of the pair says that he told the FBI that there is one recording in which Deripaska and Prikhodko discussed wanting Trump to win the election.

The reason Vashukevich’s claims could matter: Paul Manafort and Oleg Deripaska seem to have been in contact right before her trip

Leaving aside Vashukevich’s claims, which are currently very far from proven, there are still many questions about Paul Manafort and whether he tried to make contact with Oleg Deripaska while he was also chairing Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. (Manafort has since been indicted by special counsel Robert Mueller’s team, but not in relation to this.)

Deripaska was an old client of Manafort’s — in fact, the connected oligarch was one of Manafort’s first clients in what proved to be a very lucrative line of business in Russia and Eastern Europe. But things went awry between the two — they had a falling-out that ended in a lawsuit, with Deripaska claiming Manafort cheated him of millions.

So when the badly indebted Manafort got a high-profile job advising Trump’s presidential campaign in March 2016, Manafort saw an opportunity. He emailed his business associate Konstantin Kilimnik in early April about his newly high media profile, writing, “How do we use to get whole,” and “Has OVD operation seen?” (These are Deripaska’s initials.)

Then in July, Manafort and Kilimnik exchanged emails about Deripaska again, as the Washington Post and the Atlantic reported last year. “I am carefully optimistic on the issue of our biggest interest,” Kilimnik said. “He will be most likely looking for ways to reach out to you pretty soon.” Manafort wrote that if Deripaska “needs private briefings we can accommodate.”

The pair’s emails on the topic grew vaguer and more cryptic as the summer continued. In late July, Kilimnik wrote to Manafort, “I met today with the guy who gave you your biggest black caviar jar several years ago. We spent about 5 hours talking about his story, and I have several important messages from him to you.” This, again, is believed to be about Deripaska, with “caviar” thought to be code for money.

Kilimnik and Manafort arranged a meeting in New York City to discuss the matter on August 2 — Kilimnik wrote that he had a “long caviar story” to tell and “several important messages.” They have claimed this meeting was unrelated to the US presidential campaign. (Update: And according to flight records newly reviewed by Scott Stedman, a private jet owned by Deripaska flew in to Newark airport the very next day before departing the US that night. We don’t yet know if the oligarch himself was on it.)

Deripaska took the now-infamous yacht trip with Russia’s deputy prime minister a few days after this.

Manafort, unexpectedly, didn’t end up lasting much longer on the Trump campaign — he was fired on August 19. But there are still a great many questions about what, exactly, happened between him, Kilimnik, and Deripaska beforehand.

Furthermore, as Navalny points out, Vashukevich’s posts provide what had been a missing link in this particular collusion theory. Navalny says in his video that though Deripaska was viewed as close to Putin, many oligarchs are, and the theory always lacked any indication that “Deripaska transmits any information to him.”

Yet now we know that just days after Deripaska seems to have had a very important conversation with Manafort’s associate and sent important messages, Deripaska took a multi-day yacht trip with one of the highest-level officials in the Russian government, in which they discussed politics and the United States.

Special counsel Robert Mueller is surely very curious about the content of those discussions.LeBron James is quite possibly the best basketball player who’s ever lived.

I am, of course, hardly an objective party. I have rooted for LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers since I was 15 years old.

But even for those who haven’t, James has compiled a résumé that rivals any player in the history of the NBA — up to and including Michael Jordan, widely regarded as the greatest player in the sport’s history.

James has won three championships and four most valuable player awards, for starters, in his 15-year career. Over the weekend, he surpassed Jordan for the longest streak of games with at least 10 points scored; the last time James failed to score in double digits was in 2007.

But the 33-year-old James is much more than a living sports legend. He is an actor, a media mogul, and a cultural icon. He rose to the top of his sport at the same time that America was forced to confront its systematic violence against black people, especially young black men, and James has taken up that cause as one of the most famous young black men in the nation. He is perhaps the most socially and politically influential athlete since Muhammad Ali.

When Fox News host Laura Ingraham recently told James to “shut up and dribble,” it became a national news story. When James called President Donald Trump a “bum” on Twitter, defending players who bucked the tradition of championship teams coming to the White House, it was a headline on the front page of the New York Times. He held a campaign rally for Hillary Clinton during the 2016 campaign.

James — LBJ, Bron, the King — has used the platform afforded him as the best player in the NBA at a time of unprecedented popularity for the league to speak out about racial injustice and other political issues. SB Nation’s Tom Ziller wrote that we were living in “the decade of LeBron James.” ESPN ranked him the most famous American athlete (the second most famous in the world) and called him “the most powerful voice in his profession.”

So even if you’ve never watched a single second of a professional basketball game, LeBron James is an unavoidable presence in American life. Given his ambitions to build a lasting media empire and the budding speculation that he might someday pursue public office, he will likely stay there for years to come. James is still at the height of his powers whenever he steps onto the basketball court — but his career long ago became a story much bigger than sports.

LeBron James versus Michael Jordan, explained

James was born in Akron, Ohio, to a single mother who was forced at times to move herself and her son to different beds on a regular basis. From an early age, it was clear he had a gift. James was the subject of unprecedented hype while he was still in high school. He was the star of his team at St. Vincent-St. Mary, and their games were shown on ESPN. Sports Illustrated dubbed him “the Chosen One.”

James was selected by the Cleveland Cavaliers with the No. 1 pick in the 2003 NBA draft. He was 18 years old.

Over the course of his 15-year professional career, this is what he has accomplished:

Won three NBA championships, including the first professional sports title for a Cleveland sports franchise in more than 50 years

Named the MVP of the NBA Finals three times

Collected four regular-season MVP awards

Selected to 14 NBA All-Star games and named to 13 All-NBA teams

Currently No. 7 in all-time points scored and No. 11 in all-time assists

Heading into the 2018 season, James was still considered the best player in the league. He could very well end up as the top scorer in league history before he retires, as the Ringer’s Zach Kram detailed, and he’s also on track to finish in the top five in assists — meaning he has proven equally excellent at scoring points himself and setting up his teammates to score.

As Deadspin’s Barry Petchesky memorably put it, James is someone “for whom everyone predicted historic greatness” and he then went on to achieve “the even greater greatness displayed by fulfilling every prediction.”

The main blemish on James’s NBA career came in 2010, when he held a much-maligned television special to announce he would leave Cleveland and join the Miami Heat. But he then won two titles with Miami and returned to Cleveland, where he broke the city’s 50-year sports curse by winning the 2016 NBA Finals with a historic comeback against the Golden State Warriors, which had won a league-record 73 games that year.

James has been so good, in fact, that over the past few years, sports pundits and casual fans have begun to ask whether he is even better than Michael Jordan, the six-time champion in the 1990s with the Chicago Bulls, who had been until now universally regarded as the best basketball player of all time.

It is, in some ways, a matter of taste. Jordan has twice as many championships and never lost an NBA Final; LeBron’s teams have been to seven straight finals, losing four of them, and yet Cleveland’s comeback win against Golden State — in which James led every player on both teams in every significant statistical category — may be more singularly impressive than any of Jordan’s individual titles. Over time, with good health, James is likely to accrue much higher career totals in scoring and other categories than Jordan did — and growing acceptance of advanced statistical measures has further bolstered his case.

The point is, when it comes to James’s performance on the court, the fact that this is a debate even worth having is a testament to his basketball greatness. His record is beyond repute. But James has made his career about more than basketball.

James has become an outspoken critic of racial injustice in America

James grew gradually into a more politically active athlete. He had famously declined in 2007 to sign a letter being circulated by a teammate addressing the Darfur genocide, stating that he did not have enough information. That comment drew criticism, given his extensive business interests in China, the target of the letter. James was also, to be fair, 22 years old at the time. He also later spoke out about the crisis, as ESPN noted, because “he realizes that his voice is powerful and he will be heard.”

In the intervening years, James has been one of the foremost athletes to address politically explosive issues, particularly when the issue is racial injustice and state violence against young black men. In 2012, James and his Miami Heat teammates wore hoodies as a silent protest against the killing of Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman.

In 2014, he called for Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, who had been caught on tape making racist comments, to be forced out of the league. Later that year, James and a few of his Cavaliers teammates, including All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving, wore T-shirts for game warm-ups that said “I Can’t Breathe” to protest Eric Garner’s killing by a New York City police officer.

At the 2016 ESPY awards, a sort of Oscars for sports, James went onstage with some of the NBA’s other biggest stars — Chris Paul, Carmelo Anthony, and Dwyane Wade — with a message of social consciousness. James closed the segment directly invoking Ali, perhaps the most politically outspoken athlete in US history:

Tonight we’re honoring Muhammad Ali, the GOAT. But to do his legacy any justice, let’s use this moment as a call to action to all professional athletes to educate ourselves, explore these issues, speak up, use our influence and renounce all violence and, most importantly, go back to our communities, invest our time, our resources, help rebuild them, help strengthen them, help change them. We all have to do better.

This is another way James has distinguished himself from Jordan, who was notoriously reluctant as a player to wade into controversies, though he has more recently talked publicly about the scourge of police violence. And James has occasionally still been criticized for not being forceful enough on particular issues, like the police shooting of 12-year-old Tamir Rice in Cleveland.

In the Trump era, James has stepped up his political actions. After white nationalists marched in the streets of Charlottesville, Virginia, last summer, James pinned the blame directly on Trump, who claimed there had been violence “on many sides,” thereby equating a counterprotest preaching racial tolerance with unrepentant racists.

It's sad what's going on in Charlottesville. Is this the direction our country is heading? Make America Great Again huh?! He said that ‍♂️ — LeBron James (@KingJames) August 12, 2017

James took another direct jab at Trump a few weeks later. He came to the defense of Warriors all-world point guard Steph Curry — one of his fiercest rivals on the court, whose team has beaten James’s in two of the past three NBA Finals — after the president criticized Curry over his reluctance to come to the White House to celebrate Golden State’s most recent NBA title. James’s tweet made the front page of the New York Times.

U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going! So therefore ain't no invite. Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up! — LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

Of course, being a prominent black man who speaks out on racial inequality can make anyone, including James, a target for backlash. Last year, the Los Angeles Police Department reported that a racial slur had been spray-painted on the front gate of James’s home in the city.

“No matter how much money you have, no matter how famous you are, no matter how many people admire you, being black in America is tough,” James said. ”We got a long way to go for us as a society and for us as African Americans until we feel equal in America.”

Then this February, Fox News host Laura Ingraham attacked James for his criticisms of Trump, using racially charged language to call the basketball star “ungrammatical” and “unintelligible.” She instructed him to “shut up and dribble.”

Those words quickly became a rallying cry for other athletes and fans who sided with James. They also did not have Ingraham’s desired effect on him.

'The best thing she did was help me create more awareness' — LeBron on Fox News' Laura Ingraham's comments https://t.co/hp5ATRyXUH pic.twitter.com/DrRUxu38Is — Sports Illustrated (@SInow) February 17, 2018

LeBron James is also an actor, businessman, media mogul — and maybe, someday, politician?

LeBron isn’t all basketball and socially conscious tweets. He has developed a taste for show business, with mixed results. An animated series called The LeBrons came and went back a few years back without leaving much of an imprint.

But he found more success in a supporting role in Trainwreck, the 2015 romantic comedy written by and starring Amy Schumer and directed by Judd Apatow. The film made $110 million and earned James some rave reviews.

“James, playing a gently bizarro version of himself, steals the show,” the New Yorker’s Ian Crouch wrote.

To date, a long-rumored, much-speculated-about sequel to Space Jam — the 1996 cult favorite starring Michael Jordan playing basketball with Looney Tunes characters against monstrous invaders from outer space — has not yet materialized, though.

James is also working behind the scenes. He has designs on becoming a mogul and a triple (or quadruple or quintuple) threat businessman. As ESPN documented in a lengthy feature a year ago, James and his team see his career’s second act being “a global entertainment icon.”

He has launched Uninterrupted, envisioned as a first-person media platform for athletes, and founded SpringHill Entertainment, a TV and movie production outfit. These ventures are overseen by Maverick Carter, James’s high school teammate turned business partner.

ESPN attempted to capture the full breadth of the King’s Hollywood ambitions:

Survivor’s Remorse, SpringHill’s first show, a scripted drama, renewed for its fourth season on Starz, about a basketball player balancing fortune and family. Then there’s The Wall, the prime-time NBC game show that premiered in January to roughly 7 million viewers and has already been picked up for 20 more episodes. There’s Cleveland Hustles, an unscripted CNBC series, renewed for a second season, in which Ohio entrepreneurs compete to revitalize distressed neighborhoods. There’s the oft-discussed Space Jam 2, in development at Warner Bros. There’s a feature-length documentary about Muhammad Ali coming for HBO. There’s a comedy in development for New Line Cinema about a guy who pretends to be an NBA draft pick. And there are three other scripted series -- a Cleveland-based family comedy and a sports medicine drama, both sold to NBC, and a comedy about assistants at a sports agency sold to CBS.

There has yet to be a true home run (to mix metaphors) in the entertainment business aside from James’s relatively modest role in a mid-budget romantic comedy. But the star — who could still be in the NBA for another six or seven years, whose shoe and clothing contract with Nike could eventually exceed $1 billion, and who has said that he wants to own an NBA team someday — clearly wants to position himself as more than an athlete.

That requires, of course, sometimes getting into the mud. Like in the past few days, when Uninterrupted accused the University of Alabama of copyright infringement over a new show by the university that features coaches talking in a barbershop — eerily similar to a regular feature on James’s platform with him and other athletes conversing while they get their hair cut.

All this could be a prelude, however, to the big question: Is LeBron James going to run for political office someday?

He’s already waist-deep in politics with his commitment to racial justice. He donated to and hosted events for Barack Obama’s presidential campaigns. He introduced Hillary Clinton for a campaign event she held in Cleveland during the 2016 race. NBC News host Chuck Todd speculated James could become a politician at some point.

Just a week ago, in the context of actress Cynthia Nixon’s run for New York governor, Slate’s Jamelle Bouie floated James as a future candidate:

Relatedly: I sincerely want LeBron James to run for office one day. — b-boy bouiebaisse (@jbouie) March 25, 2018

James has dismissed the idea before — though, to be quite honest, it sure sounds like he has given it some thought. From a GQ interview that called him “the greatest living athlete” in no small part because of his social awareness:

“I say no because of always having to be on someone else’s time. From the outside looking in, it seems like the president always has to be there – gotta be there. You really don’t have much ‘me time.’ I enjoy my ‘me time,’” the three-time NBA champion said. “The positive that I see from being the president. … Well, not with the president we have right now, because there’s no positive with him, but the positive that I’ve seen is being able to inspire. Your word has command to it. If you’re speaking with a knowledgeable, caring, loving, passionate voice, then you can give the people of America and all over the world hope.”

There is a reason media outlets seek James’s opinion not just on the Eastern Conference playoffs but also on the most pressing social issues of the day. He gained his platform by being the greatest basketball player in a generation, but he has kept it by proving a thoughtful commentator willing to take a stand on the issues he cares about.

By speculating on a future presidential run, we’ve gotten a few steps ahead of ourselves, obviously. What would James say about Medicare-for-all? Or increasing taxes on the top 1 percent, of which he is a member? Or strengthening environmental protections? Or our diplomatic posture toward North Korea?

For the next three months, he’ll have to set all that aside. Instead, the question will be whether he can win a fourth championship ring as the NBA playoffs get underway.

But that is far from the end of LeBron James’s story.There’s one positively enormous shoe that still hasn’t dropped in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference with the 2016 campaign: an indictment about all those hacked emails.

The hacking and release of leading political figures’ emails is the most visible election intervention attributed to Russia’s government. And it’s long been one of the leading, and perhaps the leading, possibility about just what “collusion” between Donald Trump’s team and the Russians might have involved.

That’s not mere speculation. We’ve gradually learned of not one but six times Trump associates at least tried to get involved with either Russian-provided dirt, hacked Democratic emails, or WikiLeaks. We don’t yet know whether these furtive contacts resulted in anything of significance — but one of these advisers, George Papadopoulos, has already pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about the matter and has begun cooperating with Mueller’s team.

These hacks were crimes, victimizing many hundreds of Americans (those who had their documents stolen, and those who corresponded with them). The operation was more wide-ranging than many remember, targeting not just John Podesta and the DNC but many other people and groups. It wasn’t just emails stolen, either — posted material ranged from Democratic Party turnout data that a Republican operative thought was “probably worth millions of dollars” to even a purported picture of Michelle Obama’s passport.

No charges have been filed in the matter — yet. But some are likely coming. The Wall Street Journal has reported that the US has identified “more than six members of the Russian government” involved in the DNC hacks. And the Daily Beast recently wrote that investigators have identified a specific Russian intelligence officer behind “Guccifer 2.0,” a leading figure in the hacks. Mueller is now overseeing the probe.

To understand what happened in 2016, we have to understand the hackings. And though some mysteries remain, much of the complex story has gradually been pieced together by journalists and cybersecurity experts. The consequences, of course, unfolded in plain sight during the campaign itself.

How the hacks happened (a phishing expedition)

The media often shorthands the 2016 hack story as: Russians hacked Podesta and the DNC’s email accounts, and WikiLeaks then posted those hacked emails publicly.

The full story is more complex. Let’s start at the beginning.

Between March 2015 and May 2016, a group of hackers went on a phishing expedition. The “baited lines” they cast out were at least 19,000 malicious emails that resembled the one below:

These emails were designed to look as if they were coming from Google. But they were in fact designed to trick people into clicking through and entering their login credentials — delivering them right into the hackers’ hands.

According to a later Associated Press analysis of a report by the information security firm SecureWorks, at least 573 of the more than 4,700 email addresses targeted were American. They included many US government officials, military officials, intelligence officials, and defense contractors.

Particularly beginning in March and April 2016, these targets began to include many Democrats as well. Per the AP, more than 130 Democratic accounts were sent these malicious links, compared to just “a handful” of Republican accounts. Podesta and several Clinton staffers — along with former Secretary of State Colin Powell, retired Gen. Philip Breedlove, and others — had their accounts successfully compromised. (We know all this because the hackers used the link-shortening tool Bitly to do their work and accidentally left their activity publicly viewable.)

Russia was eventually blamed for the phishing expedition, for several reasons. For one, SecureWorks concluded the particular malware used in this campaign was tied to a hacking group that outside researchers had been tracking for some time — a group they thought to be linked the GRU, Russia’s foreign military intelligence agency. We don’t know what the secretive hacking group calls itself, but various cybersecurity researchers had given it several names: Iron Twilight, APT (Advanced Persistent Threat) 28, Pawn Storm, and — most famously — “Fancy Bear.”

Circumstantial evidence also suggests a Russian-tied culprit. For instance, the phishers were extremely focused on Ukraine — at least 545 targeted email accounts were from there, comparable to the number of American targets. These included Ukraine’s president and many other top government officials, who are hostile to Vladimir Putin’s regime.

The Russians targeted, meanwhile, were generally critics of Putin’s government and journalists. Another interesting detail, per the AP, is that more than 95 percent of the malicious links were created between the hours of 9 am and 6 pm, Monday to Friday — Moscow time.

Around April 2016, as this phishing campaign increasingly began to target Democrats, material was also taken from the DNC. The firm Crowdstrike attributed this as a hack from Fancy Bear, citing the malware used, and other firms agreed with this assessment. These firms also concluded that a separate group of Russian-tied hackers (dubbed “Cozy Bear”) had been in the DNC’s systems for much longer, since all the way back in the summer of 2015.

The precise mechanisms of how the DNC was breached remain somewhat murky. But Fancy Bear’s phishing campaign did send out malicious links to nine DNC email accounts in March and April 2016. And as we’ll soon see, hacked DNC material ended up in the same place as hacked material from Podesta and others. A January 2017 US intelligence report would later specifically blame Russia’s GRU — the agency thought to be behind Fancy Bear — for taking “large volumes of data from the DNC.”

As striking as all this may seem, though, government-backed hacking is far from unusual. The US does it. Our allies do it. Our rivals do it. China was said to have hacked Barack Obama and John McCain’s presidential campaigns in 2008 and was then tied to a massive theft of federal data in 2015. Foreign intelligence agencies trying to peek into political activities seemed to be something that just, well, happened all the time.

What came next in 2016, however, was a jarring departure from these norms — the hacked information began to be posted publicly, in massive amounts.

A timeline of odd events between the hacks and the leaks

The backdrop to all of this was the US presidential election — the first series of primaries and caucuses took place in February and early March. The surprisingly Russia-friendly Donald Trump emerged as the clear leader in the Republican contest, over his Putin-critical rivals Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton, with whom Putin’s regime had long had chilly relations, emerged as the favorite for the Democratic nomination over Bernie Sanders.

It was around this point — in mid-March 2016 — that the phishing campaign began to particularly target many Democrats’ and Clinton campaign staffers’ email accounts, according to SecureWorks’ analysis.

There were several other events that, in retrospect, are either relevant or at the very least intriguing:

April 7: Putin condemns the Panama Papers leak . In early April, an international consortium of journalists published reports on a cache of leaked documents tracing offshore wealth — the Panama Papers. Many of the documents revealed financial information about Putin’s inner circle, and Putin publicly claimed the stories were part of a US plot against Russia. “They are trying to destabilize us from within in order to make us more compliant,” he said. Many have posited that the Russian government may have then wished to retaliate.

In early April, an international consortium of journalists published reports on a cache of leaked documents tracing offshore wealth — the Panama Papers. Many of the documents revealed financial information about Putin’s inner circle, and Putin publicly claimed the stories were part of a US plot against Russia. “They are trying to destabilize us from within in order to make us more compliant,” he said. Many have posited that the Russian government may have then wished to retaliate. April 19: The domain for DCLeaks, a website that would eventually post many hacked documents, is registered . For now, nothing is posted. (US intelligence agencies have said Russia’s GRU is behind the site.)

. For now, nothing is posted. (US intelligence agencies have said Russia’s GRU is behind the site.) April 26: George Papadopoulos g e t s an intriguing tip . Papadopoulos, a young foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign, sat down in London with a professor named Joseph Mifsud. Mifsud told him he’d just traveled to Moscow and met high-level Russian government officials. He added to Papadopoulos that Russia had obtained “dirt” on Hillary Clinton, in the form of thousands of emails.

Papadopoulos, a young foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign, sat down in London with a professor named Joseph Mifsud. Mifsud told him he’d just traveled to Moscow and met high-level Russian government officials. He added to Papadopoulos that Russia had obtained “dirt” on Hillary Clinton, in the form of thousands of emails. June 6 to 8 : DCLeaks begins posting, but not about the election . DCLeaks’ posts of hacked documents indicated that it was Russian ties. That’s because they included the hacked emails of retired Gen. Philip Breedlove, who had commanded NATO forces in Europe and pushed for a harder line against Russia in Ukraine. They also included documents from George Soros’s Open Society Foundation. (The Russian government has blamed Soros and his associated groups for opposing its interests in Ukraine.)

DCLeaks’ posts of hacked documents indicated that it was Russian ties. That’s because they included the hacked emails of retired Gen. Philip Breedlove, who had commanded NATO forces in Europe and pushed for a harder line against Russia in Ukraine. They also included documents from George Soros’s Open Society Foundation. (The Russian government has blamed Soros and his associated groups for opposing its interests in Ukraine.) June 9: The Trump Tower meeting: Shortly afterward, Donald Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner met a Russian lawyer and four other people with Russian ties at Trump Tower. Don Jr. had agreed to take the meeting based on the promise of “official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary,” as part of “Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump” (as it was put to him in an email). Everyone involved claims nothing came of this meeting.

Throughout all this time, there was no public indication that the phishing campaign, or the hacking of the DNC and other campaign figures’ emails, had taken place. Just days later, that would change.

The email leaks begin

On June 12, 2016, WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange dropped a bombshell. “We have upcoming leaks in relation to Hillary Clinton,” he announced, during a British television interview. “We have emails pending publication.”

WikiLeaks — a nonprofit launched back in 2006 by Assange, an Australian activist — had previously been most famous for posting a plethora of internal US military documents about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars (including video of a deadly airstrike) and more than 250,000 diplomatic cables from the US State Department — leaked by Chelsea Manning. Assange was then accused of rape and sexual assault in Sweden, and he sought political asylum from Ecuador. He has been holed up in the nation’s London embassy since June 2012.

Assange’s announcement was the first public indication that Democrats would soon be plagued by leaked internal emails. So two days after that, the DNC, which had learned of the hacking of its systems and hired Crowdstrike to respond, decided to get in front of what it feared was coming. The committee told the Washington Post that it had been hacked — by, it claimed, the Russian government. Crowdstrike’s CEO put up a blog post explaining why he identified Russia as the culprit.

Yet the next day, June 15, things got even weirder — because that is when “Guccifer 2.0” arrived on the scene. (The name, a portmanteau of “Gucci” and “Lucifer,” is an homage to the original Guccifer, the jailed Romanian hacker Marcel Leher Lazar, who’d broken into high-profile Americans’ email accounts.)

In a Wordpress post, the new Guccifer said that Crowdstrike was quite wrong about the DNC hack, which he said was carried out by him, “a lone hacker.” (“Fuck CrowdStrike!!!” he wrote.) He said that he’d given “the main part of the papers, thousands of files and mails” that he’d stolen, to WikiLeaks. (WikiLeaks has refused to confirm that he was its source.) He also began to post several documents he claimed were from the DNC server.

Almost immediately, journalists pointed to inconsistencies in Guccifer’s story and linguistic tics to suggest he was Russian — or more than one Russian. (US intelligence agencies would eventually say Russia’s GRU was behind the persona, and the Daily Beast recently reported that the account’s user once slipped up and neglected to mask his identity through a VPN — allowing investigators to match a particular Russian intelligence officer to that Guccifer 2.0 login.)

Yet what Guccifer had access to was clearly broader than just the DNC. None of the first documents he posted showed up in WikiLeaks’ DNC email dump, and in fact, many of them eventually showed up in John Podesta’s emails, which were released much later. Additionally, on June 27, Guccifer emailed the Smoking Gun’s William Bastone a link to a password-protected post on DCLeaks.com that contained phished emails and documents from Clinton staffer Sarah Hamilton. (DCLeaks had not yet publicly posted any material related to the election.)

On July 6, Guccifer 2.0 posted his first documents that would eventually be found in the DNC emails. The New Yorker’s Raffi Khatchadourian speculates, based on some comments Guccifer made to journalists at the time, that Guccifer or his handlers were frustrated that WikiLeaks was taking too long to actually post the DNC material and were threatening to spoil Assange’s exclusive. (A week later, Guccifer would send documents to the Hill’s Joe Uchill, writing that he was doing so because the press was “gradually forget[ing] about me,” and complained that WikiLeaks was “playing for time.”)

All the while, Assange and WikiLeaks were working to prepare their database of DNC emails, with the apparent goal of publishing them before the Democratic convention began in late July. It’s unclear how they set that goal. Assange would later tell Khatchadourian that he originally had a deadline of July 18 to release them, but “we were given a little more time.” (It’s unclear, though, who gave him more time, and Assange later disputed the accuracy of the recorded quote.)

Finally, on July 22 — the Friday before the convention — WikiLeaks posted those thousands of DNC emails and attachments online. They revealed that many DNC members privately spoke of Bernie Sanders with disdain, drove DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz and other top staffers to resign, and overall made an ugly start for the Democratic convention. Though Assange remained mum on his source, Guccifer 2.0 jubilantly claimed credit in a tweet:

The DNC leaks proved to be just the beginning. News soon broke that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) had also been hacked, and on August 12, DCCC documents started showing up on Guccifer’s Wordpress site. Guccifer also sent the DCCC’s internal turnout model data to Florida Republican Party operative Aaron Nevins, who was positively thrilled to receive it. “Holy fuck man I don’t think you realize what you gave me,” Nevins wrote in a DM. “This is probably worth millions of dollars.” Nevins soon put it online on his anonymously run blog.

Then DCLeaks got in the game. On August 12, the site posted a few emails from some little-known Republican state party aides, and from campaign advisers to Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), both of whom were known as Russia hawks. In September, the site’s anonymous administrators sent Colin Powell’s phished emails to reporters, revealing his candid assessments of both Clinton (“greedy”) and Trump (“national disgrace”).

DCLeaks then posted phished emails from Ian Mellul, an Obama White House staffer who had volunteered for Clinton. The Mellul documents included a picture of Michelle Obama’s passport and a months-old audio file in which Hillary Clinton said Sanders’s young supporters were “living in their parents’ basement.” Longtime Clinton ally Capricia Marshall’s phished emails came next.

Many of these disclosures caused brief stirs, but what everyone was really waiting for was the next WikiLeaks dump. Roger Stone, the Trump associate, claimed that he knew Assange had something huge on the way and speculated it would involve the Clinton Foundation.

Assange himself told Fox News back on August 24 that his team had “thousands of pages of material” and was “working around the clock” to prepare it for publication. By early October, there was still nothing from WikiLeaks, but Stone continued to hype an imminent release, saying “an intermediary” who’d met with Assange said “the mother lode is coming Wednesday.”

The “mother lode” instead came two days later, on Friday, October 7, when WikiLeaks posted its first batch of Podesta’s emails. The site would continue to post them, in batches, up through the election. Earlier on that very same day, the US government officially attributed the hacking effort to the Russian government, and the Donald Trump Access Hollywood tape hit the news.

In the end, the 2016 election was close, decided by just over 1 percentage point in three Electoral College states. And whether or not the email leaks were sufficient to swing the outcome, they certainly were effective at keeping the words “Hillary Clinton” and “emails” in the headlines throughout the campaign’s final stretch.

Trump associates tried to get in touch with hackers or leakers at least six separate times

During the campaign, it was clear enough that Trump was unusually friendly to Russia, and that the Russian government interventions seemed aimed at trying to help his electoral chances at the expense of Hillary Clinton. But after the election, more and more attention became devoted to whether Trump associates and Putin’s government coordinated to intervene in the campaign in some way. And on March 20, 2017, then-FBI Director James Comey publicly confirmed the FBI was investigating just that topic.

No one has produced a smoking gun demonstrating clear involvement just yet. But this isn’t mere idle speculation, either — there are at least six instances in which Trump associates tried to get Russian dirt or communicated with hacking and leaking figures. The first of them was what initiated the FBI investigation into the Trump campaign and Russia to begin with:

1) The Papadopoulos tip: Fancy Bear’s phishing campaign targeted Clinton staffers and Democrats in large numbers in March and April 2016, but the hacks remained publicly unknown for months afterward. Yet it was very early indeed — on April 26 — that Trump foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos got his tip about what was coming.

As described above, the tip was from a source Papadopoulos understood to have Russian government connections, professor Joseph Mifsud. Mifsud specifically said he’d gained his information from traveling to Moscow and meeting high-level officials there. And he said Russia had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton — and, specifically, thousands of emails.

We don’t yet know whether he told others in the Trump campaign about what he’d heard. But it seems highly likely that he did. He was a young adviser eager to impress campaign higher-ups. And we already know he drunkenly bragged about his inside info to an Australian diplomat a few weeks later. (The Australians later told the FBI, which led the bureau to open the investigation.)

In any case, Papadopoulos was arrested last summer for making false statements to FBI investigators, cut a plea deal, and began cooperating with investigators. So whatever he did do with his tip, Mueller likely now knows it.

2) The Trump Tower meeting: It was on June 3, 2016 — a little more than a month after Papadopoulos’s tip, but still before any news broke about Democrats having been hacked — that publicist Rob Goldstone emailed an acquaintance of his, Donald Trump Jr. Goldstone described some news from his clients Aras and Emin Agalarov, a father-son pair of real estate developers who’d done business with the Trumps:

The Crown prosecutor of Russia met with his father Aras this morning and in their meeting offered to provide the Trump campaign with some official documents and information that would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia and would be very useful to your father. This is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump - helped along by Aras and Emin.

Don Jr. enthusiastically accepted the offer, and Goldstone arranged a meeting six days later, on June 9. The Trump delegation included Don Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner. They met Goldstone, Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya, Agalarov company executive Ike Kaveladze, Russian-American lobbyist Rinat Akhmetshin, and translator Anatoli Samochornov.

Once the existence of the meeting became public, all parties involved claimed it was a dud, resulting in nothing of consequence. But the timing of the meeting is strange. Three days later, Assange announced he’d received emails related to Hillary Clinton. Two days after that, the DNC announced it had been hacked and blamed Russia.

Goldstone saw an article about that and emailed it to Emin and Kaveladze, writing that the news was “eerily weird” considering what they’d just discussed at the Trump Tower meeting. Guccifer 2.0 began posting the day after that.

3) The Cambridge Analytica CEO’s contacts with WikiLeaks: Cambridge Analytica is the Steve Bannon-tied firm that did digital work for the Trump campaign and has been in the news of late.

And last year, we learned that Cambridge’s CEO, Alexander Nix, had twice contacted WikiLeaks on the topic of hacked emails.

Nix says that in “early June,” after he learned of Assange’s claims to have Hillary Clinton-related emails, he reached out to Julian Assange to ask for an advance look at those emails. He says Assange turned him down.

Then in August, after Assange had posted the DNC emails, Nix emailed Cambridge employees to say that he’d recently reached out to Assange again, offering help at organizing the DNC material on WikiLeaks. He said he hadn’t yet heard back. Both Nix and Assange have said these overtures didn’t go anywhere.

4) Donald Trump Jr.’s contacts with WikiLeaks: Then, separately, Donald Trump Jr. had some communications with WikiLeaks through the group’s Twitter account toward the end of the campaign.

As best we know, WikiLeaks began the communication, DMing Don Jr. to tell him that they had guessed the password to a new “PAC run anti-Trump site,” PutinTrump.org, that was about to launch. “Any comments?” the group asked. Trump Jr. answered: “Off the record I don’t know who that is but I’ll ask around. Thanks.”

Then on October 3, 2016, WikiLeaks DMed Don Jr. again, asking him to “comment on” or “push” a story that Hillary Clinton had once said she wanted to “just drone” Assange. Don Jr. answered, “Already did that earlier today. It’s amazing what she can get away with.”

He then followed up with a question: “What’s behind this Wednesday leak I keep reading about?” This was at the height of chatter that WikiLeaks had a major batch of anti-Clinton material ready. However, there is no indication that WikiLeaks answered this question from Don Jr. or gave him any advance information that it was Podesta’s emails that were coming. The group sent him a couple more messages, but there are no more known responses from Don Jr.

5) Roger Stone’s several contacts with both Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks: Roger Stone is a longtime Republican operative with a reputation for dirty tricks and a decades-long relationship with Donald Trump. Stone was only an official Trump campaign adviser briefly, departing the operation in early August 2015 after clashing with other staffers. But he remained in Trump’s orbit and, to some extent, in communication with the candidate himself afterward.

Both in public and in private, Stone was fixated on the hackings and leaks.

One associate of Stone’s claimed to the Washington Post that at some point in the spring of 2016, before news of the hackings broke, Stone said he’d learned from Julian Assange that WikiLeaks had obtained emails that would hurt Democrats. (Stone denies this.)

The initial leaks from Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks were posted in June and July. On August 4, Stone emailed fellow ex-Trump adviser and longtime associate Sam Nunberg: “I dined with Julian Assange last night,” according to the Wall Street Journal. (Stone says this was a joke and flight records prove he wasn’t in London then.)

The day after that email, on August 5, Stone penned a Breitbart article in which he took Guccifer’s story about being a lone hacker who stole the DNC emails at face value and argued Russia probably wasn’t responsible. He also tweeted that “Julian Assange is a hero.”

Three days later, on August 8, Stone started publicly claiming to have inside information. “I actually have communicated with Assange,” he said. “I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation but there’s no telling what the October surprise may be.”

A few days after that, Stone began tweeting at, and eventually DMing with, Guccifer 2.0 (who, again, has reportedly been identified as a Russian intelligence officer). Some of these DMs later leaked, leading Stone to post what he claimed was their full exchange. The posted messages are mainly friendly chitchat and not particularly substantive.

On August 21, Stone tweeted an odd prediction: “Trust me, it will soon the Podesta’s time in the barrel. #CrookedHillary.” Many would later point to this — which came months before the Podesta emails became public — and ask whether Stone had advance knowledge of the Podesta email leak. (Stone himself would later claim that since this came in the midst of a scandal surrounding Stone’s old friend Paul Manafort’s Ukraine work, he was merely predicting “Podesta’s business dealings would be exposed.”)

As October began, Stone took on a new role — as WikiLeaks’ hype man. He again claimed inside knowledge, saying a “friend” of his met with Assange and learned “the mother lode is coming Wednesday.” He tweeted: “Wednesday @HillaryClinton is done. #Wikileaks.” And when nothing came on Wednesday, Stone tweeted, “Libs thinking Assange will stand down are wishful thinking. Payload coming. #Lockthemup.” Assange published the Podesta emails two days later.

Immediately, there were questions about whether the garrulous operative had been involved, which eventually spurred WikiLeaks to tweet that the group “has never communicated with Roger Stone.” The Atlantic later reported that Stone DMed the WikiLeaks Twitter account afterward, complaining that they were “attacking” him. “The false claims of association are being used by the democrats to undermine the impact of our publications,” WikiLeaks responded. “Don’t go there if you don’t want us to correct you.” Stone shot back: “Ha! The more you ‘correct’ me the more people think you’re lying. Your operation leaks like a sieve. You need to figure out who your friends are.”

What to make of all this? Stone was obviously in contact with two of the key leakers, and his own public statements show that at one point he wanted people to think he had an inside line on WikiLeaks’ plans. However, he’s repeatedly denied any inside knowledge or involvement, and we haven’t seen any clear evidence that he truly had such knowledge.

In any case, we might learn more from Mueller’s probe soon enough. “They want me to testify against Roger,” Sam Nunberg recently said, referring to the special counsel’s team. “They want me to say that Roger was going around telling people he was colluding with Julian Assange.”

6) Peter Smith’s hunt for Hillary’s deleted emails: Last but certainly not least, there is one more email-related subplot to the 2016 campaign — and it’s a weird one.

This one involves a separate set of emails: When word got out that Hillary Clinton had used a personal email account for all her work at the State Department, she agreed to hand over the work-related emails on that account to government investigators. But it turned out that she had previously deemed about 32,000 emails (about half of the total) to be “personal” rather than work-related, and deleted them.

Conservatives like longtime Republican operative Peter Smith didn’t take Clinton’s explanation for why she deleted the emails at face value and questioned whether they could have contained scandalous behavior or criminal evidence. Their number included GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump. “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 [Hillary Clinton] emails that are missing,” Trump said at a July 27, 2016, press conference. “I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press. Let’s see if that happens. That will be next.”

It was around this time that Smith began an unusual project. He assumed that Clinton’s email server had been hacked and that her emails must be out there somewhere, on the “dark web.” So he reached out to computer experts and conservative activists, hoping to assemble a team that would track down those emails.

Smith didn’t work for the Trump campaign. But he is said to have repeatedly claimed to be in contact with Michael Flynn, who was advising Trump. One recruiting document Smith sent to cybersecurity expert Matt Tait contained the subheader “Trump Campaign (in coordination to the extent permitted as an independent expenditure).” It then listed several names: Steve Bannon, Kellyanne Conway, Sam Clovis, Flynn, and Lisa Nelson. (Bannon and Conway have denied any involvement. The other three haven’t commented.)

Eventually, Smith gave his version of what happened to the Wall Street Journal’s Shane Harris. He said his team found five hacker groups who said they had Clinton’s emails, of which two seemed to be Russian. “We knew the people who had these were probably around the Russian government,” Smith said. However, he went on, he couldn’t determine whether the emails were authentic, so he ended up just advising the hackers to give them to WikiLeaks. No such emails have ever surfaced. Smith — 81 years old and in poor health — killed himself in May 2017, 10 days after speaking to Harris.

Smith’s effort appears to have failed. But Smith admitted he had tried to get stolen documents from groups he understood to be Russian government-tied. And then there is the question of Michael Flynn’s role — particularly since, per Harris’s sources, there are intelligence reports that say Russian hackers discussed how they could get leaked emails into Flynn’s hands. Much remains murky about this situation, but Flynn is cooperating with Mueller’s team as part of a plea deal, so the special counsel likely now knows whatever he does.

Mueller will likely bring charges in the email hacking matter. But against whom?

Last November, the Wall Street Journal’s Aruna Viswanatha and Del Quentin Wilber reported that the Justice Department had identified more than six Russian government officials involved in the DNC hack and was considering bringing charges.

Interestingly, though, the report claimed that special counsel Robert Mueller had chosen not to take over the DNC hack investigation because it was “relatively technical” and had already “been under way for nearly a year.”

That appears to have since changed. Both NBC News and the Daily Beast reported this month that Mueller had now taken charge of the email hacking investigation. And the Washington Post reported in January that Mueller had added “a veteran cyber prosecutor,” Ryan Dickey, to his team. (Credit to Marcy Wheeler for flagging this point.)

So it’s a pretty safe bet that Mueller will bring some charges related to the email hackings. And judging by his past indictments, he’ll also use them to tell a story about what exactly happened, to the extent he can. There is, after all, a good deal we still don’t know — for instance, how, exactly, did the DNC and Podesta emails get from the hackers to WikiLeaks?

It’s important to remember that this is all just what we know about — there could be more that is still not public. It is certainly possible that several of their contacts with real or purported leakers and hackers listed above went nowhere, but it’s a bit harder to believe that all six of those separate contacts resulted in nothing of consequence.

Mueller has already gotten three people tied to Trump to plead guilty and cooperate with the investigation. What is he getting from George Papadopoulos, who got the earliest known tip that the Russians hacked the emails? What is he getting from Michael Flynn, who may have been tied to Peter Smith’s effort to get Clinton emails from Russian hackers? What was he getting from Rick Gates, who was Paul Manafort’s right-hand man both before and during the campaign?

All three men have pleaded guilty, and we haven’t seen any of the fruits of their cooperation yet. They may be providing Mueller information about the hacked emails, and they may not. But it’s safe to say they’re telling Mueller a good deal that’s of interest — and eventually, we will find out what.It’s why people are putting grass-fed butter in their coffee, downing ketone drinks, and replacing their cereal and pasta with eggs and avocados.

The ketogenic diet has become a Silicon Valley obsession and the diet du jour that supposedly keeps celebrities like Kim Kardashian and Halle Berry trim and strong.

Keto devotees believe that if you banish most carbs (including fruit!) and embrace fat, you can lose weight without feeling hungry.

#FitnessFriday! I think the most important part of being healthy and in great shape depends on what and when you eat. Being diabetic most of my life, I have always had to take food very seriously. Today I encourage you to say yes to the keto diet, give it a try... pic.twitter.com/9Fa1NeVVPo — Halle Berry (@halleberry) January 26, 2018

The diet’s long history in science also lends it credibility. Doctors have been prescribing ketogenic diets to treat epilepsy for nearly a century, and increasingly believe it may hold promise for people with Type 2 diabetes.

But what’s lost in the many trend articles and books about “going keto” for weight loss today is that this diet is the same one the now-late Dr. Robert Atkins and other low-carb evangelists have been selling since the 1960s. (Diet peddlers have an incredible knack for rebranding old ideas over and over, and in our eternal confusion about what to eat, we keep falling for it all.)

Those older keto diets didn’t work for most people hoping to slim down, and there’s no evidence the newly popular keto diet will be any different. Here’s why.

How the ketogenic diet works

To understand the ketogenic diet, you need a quick primer on how the human body gets energy. We are fueled primarily by glucose, or blood sugar, much of which we derive from carbohydrates in foods like bread, fruit, potatoes, and sweets.

If glucose levels in the blood drop to really low levels, we’d pass out and die. But, interestingly, the body can’t store much glucose — only enough to last a couple of days. So if we forgo eating carbs for a few days, we need other ways to keep going. One of those is a process called ketogenesis.

In ketogenesis, our livers start to break down fat into a usable energy source called ketone bodies, or ketones for short. “Organs like the brain that normally rely primarily on glucose for fuel can begin to use a substantial amount of ketones,” said Kevin Hall, a National Institutes of Health senior investigator who has studied the ketogenic diet. So ketones can stand in for glucose as fuel for the body when there’s a glucose shortage. “It’s an amazing physiological adaption to starvation that allows tissues like the brain to survive,” Hall added.

Once ketogenesis kicks in and ketone levels are elevated, the body is in a state called “ketosis,” where you’re burning stored fat. There are a few ways to get into ketosis. One is through fasting: When you stop eating altogether for an extended period of time, the body will ramp up fat burning for fuel and decrease its use of glucose (which is part of the reason people can survive for as long as 73 days without food).

Another way to get into ketosis is by eating less than 20 to 50 grams of carbs — or a slice or two of bread — per day. So people on a ketogenic diet get 5 percent of their calories from carbohydrates, about 15 percent from protein, and 80 percent from fat. Note that that’s a much lower ratio of protein and a lot more fat than you’d get on other low-carb diets, but it’s this ratio that will force the body to derive much of its energy from ketones. If you eat too much protein, or too many carbs, your body will be thrown out of ketosis.

In practice, that means subsisting mainly on meats, eggs, cheese, fish, nuts, butter, oils, and vegetables — and carefully avoiding sugar, bread and other grains, beans, and even fruit. Again, if this sounds familiar, it’s because it’s not that different from the Atkins diet, among the most famous very low-carb diets that promise to get your body burning fat. (Atkins, who reportedly said ketosis is “as delightful as sunshine and sex,” promised to help people “stay thin forever,” the same way the now popular Keto Reset Diet book promises to “burn fat forever.”)

While the evidence behind ketogenic diets for diabetes is still preliminary and the evidence for weight loss isn’t all that convincing (more on that next), the evidence of using the diet to treat epilepsy is extremely robust. The idea of treating people with epilepsy with the keto diet came about in the 1920s, when researchers observed that people who fasted experienced fewer seizures. (Researchers still aren’t sure why the diet can work for epilepsy, but a few mechanisms have been proposed, including making neurons more resilient during seizures.)

Today, studies have shown that children and adults whose epilepsy doesn’t respond to medications seem to experience a pretty large reduction in seizures when following a ketogenic diet. That doesn’t, however, mean that the diet works for other conditions.

The theory behind very low-carb diets is that they help people burn extra calories and fat — and lose more weight

Advocates of ketogenic diets for weight loss claim that ketogenesis can lead to a “metabolic advantage” that helps burn 10 times more fat and an extra 400 to 600 calories per day — the same as a vigorous session of physical activity. The main scientific model that’s used to explain that advantage is the ”carbohydrate-insulin hypothesis,” which has been promoted by experts like Harvard professor David Ludwig, Obesity Code author Jason Fung, journalist Gary Taubes, and pediatric endocrinologist Robert Lustig, among others.

Eating carbs drives up insulin production, the hypothesis suggests, stirring hunger and causing the body to hold on to fat and suppress calorie burn. But when you replace carbs with fat, you subdue hunger, boost calorie burn, and melt away fat. With fewer carbs, your body also doesn’t produce as much insulin — and that increases the rate of ketogenesis and decreases the body’s need for glucose.

This might sound great, but what’s often lost in all the boosterism is that this is still just a hypothesis. And most studies of ketogenic and other very low-carb diets suggest they don’t actually outperform others in the long run when it comes to weight loss.

Keto diets don’t seem to help people lose extra weight in the long run

The keto concept has been catnip for many dieters, perhaps because of the failure of the low-fat experiment of the 1980s and ’90s to help people lose weight, and the fact that food companies increasingly tell us to be suspicious of carbs and eat more protein.

When you look at head-to-head studies comparing low-carb diets to other kinds of diets, weight loss on a very low-carb diet can be a little more dramatic in the short term, but by the one-year mark, all diets perform equally miserably.

This seminal randomized trial, published in JAMA in 2007, involved 300 women and measured their weight loss on the Atkins diet compared to the Zone, Learn, and Ornish diets. The researchers found that while women on Atkins shed a few more pounds, the weight loss on low-carb diets was “likely to be at least as large as for any other dietary pattern” and “the magnitude of weight loss [on Atkins] was modest, with a mean 12-month weight loss of only 4.7 kg.” In other words, long-term weight loss on Atkins wasn’t meaningfully different from the other diets.

“The graph makes it look like the Atkins group did better but the numbers are clinically unimportant and the weight is coming back on faster,” explained the study’s lead researcher, Christopher Gardner, a professor of nutrition at Stanford.

Other big studies comparing popular diets of different macronutrient compositions, like the one I mentioned above, consistently suggest that the very low-carb approach isn’t a sustainable solution for weight loss. A review of the research on weight loss for different types of diets, published in the Lancet in 2015, found that people on low-carb diets lost 1 kilogram of additional weight after one year compared to people on low-fat diets — again, a marginal difference.

Still, in the short term, low-carb diets like keto can sometimes help people lose more weight because they cause rapid water loss, which gives people the impression they’ve lost fat. “This happens because low-carbohydrate diets deplete stored glycogen, and glycogen binds large amounts of water,” explained obesity researcher Stephan Guyenet.

Another reason very low-carb diets seem to help with weight loss initially is that there’s some evidence they’re effective for appetite control. “Most people actually eat fewer calories than they would on most other diets,” said Guyenet, adding, “The evidence supporting this isn’t great right now, but that seems to be where it’s going.”

But again, these benefits seem to disappear in the long run on average, probably because very low-carb diets — like many other fad diets — are hard to stick to. In our food environment, it’s extremely difficult to avoid eating foods like bread, cookies, or pasta for months on end. As Guyenet wrote on his blog:

The more extreme a diet, the harder it is to adhere to, and the ketogenic diet is extreme. “But wait”, you say, “I’ve been on the ketogenic diet for five years and it’s easy!” That may be true, but randomized controlled trials don’t lie. The average person can’t even stick with the diet for six months, as judged by urinary ketone levels. The minority of people who find it easy, get good results, and stick with it are the ones who write about it on the Internet.

Even people who adhere to a very low-carb diet in the short term don’t necessarily reap the benefits proponents claim they will — like the increased calorie burn and fat loss. That’s what the NIH’s Kevin Hall found in another study he designed that’s considered the most rigorous scientific test of ketogenic diets for weight loss.

For the study, he confined 17 overweight and obese patients for two months to a hospital, where researchers measured their every movement and controlled what they were eating. (Diet researchers called this study the “gold standard” since it was an extremely well-controlled experiment, with all food provided, and it used the best technologies for measuring energy expenditure and body composition.)

In the first month of the study, participants were put on a baseline diet, which was designed to be similar to what they reported they were eating outside the hospital, including lots of sugary carbohydrates. For the second month, the participants got the same amount of calories and protein as they did in the first month of the study, but ramped up the amount of fat in their food and ate far fewer carbs.

The benefits for the participants following the very low-carb diets weren’t nearly as dramatic as keto proponents claim. While the participants saw their insulin levels drop and stay low, they only saw a small increase in calorie burn, and that waned over time. (That short-lived increase in calorie burn amounted to about 100 extra calories per day — much less than the 400 to 600 calories promised by low-carb gurus.)

Compared to the baseline diet, the low-carb diet did not cause subjects to experience an increase in fat loss. To be more specific, it took the full 28 days on the low-carb diet for the subjects to lose the same amount of fat as they did in the last 15 days on the baseline (higher-carb) diet that wasn’t even designed to get them to lose weight. The researchers did not find evidence of big benefits regarding energy expenditure or fat loss after switching to a low-carb diet.

”According to the insulin-carbohydrate model, we should have seen an acceleration in the rate of body fat loss when insulin secretion was cut by 50 percent,” Hall told me when the study came out. But he didn’t, which he thinks suggests that the regulation of fat tissue storage in the body has to do with more than just insulin levels and their relationship with the carbs we eat.

The results of the study were also echoed by a previous paper on the insulin-carbohydrate model, where Hall found that when people cut fat in their diets, they had slightly greater body fat loss than when they cut the same number of calories from carbs.

When I recently asked Hall what his research tells us about weight loss with the ketogenic diet, he said simply: “The idea is that low-carb, ketogenic diets cause your body to burn way more calories, resulting in a lot of weight loss, even if you eat more than you were eating before. But our studies, as well as many others, demonstrate nothing of the sort.”

So keto ends up performing a lot like other diets for weight loss: It can help the few who can stick to it, though not necessarily for the reasons proponents suggest. And it fails or is abandoned by everyone else.

For diabetes specifically, keto may be helpful — but the “reversal” claim is overblown

Now that we’ve gotten the weight loss claims out of the way, let’s look at a more promising area of research: using the ketogenic diet as a way to treat or manage Type 2 diabetes.

With Type 2 diabetes, the body either doesn’t produce enough insulin or becomes insulin-resistant, so it can’t move glucose from the blood into the cells for energy. Eating carbs results in an increase in blood glucose — so if you vastly cut down your carbs, your blood glucose levels won’t go up as much, and you won’t need as much insulin to manage blood sugars. It’s not surprising that researchers have been finding that people who follow a ketogenic diet can better manage their blood sugar by cutting down their carbs.

In one of the most recent studies on the question, which appeared this month in the journal Diabetes Therapy, 262 adults with Type 2 diabetes patients followed a ketogenic diet, coupled with intensive lifestyle counseling. After a year, among the 218 people who completed the study, their hemoglobin A1C (a measure of blood sugar) dropped on average to 6.3, just below the 6.5 percent threshold for Type 2 diabetes. The need for insulin was either reduced or eliminated in 94 percent of the participants who were using insulin when the study began. Their use of diabetes medications — other than metformin — also declined, from 57 percent to 30 percent, and metformin use decreased slightly, from 71 percent to 65 percent.

These are impressive results. And other randomized controlled trials on the effects of low-carb diets for Type 2 diabetes have also found improved glycemic control and reduced medication use among patients (though the effects tend to wane in the long term, again because people have a hard time adhering to restrictive diets).

The new study was sponsored and run by employees of Virta Health, a company selling lifestyle counseling on ketogenic diets for Type 2 diabetics. Virta, as well as other proponents of keto for diabetes, claims the diet can “reverse” diabetes — and that’s going a step too far.

“What’s been demonstrated is that [the ketogenic diet] controls blood glucose levels,” explained Guyenet. “That’s a good thing. But to show true remission or reversal, you have to show a person can go back to being able to eat carbs without having diabetes again.” And that has never been proven with the ketogenic diet.

Indeed, researchers have shown the opposite effect — that the body’s ability to tolerate carbohydrates can decrease after following a low-carb, high-fat diet.

Another common effect of the ketogenic diet is “keto flu”: fatigue, lightheadedness, and dizziness people feel when they greatly reduce their carb intake. This effect should go away after the body adjusts to the diet, but staying on keto for a long time may lead to kidney stones, high cholesterol, constipation, slowed growth (in young people), and bone fractures.

“There’s not a single historic traditionally living human population that was in chronic nutritional ketosis,” Guyenet pointed out. Even the Inuit, who mainly subsisted on fatty whale, seals, and fish, were not in chronic ketosis because they developed genetic mutations that prevented them from overproducing ketones.

Still, if you have diabetes, it might be worth talking about the ketogenic diet with your doctor. But if you’re going keto to lose weight, buyer beware: In the long run, it looks a lot like other fad diets.In his last few seconds of life, Alton Sterling seemed completely immobile. Two Baton Rouge, Louisiana, police officers had pinned him to the floor, flat on his back. But even as Sterling seemed completely unable to move, one of the police officers yelled, "He’s got a gun!" Within seconds, an officer shot Sterling, who was still pinned to the ground by the cops. Sterling died of multiple gunshot wounds.

After a bystander released video of the 2016 shooting, people quickly protested in the area and voiced their anger on social media. Several people went to the convenience store where Sterling was shot, holding up "black lives matter" and "hands up, don’t shoot" signs.

But nearly two years later, Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry on Tuesday announced that no charges will be filed against the two Baton Rouge police officers involved, Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake. He said that their actions were "well-rounded and reasonable."

"This decision was not taken lightly," Landry said. "We came to this conclusion after countless hours of reviewing the evidence."

Last year, the US Department of Justice similarly decided to not press civil rights charges against the officers.

Though the officers will not face criminal charges, the Baton Rouge Police Department on Friday announced disciplinary action against both men. Salamoni was fired for violating the department's use-of-force policies. The other officer, Lake, received a three-day suspension without pay.

Sterling’s death was another in a long string of police shootings to lead to outrage, particularly from the Black Lives Matter and racial justice movements against racial disparities in the criminal justice system. To many critics, it was just another example of an issue that quickly rose to the national spotlight after the police shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014.

Police officers shot Alton Sterling while he was seemingly pinned to the ground, unable to move

Warning: graphic footage of a police shooting:

According to the Advocate, Baton Rouge police officers Blaine Salamoni and Howie Lake responded to a call at a convenience store around 12:35 am on July 5 after receiving an anonymous tip that a man in a red shirt who was selling CDs had pointed a gun at someone. Sterling, a 37-year-old black man, matched part of the description: He sold CDs, and he was wearing a red shirt.

The officers approached Sterling aggressively, according to body camera videos released nearly two years after the shooting — after the officers were cleared of charges. Initially, the police department had suggested that body camera videos were not available or not revelatory.

Based on the footage, Salamoni and Lake immediately began telling Sterling to put his hands on a nearby car. Sterling asked, "What I did?" The officers then grabbed him and pushed him toward the car.

Salamoni, drawing his weapon, then yelled, "Don't fucking move or I'll shoot your fucking ass, bitch." He and the other officer again told Sterling to put his hands on the car. Salamoni continued threatening Sterling, saying, "Don't you fucking move or I'm going to shoot you in your fucking head," while putting his gun to Sterling's head.

It is unclear how someone is supposed to simultaneously avoid moving and put his hands on a car.

Sterling replied, "All right, all right." He complained that the officers were hurting his arm. He continued asking what went wrong. The officers then used a stun gun on him, ordering Sterling to get on the ground. The officers then tackled and pulled Sterling to the ground. The body cameras are dislodged at that point, blocking view of the moments after.

Two cellphone videos recorded by bystanders, one published by the Daily Beast after the shooting drew national attention, show what happened next: The officers pinned Sterling on his back. An officer yelled, "He’s got a gun!" One officer aimed his gun at Sterling’s chest at virtually point-blank range. Within seconds, at least one officer opened fire, even though Sterling looks completely pinned down and unable to move. One officer then pulled out an object — it’s not clear what it is — from Sterling’s right pants pocket. Sterling was pronounced dead shortly after.

Warning: graphic footage of a police shooting:

Shop owner Abdullah Muflahi told the Advocate that the officers were "aggressive" from the start, and that Sterling was armed but was not holding his gun and didn’t have his hand near his pocket at the time of the shooting.

Police reportedly found a .38-caliber handgun in Sterling's pocket after the shooting.

As the Advocate reported, Sterling had a criminal record. But Sterling’s previous convictions aren’t what’s relevant to the shooting. The legal standard for use of force requires officers to reasonably perceive a threat at the moment of use of force.

Since Sterling was seemingly immobile in the videos of the shooting, critics argue that he was not in fact a threat and the shooting is another example of excessive use of force against a black man.

Black people are much more likely to be killed by police than their white peers

Based on nationwide data collected by the Guardian, black Americans are more than twice as likely as their white counterparts to be killed by police when accounting for population. In 2016, police killed black Americans at a rate of 6.66 per 1 million people, compared to 2.9 per 1 million for white Americans.

Black teens were 21 times as likely as white teens to be shot and killed by police between 2010 and 2012, according to a ProPublica analysis of the FBI data. Ryan Gabrielson, Ryann Grochowski Jones, and Eric Sagara reported for ProPublica: "One way of appreciating that stark disparity, ProPublica’s analysis shows, is to calculate how many more whites over those three years would have had to have been killed for them to have been at equal risk. The number is jarring — 185, more than one per week."

There have been several high-profile police killings since 2014 involving black suspects. In Baltimore, six police officers were indicted for the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody. In Ferguson, Darren Wilson killed unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown. In New York City, NYPD officer Daniel Pantaleo killed Eric Garner by putting the unarmed 43-year-old black man in a chokehold.

One possible explanation for the racial disparities: Police tend to patrol high-crime neighborhoods, which are disproportionately black. That means they're going to be generally more likely to initiate a policing action, from traffic stops to more serious arrests, against a black person who lives in these areas. And all of these policing actions carry a chance, however small, to escalate into a violent confrontation.

That's not to say that higher crime rates in black communities explain the entire racial disparity in police shootings. A 2015 study by researcher Cody Ross found, "There is no relationship between county-level racial bias in police shootings and crime rates (even race-specific crime rates), meaning that the racial bias observed in police shootings in this data set is not explainable as a response to local-level crime rates." That suggests something else — such as, potentially, racial bias — is going on.

One reason to believe racial bias is a factor: Studies show that officers are quicker to shoot black suspects in video game simulations. Josh Correll, a University of Colorado Boulder psychology professor who conducted the research, said it’s possible the bias could lead to even more skewed outcomes in the field. "In the very situation in which [officers] most need their training," he said, "we have some reason to believe that their training will be most likely to fail them."

Part of the solution to potential bias is better training that helps cops acknowledge and deal with their potential prejudices. But critics also argue that more accountability could help deter future brutality or excessive use of force, since it would make it clear that there are consequences to the misuse and abuse of police powers. Yet right now, lax legal standards make it difficult to legally punish individual police officers for use of force, even when it might be excessive.

Police only have to reasonably perceive a threat to justify shooting

Legally, what most matters in police shootings is whether police officers reasonably believed that their lives were in immediate danger, not whether the shooting victim actually posed a threat.

In the 1980s, a pair of Supreme Court decisions — Tennessee v. Garner and Graham v. Connor — set up a framework for determining when deadly force by cops is reasonable.

Constitutionally, "police officers are allowed to shoot under two circumstances," David Klinger, a University of Missouri St. Louis professor who studies use of force, previously told Dara Lind for Vox. The first circumstance is "to protect their life or the life of another innocent party" — what departments call the "defense-of-life" standard. The second circumstance is to prevent a suspect from escaping, but only if the officer has probable cause to think the suspect poses a dangerous threat to others.

The logic behind the second circumstance, Klinger said, comes from a Supreme Court decision called Tennessee v. Garner. That case involved a pair of police officers who shot a 15-year-old boy as he fled from a burglary. (He’d stolen $10 and a purse from a house.) The court ruled that cops couldn’t shoot every felon who tried to escape. But, as Klinger said, "they basically say that the job of a cop is to protect people from violence, and if you’ve got a violent person who’s fleeing, you can shoot them to stop their flight."

The key to both of the legal standards — defense of life and fleeing a violent felony — is that it doesn’t matter whether there is an actual threat when force is used. Instead, what matters is the officer’s "objectively reasonable" belief that there is a threat.

That standard comes from the other Supreme Court case that guides use-of-force decisions: Graham v. Connor. This was a civil lawsuit brought by a man who’d survived his encounter with police officers, but who’d been treated roughly, had his face shoved into the hood of a car, and broken his foot — all while he was suffering a diabetic attack.

The court didn’t rule on whether the officers’ treatment of him had been justified, but it did say that the officers couldn’t justify their conduct just based on whether their intentions were good. They had to demonstrate that their actions were "objectively reasonable," given the circumstances and compared to what other police officers might do.

What’s "objectively reasonable" changes as the circumstances change. "One can’t just say, 'Because I could use deadly force 10 seconds ago, that means I can use deadly force again now," Walter Katz, a California attorney who specializes in oversight of law enforcement agencies, previously said.

In general, officers are given lot of legal latitude to use force without fear of punishment. The intention behind these legal standards is to give police officers leeway to make split-second decisions to protect themselves and bystanders. And although critics argue that these legal standards give law enforcement a license to kill innocent or unarmed people, police officers say they are essential to their safety.

For some critics, the question isn’t what’s legally justified but rather what’s preventable. "We have to get beyond what is legal and start focusing on what is preventable. Most are preventable," Ronald Davis, a former police chief who previously headed the Justice Department’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, told the Washington Post. Police "need to stop chasing down suspects, hopping fences, and landing on top of someone with a gun," he added. "When they do that, they have no choice but to shoot."

Police rarely get prosecuted for shootings

Police are very rarely prosecuted for shootings — and not just because the law allows them wide latitude to use force on the job. Sometimes the investigations fall onto the same police department the officer is from, which creates major conflicts of interest. Other times the only available evidence comes from eyewitnesses, who may not be as trustworthy in the public eye as a police officer.

"There is a tendency to believe an officer over a civilian, in terms of credibility," David Rudovsky, a civil rights lawyer who co-wrote Prosecuting Misconduct: Law and Litigation, told Amanda Taub for Vox. "And when an officer is on trial, reasonable doubt has a lot of bite. A prosecutor needs a very strong case before a jury will say that somebody who we generally trust to protect us has so seriously crossed the line as to be subject to a conviction."

If police are charged, they’re very rarely convicted. The National Police Misconduct Reporting Project analyzed 3,238 criminal cases against police officers from April 2009 through December 2010. They found that only 33 percent were convicted, and only 36 percent of officers who were convicted ended up serving prison sentences. Both of those are about half the rate at which members of the public are convicted or incarcerated.

The statistics suggest that it would have been a truly rare situation if the officers involved in the Sterling shooting were charged with and convicted of a crime.I watched all 10 hours of the first season of Netflix’s Lost in Space remake.

I could talk at length about what the new series does right and wrong, or the ways it’s updated the story of the Robinson family from the 1960s original series for the 2010s. I could look at the way the title Lost in Space now seems to mean Lost! (As in the Popular ABC Series That Ran From 2004 to 2010) ... in space. I could even analyze how the series fits into Netflix’s seeming move toward more family-friendly programming, or talk about how this was maybe not the property to get within 500 yards of the term “gritty reboot.”

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

But no. My first impressions of the series, formed in its very first episode, never steered me wrong. There were stronger moments and weaker ones in the episodes that followed, and that first episode didn’t quite get me to a point where I would have been happy to see several of the characters die, as later episodes did.

But nothing in the show quite caused me to abandon my initial irritation that the first episode is almost entirely about saving someone who became frozen in ice, or that it took more than an hour to do so. Lost in Space is one of the foremost cases of Netflix bloat I’ve seen.

Chop 20 minutes out of almost all of these episodes and you’d have a rollicking family adventure series. At their current running times, though, the series lags and sags in a way that will leave viewers bored stiff.

The central plot of Lost in Space’s first episode explains everything else that’s wrong with the show

Early in the first episode of Lost in Space, the series introduces the bright and spunky teenager Judy Robinson (Taylor Russell). Yes, she’s kind of perfect at everything she tries — she’s a brave explorer and something of an amateur physician, and she’s only 18 — but that’s par for the course in this sort of kid-friendly entertainment. I came to like her a lot, enjoying how the series was doling out its characterization among the three Robinson kids instead of heaping all of it on young Will (as the original ’60s series did).

Then Judy immediately becomes frozen in ice while trying to dive down to an underwater spaceship to retrieve a battery. And the time it takes to get her out of the ice keeps increasing. And increasing. And increasing. And increasing.

Somewhere within the episode’s structure, I could recognize an attempt to do some interesting things with the Lost in Space template. When Will (Maxwell Jenkins) bumps into Robot, one of the series’ most famous creations, the creature is distinctly alien and strange, rather than the campy character of the original. The idea that the Robinsons are leaving behind an Earth that’s slowly choking to death (after an asteroid impact) is compelling, and even if the scenes digging into the fissures in the marriage between John (Toby Stephens) and Maureen Robinson (Molly Parker) feel as perfunctory as possible, I liked the idea behind them — that of a troubled couple making another go of it among the stars.

And did I mention that Parker Posey is playing the villainous Dr. Smith, tongue not-so-firmly in cheek, and having a great time doing so?

What’s more, the first episode, directed by the terrific Neil Marshall (helmer of some of the best Game of Thrones episodes, as well as the tremendous horror film The Descent) and written by Matt Sazama and Burk Sharpless, has plenty of good ideas for how to increase the tension as the family scatters across the surface of this strange planet to find a way to rescue Judy as her oxygen levels run lower and lower. There’s a sharper, tauter version of this story that could have engaged me, that successfully took this inherently goofy property and gave it a sleek, modern sheen that might have made for diverting family fun.

Instead, the episode can’t find a groove. Every time tension mounts, it cuts away to something else for a long while, only beginning to build tension again in fits and starts. And then when it finally seems like it’s going somewhere, it cuts yet again.

I sort of understand what the series’ writers are going for here. They want to underline the dynamics of the Robinson family (which also includes middle child Penny, played by Mina Sundwall), as well as flesh out the world they live in, a world where a desperate attempt to colonize planets orbiting Alpha Centauri (the closest star system to the sun) results in a mysterious accident that deposits many of the colonists — and not just the Robinsons — on a strange, uncharted planet with many, many ways of dealing out death against frail, squishy humans.

But the thrill of exploration, or the examination of family dynamics, never feels like it arises organically from the action, in the way it might have on the show’s most obvious forebear that isn’t its direct predecessor: Lost. That series smartly found ways to build character by having its various castaways confront on-Island situations that mirrored chapters in their past. But when Lost in Space does a flashback, it’s too often a pure exposition dump.

This is too bad. There’s plenty of stuff to like in Lost in Space, from Posey’s weird and vaguely unhinged performance to the surprisingly intriguing revamp of Robot as a potential alien threat (instead of just Will’s best friend) to the way the show tries to give some degree of characterization to a chicken. (Yes, a chicken.) And in the season’s ninth episode, I even thought, briefly, that it might be going somewhere, as it surprised me with some solid twists I hadn’t seen coming.

But at the same time, too much of the series feels like it’s frozen in place, waiting for all the other stuff to get taken care of so the story can resume. There’s a version of Lost in Space that’s very entertaining, but it feels as if the series’ producers haven’t quite found it yet. They’re still chipping away at the giant block of ice, looking for the story within.

Lost in Space season one is streaming on Netflix.Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated collection of the internet’s best writing on books and related subjects. Here’s the best the web has to offer for the week of April 8, 2018.

At Electric Literature, Erin Bartnett interviews librarians for their policies on lending books to friends. I lent a book to an acquaintance four years ago and am still waiting for her to mail it back to me from the new city to which she has since moved, so I will abstain from making any policy recommendations whatsoever here:

If the book is special to me, I give them a very earnest speech about how special it is and why, and tell them that I definitely want it back eventually. I guess this implies that normally my joy in them reading the book is greater than my joy in getting it back? Whatever, it works out fine.

At LitHub, Emily Temple has collected Amazon’s best one-star reviews of The Great Gatsby:

Boring start, boring end, too many unnecessary things, too many whores. You’d have to be the person who loves Romeo and Juliet to like this book.

Meanwhile, at the New York Times, novelist Jesmyn Ward tracks the way Gatsby changes with its reader:

While most young people admire Gatsby’s youthful love for Daisy — for the possibility associated with her economic and social class, and for who he was with Daisy, too, in that shining moment in time — there is much subtext that becomes clearer with age, subtext Fitzgerald must have been acutely aware of when he wrote “The Great Gatsby.”

At Publishers Weekly, editor Rebecca Saletan of Riverhead Books explains why she loves editing. (As a book critic I try not to play favorites, but if I did, Riverhead would be one of them. They do good stuff, y’all.)

It was Matthiessen himself who gave me my first experience of being taken seriously as an editor, back when I was an assistant to the formidable Jason Epstein, and Peter was working on a collection of stories. One day he asked if I would look at one he’d been laboring over. Something was hampering it, but he didn’t know what. I read it and instantly saw — or rather, felt — what was off: The story was constructed on a hinge, and the hinge was stuck, much as an actual hinge might be.

I honestly don’t think it’s a bubble. I think this is the point when minority experience is becoming fully integrated into the concept of what it means to live in America. We can’t be complacent, obviously; we need to keep underlining that we need to be treated as equal within the publishing industry. There might be ebbs and flows, but given how even the number of books by minorities in the current moment, such as it is, doesn’t even begin to come close to reflecting the actual demographics of America, I see this as the beginning of something much bigger rather than a phase.

When I tried Electric Literature’s “describe yourself like you’re being written by a male author” generator, I got, “She had a butt like a tempestuous bedsheet, and I did not care to ravish her,” which, rude.

At Atlas Obscura, Anne Ewbank delves into the question of why fantasy novels include so much food:

Maslen believes food is one of the distinguishing features of fantasy literature. Whether its butter-pie or stew, food acts as an anchor against novels’ horror and high stakes. Fantasy writers, he says, “are very keen not to just induce horror and terror, but also wonder, surprise, delight, and amazement.” When challenging readers with the frightening and strange, food “anchors their experience in something they know well.”

I had been pleased to see a character like Circe, so vivid and unusual and powerful. But of course that power was the problem. A woman who could control men was unacceptable. She must be corrected by the hero, set back in her place. Instead of Odysseus being transformed by her spell, she is the one changed: from potent, independent goddess to bedmate, helpmeet, patient nurse of men’s pain. At 13, I couldn’t articulate all this, I just knew that something about the scene made my skin crawl. I quickly read onward, glad when Odysseus sailed off to face more monsters.

At the Guardian’s books blog, author and literary agent Lauren Spieller explains where last week’s deeply entertaining Twitter hashtag #MisandryInPublishing came from, and why it matters:

Here’s the problem: while one man was behind the creation of #MisandryInPublishing, he’s not alone in his beliefs that women stand in the way of male authors being published. If the misogynistic vitriol that fills my inbox and my Twitter notifications is any indication, a lot of men feel this way. They believe that feedback is personal, that rejections are gender-biased punishment, and that if it were not for systemic and rampant hatred of men, I would be representing them and selling their book.

At Slate, New York Times book critic and my girl crush Parul Sehgal talks about criticism:

It’s a lot to do in a small amount of space. My favorite quote about criticism comes from Zoë Heller from her book Notes on a Scandal, and she says that kissing is trying to be creative in a small space. That’s what criticism can feel like on a good day — like kissing.

Happy reading!The Cannes Film Festival and Netflix are at it again. With less than a month to go before the luminaries start walking the red carpet at the world’s most prestigious film festival, the two entities have renewed a battle that started there last year. And it’s sparked arguments around the world about what really counts as cinema.

But if you find yourself confused about what Cannes and Netflix are arguing over, what it really means, and who’s right, then you’re not alone. It’s a complex, layered fight, one that’s fundamentally about differing cultures and definitions of cinema. And it’s complicated by Netflix chief Ted Sarandos’s statements, which sometimes seem calculated to obscure what’s actually going on.

Here’s what happened, what it means, and why it matters.

What happened between Netflix and Cannes?

The Netflix-Cannes showdown was the controversy du jour in the film world last May. Two films produced and distributed by the streaming giant — Okja and The Meyerowitz Stories — were competing at the festival. Netflix planned to release those films on its streaming platform in France at the same time as it did everywhere else: June for Okja (a billboard advertisement for the film hung within sight of the Palais des Festivals, near the famous red carpet) and, after a few more festival stops, a fall release for Meyerowitz.

That infuriated the union of French theater owners, since French law calls for a 36-month waiting period between theatrical release and streaming release. Releasing the films in French theaters would mean Netflix would have to abide by that law. But Netflix wanted to release the films to streaming in France much sooner, and thus refused to release them in French theaters. Controversy ensued.

L’affaire Netflix seemed to reach a détente, or maybe just a standstill, when festival director Thierry Frémaux declared that if Netflix (or anyone else) refused to commit to theatrical release in France, their films would be barred from the main Cannes competition in the future. That meant no Netflix film could win any of the main awards at Cannes, including the Palme d’Or or the Grand Prix — both highly regarded awards in the world of cinema, though by no means harbingers of commercial success. (The former was won by the Swedish satirical drama The Square and the latter by the French drama BPM.)

With the 2018 Cannes Film Festival looming, Frémaux reiterated in an interview with Variety that the rule would stand. “We are all about cinema and we wish to have films that play in competition get released in theaters,” he told the trade publication. “That’s the model of film lovers and Netflix must respect it as well.” Frémaux said that Netflix movies were welcome in other sections of Cannes, or welcome to play out of competition (where films like last year’s eventual Oscar Best Documentary nominee Faces Places, or this year’s Solo: A Star Wars Story, play).

But that didn’t satisfy Netflix, which chose to escalate the quarrel. Sarandos, the company’s chief content officer, told Variety on April 11 that they’d be pulling out of the festival completely — not just the competition, but every other section of the festival too.

Somewhat disingenuously, Sarandos said the decision to pull out was “not our decision to make,” arguing (incorrectly) that the new rule “requires a film to have distribution in France to get in, which is completely contrary to the spirit of any film festival in the world.” (The rule only required a film to plan for theatrical release in France if it wanted to compete for the festival’s main prizes.) When questioned, Sarandos said, “I don’t think there would be any reason to go out of competition. The rule was implicitly about Netflix, and Thierry made it explicitly about Netflix when he announced the rule.”

As a result, no films with Netflix distribution will play in any section at Cannes this year. That includes The Other Side of the Wind, a highly anticipated unfinished film from the late legend Orson Welles, as well as movies from directors like Alfonso Cuarón (Gravity), Paul Greengrass (Captain Philips), and Jeremy Saulnier (Green Room).

Speaking to Variety after Netflix’s decision, Frémaux left open the possibility that a future compromise might still be reached. “We’re having constructive discussions with Netflix and the door is not shut,” he said. “I saw Alfonso Cuaron’s Roma several times and it’s a marvelous film and we wanted to have it in competition. As far as Orson Welles’ film The Other Side of the Wind, we were really eager to show the film out of competition. It’s a sad situation for everyone involved.”

What are Netflix and Cannes actually fighting over?

It’s not hard to see that this move on Netflix’s part is not really about the festival’s new rule, since it still could have premiered a film out of competition. Sarandos’s refusal to treat that as a possibility shows where the real fight lies. It’s not about theatrical versus streaming distribution, or about whether it’s okay to watch a film at home instead of in a theater. It’s about Netflix asserting its view of cinema over and against Cannes’s perspective.

As I wrote from the festival last year, this conflict is really about two very different cinema cultures. There’s the French perspective, which sees cinema as a fundamentally communal experience devoted to an art that is meant to be projected onto a big screen. And then there’s the American one, which prizes choice and individual taste and looks at a movie as something that’s the same no matter the size of the screen and the viewing conditions under which you see it. It would be nice to see it in a theater, but in the American way of seeing the matter, there’s no real difference.

Implicit in this argument are differing attitudes about the rules of cultural production. France is famously prescriptive about its culture, in ways that can be baffling to Americans. This is, after all, a country in which the Académie française, a committee comprising 40 people dubbed les Immortels, officially determines what kinds of words and changes will be allowed in the French language. (Not to mention that the recipe for the ubiquitous baguette is officially encoded in French law, and your morning croissant can only be shaped straight if it’s made with 100 percent butter.)

This is all intended to safeguard French identity and culture. But it’s very different from the American perspective, which has very few rules about cultural production at all. Art and culture in America develops largely along the lines of what the market will bear — and while that can lead to plenty of innovation, it also tends to discard as “outdated” or useless forms of art that can’t sustain market viability.

In his statement about Netflix’s choice to withdraw its films from the festival, Sarandos (rather passive-aggressively, I might add) cast the decision that way. “We are choosing to be about the future of cinema,” he told Variety. “If Cannes is choosing to be stuck in the history of cinema, that’s fine.”

Setting aside Sarandos’s remarkably hubristic attempts to cast Netflix as Cinema’s Savior, this does once again make it clear that the fundamental dispute is over what “cinema” is. To Sarandos and Netflix, operating in a more American-inflected framework, “cinema” is the content they serve up, which you can watch in any manner you want as long as you pony up the money for their service. To Cannes, cinema is by definition an art that requires a particular context for exhibition, and it needs protecting to keep market forces from elbowing out the possibility for that kind of exhibition.

You can side with Netflix or Cannes in this debate, and thoughtful people fall all along that spectrum. But the issue has always been that Netflix wants Cannes to give up its definition and take on Netflix’s definition instead.

So in the Netflix versus Cannes debate, who is right?

There’s a compelling case to be made that both Cannes and Netflix are in the wrong, at least a little. But when it comes to the actual argument, I’d say that Netflix is, well, wronger.

Talking to Variety, Sarandos said that Cannes “has chosen to celebrate distribution rather than the art of cinema.” By contrast, he said, Netflix is “100% about the art of cinema. And by the way, every other festival in the world is too.”

This is the crux of the matter. Sarandos is attempting to position Netflix as the guardian of cinema, which, he says, is being hamstrung by Cannes.

I could describe this as “disingenuous,” but it doesn’t really cover it. Cannes has no issue with accepting films that are produced and distributed by mostly digital companies. Amazon, for instance, had a film in competition last year — Wonderstruck — and while some purists booed it during screenings, that wasn’t much of a surprise; booing is de rigueur at Cannes. Wonderstruck went on to traditional theatrical release conforming to France’s laws, and Cannes has displayed no beef with the company, even though its end goal is digital distribution.

Netflix, however, is taking the strong-arm tactic. Cannes doesn’t care what Netflix does with its movies outside of France. It also doesn’t care what Netflix does with its movies if they’re not one of the 20 films selected to play in the festival’s competition.

Netflix cares, though. That’s likely because the official cultural policy in France is designed to limit how much a company like Netflix can “disrupt” cinema. And Netflix is a business bent on disruption.

Understanding the place of Cannes in the culture of French cinema helps illuminate why this matters. The festival has a deserved reputation for being exclusive and highbrow, and it would be a mistake to imagine that France is full of people whose taste match the festival’s. And yet there’s a sense in which Cannes sees itself as the guardian of an art form that is under attack from market forces. I’ve spent the month of June — right after the festival’s conclusion — living in Paris on several occasions, and it’s notable how much of the theatrical programming and conversation centers on what just happened in Cannes, located a six-hour train ride from the French capital.

That simply doesn’t happen in the United States — probably because no American film festival matters to American cinema culture the way Cannes does to French cinema.

So Sarandos’s claim that Cannes wants to “celebrate distribution rather than the art of cinema” is dead wrong. A more correct statement would be that Netflix doesn’t want to conform to French cinema culture, and — in a manner not totally unlike a second-grade boy who gets his feelings hurt on the baseball field — if they can’t play on their own terms, they’ll go home and bring their movies with them.

In the Netflix versus Cannes debate, who loses?

So who gets hurt in this equation?

It’s not Cannes. The day following Sarandos’s announcement, the festival announced the first round of its official selection, which is noticeably free of most obviously commercial films (the only two from American directors competing are BlacKkKlansman, from Spike Lee, and Under the Silver Lake, from It Follows director David Robert Mitchell). But that doesn’t hurt Cannes’s standing in the world in some way. As an industry-only festival, it doesn’t have to sell tickets; as the world’s most prestigious festival, it doesn’t have to worry about attracting world-class talent. With seven decades of history behind it, Cannes is not running scared.

It’s not really Netflix either. Sarandos said that festivals “help films get discovered so they can get distribution.” But Netflix is its own distributor on digital platforms, and if it wasn’t planning to distribute its films theatrically — Cannes’s requirement for playing in competition — then it doesn’t lose anything from this bargain.

It’s not even the audiences, or at least not American audiences, for whom Netflix’s decision has virtually no effect. French audiences likely won’t be able to watch Netflix films in theaters, but they’re not suffering for great theatrical choices. Netflix is not the only game in town.

So who really suffers? The artists.

For filmmakers whose movies might have been selected to play out of competition or in another section at Cannes, the result is a career boost. Having your movie play at Cannes means people take notice of it. Press will review it. You’ll be interviewed. You might walk a red carpet. Early buzz might start, which can translate into other festival berths, future ticket sales, and awards season momentum.

The filmmakers know this. When asked by Indiewire, most of them defended Netflix but also voiced hope that the two entities would compromise. But Orson Welles’s daughter, Beatrice, begged Netflix to reconsider on behalf of The Other Side of the Wind, saying, “I have to speak out for my father. I saw how the big production companies destroyed his life, his work, and in so doing a little bit of the man I loved so much. I would so hate to see Netflix be yet another one of these companies.”

Choosing to work with Netflix is the filmmakers’ prerogative, of course. But for many of them, Netflix is the only company that would take a chance on their movie in the first place. Frank Marshall, who oversaw The Other Side of the Wind’s restoration, echoed many other filmmakers when talking about Netflix: “There would be no movie without them. Every studio and financier in town passed on this film, for years.”

In the future, this may pose a dilemma for filmmakers who would like to see their movies considered for Cannes selection, but can’t get anyone but Netflix to fund those films. It would be understandably frustrating to have your film disqualified from the world’s most prestigious festival because your distributor won’t release it in theaters in a single country.

It’s unlikely that other festivals will follow Cannes’s lead, and so Netflix movies will still likely continue to play in other important festivals, like Toronto and Sundance. But as long as Netflix continues to use its films as pawns — refusing to let them even play out of competition — then filmmakers who get funding from the company will have to give up the boost that Cannes can give their career. Because if you’re trying to get the Cannes Film Festival to change its views on the art of cinema, you’d better be prepared to wait a long, long time.Taylor Swift just released a cover of Earth, Wind & Fire’s 1978 soul classic “September.” And in traditional Swiftian fashion, she embedded an Easter egg for the true scholars of T-Swift lore out there.

The original “September” begins with the line “Do you remember the 21st night of September?” But in Swift’s cover, recorded for the Spotify Singles series, she changed it to “Do you remember the 28th night of September.” And in her stripped-down arrangement, the change is crystal clear.

For a casual listener, the change might seem meaningless. But Swift’s fans knew exactly what it meant: It’s most likely a reference to her relationship with Joe Alwyn, which started on September 28, 2016.

So by Taylor changing the lyrics from “Do you remember the 21st day of September” to the 28th she is literally slipping us their anniversary date. This was Taylor on September 28th 2016. This was the day it all began. AAAAAAAAAAA pic.twitter.com/XO1fPpQQrh — Rachel (@taylortrivia13) April 12, 2018

Much like the reclusive antisocial billionaire of Ready Player One who forces children to dredge up the minutia of his past in order to play his elaborate mind games, Taylor Swift is given to seeding her songs with hidden references to her past, and especially to her love life. And in large part, that’s because these hidden Easter eggs allow her to simultaneously harness the twin poles of her star image: intimacy and control.

Last year, I did a deep dive into the history of Swift’s public image and concluded that both her appeal and her image struggles stem from the way she creates a sense of profound emotional intimacy with her fans while visibly working to control everything around her. The control is what makes the intimacy possible — Swift likely wouldn’t be able to create that sense of closeness with all her fans without working hard and micromanaging everything in her career — but it sometimes also makes the intimacy look fake and manufactured.

One of the places this conflict plays out most clearly is in the Easter eggs Swift likes to scatter through her lyrics. As I wrote last year:

This kind of subliminal storytelling, the kind that gets teased out on gossip blogs and always has “alleged” attached to it, is where the two sides of Swift’s persona work most closely in tandem. She is in total control of her narrative, firmly positioning herself as the righteous and sinned-against party who has the last word, always, and that narrative is profoundly tear-stained and intimate. And if the narrative turns against her, she can always deny it, because the story depends on her confirmation. What gets Swift into trouble is when that narrative starts to look fake.

The September 28 Easter egg is par for the Swiftian course. It’s a wink at her fans: “You know me well enough,” it says, “to get what this means. You’re like my best friends. You know my anniversary.” It creates an incredible sense of closeness. This is how her Easter eggs are supposed to function when they’re working.

It’s not necessarily clear that returning to her old media strategies is the best possible move for Swift, who only recently emerged from months of public exile after 2016’s #KimExposedTaylorParty. But if “September” suggests anything, it’s that her gossip-stoking game is returning to form.

Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that Earth, Wind & Fire released “September” in 1971. It was 1978.Nothing says spooky quite like Friday the 13th — that quirky day when all our superstitions and phobias come out to play.

But why is Friday the 13th so scary? You probably know, of course, all about how unlucky the number 13 is — even though in terms of classic numerology, it’s just another number. Maybe you suffer from fear of the number 13, a phobia famously called triskaidekaphobia — or specifically fear of Friday the 13th, which is less famously known as paraskevidekatriaphobia.

But why Friday? Why does the simple act of combining the greatest weekday with the worst prime number strike such fear into our hearts?

The answer is a complicated tangle of folklore, history, and good old superstition. Let’s take it a piece at a time.

A brief history of the number 13

Humans have always been fascinated with numbers and the idea that certain numbers carry a deep spiritual, esoteric, or occult significance. Maybe you’ve heard about people who become obsessed with the number 23, or read memes about the significance of the number 11. Maybe you just have a lucky number of your own.

Certain numbers attract dark superstitions — from the “devil’s number,” 666, to the devil’s hour, 3 am. The number 13 may be the darkest of them all, however. Maybe you’ve worked in a building with no 13th floor — or maybe you’ve avoided the 13th floor yourself. Maybe you’ve read of people whose obsession with the number tormented them — like composer Arnold Schoenberg, who was born and died on the 13th of the month, and was terrified of the number all his life.

The idea of the 13th day of the month being unlucky may have first taken hold in ancient Greece, around 700 BC, when the poet Hesiod penned a farmer’s almanac called Works and Days. In his almanac he cautioned the farmer to “avoid the thirteenth of the waxing month for beginning to sow,” though he doesn’t explain why.

For most of recorded human history, the number 13 was associated with Jesus and his 12 disciples, and specifically the evening of the Last Supper, which found all 13 of them assembled together, with Judas being received as the 13th guest. (And we know how that turned out.) The story of the Last Supper also coincides with a similar story in Norse myth in which Loki crashed a Valhalla dinner party as the 13th guest, bringing immediate chaos and destruction with him.

Ever since Loki and Judas, the idea of “the 13th guest” has long been considered sinister — see various vintage mysteries built around the idea. “Notwithstanding … opinions in favour of odd numbers,” reads a source cited by Snopes dating from 1787, “number thirteen is considered as extremely ominous; it being held that, when thirteen persons meet in a room, one of them will die within the year.”

Over the centuries, the fear of and eagerness to avoid the number 13 essentially became one of humanity’s longest-running memes. By the arrival of 19th century, skyscrapers were being built without 13th floors and men were defiantly forming “Thirteen Clubs” — societies made of 13 men who deliberately met to defy the odds and debunk the superstition put in place by Judas and Loki centuries hence. The Thirteen Clubs reportedly included five US presidents, from Chester A. Arthur to Theodore Roosevelt.

Not included in that collective was Franklin D. Roosevelt, whom biographer John Gunther described as mildly superstitious when it came to variants of Friday the 13th: “He hated Friday the thirteenth, he would never start an important trip on a Friday if he could help it, and he disliked sitting down with thirteen at dinner.”

A brief history of unlucky Fridays

All this is well and good, but you don’t get an unlucky Friday the 13th out of nowhere. And as it happens, we probably wouldn’t have the concept of unlucky Fridays without Chaucer. In his Canterbury Tales, he fashioned Friday to be a day “of misfortune.”

Of course, what most people miss about Chaucer is that both of these references are ironic, full of mocking tragedy and humor (it helps to think of Chaucer as an internet troll before the internet), and the reference was a considerably more layered one than it seems at a glance. So it’s anyone’s guess as to whether the day itself was actually considered generally unlucky in the late 14th century, or if Chaucer was just being Chaucer. But skip forward 200 years or so and we have a better glimpse at the phenomenon unfolding: In 1592, the playwright Robert Greene coined the expression “Friday-face,” which was shorthand for a look of gloom or dismay.

There’s not much context for this usage either, but it’s clear that by this point in human history, people were starting to view Friday with a wary eye. In 1633, in his play A Match at Midnight, the Jacobean playwright William Rowley described “A plague of Friday mornings — the most unfortunate day in the whole week.” Just a scant 20 years later, another minor English dramatist, Richard Flecknoe, was anecdotally given credit for penning this ditty: “Now Friday came, you old wives say, Of all the week’s the unluckiest day.” In 1898, the Dictionary of Phrase and Fable noted that Friday is considered an “unlucky day” in Spain, and cited yet another rhyming aphorism: “But once on a Friday (’tis ever they say), / A day when misfortune is aptest to fail.”

So now we have the two halves of our whole superstition in place. But how to combine them?

For that, we need some good old-fashioned modern-day reality creation.

Friday the 13th is a 20th-century creation

It’s a commonly held belief that the reason Friday the 13th is considered unlucky is that on Friday 13, 1307, a raid on the Knights Templar took place, essentially wiping them out. The belief that this is the source of the “Friday the 13th” mythos got a huge boost from Dan Brown’s The Da Vinci Code — but it’s totally bogus. As National Geographic points out, some knights were arrested on that date, but it had nothing to do with the superstition.

Basically, no one cared about pairing Friday and the number 13 until the 20th century. The 19th century, as we’ve seen, was full of references to the number 13 being unlucky. But it took the 20th century to bring us the magic of Friday the 13th.

That’s largely thanks to Thomas Lawson’s 1907 book Friday, the Thirteenth. Lawson, a notorious stock market promoter who was essentially a turn-of-the-century Wolf of Wall Street, wrote the book about a fictional stockbroker who chooses that day to deliberately crash the stock market. It’s only a year later that we see the first known mention of Friday the 13th in the media: a notice in the New York Times from March 14, 1908, notes that one brave senator had defied the odds and “introduced thirteen public building bills” into the Senate on the unlucky day. “Friday the 13th holds no terrors for Senator Owen,” the Times declared.

From there, the myth around the day continued to build, as myths will do, and by the time we reached 1980, and the beginning of the Friday the 13th movie franchise, the superstition was firmly in place. Not only was the franchise’s villain, Jason Voorhees, born on Friday the 13th, but the cyclical events that characterize the first film, occurring decades apart, also occur on Friday the 13th. According to the Friday the 13th Wikia, only five of the series’ 12 films occur on a Friday the 13th. (And how weird is it that the Friday the 13th film series has just under 13 films?)

Were he able to see the results of his original tale, Lawson might be devilishly pleased: According to some estimates, modern fear of Friday the 13th contributes to a routine loss of between $700 million and $900 million in revenue that would otherwise be gained on that day, all because most people don’t want to push their luck. You can fly cheaper on Friday the 13th — because no one wants to be in the air on the unluckiest day of the year. And stock prices tend to fall on Friday the 13th, because — well, chalk it up to the Lawson curse.

Will Friday the 13th actually be harmful for me?

No. There’s no compelling evidence that anything historically bad ever actually occurred on a Friday the 13th to give rise to this superstition. So there’s no need to fear the day, or to refrain from doing any of the normal things you’d otherwise do.

If you must indulge in folkloric whims, just throw some salt over your shoulder. You’ll be fine.Rampage is a real head-scratcher: Either it’s the dumbest movie I’ve seen in a while, or it’s secretly a work of genius.

Or, I guess, why not both?

“Based” on an arcade game from the 1980s that was later ported over to home video game systems, Rampage stars Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson as a primatologist at the San Diego Wildlife Sanctuary who finds himself trying to save the world when his best buddy, an ape named George, gets infected by a fast-moving gene modification that turns him into an enormous, rage-filled, deadly killing machine.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

It’s both a blindingly predictable pastiche of an action movie — absolutely nothing happens here that you haven’t seen in a movie before, with the possible exception of some crass sign-language humor from a giant gorilla — and weirdly charming. To the extent Rampage succeeds, it does so specifically because it knows it doesn’t have a single original thought in its head, and it’s not even going to try to convince you otherwise. It’s a movie about smashing things, and things getting smashed, and also it has The Rock.

If that sounds like an appealing thing to watch at the end of a long day, then this is the movie for you. Go knock yourself out. You’ll have fun — and it’s possible you might leave the theater with something to think about too.

Rampage puts a twist on the arcade game, but not on the action movie formula

In the Rampage game, players picked one of three monsters and tried to reduce various cities to rubble, over and over again, while eluding military onslaught. In the movie, our heroes are trying to keep that from happening.

This twist results in a movie with a synopsis that reads like something most people would cook up if they were asked to sketch out a generic action movie plot in 20 minutes. In the prelude, a research spacecraft transporting some kind of huge, fierce creature blows up, but not before a scientist on board escapes in a pod with the “samples.” Then her pod blows up, and the samples survive and land on Earth — one in Wyoming, where a wolf finds it, one in the Everglades, where an alligator locates it, and one in the San Diego Wildlife Sanctuary, where good-natured George stumbles across it.

The research has to do with genetic modification, and it is, of course, both kind of illegal and being conducted by a Big Bad Corporation headed by a sibling pair: dim-but-pretty Brett Wyden (Jake Lacy) and his considerably more cutthroat sister Claire (Malin Akerman), who have a big office at the top of a building where they stalk about making evil plans and peering at screens, as befits a pair of villains.

Meanwhile, Davis Okoye (Johnson), the primatologist who raised George from birth, finds that his friendly, funny gorilla friend has been subsumed by a raging monster. The movie centers on his quest to keep George safe, which leads to him teaming up with a scientist named Dr. Kate Caldwell (Naomie Harris), who used to work for the Wydens, and eventually a sardonic government operative named Harvey Russell (Jeffrey Dean Morgan), who delivers quips with a drawl. As a radio frequency emitted by the Wydens draws the rapidly growing, destructive creatures to Chicago, the trio follows in hot pursuit, and the military starts closing in as well.

And so, yes, this movie has it all: greedy corporate villain, smart scientist, strong and sensitive hero, big monsters, impending destruction, and a very modest message, not pushed too hard, suggesting that it’s humans who are the real animals.

That’s not exactly a strike against it. Action movies like this are meant to be explosive and loud and cathartic, and maybe a little funny. Sure, Rampage has some plot holes, but it definitely doesn’t care, and you really don’t need to either. This is a movie based on an arcade game; the goal is to get to the big fight.

It’s also shot in a clear and coherent way; you pretty much always know where you’re located spatially during the long climactic action sequence, which is more than can be said for, say, the Transformers movies, or even a great many Marvel movies. It’s oddly comforting to watch huge fight sequences that feel this straightforward — rather than trying to make you dizzy, they just want to make you cheer.

Dwayne Johnson headlines Rampage, but the script doesn’t seem to realize it

Most importantly, Rampage has Dwayne Johnson, one of the few remaining movie stars who can open a movie just because he’s in it. (His last movie, Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle, has made so much money that it recently became the highest-grossing Sony release of all time.) The best parts of Rampage are his scenes with George, which are genuinely funny; the gorilla has an excellent sense of humor. But — is this weird to say? oh well — the pair’s chemistry is also great, and the movie’s only truly touching moments result from their relationship.

But while Johnson is the movie’s greatest strength, he’s also, curiously, its weakest link. Someone appears to have made a miscalculation when writing Johnson’s character. People are constantly accusing Davis of being a bit of a misanthrope — of preferring the company of animals over people, of “not liking” people. That’s his defining characteristic as a person: He doesn’t like people.

Except Johnson absolutely cannot telegraph a dislike of people. He’s affable and polite, with a winning smile, and we never see him be anything other than kindly toward human or animal unless they deserve it. Certainly he prefers the company of animals — I mean, he is a primatologist — and sure, his best friend is a gorilla, but it’s impossible to see him as antisocial or unfriendly. If you have Johnson in your action movie, you rewrite the screenplay around him. Davis would have been much more convincing as “shy” than “curmudgeonly,” but even that would have been a stretch given Johnson’s megawatt charisma.

But that’s a minor quibble. Rampage wants to be a smash-’em-up action movie, and it does that just fine. And if you (like I) want to overthink it, there’s a possibility that it might actually be brilliant.

Okay, but what if Rampage is actually incredibly smart?

The movie’s setup is that DNA from a variety of creatures is being spliced into one package that can be delivered to a single animal, which then takes on some of the others’ characteristics. (So a wolf, for instance, might not just become enraged once infected, but also develop the capabilities of both a porcupine and a flying squirrel.) And, importantly, it also becomes extremely large, and just keeps growing larger and larger.

In a weird way, this works as a metaphor for the film itself. Rampage was a fun arcade and video game with a simple conceit (SMASH THINGS) and not much more. But infected with cinematic DNA, it becomes this weird hybrid monster, taking on characteristics that feel lifted from any number of other action movies ranging from King Kong to Pacific Rim.

And besides being just a lot of movie, it’s one that’s filled with destruction. The most unnerving part of watching Rampage is that you’re not sure how you’re supposed to feel about all this destruction. By the end, presumably millions of people have died and whole sections of cities and buildings have been flattened. The destruction is unthinkable.

But it ends on a cheery upbeat note anyhow — you wouldn’t want to dwell on the chaos and destruction too long because it might just kill the mood — which is both completely predictable for a movie like Rampage and, well, kind of disturbing. Seeing people die in digital projection is not exactly like seeing an 8-bit city get flattened.

And yet the movie’s only social critique, if it has one, is the suggestion that the cruel genetic modification of animals will lead to chaos and death of humans. While Rampage is almost certainly not some kind of stealth critique of big, loud movies full of senseless violence, it almost works on that level anyway, the movie’s plot as a metaphor for the movie’s genre.

As I say: There’s almost no way that’s what Rampage is up to. It is, by all appearances, not a movie with highfalutin aspirations, and that’s why it’s pretty fun. But it’s hard not to wonder, just a little, if Rampage is secretly much smarter than it pretends to be.

Rampage opens in theaters on April 12.Ocean’s 8 has felt like something of a wish-fulfillment fever dream ever since its dream cast — Sandra Bullock and Cate Blanchett! Anne Hathaway and Mindy Kaling! Helena Bonham Carter and Rihanna! — was announced back in 2016. But with the arrival of its second trailer, it finally feels safe to rejoice in the fact that we’ll actually get to see this movie in just a few short weeks, on June 8.

This trailer picks up the thread of the first look we got back in December, which confirmed that Bullock will be playing Debbie Ocean, the estranged and formerly incarcerated sister of Danny Ocean (played by George Clooney in the Ocean’s Eleven reboot trilogy, which, we are truly down the rabbit hole with this franchise, huh?). But we also get a better look at each of Debbie’s new band of thieves as they prepare to rob the legendary Met Gala (a perfect event on which to center a movie featuring Rihanna, undisputed queen of Met Galas).

There’s Blanchett’s wry right-hand woman, shaking her head with impressed amusement at Debbie’s determination. There’s Kaling’s jewelry forger and Sarah Paulson’s nervous task manager examining the job at hand, while Bonham Carter and Awkwafina creep around the edges. And in her biggest spotlight so far, there’s Rihanna as “9 Ball,” the crew’s tech-savvy hire whose deadpan manages to rival Blanchett’s.

On the other side of the impending battle royal is Hathaway. Playing the role of their glamorous mark, she drips with diamonds and cutting condescension. From the little we can tell from this trailer, it sure seems like Hathaway is playing a different role from her usual earnest heroines — and seems to be having a great time of it.

Of course, trailers can’t really tell us if a movie will be good or bad. But Ocean’s 8 sure as hell seems to be having fun, and for now, that feels like enough.

Ocean’s 8 will be released in theaters on June 8.Near the end of Borg vs. McEnroe, tennis stars Björn Borg and John McEnroe (played by Sverrir Gudnason and Shia LaBeouf, respectively) sit on a bench, the very picture of anxiety. Above them on the wall is emblazoned a line from Rudyard Kipling’s famous poem “If—”:

If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster

And treat those two impostors just the same

It is not a particularly subtle moment in an otherwise pretty subtle sports film, about the pair’s historic meeting at Wimbledon in 1980. The inscrutable Swede Borg was up for a historic fifth victory; McEnroe was the hot-tempered American upstart who could wreck his chances.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

Borg vs. McEnroe chronicles the lead-up to the match, both the days just before it and flashbacks to each player’s youth. It’s also a largely Swedish production, directed by the Danish director Janus Metz, and so, perhaps inevitably, it feels unlike most sports films made under American auspices — mostly quiet, almost meditative.

That’s a strength for Borg vs. McEnroe, but it’s also a liability. Tennis films operate a lot like boxing films, in that they focus on two individuals gearing up for a match rather than a team coming together in some kind of inspirational fashion to win. They’re more about mental mastery than teamwork and camaraderie, shot in a quiet meditative fashion.

All that can be good. But it also makes for a less compelling story. Borg vs. McEnroe is an interesting expression of Kipling’s sentiments, but ultimately it’s hamstrung by its choice to focus largely on one side of the match — the less interesting one, in movie terms, anyhow.

Borg vs. McEnroe follows two of the world’s best tennis players as they journey toward manhood

Sports movies come in a couple of main varieties. There’s the inspirational kind (which is often, though not always, about team sports like football). And then there’s the kind that uses the central match or game as a way to explore a broader theme, often about society or human nature.

Borg vs. McEnroe belongs to the latter camp, as did another recent tennis movie, Battle of the Sexes, which played alongside this film at the Toronto Film Festival last fall. But where Battle of the Sexes aimed to tell a larger story about gender and misogyny, Borg vs. McEnroe’s focus is on what makes for a great tennis player and, in particular, how a man’s passion and temper can make or break him.

The whole film plays out like a long parable based on Kipling’s poem. In “If—,” the poet addresses his son, explaining that what it really takes to be a man is to “keep your head when all about you / are losing theirs and blaming it on you,” to be hated but “don’t give way to hating,” to “dream — and not make dreams your master,” to “force your heart and nerve and sinew / to serve your turn long after they are gone.” Risking everything to win, and losing but turning right around and starting again without complaining — this is what makes for a man.

And as Kipling puts it, doing all this means that “Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it, / And — which is more — you’ll be a Man, my son!”

Borg vs. McEnroe chronicles the struggles that both of its main characters faced as they learned the truths of Kipling’s poem the hard way. As the film tells the story, the 1980 Wimbledon match was the culmination of a long road for both the cool-headed Borg and McEnroe, known for his hot temper and combative attitude toward the press, the umpires, and the crowd.

McEnroe’s outbursts happened in public, and won’t surprise anyone with even the slightest knowledge of his history. But through a series of flashbacks, the movie portrays Borg — known in public to be so calm under pressure that he was nicknamed “Ice-Man” or “Ice-Borg” — as being just as hot-tempered as McEnroe. His coach Lennart Bergelin (Stellan Skarsgård) trains him to keep his rage bottled up inside and then funnel it into his game.

But it still slips out in private, in ways that affect Borg’s relationship with both Bergelin and his girlfriend Mariana (Tuva Novotny), and may threaten his game, especially as the pressure of winning a fifth Wimbledon mounts. Meanwhile, McEnroe battles his own demons and his reputation, alienating friends and wondering if he will ever be remembered as one of the greats if everyone hates him.

Borg vs. McEnroe’s focus on Borg is the source of its troubles

The bulk of the movie follows Borg, which is entirely understandable; Borg vs. McEnroe is a Swedish production, and its Swedish character, widely considered one of the greatest tennis players of all time, is of course the one it focuses on.

But it’s also a flaw, for two reasons. First, while Gudnason turns in a haunting performance as Borg, “Ice-Borg” is simply not that interesting to watch off the court for long stretches of the movie. Even when he gives in to his temper, the performance is so understated that it feels anticlimactic. Borg was known for being virtually expressionless. That might make for good tennis, but that doesn’t make for very good cinema.

And unfortunately, he’s up against not just an explosive and unpredictable firecracker of a character in McEnroe, but also one of the most consistently interesting performers working today in LaBeouf. Even when he’s in a mediocre movie (and he often is), LaBeouf is a magnetic onscreen presence. There’s a naturalism and complexity to his McEnroe that keeps him from being turned into a caricature. It’s hard not to want more of him.

That’s exactly what the movie doesn’t serve up. Ably shot by Niels Thastum, the movie looks less frenetic than many others in its genre. But the story (from a screenplay by Ronnie Sandahl) drags without much narrative tension, and by the end you just want the match to happen so there’s some movement onscreen. The two players may have been changed (as the title cards say) by their journey to Wimbledon, and to real manhood, but unfortunately, the movie they’re in is curiously inert.

Borg vs. McEnroe opens in theaters on April 12.Every week, some of Vox’s writers will gather to discuss the latest episode of FX’s spy drama The Americans. This week, critic at large Todd VanDerWerff, deputy culture editor Genevieve Koski, and culture writer Caroline Framke offer their takes on “Urban Transport Planning,” the third episode of the final season. Needless to say, spoilers follow!

Oleg and Stan hash out their differences — and the one big thing they have in common — in the episode’s titular scene

Todd VanDerWerff: There are certain things a TV show can only do in its final season, when the audience knows the end is on its way. In the days before endings long planned in advance, I could always tell when a show’s writers and actors were thinking about hanging it up based on when they would start paying out long-teased answers and resolutions to conflicts that had been bubbling from the very beginning. A final season implies finality, and these story developments followed through.

That’s how I feel about much of “Urban Transport Planning,” which continues the hectic pace of The Americans’ final season but also slows down a bit to look back at everywhere the show has been before, particularly in the scene that gives the episode its name.

Oleg, see, is in the states on the pretense of attending a class in the titular subject, but Stan suspects something more is up. So he goes to see his old colleague, the man with whom he helped ease tensions both directly and indirectly. (Remember how Stan protected Oleg from being recruited by US intelligence in season five, without the two men sharing the screen? Remember how season five was a bunch of interesting ideas executed oddly?) Stan wants to feel out Oleg, wants to know why he’s really in DC. But Oleg will only admit to the class.

And then the two men talk about Nina, and an immense sadness suffuses everything that’s happening.

It’s inherent to the spy drama that there will be a high body count. It’s also inherent to spy dramas heavily influenced by the more realistic, grounded spy fiction of John le Carré (as The Americans is on some level) that said high body count will be contrasted with the stated missions of the spies, as they wonder just what it’s all for, why they’ve done such terrible things. And so it goes with Nina, a woman both men loved, who was both punished for her sins and eventually executed for refusing to sin further. At least, that’s how she saw it.

Beneath everything else Stan and Oleg feel for each other, beneath the respect and maybe even the would-be friendship, there is this dual connection through a character who hasn’t featured on the show in 25 episodes, who was killed quickly and summarily, as if crossing a number off a ledger. But she was someone who mattered to these two guys, and that sets the stakes for this season in some ways: No matter what happens, we know who cared about all these people, and that will make it all the worse when bad things happen.

Leave it to me to spend all this time talking about just one scene in an episode crammed full of good ones (including some terrific Philip/Elizabeth scenes), but that’s where my heart was after “Urban Transport Planning.” What about all of you?

Genevieve Koski: In the 24 hours or so since I watched this episode, the image that keeps popping into my mind is Elizabeth’s face as she yells at Paige for abandoning her post and wandering into the meet gone wrong with Rennhull.

It reminded me a little of that scene from Fellowship of the Ring where Galadriel is briefly possessed by desire for the one ring and changes into a demonic version of herself: Every line and shadow on Elizabeth’s face deepens, her eyes seem to recede to little black pinpoints, her lips curling into a snarl as she shouts, “You stick to the plan!” at her horror-stricken daughter, as her slightly less obviously horror-stricken husband (who moments earlier assured Paige that Elizabeth would understand) looks on with dismay.

I talked a little in last week’s discussion about the chasm that’s opening up between Philip and Elizabeth as parents, which this scene underlines not just in how differently the two of them treat Paige, but also in the brief intrusion from Henry via phone.

Here’s Henry, just wanting to celebrate his big hockey victory with Philip — who looks like he’d much rather deal with that than what’s awaiting him in the living room — and here’s Paige, looking for and being denied comfort from an enraged Elizabeth, who is obviously projecting some of her own guilt over how things fell apart onto her unsuspecting daughter.

Elizabeth more or less cops to this in a later scene with Paige, but her passion in the moment, especially compared to Philip’s more removed attempts at comfort, reflects her anxiety over how things are progressing “back home” and what it could mean for her and Directorate S.

In a later scene between her and Philip, he challenges her assumption that everyone back in the Soviet Union feels the same as she does about Gorbachev and Pizza Huts in Moscow, and her angry reaction to the suggestion that things may be “opening up,” as Philip puts it, is laced with obvious fear that such progress undermines — maybe even renders moot — all the body- and soul-crushing work she’s done for the past 20 years. She’s not ready to admit it yet — she may never be ready — but it’s apparent to Philip, and to us, that Elizabeth is clinging with all her might to something that may have already slipped through her fingers.

Keri Russell is on fire in this episode

Caroline Framke: First of all, bless you, Genevieve, for bringing a long-overdue Lord of the Rings reference to our Americans recaps.

Second of all, bless you, Americans, for giving Keri Russell one hell of a showcase in this final season to remind everyone just how good she is. Elizabeth has had her explosive moments before — never forget the Forehead Vein — but Russell is a doing an expert job at showing exactly how much Elizabeth is wearing herself to the bone for this summit as she erupts with more and more frequency.

Her pervasive fatigue also makes the moments when she tries to break through it feel that much more significant. Her quiet contentment at getting to cook an old favorite dish with Claudia and Paige and her breaking a rule to bring Philip a taste of home show just how much Elizabeth values and is trying to remember where she came from.

So when Philip suggests that maybe she doesn’t know what their “home” is like after 20 years away, it’s unsurprising that it stings Elizabeth so hard. If she doesn’t know what the Soviet Union is actually like, if she doesn’t have a sense of what “home” even means anymore, what is she even fighting for? As Philip well knows, the times when Elizabeth can’t stop herself from lashing out are clear signs that she’s feeling especially stressed and vulnerable — and given the hints Oleg gave him about what she’s possibly working on these days, that worries him to death.

Speaking of: Did anyone else pump a fist when the episode ended with Philip and his blond mustache joining Oleg on a spy walk™? Because I am psyched. I know Philip is invested in his travel agency, but I sure am not, so I’m excited that he’s now decided staying out of the game is riskier than getting back in it.

That shot of Philip staring at a sleeping Elizabeth (Matthew Rhys at his weary frowniest) made it clear that the strain of going back to spying on her is preemptively wearing him down, but it’s also clear that he feels he has no choice.

There are several points in this episode that could have sparked that realization, but for my money, it was the moment when Paige asked if she could stay the night and Elizabeth snarled that it was “a work night” at the same time that Philip went for a comforting, “Of course you can.” He was always terrified of what getting into spying could do to Paige, and watching Elizabeth just about kill herself for the job while treating their daughter like a co-worker feels like a last-straw moment if there ever was one.

Todd: You’re not heavily invested in the financial struggles of the travel agency? What? I’m hoping the show just wraps up the spy stuff early, and the entire back half of the season is Philip and Elizabeth coming up with ever-crazier financial schemes to save the beloved travel agency. A bake sale! A car wash! Entering a battle of the bands! Is there anything The Americans won’t do to save the travel agency?!

(Seriously, though, I have enjoyed Philip going full Wolf of Wall Street capitalist motivational speaker at work, and I would take more scenes like that in the future.)

I definitely have felt a draw to the story of Philip and Elizabeth struggling to remember this place they haven’t lived in ages, a place they obviously have nostalgia-coated, hazy ideas about anyway. The Americans gets talked about a lot as a show that’s relevant to our ongoing Russia storyline (though our writers are a lot less subtle than the crew at The Americans), but as a Midwestern transplant living in sunny California, I’ve always connected to it on the level of a story about finding a home, about building a place you can call your own, even as you’re miles and miles away from the place you grew up in.

And this idea is deeply tied in to the season’s central conflict. Philip and Elizabeth are fighting for the future of a place neither of them knows anymore, and where he thinks it needs to change, based on everything that’s happened since he left, she thinks it’s probably just fine the way it is, based on those nostalgic memories.

The truth probably lies in the middle, as it always does. The Soviet Union was choking on corruption at this point, and its people were in dire straits. But it also wasn’t as though everything Elizabeth remembered about it was dead and buried. The home she loves is still there, and it’s not hard to tap into why she might be so worried about change sweeping across it.

Step back from the political arguments within the show, and its conflict between Philip and Elizabeth has always been the conflict between any two people who are split between wanting to put down roots in a new place (as Philip has always been more inclined to do) and wanting to stay true to their cultural heritage (as Elizabeth has always hoped to do). Add in their kids — who have only ever known this new home — and things get even more complicated.

It’s a story of immigrants to the US, to be sure, but it’s also a story of anybody who moves very far away and sometimes misses the way things were. But change is inevitable, and fighting it tends to end up destroying you. Elizabeth is on a dangerous track, even if she seems to be the only one thinking ahead.

Just what’s up with Stan’s storyline this season? Or Renee, for that matter?

Genevieve: Maybe thinking too far ahead, at least when it comes to leftovers. Did anyone else cringe a little when Elizabeth dumped the zharkoye she brought home to Philip down the garbage disposal because “we can’t keep it around”?

I understand wanting to take every possible precaution against discovery, but zharkoye is literally just beef stew — as one of the summit attendees says in an earlier scene, “every dish in Russia starts with meat and potatoes” — more or less indistinguishable from pot roast to anyone who might be rummaging through the Jenningses’ fridge. (Even if they had instead made Elizabeth’s preferred dish, golubtsi, that’s also something that can masquerade as the cuisine of any number of countries.)

The fear that Stan might wander over and help himself to some and think “Wait a minute — is this zharkoye?” seems pretty overblown, as corroborated by the dismayed look on Philip’s face as he watches his wife unceremoniously toss the food down the sink.

Then again, that could also have been a power play on Elizabeth’s part, a symbolic chastising of Philip for filling up on Kung Pao chicken and lo mein (both, it should be noted, notoriously Westernized interpretations of Chinese cuisine). He receives the dish with nostalgic fondness, even forces down a couple of bites, but this is an all-or-nothing proposition for Elizabeth: You enjoy this symbol of our home and our past, in its entirety, right now, or you lose it.

Given the resentfulness she’s exhibited toward any small attempt by Philip to insinuate himself back into the spy life via Paige, it’s not hard to read a certain “and you call yourself a Russian” scorn into this small domestic moment.

And speaking of fraught domestic moments, what are we to make of that scene of Renee talking to Stan about her job prospects at the FBI? We all regarded Renee with instant skepticism when she wandered onto the scene last season, certain that she was part of some sort of nefarious scheme, but she’s insinuated herself so deeply into Stan’s life at this point that I admit I’d forgotten to be suspicious of her.

This sudden desire of hers to become a late-in-life FBI agent brought that suspicion roaring back, though I admit to being at a complete loss as to what sort of long con this might suggest. Is it possible she’s being sincere here?

Caroline: If she is, then she’s right to be concerned that she doesn’t know Stan very well at all, because he would never allow nepotism to get her into the FBI. And if she’s a spy, she’s not as subtle as she might think. What a weird request! That scene — and, to be honest, just about everything surrounding Mr. and Mrs. Teacup — felt a little bizarre to me, and were forceful reminders that Stan has felt a little unmoored from the main action for a while now.

I have to imagine there’s some kind of serious payoff coming with Renee and the Teacups, because why else would the show devote this much time and energy to Stan just kind of circling these stagnant storylines?

Then again, if Stan meeting up with Oleg again right before Oleg meets up with Philip is portending some kind of team-up between this trio of conflicted men who have always floated in one moral gray area or another, I’ll happily rescind all complaints. Philip and Stan have always genuinely gotten along, and I have a feeling Philip and Oleg will make a better team than probably either of them are hoping.

Maybe that would be too neat a solution. But hey, even just a season ago, I never would’ve guessed that we’d get multiple scenes of Elizabeth, Claudia, and Paige chatting over stew and television. As the clock keeps ticking down toward this potentially catastrophic summit, there’s no saying the lines between enemies and friends won’t keep getting redrawn in ways that may seem unthinkable — until they’re not."Don’t pester, Ramona," said Mrs. Quimby. "I’ll get you there in plenty of time." "I’m not pestering," protested Ramona, who never meant to pester. She was not a slowpoke grownup. She was a girl who could not wait. Life was so interesting that she had to find out what happened next.

Ramona Quimby was not meant to be a main character, not at first. She first appeared as a minor character in Beverly Cleary’s Henry Huggins books.

"It occurred to me that all the children appeared to be only children," recalls Cleary, who turns 102 on April 12. It was 1950 and Cleary was a school librarian, writing her first book, at the urging of a little boy who marched up to her and demanded, "Where are the books about kids like us?"

Henry Huggins and the many books that followed were meant to be an antidote to the sugary, sentimental children’s stories that were fashionable in the 1950s; Cleary was writing about real children. And real children do sometimes have siblings, of course — so Cleary invented Ramona, the pesky younger sister of Henry’s friend and neighbor Beezus.

But Ramona, that unstoppable ball of energy and excitement, was not willing to idle on the sidelines as a minor character. She demanded her own stories.

First came 1955's Beezus and Ramona, the story of poor, long-suffering elder sister Beezus, who just wants to sit quietly and embroider potholders. Instead, she is forced to run interference on Ramona, trying and mostly failing to keep her from baking her dolls with her birthday cake (so she could practice being the witch in Hansel and Gretel) or taking a single bite out of every apple in the house (because the first bite always tastes the best).

It’s a similar dynamic to the one that had worked so well in the Henry Huggins books, where the main character wants life to be calm and orderly (Henry, Beezus), but winds up saddled with a disruptive, unruly sidekick who trails chaos in their wake (Henry’s dog Ribsy, Ramona). Eventually that dynamic grows unsatisfying, because you’re left with a purely reactive main character and a side character who’s a lot better at driving a story.

Ramona Quimby is part of the pantheon of unruly kid-lit heroines

So with 1968's Ramona the Pest, Ramona steps into the spotlight for the first time. She becomes a protagonist in her own right, joining the pantheon of the unruly, disruptive, tomboyish heroines of kid lit: Laura Ingalls, Harriet the Spy, Jo March, and other untidy girls who function as walking wrecking balls to the status quo.

From Beezus and Ramona to 1999's Ramona’s World (the last of the Ramona books), Ramona crashes through ceilings, throws her shoes at scary dogs, smashes eggs in her hair, paints her nose black with mascara, and squeezes an entire tube of toothpaste into the bathroom sink. She never acts out of malice — Ramona is sometimes angry but never cruel — but rather out of sheer curiosity and enthusiasm for life.

Part of the pleasure of reading about Ramona comes from the deep satisfaction she gets from all of her pranks. It never occurred to me as a child to want to squeeze out an entire tube of toothpaste (I was a Beezus), but when Ramona eyes the tube and thinks, "How smooth and shiny it looked with only one little dent where someone had squeezed it once," and at last gives into temptation, I understand the appeal on a deep and visceral level.

As Ramona squeezes, "the paste coiled and swirled and mounded in the washbasin. Ramona decorated the mound with toothpaste roses as if it were a toothpaste birthday cake." Who wouldn’t want to get creative with toothpaste after reading that?

The coziness of Ramona’s world gives her room to act out

Of course, while unruly kid-lit heroines can be appealingly disruptive, they never cross the line into being outright threatening. Instead, they’re always nested in warm, nurturing domesticity. Laura Ingalls has her variety of Little Houses, Harriet the Spy has her cozy routine with Ole Golly on the Upper East Side, Jo March has Orchard House and Marmee — and Ramona Quimby has the house on Klickitat Street.

Ramona fairly wallows in the security of her home and her family. It’s just as satisfying for her to revel in a pair of fresh new pajamas as it is to make toothpaste roses: "Oh, how soft and warm and cozy they felt, like the fur of a baby rabbit," she thinks as she puts them on. Besides pajamas, there are burgers to be eaten, "soft and juicy," and always consumed "close together in a booth [that] made Ramona feel snug and cozy." There are beds with "clean white sheets," and there are hugs with her mother, who always has "a good smell of clean clothes and perfumed soap." Ramona’s pranks can be exciting and messy and noisy in part because her home and family are there to provide a dependable, clean, and calm backdrop.

The Quimbys’ financial troubles are the dark underbelly of the Ramona books

But as profoundly cozy as the house on Klickitat Street is, the Quimbys have their troubles. Lurking in the background of Ramona’s clear-eyed account of her family life is what could, if told from her parents' point of view, be a domestic tragedy. Ramona’s father, who dropped out of school after Beezus was born, spends most of the seven Ramona books shuttling in and out of jobs he hates. He briefly returns to school to become an art teacher — but then Mrs. Quimby gets pregnant again and he returns to work he can't stand.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Quimby yo-yos back and forth between staying at home with her children and working part time, and depending on the book she is either tired and stressed from tending two small children and working an office job or bored out of her skull from being stuck at home. By the time we reach Ramona’s World, she’s back at home and listlessly joining a book club in an attempt to "exercise her brain."

Ramona’s slowly growing awareness of her parents’ unhappiness creates the emotional underbelly of the books: She is not entirely clear on why, exactly, her parents keep coming home tired and grumpy and ordering her to clean her room, but the fact of it hurts her deeply. It also adds emotional stakes to the comfortable domesticity of her world, which prevents it from getting cloying.

If the Quimbys’ financial problems put their family in danger, it also makes them even more fiercely protective. And as the books develop, Ramona takes on more and more responsibility for keeping everyone happy, going from resentfully trying not to antagonize Beezus in her first few books to proudly looking after her own little sister in Ramona’s World. The warmth and coziness of the Quimby family is an oasis of calm against the uncertainty of the rest of the adult Quimbys’ lives — and it gives Ramona the freedom she needs to run wild.

That, ultimately, is the bliss of the Ramona Quimby books: a safe and happy space, and a little girl running wild within it. It’s what makes the books such uncontested classics.

Happy birthday, Beverly Cleary.My family doesn’t just watch Survivor; we scrutinize it.

Whenever the CBS hit is in season, my wife Donna, our 16-year-old son Archer, and our 13-year-old daughter Cady Gray all join me after every episode for some post-game analysis. Sometimes we don’t even wait for the closing credits.

During “tribal council,” before all the votes are cast and one of the show’s contestants gets sent home, we’ll hit the pause button and take a few minutes to speculate. What would be the best strategic move here? And what are the castaways likely to do in the heat of the moment?

We don’t just do this with Survivor. We pick apart The Amazing Race, Project Runway, Kids Baking Championship, and every other reality competition we watch. We’re gamers by nature. We have board game tournaments during holiday breaks and enjoy watching game shows together. Archer in particular, who has an autistic spectrum disorder, finds rules and results reassuring and likes to talk through how and why players win or lose.

Over the years, I’ve found that I can pivot off our children’s interest in reality TV and open up our conversations to talk about the people we watch on television as people, not just as competitors. Because we watch a fair number of these shows (basically everything but the “let’s follow around a celebrity” and Bachelor subgenres), the topics of our little chats have been pretty broad, encompassing everything from poverty and privilege to what a blast chiller is.

But no matter the show, there’s almost always the seed of a productive discussion that allows Donna and me a chance to pass along some of what we know and believe, including…

It’s important to understand cultures and experiences different from your own

The Amazing Race can be overly aggressive in shoehorning geography and history into its globe-hopping challenges. But the shtick works! Whenever the racers encounter the extreme poverty of India and Africa, Donna and I take a moment to talk about economic inequality with Archer and Cady Gray.

And when the trip around the world passed through old Europe and ultramodern Asia, that presents an entirely different but just as welcome opportunity to talk about cultural variance.

Even the contestants’ backgrounds — on Amazing Race and other shows — allow us to consider how Americans differ, from New Jersey to Kentucky to California. Reality shows like Amazing Race and Survivor like to slap labels on the participants (“the Boston Firefighter,” “the Cheerleader,” etc.), but the people themselves often defy easy description.

Cady Gray and I are fans of History Channel’s extreme survival series Alone, which strands hearty souls out in the wilderness completely by themselves, without even a camera crew, seeing how long they can last before asking for extraction.

The kind of people who take on Alone’s challenges don’t have a lot in common with our soft suburbanite selves. They’re often ex-military or back-to-the-land-ers. They’re folks we don’t meet every day. Hearing them monologue to themselves about how to turn a tree into a boat, or how they’re coping with PTSD, gives us a chance to see beneath the stereotype of the drippy hippy or the hyper-aggressive soldier.

And since reality TV producers have become fairly committed to casting gay or lesbian competitors in each season, our kids have come to know, and root for, a healthy number of LGBTQ contestants. Some shows are more open than others. Cady Gray has watched a lot of Project Runway with us, where the vast majority of the male designers are gay.

She’s become used to seeing same-sex couples during the reality competition genre’s common “weepy call home” scenes. Archer, meanwhile, has a chauvinist tendency to cheer for the all-male teams on The Amazing Race, which means that more than once, his preferred racers have been two men who are married to each other.

One of the great arguments that conservative parents’ groups have levied against the mainstreaming of queer culture is, “How am I supposed to explain any of this to my kids?” But reality TV answered this question long ago. If you give children a chance to get to know men and women with different sexual preferences, it’s really not that difficult for them to understand.

Interpersonal dynamics can be tricky

Some of the most fruitful discussions we’ve had with our kids have sprung from what is, frankly, one of reality TV’s worst traits. By and large, producers want the contestants to beef at each other because it makes for more dramatic television.

But on the shows we watch regularly, the jerks are rarely framed as role models. So we get to talk about what they’re doing wrong. Why should a woman who’s partnered with a controlling, condescending boyfriend on The Amazing Race get as far away from him as possible? How counterproductive is it when a chef on Top Chef or a designer on Project Runway starts sniping at teammates or rivals? Is there a better way for these people to get what they want?

It’s telling, too, that our kids — like most of the world, it seems — have been touched and impressed by the genuine camaraderie of the cooks on The Great British Baking Show. The same is true of the youngsters competing in the Kids Baking Championship and on Project Runway Junior. Seeing people supporting each other and helping each other inspires them as much it does us.

Related The Great British Baking Show and the value of small stakes

There are different kinds of leadership

Similar to interpersonal dynamics, there are opportunities aplenty while watching reality TV to talk about leadership: either of the macho, alpha male variety seemingly favored by Survivor host Jeff Probst, or of the humble, poised, versatile kind that does well on a real survival show like Alone.

Brashness may draw more attention on television, but my wife and I can always find moments to point out the effectiveness of “soft power,” when a player gains an advantage through a timely conversation or a gesture of good faith.

One of the more fascinating shows to watch in the context of “leadership” is Shark Tank. We don’t care so much about the investors and their diverging personalities. It is useful, though, to examine the would-be entrepreneurs as they pitch their products and to talk about what makes their ideas and pitches good or bad.

Shark Tank features slick business school grads who know how to sell but don’t have a valuable product or service and home inventors who haven’t done their homework on how to take their concept to the next level. These strengths and weaknesses are broadly applicable to any child’s understanding of how the world works.

Gamesmanship matters

As mentioned, my children’s interest in reality competitions stems from their love of game shows, which aren’t as plentiful on TV as I’d like (or at least, these days, aren’t as family-friendly as I’d like). A lot of the fun for us in watching Survivor or The Amazing Race is to see it as a game and to admire whenever a player executes an especially crafty maneuver.

Because of that, we get a little irritated whenever contestants on these shows act like elements that are integral the game — like the “U-turns” on Amazing Race and the “immunity idols” on Survivor — are somehow beneath them.

“I don’t want to play the game this way; that’s not who I am,” some competitors say, as they squander a perfectly legal and openly encouraged advantage. Watching these people refuse a boon is a lesson in itself: Play shrewdly, kids, and don’t take it personally when your opponents do the same.

That’s why one of our favorite competition (whenever it’s airing, that is) is Food Network’s Cutthroat Kitchen. It’s nearly impossible to win that game without sabotaging the other chefs, which makes planning and strategizing as important as the actual cooking.

That’s not to say that we want our children to learn to be cruel. There are good reasons not to take advantage of an opportunity to hamper the competition, ranging from simple compassion to currying favor. But I do think it’s important to know the difference between playing a game hard and actually hurting someone, and these types of shows offer an opportunity to make that distinction.

There is accounting for taste

When we watch cooking shows, we can’t actually taste the food, some of which looks weird and unpalatable — especially to a picky teenager. When we watch Project Runway, our understanding of fashion pales next to that of the judges, who are often looking for something different in the clothes than we are. But that’s okay! That’s what makes these programs educational. Learning what experts think is good about design, cuisine, music, and dance has helped broaden our kids’ sense of the finer things.

Along the same lines, whenever friends ask me how I can watch shows like American Idol and So You Think You Can Dance — which they presume to be trash — my answer is that on any given week, a performance competition can show me something amazing, unlike anything else on television.

What could be better than seeing and hearing a talented amateur entertainer seize his or her moment in the spotlight? Isn’t this one of TV’s greatest functions, to unite us in our awe at what our fellow humans can do?

This is what I try to share with my daughter in particular, who’s more artistically inclined than my mathematical-minded son. Watching some 18-year-old from Oklahoma sing his heart out at an American Idol audition, we’ll analyze his technique and weigh his originality, and I’ll explain a little about whatever pop, rock, or R&B traditions he’s honoring. But we’ll also just marvel at the courage it takes to step into a spotlight, to try to express something.

Pop trends can unite us

It used to be true that “these kids today” would know far more about the latest music, celebrities, and fashions than their clueless parents. That’s not so much the case anymore. Thanks to the fragmentation of the media audience and the rise of nontraditional platforms like YouTube, the younger generation doesn’t necessarily share equally in the zeitgeist.

As recently as 10 or 20 years ago, adolescents might’ve shared a common awareness of whatever was on MTV, Cartoon Network, Nickelodeon, or the Disney Channel. Today they’re just as likely to have highly individuated niche interests, from video game “speed run” videos to Dungeons & Dragons podcasts.

My daughter, for example, knows artists like Bruno Mars and Beyoncé primarily because she’s heard their music on American Idol and So You Think You Can Dance. Cady Gray hardly ever listens to “the radio” per se. She gets her music primarily from Pandora and YouTube. So it’s reassuring to me to know that at least TV is giving her some common touchpoints with her peers … if only so she’ll know what to feel nostalgic about in 20 years.

In this day and age especially, it’s important to be media-literate

Did I say that reality TV is best at teaching “interpersonal relationships”? Well, that’s true, but only inasmuch that those are the lessons these shows are actually trying to teach. But I can’t over-stress the importance of sharing with children a deeper understanding of what television isn’t showing.

Isn’t it odd, for example, that so many competition series follow the same basic format from episode to episode, even though in theory they’re supposed to be documenting an unpredictable real world?

Pointing this out is a good way into talking about editing and how TV creators construct stories. Just because The Amazing Race cuts between two teams running to the finish line doesn’t mean they were actually racing to the end at the same time the episode was shot. Just because Survivor includes scenes of castaways discussing a possible blindside vote just before tribal council doesn’t mean the outcome of that episode is actually in doubt.

Television misleads us all the time for the purpose of keeping us in suspense. It’s a well-meaning lie, but a lie nonetheless.

Thanks to the past few years of American politics, we’ve learned that not all of the media’s little misdirections are benign. It’s good for kids to learn early that the lines between information and entertainment are closely intertwined, and that sometimes in the name of constructing a compelling narrative, television creates misperceptions about what’s actually happening in the world.

True, this lesson — like all the others above — could be taught without ever watching a minute of Project Runway or The Amazing Race. But teaching kids values doesn’t always require reading morally upstanding literature or watching G-rated faith-based movies. There’s a lot to be learned from studying real people, in all their devilish complications.Whenever I get sad about having fewer good rom-coms in movie theaters these days, I remind myself that there’s at least one stellar example on TV — but that comfort is going to be a little colder now that New Girl is ending.

What began in 2011 as an aggressively quirky hangout sitcom found its groove once it gave in to the chemistry between Jess (Zooey Deschanel) and Nick (Jake Johnson). She was a relentlessly optimistic crafting fan who would rather sing her words than speak them; he was a grouchy slacker who assumed everyone and everything was garbage until proven otherwise. Together, they were as classic an “opposites attract” couple as it gets, and once New Girl realized that, it became one of the most purely delightful comedies on TV.

In fact, once the show started leaning into the Nick and Jess of it all, it found ways to bring more rom-com beats into everyone else’s storylines too. Cece (Hannah Simone) and Schmidt (Max Greenfield), Jess and Nick’s best friends, had their own opposites-attract story develop from a secret hookup situation into one where they both realized they had — the horror — actual feelings, and had to learn how to adjust their determinedly single lifestyles to make room for each other. And while Winston (Lamorne Morris) initially just skirted the edges of the show, stumbling into his own separate hijinks, he eventually found a partner in Aly (Nasim Pedrad), a co-worker who proved to be just as weird as him in exactly the ways he never thought he’d find in someone else.

By the end of the sixth season, every one of these storylines felt like it had come to its natural conclusion. Winston and Aly were engaged. Cece and Schmidt were married, living in their newly renovated home, with a baby on the way. And after years of swerving in and out of relationships, Nick and Jess finally ditched their waffling and went all in with each other in one of the show’s most sweeping (and character-appropriate) romantic sequences to date.

So I wasn’t totally sure that New Girl really even needed a seventh season. Before it was announced, I wrote that not only did the sixth season finale wrap up the storylines in a way that made sense, but it gave Nick and Jess “the romantic comedy ending they — and we — deserve.” I even said it was “the perfect way for them to start on their new lives together — and the perfect way for us to let them go,” such was my confidence that New Girl was better off dead.

Having now seen six of the final season’s eight episodes, I maintain that I would’ve been perfectly happy with the show ending after the sixth season — but that’s not at all to say that I’m sorry we got this seventh season.

The final season of New Girl is a delightful look at how life goes on after even the most perfect of rom-com endings

New Girl’s final season is an incredibly charming victory lap that manages to keep the characters and their relationships intact even as they enter the next, ostensibly more mature stages of their lives. Flashing forward “About Three Years Later,” the premiere picks up with Nick and Jess coming back from his European book tour, Winston and Aly working through their first pregnancy, and Cece juggling her booming agent career as Schmidt becomes a stay-at-home dad for their unruly toddler, Ruth (Danielle and Rhiannon Rockoff, instantly two of my favorite kid actors on TV). Recurring guest stars from seasons past — like David Walton’s earnest Sam and Dermot Mulroney’s suave “Fancyman” — even pop up throughout, re-entangling themselves in the core cast’s lives to varying degrees of dysfunction.

At first, it’s jarring to see everyone we once knew as lovably chaotic messes living the lives they always dreamed of. But to the credit of both the actors and writers, everyone’s evolutions end up feeling entirely natural.

Winston gearing up to be a parent makes him consider his fractured family and how he wants to make his own work. Cece’s forthright aversion to bullshit makes her an excellent agent. Schmidt, with all his perfectionism and tendency to shower his loved ones with more affection than they know what to do with, finds himself happier than ever as a doting parent to a kid who keeps him on his toes. And without their usual back-and-forth drama, Nick and Jess are a committed couple who still find time to stumble into ill-advised pursuits, like Jess piercing her nose or Nick motivating himself to finish a project by paying a stranger to punch him in the face.

What this season proves is that these characters don’t need to be playing drinking games and sleeping with the wrong people to be the people their fans grew to love. Against the odds, New Girl found a way to roll the credits on its own rom-com and show what happens next without overstaying its welcome.

The seventh and final season of New Girl airs Tuesdays at 9:30 pm on Fox. The season 7 premiere is currently available to stream on Hulu; previous seasons are available on Netflix.Judging by the music videos, Janelle Monáe’s new album Dirty Computer isn’t exactly going for subtle — and wow, we are blessed.

After releasing dueling videos in late February for the Prince-esque jam “Make Me Feel” and the take-no-shit rap “Django Jane,” Monáe released a third video on Tuesday for “Pynk,” which takes some of the subtext of those first two videos and releases it into the desert for a joyous coming-out party.

More specifically: “Pynk” is about as queer a music video as they come. Monáe, flanked entirely by women, sings about loving the “pink, like the inside of your [wink], baby,” or like “the tongue going down (maybe).” She and her backup dancers wear voluminous pink pants that, when opened, reveal layers of ruffles that deliberately echo vaginas. At one point, actor Tessa Thompson — Monáe’s friend and long-rumored partner, who also co-starred in her videos for “Make Me Feel” and “Yoga” — bursts out from between Monáe’s pant legs with a Cheshire cat grin.

As the video’s description puts it: “‘Pynk’ is a brash celebration of creation. self love. sexuality. and pussy power! PYNK is the color that unites us all, for pink is the color found in the deepest and darkest nooks and crannies of humans everywhere...”

The jaw-dropping visuals and words that Monáe, collaborator Grimes, and director Emma Westenberg put together for “Pynk” directly call back to themes introduced in Dirty Computer’s first two singles. In “Django Jane,” Monáe rapped about wanting to “paint the city pink.” In “Make Me Feel,” she danced as a woman thrilled to be caught between Thompson and an intrigued man — before ultimately deciding, what the hell, why not both?

“Pynk” takes elements from both to become a jam as defiant as it is smooth, imagining a world in which men either don’t exist or don’t particularly matter. It is worth pointing out that this kind of “pussy power” does tend to exclude trans women, and we could always stand to think harder about how to include all forms of womanhood in such feminist celebrations. But given how some male artists have called upon similar imagery and entendres to define women entirely by their body parts, it’s still refreshing to watch Monáe remix the sentiment to be empowering rather than reductive.

Dirty Computer, Monáe’s first studio album since 2012’s Electric Lady, will be released April 27. Monáe is promising that it will also come in the form of an “emotion picture,” and while I can’t say I know exactly what that means, I can safely say based on the glimpses these videos give us that we’re in for a funky, queer-as-hell treat.In the age of spoiler warnings and fan theories, a proposed gambit from Westworld co-showrunners Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy materialized on Monday.

As part of a Reddit Ask Me Anything session, Nolan and Joy said that if certain requirements were fulfilled, the Westworld team would post a video spoiling the entire plot of the second season of their show, which returns on April 22.

“If you guys agree, we’re going to post a video that lays out the plot (and twists and turns) of season 2,” Nolan and Joy wrote on Reddit. “Everything. The whole sordid thing. Up front. That way the members of the community here who want the season spoiled for them can watch ahead, and then protect the rest of the community, and help to distinguish between what’s ‘theory’ and what’s spoiler.”

The requirement: 1,000 “upvotes” — Reddit currency for popular posts.

This proposition came in the wake of the previous season, and preceding the final season, of HBO’s Game of Thrones, a show that has become a flashpoint when it comes to spoilers and how they affect television. Both Westworld and Game of Thrones have massive and engaged fan followings who dissect every aspect of the show (including but not limited to their source material, episode and script leaks, theories, rumors, actor contracts, set photographs, etc.), which then become spoiler fodder; as the post puts it, “‘Theories can actually be spoilers, and the line between the two is confusing.” And for some fans, these theories/spoilers can break the viewing experience.

What Nolan and Joy were suggesting was a sort of radical transparency that serves to distinguish online theories from actual spoilers, with the (perhaps idealistic) notion that those who want to be spoiled can learn what happens and then “protect” the larger fan community with their knowledge of what’s an actual spoiler.

“It’s a new age, and a new world in terms of the relationship between the folks making shows and the community watching them,” they wrote. “And trust is a big part of that. We’ve made our cast part of this decision, and they’re fully supportive. We’re so excited to be in this with you guys together.”

Given the heightened response that often accompanies spoiler discussions, this was a bold move; it could also have been a troll-y one, given that Nolan has said in the recent past that he and the Westworld team “love to fuck with Reddit.” Nothing bound Nolan and Joy to making good on their word — or from releasing a video that amounted to a red herring or a Rickroll — though given HBO’s history with leaks surrounding its high-profile series, it’s unlikely the network would let the Westworld team go rogue in this regard.

“This is an initiative from the Westworld showrunners. We suggest you stay tuned to Reddit for their next move,” HBO responded in a statement to Vox.

The post surpassed the 1,000-upvote count overnight on Monday, and Nolan and Joy made good on their word and released a video — an elaborate Rickroll:

Spoiler-seeking fans might be disappointed. Although they didn’t end up spoiling the show as promised, one thing is certain: Nolan and Joy found a way to get fans buzzing ahead of Westworld’s return.

Here’s Nolan’s full post (and its votes):Spoilers follow! They start out pretty mild but then get very explicit, so read at your own risk, especially past the spoiler warning image. Tread lightly!

In “The Sincerest Form of Flattery,” the standout episode of the recently wrapped first season of Starz’s wonderful new spy drama Counterpart, a young girl learns that she is to have her legs broken.

She’s informed of this, clinically, coolly, by a woman she trusts, the head of the orphanage where she lives. Both of her parents died in a mysterious flu epidemic, and, the woman explains, the girl is part of a long, long process to pay back those believed to have unleashed the flu on the world. It will be painful, but breaking her legs is all part of this plan.

See, Counterpart takes place in our world, but also another, which split off from it in the late 1980s. The two began as exact copies of each other, but in the intervening decades, differences have begun to pop up — first small ones, then greater and greater. The largest was the flu of 1996, which killed 7 percent of the other world’s population and didn’t arise in ours. The two worlds are kept secret from those who live within them, except for various operatives who play in the gray areas in between.

The little girl has to have her legs broken because the other her (on our side) has broken her legs, and when the time comes for the little girl to take her counterpart’s place, she will need to have the same evidence of bone fractures that healed, just in case anyone gets suspicious. Everything she does is meant to perfectly match the other her, in our world. She is unable to live her own life, instead ending up a vague copy of herself.

Is the little girl in training herself, then? Or is she some other version of herself, foisted upon her by a system she was born into as a child and barely understands?

Counterpart is a lot of things — spy drama, Cold War allegory, involving story of a number of marriages in crisis — but it is, above all else, a story about the existential horror that comes from truly getting to know oneself. After all, the version of the girl from our world only comes to know her double when said double murders her, a suicide-homicide that might as well be Counterpart in a nutshell.

Counterpart uses dramatic mirrors and foils in interesting and refreshing ways

It’s not uncommon for a dramatic work to create characters who serve as “foils” to the protagonist, or mirrors of the protagonist. These are characters often designed to needle the protagonist where they struggle, or to reflect back the things they do or don’t like about themselves. (A classic example is Hank on Breaking Bad — he’s everything Walter White is not, and he’s a lawman whom criminal Walt doesn’t want catching on to his enterprise.) What makes Counterpart unusual is that essentially every foil or mirror on the show is some other version of the exact same character.

This is most notable when it comes to the protagonist, Howard Silk, a low-level intelligence analyst who learns, abruptly, that there is another world when the much more ruthless and cutthroat Howard (who’s a much higher-level spy, naturally) comes over to our side and requests a meeting. Both Howards are played by J.K. Simmons, one of our best actors, and it’s remarkable how easily he indicates which Howard you’re watching via an arched eyebrow or a simple shift in posture. (Here I should indicate that “our world” is known as Alpha and the “other world” as Prime. Hence, our Howard is “Howard Alpha.” This will hopefully keep things clear.)

But creator Justin Marks and his team aren’t interested in presenting the Howards as opposites of each other. Instead, Counterpart wants to explore how both Howards have always had elements of the other within them.

Howard Alpha and his wife, Emily (Alpha), were about to have a baby when she miscarried. But Emily Prime didn’t miscarry, and the couple’s daughter, Anna (Sarah Bolger), now hates Howard Prime for how little involved he was in her life and for divorcing her mother. (Both Emilys are played by Olivia Williams.) Did the miscarriage and resulting fallout cause Howard Alpha to become more compassionate in some ways? Would he, too, have become a disconnected, uninterested father? Or did larger events beyond both men push them inexorably away from each other?

This question moves to the forefront as the two Howards assume each other’s lives on either side of the divide between worlds, as Howard Prime attempts to figure out who’s ordering the assassinations of important operatives in Alpha World. Howard Alpha is just supposed to hang tight and do his best Howard Prime impression, but he’s quickly getting drawn into a major investigation alongside Emily Prime (whose Alpha version is in a coma after a mysterious accident shortly before the series begins), relishing the chance to spend time alongside some version of his wife. He also bonds with the daughter he never got a chance to have.

What sets Counterpart apart, however, is the ways in which it quickly grows beyond its protagonist(s) to be about an entire world. It’s a feat of world building, sure, but mostly because we see the two sides of the divide through the eyes of a variety of complicated characters, most of whom have other selves designed to get viewers to ask questions about the nature of identity and the self.

These dramatic foils, then, aren’t just a fun way to create a spy series where you can never be quite sure of anybody’s allegiance — or even their true identity. They’re a way to ask fundamental questions about the person you see when you look in the mirror.

Counterpart is about nature versus nurture — except it assumes that question is true throughout your life

We’re seeing a surprising surplus of compelling spy dramas on the air right now, from longtime stalwarts like Homeland and The Americans to BBC America’s twisty new series Killing Eve and Counterpart. I suspect this is because we live in a world where the Other has become easy to demonize, and spy fiction is always about the uncomfortable nature of realizing how much the Other is just like you, even as you try to stop them.

On Counterpart, stopping the Other often means trying to stop your exact opposite, trying to anticipate the actions that you yourself might take under different circumstances and maybe realizing how little you know yourself, really. When Clare (the woman trained as a young child to take over for her Alpha self, played by Nazanin Boniadi) kills her Alpha self, does she really see that self as an extension of her? Or as a target? Do any of us really see ourselves?

Weirdly, the psychological condition Counterpart most makes me think about is body dysmorphia — the idea that you have a vastly distorted idea of what you actually look like, so looking in the mirror to reveal the truth provides a brief shock at best and genuine mental trauma at worst. All these characters think they know who they are, until different versions of themselves step out of the mirror and inform them they have no idea.

It would be tempting to boil down the series to a “nature versus nurture” debate, especially in the case of Clare. Clare Alpha was raised by loving parents; Clare Prime was raised by a secret school that aimed to make her a deadly spy. But what turns Counterpart into more than a fascinating fictional experiment is the way it decides nature versus nurture is a debate that continues inside of us right up until the moment of our deaths.

You can still change. If everybody starts believing that Howard Alpha is Howard Prime, then he will start to become more like Howard Prime. But there is also something about him that is innate, that can repair the relationship with the daughter that is genetically his but that he literally never had. Marks has talked about this in interviews as finding the “true” Howard — locating where Howard genuinely lives on the sliding scale between Alpha and Prime. But I think that’s only half of the picture. We all have masks we wear in different situations. By meeting their other selves, both Howards find new masks to wear when they need to.

All of the above makes what’s ultimately a very entertaining spy show, with perfectly paced reveals and a dexterity with a stripped-down action sequence (to say nothing of beautiful visuals that reduce Berlin to a game board of lines and angles), sound like a chore, a psychological treatise masquerading as a TV show. But the beauty of Counterpart is right there in its protagonists. Sometimes, it’s possible to be both.

Counterpart’s first season is available to stream in its entirety on the Starz streaming app.If you’re looking for a rose-colored view of the military, Marine and Iraq War veteran Matt Young’s new memoir Eat the Apple isn’t for you.

But if you want a glimpse of the regret and shame and confused pride that consumes many veterans after war, you’re in luck.

I’m also a veteran, and my feelings about my time in the service fluctuate between muted satisfaction and a sincere desire to forget it ever happened. Maybe this is why Young’s raw, disturbing, hilarious, and unsparing book resonated with me.

But his experience was also both dramatically different — and more difficult — than mine. He was, as he writes on the opening page, “exploded and shot at and made a fool of and hated and feared and loved and fellated and fucked and lonely and tired and suicidal.”

His book is a brutally honest account of what it’s like to be a Marine and fight in a war that he argues should not have been waged. He also pushes back against what he sees as the pervasive, unthinking patriotism in the US today. My conversation with Young touched on a few topics, including the recent spat between President Trump and NFL players who knelt during the national anthem, but we mainly discussed why he thinks the idea that all veterans are heroes is false and dangerous.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

I have a lot of mixed feelings about my time in the military, but you seem to be even more conflicted than I am. I’ll ask you straightforwardly: Are you proud of your service?

Matt Young

I think it’s a complicated relationship for everybody. I still have a Marine Corps tattoo on my arm that I got after boot camp — that identity is part of me forever, and I’m proud of it. I can’t speak for anyone else, but I needed the military when I was a younger man. I needed that sense of accomplishment.

It wasn’t until I left the service that I became conflicted about it. That’s when time and space opened up for me a bit and I began to question my motivations and reflect on all the things I had done. And that’s when it got really complicated for me, because while I was proud of my service, I also knew we did terrible things, things I’m not proud of.

Sean Illing

What’s the thing that sticks with you the most, the thing you can’t shake?

Matt Young

I think about all the people I let down who depended on me, all the times I failed to do my job. Those are the things that keep me up at night. And I’m constantly remembering scenes and images that are just seared into my mind, like the time I walked into a detainee holding cell and watched a guard on duty hand a lollipop to a kid who was locked in a cage that was made for a K-9 dog because they didn’t have any other place to hold him.

I saw things far worse than that, but they’re all painful and shameful and embarrassing in ways that are hard to explain. Those are the kinds of things I tried to write honestly about.

Sean Illing

I’ll be honest, I think a lot of what we call patriotism in this country amounts to hollow bullshit; it’s a form of virtue-signaling. The recent spat between Trump and the NFL, where players took a knee during the national anthem to protest police brutality, is a perfect example of that. You touch on some of this in the book, and I’d love to hear your thoughts on it.

Matt Young

The Trump-NFL spat was an example of soldiers being reduced to political props, and that really pisses me off. I mean, you’ve got all these people who aren’t in the military making all these proclamations about “respecting” the troops. The idea that soldiers should be offended by people who are protesting police violence, not the military or the country, is total bullshit. Honestly, the NFL protests are more patriotic than anything I ever did in the military.

The military exists to defend the Constitution; why should we be offended when people are exercising their First Amendment rights? I mean, that’s the most fundamental right in the country. So I look at the Trump-NFL story and see soldiers as props in a political fight that really has nothing to do with them. If that’s what patriotism looks like, I want nothing to do with it.

Sean Illing

You also make the argument in the book that it’s dangerous to reinforce the idea that every veteran is a hero. Why is that?

Matt Young

I think we’re creating an army of fanatics that feel like they can’t be questioned. We have to have the ability to question people, even if we think they’re fighting for our freedom. Labeling every veteran a hero just widens the gap between civilians and soldiers because it creates a mythology that isn’t true, and that most soldiers can’t come close to living up to.

When you come back from war and you’ve done and seen horrible stuff and you’ve been part of a machine you didn’t really understand and you have people calling you heroic, I think that just keeps soldiers at an arm’s distance, because you’re not letting them tell the truth about their experience. We’re imposing an expectation on them that is unrealistic and false.

Sean Illing

You describe how you started making up stories about what happened in Iraq because that’s what people wanted to hear. You said it was easier than describing what actually happened, which was ugly and complicated and not what people wanted to hear.

Matt Young

Yeah, and I loved it at first. I’d go to a bar and people would thank me for my service and buy me drinks, and it felt great. But after a while, it felt empty and untrue. It was a fantasy, and the more I played along, the more I felt I was complicit in the sort of hollow patriotism you described earlier. People who didn’t understand or think about the Iraq War wanted to feel like they were “supporting the troops,” so they’d perform their duty and thank me for my service, and it meant nothing.

“The idea that soldiers should be offended by people who are protesting police violence, not the military or the country, is total bullshit”

Sean Illing

There are a lot of people who think it’s better this way — that civilians don’t need to know what we do to the people we send to war, or what actually happens to them once they get there. Do you buy that?

Matt Young

Fuck no. I think people have to know, even if they don’t want to. Maybe if they thought about war more, if they understood the consequences at every level, they’d speak up more and protest more and maybe a war like the Iraq War would not have happened.

But I don’t know, to be perfectly honest. I’m confident, though, that if people had more contact with the military world, if they could put faces on these conflicts and not simply stick a yellow ribbon on their car and call themselves a patriot, then we’d have a little more humanity in this process and maybe a little more oversight.

Sean Illing

What do you want people to take away from this book?

Matt Young

If anyone takes anything from this, I want it to be that this is my story and no one else’s. I don’t want to represent anyone else in the military or anyone else in the Marine Corps. And if my story strikes people as strange, know that there are hundreds of thousands of stories that are similar to mine and wildly different than mine. That’s the point: There is no single story.

But if someone truly wants to understand soldiers and the forever wars we’re now asking them to fight, all you have to do is open your damn ears and listen to all of our stories — not the stories you want to hear, but the stories we tell. I’ll take that over a yellow ribbon any day.An old guy with a handlebar mustache, tattoos visible on his upper arms, says something in an animated tone. A younger man wearing a baseball cap speaks back while gesturing. The old man shouts. A chair flies through the air. Finally, the old man is yelling, red in the face, while pointing in an aggressive manner.

Each panel comes complete with text, and makes for a mini debate — proposition, rebuttal, reaffirmation, second rebuttal, and a final statement.

The resulting memes — based on a scene from the reality TV series American Chopper, which stopped airing in 2010 — aren’t always all that legible. But suddenly, they are everywhere on social media, illustrating everything from the difficulties of pet ownership to the intricacies of the gender wage gap.

me talking to my cat 5 times a day pic.twitter.com/XldODAfqAg — mothma'am (@drakesgurl420) April 4, 2018

Its popularity speaks in part to the fickle nature of mass taste. If the Distracted Boyfriend meme captivated us with its stark simplicity, then the American Chopper more than makes up for its aesthetic shortcomings with its ability to present complicated ideas.

More broadly, in an era of performative social media dunking and tribalism run amok, the Chopper offers a lighthearted way to demonstrate that you actually understand the viewpoints of people on both sides of an issue. And beyond demonstrating your personal virtuosity, dialectic — the argument between two opposing points of view — turns out to be a fairly effective way to convey ideas and information, one that dates back to Plato’s famous dialogue but can be difficult to replicate in conventional media formats.

The American Chopper format touches on important cultural themes about class, money, politics, and reality television that are relevant to 2018. And by forcing the meme author to sympathetically engage with both sides of an argument, it manages to disrupt some of the most dysfunctional elements of online discourse.

American Chopper, explained

The meme derives from a reality television show, American Chopper, that aired on the Discovery Channel and then later its sister network TLC between 2003 and 2010.

The show focused on Orange County Choppers, a custom motorcycle manufacturing company located in the town of Newburgh, New York, in the Hudson Valley. The stylistic differences and vocal arguments between the show’s main protagonists, Paul Teutul Sr. (known as “Senior”) and his son (known as “Paulie” or “Junior”), was the central driving force of the show for most of its run. But after one particularly heated argument in 2008, Junior left both the program and the chopper shop to start his own business.

The meme (which was created in 2011 but didn’t really explode until March 2018) is based on the pivotal scene from the original series in which Senior fired Paulie in a profane, violent, not-that-convincingly-acted moment:

The Teutuls then returned in a somewhat different format with a show called American Chopper: Senior vs. Junior that detailed the rivalry between their two shops. It was canceled after two seasons, but a rebooted version of the show is scheduled to come out this May — with the producers doubtless hoping the meme will have enough staying power to still be around at the premiere.

The central joke of the Chopper meme is to reimagine this scene as a heated disagreement about a highbrow topic rather than a profane dispute about work schedules.

The Chopper meme implicates Trump-era class politics

Part of what makes the meme work is that you don’t actually need to be familiar with the show to read the facial hair and cap as class signifiers. At the same time, the dispute is clearly taking place in an office setting — reflecting the reality that the Teutuls are wealthy business owners and television stars rather than struggling workers.

This dichotomy between economic status and the sociocultural aspects of “class” has become a hallmark of the Trump years, in which political disagreements between white Americans have come to be deeply polarized between the more and less educated even while the policy orientation of the GOP remains overwhelmingly focused on the wealthy.

The Teutuls are, in this sense, the perfect Trump-era Republicans — a couple of lowbrow regular guys who happen to be incredibly rich business owners who’d probably appreciate a big tax cut for pass-through income. They’re the social and political antithesis of the young, debt-burdened recent college graduates living in expensive cities and struggling to make a living in creative fields — the sort of people who’ve been enthusiastically creating and sharing the Chopper meme.

Just imagine these two arguing about effective communications strategies for an elite aquarium:

We made one pic.twitter.com/DQEEfiuo29 — Monterey Bay Aquarium (@MontereyAq) April 6, 2018

But it’s also just a damn good way to communicate.

Socratic dialogue is a good way to teach

A person looking to write a column on the gender wage gap from a progressive perspective often faces a dilemma. Do you focus on the broad headline facts — which are striking and don’t receive the level of attention in public debate that they deserve — even though people with a more conservative view have a well-known objection to the standard characterization of the gap? Or do you delve into a more sophisticated version of the debate, knowing that you’ll immediately lose a large share of the audience?

With the Chopper meme, you don’t need to choose.

The meme functions, in this sense, as a miniature version of one of Plato’s dialogues. Rather than a conventional prose argument, in these books, Plato gives us drama, with Socrates debating one or more fellow Athenians to eventually reach his conclusion. The dialogue format makes the line of argument more memorable and allows for the simultaneous presentation of a clear thesis and a deeper understanding of the issues.

As Stephanie Carvin of Carleton University says, the memes aren’t just funny — they turn out to be genuinely informative.

Is it weird that I feel that I'm learning a lot by reading these? https://t.co/cwfI2xiqpx — Stephanie Carvin (@StephanieCarvin) April 8, 2018

Arguably, the real lesson here is that a more dialectical form of writing could have been serving us better all along.

I find myself learning and retaining actual information and points of disagreement from the American Chopper meme. Maybe we should have been blogging in dialectics all along. — Derek Thompson (@DKThomp) April 6, 2018

After all, one hallmark of the Chopper meme is that for a given instance of it to be any good, the author needs to genuinely understand Junior’s stance and present a coherent and sympathetic version of it — an attitude that is antithetical to much of current social media practice.

Chopper memes are an antidote to the social media dunk contest

The dialectical form of instruction contrasts with a pattern of interaction and debate that is all too common on the modern-day internet: Rather than engage with each other’s ideas, debate participants simply “dunk” on the remarks of others, aiming to receive praise from their followers.

Michael Grunwald, for example, promoted his lengthy essay on Scott Pruitt’s real record at the Environmental Protection Agency with a brief and necessarily oversimplified tweet.

No, Scott Pruitt has not rolled back Obama’s environmental legacy. My latest @POLITICOMag. https://t.co/wwm0zGOVcH — Michael Grunwald (@MikeGrunwald) April 8, 2018

The environmental journalist Rebecca Leber then quote-tweeted Grunwald, arguing that his tweet was missing crucial context about the full scope of Pruitt’s activities.

you can't talk about Pruitt's lasting damage without talking about how he's attacking science & expertise, pursuing buyouts & restructuring offices, and his pulling back on state work. An incomplete picture to focus on EPA's regulatory rollback alone. https://t.co/uJsX58Ud1g — Rebecca Leber (@rebleber) April 8, 2018

Grunwald then fired back, asserting without evidence that Leber hadn’t even read his story.

This has been another episode of Didn’t Read the Masterpiece Theater. https://t.co/D0ugt6ApJZ — Michael Grunwald (@MikeGrunwald) April 8, 2018

The reality of this unnecessarily contentious back-and-forth is that Grunwald’s article does note all the things Leber accused him of downplaying, but it’s also clearly true that Grunwald is downplaying that stuff in favor of his core thesis: “The truth is that Scott Pruitt has done a lot less to dismantle the EPA than he — or his critics — would have you believe.”

A more dialectical presentation would reveal a disagreement over points of emphasis. Leber and Grunwald are both smart people and skilled writers who are very familiar with the relevant issues here, and no doubt either of them could write a Chopper meme that lets Junior make some good points.

Instead, they shouted at each other unproductively, just like the father-son duo at the heart of American Chopper.

And that’s the beauty of the Chopper meme — by giving the author a degree of distance from the argument, it allows us to transcend the tendency of online debate to degenerate into precisely the kind of chair-throwing pointlessness that it depicts.Comedian Hari Kondabolu loved The Simpsons until he thought harder about the character of Apu, an Indian convenience store owner whose thick accent came courtesy of Hank Azaria doing his best Peter Sellers. So while at first he was excited to have an Indian character on TV — as he told Vox, “even if it’s brown paint, you’re glad there’s something” — he reevaluated his affection for Apu and realized that the stereotypes the character embodied were maybe doing more harm than good.

The result was The Problem with Apu, a documentary featuring Kondabolu interviewing comedians, South Asian and otherwise, about their complicated relationships to Apu and how it might have changed over the three decades The Simpsons has been on the air.

The Simpsons team gave glancing reactions to the documentary as it picked up some steam, with Azaria calling the criticism of Apu “distressing” and promising that the show would address the controversy. Since the turnaround time of an episode of The Simpsons is generally several months, that response finally came via the April 8 episode “No Good Read Goes Unpunished” — and amounted to a deadpan shrug.

The moment comes out of a storyline about Marge struggling to share one of her favorite books from childhood with Lisa, only to discover that just about every page is heavily laced with racism. “Another childhood classic bites the dust,” says Lisa, to which Marge responds by trying to revise the entire book to fit what she sees as 2018 standards. (For example: The princess goes from being a petulant little slaveowner to a “cisgender girl” fighting for net neutrality.)

But rather than liking this “inoffensive as a Sunday in Cincinnati” version better, Lisa furrows her brow and complains that if the character starts out perfect, she’s got no room to grow, so what’s the point?

“Something that started decades ago and was applauded and inoffensive is now politically incorrect,” Lisa says, her eyes flicking over to a framed picture of Apu on her nightstand. “What can you do?”

“Some things will be dealt with at a later date,” Marge replies.

“If at all,” Lisa adds.

Here, both turn to look pointedly at the “camera,” blinking embodiments of that “what can you do” shrug — and that’s it.

As NPR’s Linda Holmes outlines, this is a confusing way to address the controversy, to say the very least. That book might have been a childhood favorite for Marge, but it was also, again, about a tyrannical slaveowner. Who cares if it was “applauded and inoffensive” once? Why would revising or even ditching it necessarily mean taking “the spirit and character out” of it, as Marge says she did? Why can’t decent people have fulfilling character arcs?

And why on earth is Lisa — the Simpsons character who’s always been the most passionate about sticking up for people and issues that get less attention and care than others — the one to deliver this tired, anti-PC culture blow?

Most importantly: This throwaway scene makes no effort to consider that the book — and by proxy, Apu — may not have been “applauded and inoffensive” to everyone. It’s very clear that this scene is written from and for the perspective of people who weren’t challenged on their assumptions before, and now find the idea of revisiting those assumptions annoying and unnecessary.

“There is no attempt to reckon with what the book Marge loved might have meant to girls who found themselves taunted with imagery from it,” as Holmes writes. “It’s as if the show can only process complaints about Apu as nicks on the finish of its legacy. The human beings at issue go largely ignored.”

The Simpsons has been on the air for nearly 30 years, through countless cultural shifts and reconsiderations of values past. It has the right to brush off whatever criticisms it wants, but to pretend like Apu was always inoffensive, just because the writing team never heard or considered otherwise, is as disingenuous as it is disappointing.A country that prides itself on having no royalty still craves families to venerate. And so America’s most written-about and mythologized family is, inarguably, the Kennedys.

No wonder. From the stern, larger-than-life patriarch to the large brood of handsome children and beautiful grandchildren, many of whom rose to power and many of whom met mysteriously tragic ends, the entire saga seems ripped straight from some classic template — Shakespeare, maybe, or Homer, or Chekhov.

The Kennedys themselves — particularly John F. Kennedy and his wife Jackie — seemed to know how to harness the power of TV to build their own mythology. But many adaptations of their story, especially of late, are more interested in dismantling that same mythology, or at least taking a peek behind the curtain.

The new feature film Chappaquiddick, which opened in theaters on April 6, is one among several onscreen Kennedy portrayals that are most interested in what made the enduring myth possible. In doing so, it joins films like Jackie, TV episodes like The Crown’s “Dear Mrs. Kennedy,” and the upcoming Netflix documentary series Bobby Kennedy for President in seeing the Kennedys as the ideal lens through which midcentury America can be refracted.

Chappaquiddick shows how privilege skews our notions of justice

Chappaquiddick, directed by John Curran, stars Jason Clarke as Sen. Ted Kennedy during one of the moments that would seem to define a career: the night in 1969 in which he drove his car off a bridge in Martha’s Vineyard. Both he and Mary Jo Kopechne (played by Kate Mara), a staffer on his late brother Robert’s campaign, were in the car that night. He got out; Mary Jo didn’t.

He failed to report the accident to police for 10 hours. Eventually, the car was found by fishermen, with the suffocated Mary Jo in it. It was a scandal and a tragedy, one in a long line of both for the Kennedys.

But why Kennedy failed to report the accident for so long has never been firmly established. He maintained that he suffered a concussion and was disoriented. But other theories flew, speculations that ranged from driving under the influence of alcohol (which he denied) to an extramarital affair.

Chappaquiddick is skeptical of Kennedy’s version of events, though it doesn’t buy into the more sensational renditions either. But the movie is much less interested in the details of the story than it is in how it got cleaned up by the Kennedy machine, and how, although Ted Kennedy’s presidential prospects were dashed, he still managed to be reelected to the Senate and stay there for 40 more years, until his death in 2009.

What Chappaquiddick portrays is a massive legal and publicity engine — one familiar with crisis — spinning up to handle a potentially career-ending event and salvage Ted Kennedy’s political future, despite his gaffes (like wearing a neck brace to Kopechne’s funeral to garner public sympathy, a ruse the papers see through easily since his range of motion seems unhindered). Armies of lawyers as well as Kennedy’s closest friends and advisers (played by Ed Helms and Jim Gaffigan) come together to protect a man from the consequences of his actions — even those that are due more to neglect than to intentional wrongdoing, in the film’s rendition of events.

The story Chappaquiddick tells, then, is about how privilege works in America, particularly if you are white, wealthy, and from a well-known family. That Ted Kennedy got different treatment than virtually anyone else in America would in the same position is obvious — even if the version of events in the film is different from what really happened (something nobody knows). And no matter what happened, Kennedy got away with something because he was a Kennedy — that much is clear — which is a striking indictment of a country that still tells itself stories about equal justice under the law for every citizen.

Jackie shows what it takes to create a myth in real time

That life of privilege was certainly the product of patriarch Joe Kennedy’s wealth and influence, but it also had much to do with the web the family managed to spin around it. Ted Kennedy was a benefactor of that.

Maintaining his image, according to Chappaquiddick, was a task that mostly leaned on making the public think of Kopechne’s death as part of the Kennedys’ long and tragic history, rather than a crime. And that required relying on an image of the Kennedys as upstanding, clean-cut, even glamorous public servants.

An image like that has to be spun carefully, something that the 2016 film Jackie explores in depth by following Jackie Kennedy (played by Natalie Portman) in the days following her husband’s assassination.

In the midst of paralyzing grief, she also realizes that to secure JFK’s position in history she’ll need to take some pages out of the playbook of other important political figures. So she models his funeral on Lincoln’s, even though it seems like that move may be far out of proportion to his accomplishments, and even though others object.

It works. And — at least according to Jackie — that impulse for image-painting was a special talent possessed by the first lady, who was by nature shy but had an instinctive knack for charming a crowd, whether in person or on TV (where she brought the nation on a tour of the White House). The whole film is framed as a tightly controlled interview with a reporter, whom she informs that it is she who will have final say about what makes it into the article — not him.

Jackie sees Jackie Kennedy as a talented myth-spinner, someone who knew that the most important part of being remembered is less about what you do and more about what images people remember. But the movie suggests this is not just a calculated effort to endure in the history books — it was a move for self-preservation, a way of keeping the truth of their lives from overtaking the more beautiful fiction.

In The Crown, all is not glorious in Camelot

That same talent for image-making is the subject of “Dear Mrs. Kennedy,” a second-season episode of the Netflix series The Crown in which the president and the first lady (played by Michael C. Hall and Jodi Balfour) visit Buckingham Palace, following a triumphant visit to Paris for Jackie and a considerably less triumphant one for JFK. Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip receive them at an “informal dinner,” during which the men in the room virtually stumble over one another to talk to the first lady.

But Elizabeth takes Jackie on a tour of the palace, and they strike up, if not a friendship, some sort of understanding, predicated on their mutual shyness and dislike of the public life into which they’ve been thrust not entirely by choice. Later, however, Elizabeth catches word of some derogatory things about the palace and herself that Jackie said at a party in London and is distressed.

That distress is the impetus for Elizabeth to embark on a diplomatic trip to Ghana that results in a resounding victory for her, both politically and in the press. And, the episode suggests, it was some latent feeling of needing to not be shown up by Jackie Kennedy that prompted the move.

But the episode, set in the weeks before JFK’s assassination, also focuses on what could have been going on behind the scenes with the Kennedys. There are drug injections from the couple’s doctor, designed to keep them going during grueling diplomatic trips. There are the women who swarm around JFK, and there’s his hot temper and the Kennedys’ failing marriage.

The glowing, glamorous image is a bit of a facade in The Crown’s version of John and Jackie Kennedy. All is not well in Camelot. But even a shy and unhappy Jackie knows how to sustain the image, and Elizabeth notes this while she’s watching footage following the assassination. Her mother remarks that they should have gotten Jackie some new clothes to wear, rather than the famously blood-stained suit. “I think it’s deliberate,” Elizabeth says. Something for the nation to remember. What we see is what we think is true.

Bobby Kennedy for President looks at evolving in the public eye

Sometimes the remembering is the problem, of course. Dawn Porter’s four-episode documentary series Bobby Kennedy for President, which premieres on Netflix on April 27, grapples with what it was like to be Robert F. Kennedy and running for president both in the shadow of your brother and on his shoulders.

Through archival footage, interviews with RFK’s advisers and friends, and commentary from activists and historians, Bobby Kennedy for President explores one of the most interesting questions that come from RFK’s career: What does it mean to be both a politician in the public eye and a man whose opinions and values are constantly evolving?

The series does this by tracking Kennedy’s reputation and early image while working with Roy Cohn and Joe McCarthy, then as his brother’s attorney general, and later in his capacity as a vocal promoter of civil rights and progressive ideals. It’s easy to see why he was inspiring to many, and the series captures both who he was (arguably in a way that seems at times a bit too uncritical) and, more importantly, what the nation saw in him.

The final episode explores the fallout after his assassination, particularly whether it was possible for the justice system to act impartially when dealing with Sirhan Sirhan, the man accused of shooting him. Could the man who shot RFK ever really get a fair trial in America? Would the country even want that?

That’s related to the question raised by Chappaquiddick: In America, could a Kennedy ever be treated like just another citizen? And why not? The answer lies in wealth and stature, of course. But as all of these portrayals of the family make clear, the Kennedy mythology was just as much about an image that was created on screens and in photographs — and one that, for better or worse, continues to be challenged and reimagined in those same media. Even the most carefully cultivated public image can’t protect you forever.

Chappaquiddick opened in theaters on April 6. Bobby Kennedy for President premieres at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 25 and on Netflix on April 27.About 10 minutes into Killing Eve, I realized was watching my new favorite show.

I fell for the show immediately — right after I met Eve (Sandra Oh) and Villanelle (Jodie Comer), the show’s instantly magnetic core characters who got harder to resist the more I got to know them. Eve is a restless, incisive agent with killer instincts. Villanelle is a restless, calculating killer with a wicked sense of humor. Both are brilliant, bored, and obsessive — especially when it comes to each other.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

The “we’re not so different, you and I” hero versus villain dynamic is so well-trod that it’s become the most classic of clichés. But what Oh, Comer, and creator Phoebe Waller-Bridge — the acidic wit behind Fleabag, another show worth watching immediately — do with Luke Jennings’s series of novellas makes for an extraordinarily slick take on the thriller that proves impossible to shake once the credits roll.

It feels too cutesy — or at the very least, too reductive — to call the meticulous, curious, and even sexy way Eve and Villanelle circle each other a “cat-and-mouse game.” If anything, both are cats — Eve domestic, Villanelle feral — recognizing the other from across a crowded room, slinking around the edges, waiting to see who pounces first.

Killing Eve draws its world and characters with sharp, insightful nuance

I’ll be honest: It takes a lot for me to get invested in a spy thriller beyond the slick optics of a heist gone right (or wrong). But I was curious about Killing Eve given the combination of its two female leads and Waller-Bridge, whose six-episode series Fleabag is one of my favorite comedies in recent memory. Watching seven of the first season’s eight episodes, I wasn’t sure what to expect. Would Killing Eve be a surprisingly dark show from a hilarious comedic writer, or a pointedly funny show playing in another genre’s sandbox?

As I maybe should’ve guessed given Fleabag’s ability to morph on a dime, Killing Eve is a little bit of both. Waller-Bridge’s sharp observational skills that make Fleabag’s jokes so funny prove an invaluable asset for Killing Eve, filling out characters with just a few well-chosen lines and keeping a steady eye on its unraveling central mystery. Even Eve’s ragtag group of fellow agents find ways to make their marks in between the high-stakes set pieces, from David Haig’s affably exasperated Bill to Kirby Howell-Baptiste and Sean Delaney’s pair of wisecracking assistants.

More importantly, the writing is often at its best when it allows Eve and Villanelle to get a little messy. Eve is a fantastic agent who knows her shit, but she’s also someone who crushes Disney songs at karaoke, exchanges wry exasperation with her co-workers, and gets itchy when her husband fails to understand her love for a uniquely dangerous job. Villanelle is a psychopath assassin with an unparalleled knack for murder, but she’s also snarky and playful, with a love of mimicking passersby and drowning herself in luxurious clothes.

These are the kinds of details that some might dismiss as frivolous, but that nonetheless lay the groundwork for these two to become real characters that exist outside their hunt for each other. So whenever the cross-patterns of who’s working for what organization start to get a little murky — and they do, despite excellent performances from Fiona Shaw and Kim Bodnia as Eve and Villanelle’s handlers, respectively — Killing Eve always has its razor-sharp characterization to fall back on.

It helps, of course, that the women tasked with embodying Eve and Villanelle are actors working at the top of their game.

Killing Eve’s not-so-secret weapons are the brilliant performances from Sandra Oh and Jodie Comer

As Oh herself tells it, not even a lauded starring role on a beloved show got her the kinds of opportunities she had been hoping for once she left Grey’s Anatomy. So when she first got the script for Killing Eve, Vanity Fair reports, she thought for sure that she would be auditioning for what Hollywood thinks of as a traditional “Asian role” — a doctor, or a receptionist — before being shocked to discover that she was being considered for the lead.

That Oh, who burned up the screen every time she appeared on Grey’s, had such a hard time finding decent roles afterward is infuriating enough. But watching her performance in Killing Eve drives home exactly how frustrating it is that we’ve missed out on seeing Oh take on more leading roles worthy of her talent.

Oh takes every ounce of humanity on the page and chews into it with obvious relish. Her Eve is tenacious and practically vibrates with excitement any time she thinks she just might have a lead. But when she’s thrown into an unfamiliar or uncomfortable situation, Oh allows her unease to be just palpable enough for us to detect before Eve buries it deep somewhere inside herself so she can keep doing her job — or, as is often the case, to go beyond her job description to pull up the stubbornly hiding truth by its roots.

But it was crucial that Oh find a worthy scene partner to play Villanelle — and whew, did Killing Eve find a hell of an actor to take the job in Comer.

Watching Comer’s Villanelle operate feels like watching a lion pace far enough away that the danger of her ripping you apart isn’t exactly immediate, but the threat of that changing is definitely imminent. Her wide-set eyes are always either scanning their surroundings with careless curiosity or narrowing in laser focus — and the moment when one mode becomes the other is always electrifying. Villanelle enjoys that people are drawn to her, but she rarely uses that part of her arsenal when actually making a kill, preferring instead to explode with precise, horrifying bouts of focused violence. In Comer’s hands, Villanelle is as funny as she is frightening, alluring and awful, and there’s never a moment when she doesn’t know it.

So, yes, I promise Killing Eve is a show outside of Eve and Villanelle’s tense, mutual hunt; its cases and kills of the week are, in fact, compelling. But as long as the show has this pair’s obsession, respect, and intrigued attraction to each other pulsing at its center, it’ll be a thrill to watch unfold.

Killing Eve airs Sundays at 8 pm Eastern on BBC America. The premiere is currently available to stream on BBCAmerica.com.Every week, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episodes of the week for April 1 through 7 are “Chapter 9,” the second season premiere of FX’s Legion, and “Will You Play With Me?” the third season finale of Syfy’s The Magicians.

In an era of so much TV that it would take four months to watch one week’s worth (and that doesn’t even count streaming service debuts), I get that shows need to do something to stand out. And nothing stands out more than a big, buzzy moment that gets viewers talking, especially if they’re talking on social media.

I’ve written a lot in the past about the rise of this “moment-based” storytelling and how it’s benefited some of the biggest shows of our time (most notably Game of Thrones). But the obvious downside of such series is that they can occasionally feel like disconnected greatest hits albums — like shows where there’s no core, only a bunch of things happening.

FX’s Legion, which began its second season this week, and Syfy’s The Magicians, which ended its third, are both shows in the “big moments” school of TV storytelling, and they have very different approaches to solving the problem of finding a workable core.

Legion goes all in on wild weirdness and unusual visuals, but it keeps the storytelling at its center very simple and, ultimately, easy to follow. The Magicians, meanwhile, is willing to do just about anything to keep you watching, but it trusts that you’ll become invested in its deep bench of characters.

One of these approaches works much better than the other — and if you’ve read anything I’ve written, you can probably guess my preference — but let’s look at both series in more detail anyway.

Legion sets up its second season as a maze — but it’s always overcareful to let you know what it’s about

I like Legion, Noah Hawley’s mind-bending field trip into the X-Men mythos, centered on David (Dan Stevens), a mutant who can do lots and lots of interesting things but mostly seems to focus on manipulating or entering people’s minds. But I often feel like I should like it more. The first four episodes of season two (and don’t worry, I’m only going to talk about the premiere) left me feeling even more of a disconnect between what I was seeing and what I was thinking than ever before.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

Make no mistake: Legion is a big candy store of a show. Hold open your plastic baggy and let it pour in enormous scoopfuls of weird imagery, of people standing motionless except for their chattering teeth, of David trying to communicate with a future version of his girlfriend who draws images with what looks like a sparkler, of men with baskets on their heads and mustachioed women who speak in robotic voices. There is no visual or storytelling idea in the series that it won’t make the absolute most.

And this is fun, to a point. I’m never less than entertained when watching Legion. I love the wild abandon with which Hawley and Nathaniel Halpern (who co-wrote season two’s episodes with Hawley) approach their story. The series’ directors (with Tim Mielants directing the premiere) freely change aspect ratios and try unusual camera angles and lean into the crazy color schemes and bizarre moments in the story. (Mielants especially seems thrilled to shoot a dance sequence, even though few of the actors are great dancers.)

But I’m constantly wondering why I’m supposed to care about any of this. A candy store show doesn’t necessarily need to give viewers a strong empathetic connection to its characters or story, but it doesn’t hurt. Since the point of the show, on some level, is tracing the maze inside David’s head to whatever is at his core, he is by necessity a cipher, which makes it all the worse that so many of the other characters are too. Legion engages me in the moment, but I don’t know that I ever think about it between episodes.

What really stinks is the way the series underlines every single core point, afraid viewers might miss it. David finds out that the villainous Shadow King (a sort of viral brain hitchhiker who is the series’ main antagonist) is on a quest to find his original body, which would make him unstoppable, so the organization David works for is trying to find the body first. Learning this, he says, “So it’s a race,” as though we might not have figured that out on our own.

The series is even worse about this in explaining character motivations. Two women have a lengthy conversation about how they make bad decisions because of their lovers — both of whom have been absent for long periods of time — and they can’t stop saying they make those bad decisions because their lover is “my man.”

It’s a scene so baffling I kept expecting it to turn into a sequence where both sang country songs in a karaoke bar. It would be one thing if any of these characters seemed as if they felt real passion for those they loved, but we’re mostly told they do, rarely shown. (It’s also a little weird how much Hawley has struggled to turn the show’s women into vivid characters when his earlier series Fargo did so without much trouble at all.)

Similarly, a dialogue refrain throughout the premiere is the warning, “Beware of thoughts that are not your own,” a reference to the mental plague that someone (probably the Shadow King) is spreading through humanity, causing those rooms full of chattering teeth. This is an interesting idea in a world where we’re all guarding against, well, thoughts that are not our own, against the reality-bending attempts of social media exploiters and the president himself. Yet I’m not sure Hawley and Halpern have anything to say about this beyond, “Isn’t this an interesting and prescient idea?”

This idea — that reality is constructed, and it’s too easy for our own realities to be diverted and subverted by outside influences — is a fun one for the series to play around with. But I’m not sure it arises organically from the characters or story so much as it’s imposed upon them from on high. (Themes imposed from on high are a frequent problem with Hawley’s work.) Sequences about delusions and the nature of reality occasionally intersperse the narrative, little parables narrated by Jon Hamm, and they were both my favorite thing about the premiere and almost entirely separate from everything else.

And yet ... Legion is so much fun when it’s really cooking that I can’t write it off entirely. There was a time in the middle of season one when I felt like it might all be heading somewhere, but the only place it’s ever heading is toward further things it thinks are interesting and cool. Someday, it will run out of those things, and that will be a frustrating day. But we’re not there yet.

The Magicians went for broke on character in season three — and it worked

I am not 100 percent sure I could tell you, with any clarity, the events of the plot in season three of The Magicians. Where Legion’s plotting is ultimately pretty simple, The Magicians keeps twisting itself into curlicues, tighter and tighter with every season. A bunch of things happened, and I could explain any of them in isolation, but I don’t know that I could hook them all up to each other and make sense of the plot.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

It doesn’t matter. For most of its third season, The Magicians was on fire, bouncing from idea to idea with a reckless abandon that was infectious. One episode would be a series of short stories; another would be a musical. One episode would visit an alternate timeline (and mostly abandon the series’ frenetic style in the process), while another would stop the plot in its tracks for a lengthy montage in which two characters fell in love, aged, and then died, all while trying to solve a magic mosaic. (They were resurrected via plot shenanigans, but still remembered that alternate life.)

The Magicians is nowhere near as ostentatious as Legion, but it’s a better show on almost every level that matters because it’s constantly thinking about how it can use its crazy ideas to comment on its characters and their motivations and desires. Sure, The Magicians has three full seasons under its belt, while Legion is only beginning its second. But even at comparable points in both shows, The Magicians was far more interested in the emotional and psychological arcs of its main characters, especially Quentin Coldwater (a protagonist slowly realizing he’s not a protagonist, played by Jason Ralph) and Julia Wicker (a young woman only beginning to come into her own power, played by Stella Maeve).

That’s the sneaky way the series gets you. It reels you in with transdimensional messenger bunnies (yes, this is a thing that exists on the show) or gigantic flying boats, then socks you with an emotional payoff you won’t see coming, like Quentin’s slow reconciliation with his father or Julia sacrificing everything she has to save her friends, again and again.

The central story — magic has left the world, and our heroes have to turn it back on — is really an excuse to talk about trauma and mental illness and finding purpose in a life you know to be purposeless. The third season was so good because the characters all knew their damage would only be intensified by turning magic back on, but they also knew it was what they had to do anyway.

It would be a mistake to call The Magicians hugely class-conscious, but in season three, it even worked in some sneaky critiques of American capitalism, via a very rich magician family that turned out to have built its riches atop the backs of fairy slave labor and exploitation (right down to fairies it harvested to turn into a kind of magic-enhancing drug).

The fairies, presented mostly as antagonists in season two, turned out to have a reason to be so pissed off at humanity, and finding the kind of reparations that would balance the scales turned out to be appropriately difficult. What’s more, this family kept finding ways to hoard more and more magic, only increasing the inequality of the show’s most elastic metaphor.

The last half-hour of the finale ended up being almost all about character, as our heroes went into a castle built as a prison for hideous monsters and found that only one monster was left — and he embodied loneliness and naked want and unquenchable desire. He’ll clearly be the fourth season’s main antagonist, and while I won’t dare spoil the cliffhanger the season ends on (because it’s so good), it is, once again, an appropriately character-based one, rooted in the idea that the relationships between these people have grown so complicated that if you pluck any one of their heartstrings you cause them all to vibrate at once.

The Magicians will eventually run out of steam, I suppose, because viewers inevitably get wise to a series’ tricks. But even when it does, it won’t take away from how this third season navigated a path between wild storytelling diversions and good, character-based plotting. It never leaves me shaking my head at its audaciousness in the way Legion does, but I’m going to be thinking about what’s up with Quentin, Julia, and company much more in the long, long months before season four debuts.

Legion airs Tuesdays at 10 pm Eastern on FX, with its first season available on Hulu. The Magicians is available on Netflix — the first two seasons for now, with season three following later in 2018 — and will return to Syfy for season four in early 2019.If I tried really hard, I could draw thematic parallels between Lean on Pete and You Were Never Really Here, two new movies opening in limited release this weekend and expanding throughout the country in the weeks to come. (If they never reach your neck of the woods, they should eventually end up on Amazon Prime.)

Both movies are about men driven to desperate journeys to save innocents, but they’re also about the underlying trauma that drives both men to make those journeys. Both movies feature vivid lead performances. And both movies are directed by auteurs whose work is always welcome in theaters. (Pete was directed by Andrew Haigh; Here was directed by Lynne Ramsay.)

But the experience of watching both movies couldn’t be more different. Lean on Pete is a lovely, lyrical journey through the western United States, one that lets a teenage boy process his emotions against the vastness of the empty landscape. You Were Never Really Here is a lean and mean vigilante thriller that takes place in New York City.

And, honestly, the settings are the perfect way to describe each movie — the former is vast and expansive; the latter is tight and crowded and a little bit nasty.

So let’s take a look at both, and at their justifiably acclaimed directors. Both are worth seeing, among the best films of the year so far, but one seems likely to be one of the best films I see in all of 2018.

Lean on Pete is about a boy and his horse — and so much more

Charley Thompson (Charlie Plummer), like most teenagers, is an awkward collection of elbows and angles, just starting to figure out how to move in his growing body. He’s also largely on his own. His mother abandoned him when he was a baby, and his father, Ray (Travis Fimmel), isn’t much of a solid foundation to stand upon. The two have moved from city to city as Ray looks for work but, mostly, a good time.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

And then Charley meets Del (Steve Buscemi), and everything changes for him. Del works with racehorses, on the extreme underbelly of the sport, bringing fading creatures that were never bound for glory in the first place to little fairs and under-the-radar events, bending and breaking the rules to make a few bucks here and there. In a sport geared toward the rich, Del is a schemer working to hang on to the absolute bottom rung of the ladder.

He also owns a 5-year-old horse named Lean on Pete, who is probably on his way to Mexico, where he will be slaughtered, sooner rather than later.

You can guess from the title of the movie that Charley bonds with Pete, who becomes a kind of lifeline to a troubled kid. But Lean on Pete is also the sort of movie it would be a shame to spoil, even though almost nothing happens in it. Charley and Pete meet a variety of colorful characters, most played by recognizable faces, as they embark upon an unlikely journey across the American West (on foot, no less — this is a movie about going on the run with a horse that features the kid never riding the horse), but the way the movie slowly forces Charley to confront the sadness inside of him that he’s never known how to talk about is exquisite.

Haigh, who both wrote the screenplay (from the novel by Willy Vlautin) and directed, has rapidly become one of my favorite directors over the course of his past three features, 2011’s swooning romance Weekend, 2015’s examination of a long-lasting marriage 45 Years, and now Lean on Pete. Haigh is never afraid to take his time with a sequence, to let the emotion build and build and build, and he uses medium shots masterfully, gaining just as much tension and emotion from what you know is just outside the frame as what’s in it.

It’s unusual to have a movie as emotional as Lean on Pete use close-ups as sparingly as it does, but Haigh uses the big, empty landscapes Charley and Pete travel through to do some of this work for him. Charley is dealing with a lot, and it’s often as if the world itself has created a landscape that reflects his inner self — never-ending and seemingly barren, but filled with a gnarled life that persists against all odds.

And throughout it all, there’s the horse. A refrain in the movie is that horses aren’t pets and Charley best not get attached too heavily to Pete. Yet you’ll know, again, from the title that he fails miserably. And Haigh subtly lets you know why too. Pete isn’t the most beautiful horse, or the most charismatic, or the fastest. But he is there when Charley needs a friend, poking his head over a fence or nuzzling his nose into Charley’s hand for a treat. A horse might not be able to feel love for a teenage boy, but Lean on Pete makes sure you know how deeply a teenage boy can feel love for a horse. It’s one of the best films of the year.

You Were Never Really Here is a grimy trip into New York’s underworld (and also kinda Pizzagate: The Movie)

Scottish director Lynne Ramsay works so rarely — she’s made just four features between her 1999 debut Ratcatcher and You Were Never Really Here — that it feels weird to call one of her films “minor,” but here we are.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

You Were Never Really Here feels a bit like a palate cleanser after 2002’s brilliantly bleak Morvern Callar and 2011’s terrifying We Need to Talk about Kevin (a movie that has only gained in resonance since its release). For the first time since Ratcatcher, Ramsay is following a male protagonist, and the movie is a nasty piece of business, set in a world where the rich and powerful can do anything they want without repercussions, up to and including the abuse of children, and the only recourse against them is to bash them in the skull with a hammer.

Because this is Ramsay, the movie largely elides violence to think about the effects of violence, the ways that abuse and horror we suffer as children trickle down through the years and manifest themselves when we become adults. Her protagonist, Joe (Joaquin Phoenix, who continues a remarkable streak of performances), can’t find a way to deal with the abuse visited upon him as a child by his father, except to tenderly take care of his now elderly mother, who was similarly abused. You Were Never Really Here hints at the extent of the horrors Joe suffered, but it never tells you directly about them, which is one of its strengths.

It also turns out to be an operating principle for the movie itself. Perhaps its most bravura sequence is also one that will let you know if you want to watch the film or not. Set in a brothel of child prostitutes to the Rosie & the Originals song “Angel Baby,” it’s filmed entirely via security cameras, which cycle from camera to camera, as though the viewer were a guard sitting at their desk, not particularly caring that Joe is carrying out a one-man battle against every member of security personnel in the place.

The camera will show Joe approach a guard, both of their hands raised to fight each other, then cycle to another view of a young girl sitting in a room, or the lifeless body of someone Joe has already killed. It’s amazing how well Ramsay lays out the geography of the place and Joe’s progress through it via this device — I’m still not sure how she did it — but those looking for the visceral thrill of Joe taking down a bunch of men who very much need to be taken down might be a little disappointed by the clinical detachment of the sequence.

And yet this must be how Joe’s head processes this kind of violence — it’s a job that must be done. He’s at the brothel, after all, because he’s been hired by a politician to save his 13-year-old daughter, who ran away from home for a night and somehow ended up in hell. So he doesn’t think about what he’s doing. He just does it. Getting to see the act of him doing it would be for the audience, not for him, and because the movie is so thoroughly pinned to his point of view, we need to stay there even for these moments.

There’s a lot going on in Never Really Here (which Ramsay also wrote from the novel by Jonathan Ames). It’s the kind of movie I’m glad she made because her interrogation of Joe’s masculinity (he spends a lot of the movie gazing upon his big, burly frame as though he doesn’t quite recognize himself) is the sort of thing endemic to the material that many male directors might have missed in an attempt to make the movie more “exciting.” (It should also go without saying that Ramsay knows how to navigate the tricky terrain of depicting child prostitution without glamorizing it.)

And I haven’t even touched on the movie’s brooding score, by Jonny Greenwood, or its wonderfully overlapping sound design, filled with voices and sound effects jostling for attention in Joe’s head.

But it’s also a movie that can’t quite escape the moment it was released in, when the ostensibly pulpy story that gives the movie its spine (the rich and powerful politicians are running secret rings of child prostitutes) has become the basis of several real-world conspiracy theories that have brought grief to plenty of individuals over the past couple of years.

I’m not downgrading Never Really Here for that — I felt like the girl Joe is tasked with saving is too much of a cipher for the film’s final emotional payoffs to land completely — but it’s jarring to watch in 2018. In far future retrospectives of Ramsay’s (hopefully many) films, god, I hope it plays differently.

You Were Never Really Here and Lean on Pete are in select theaters. They will expand throughout the country in the weeks to come.Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated collection of the internet’s best writing on books and related subjects. Here’s the best the web has to offer for the week of April 1, 2018.

This week on Twitter, women have been describing themselves the way male authors do. For the New Yorker, Katy Waldman analyzes the joke:

Reynolds’s challenge felt rooted in a long history of literary male self-congratulation. The canon is lousy with authors who yearn to be admired for their sensitivity to the full range of female personhood, be that personhood luscious, pert, or swelling coyly against a sheer camisole. These are writerly men confident that they’ve nailed women’s psyches, all because of how single-mindedly they want to nail women.

At BuzzFeed, Michelle Dean excerpts her forthcoming book Sharp to explain how Joan Didion became Joan Didion:

The brilliance of the essay is that even in the act of writing it Didion reenacts an emotional cliché, the narrator telling a past self how silly and stupid she was to fall for a story that everyone falls for. This self-conscious style, a personal matter conveyed at a distance, would become Didion’s signature. Even when she wrote about something as personal as her divorce, she did it at a remove, turning it over in her hand, polishing it to a shine that concealed certain roughnesses in the center.

At Triple Canopy, Marvin J. Taylor and Andrea Geyer introduce us to the longstanding feud that flourishes between librarians and architects. (Ryan Murphy, are you listening?)

Librarians and architects were already at odds in the late nineteenth century, when librarianship and architectural practice were being professionalized. (The American Library Association was founded in 1876, the American Institute for Architects in 1856.) Many librarians felt that architects ignored their needs and created buildings that emphasized grandeur over functionality. William Frederick Poole, the librarian at the Chicago Historical Society and the founder of Poole’s Index to Periodical Literature, was one of the most outspoken opponents of such designs, which he saw as wasting space and pointlessly imitating churches. At a meeting of the ALA in 1881, Poole delivered a fiery speech against the “vacuity” of the new Peabody Institute Library in Baltimore. “The nave is empty and serves no purpose that contributes to the architectural effect,” he argued. “Is not this an expensive luxury?”

The Paris Review has named Emily Nemens, former co-editor of the Southern Review, as its new editor-in-chief. The New York Times has the full story.

Last year, a group of teenagers vandalized a historic black schoolhouse with swastikas and hate speech. A judge sentenced them to punishment by reading. At the New York Times, Christine Hauser checks in on how the sentence worked out:

An excerpt from one of his court-ordered essays was provided to The New York Times, with his permission, by his defense lawyer. He describes not fully knowing what a swastika meant, and that he thought it “didn’t really mean much.” “Not anymore,” he wrote. “I was wrong, it means a lot to people who were affected by them. It reminds them of the worst things, losing family members and friends. Of the pain of torture, psychological and physical. Among that it reminds them how hateful people can be and how the world can be cruel and unfair.”

At LitHub, a reference librarian walks us through the questions she gets at work:

The thing about working the reference desk is you only learn how to do it by sitting your ass in the seat. Like most library work, understanding reference comes from actually interacting with patrons. There’s no way to know how to correctly answer life’s weirdest questions without having someone physically stroll up, plop themselves in the seat directly adjacent, and ask: “Do you know any good erotica sites?”

Also at LitHub, Lorrie Moore considers the function of fiction:

No one who has ever looked back upon a book she or he has written, only to find the thing foreign and alienating, unrecallable, would ever deny its mysteriousness. One can’t help but think that in some way this surprise reflects the appalled senility of God herself, or himself, though maybe it’s the weirdly paired egotism and humility of artists that leads them over and over again to this creational cliché: that we are God’s dream, God’s characters; that literary fiction is God’s compulsion handed down to us, an echo, a diminishment, but something we are made to do in imitation, perhaps even in honor, of that original creation, and made to do in understanding of what flimsy vapors we all are — though also how heartbreaking and amusing.

Happy reading!Cardi B’s new album, Invasion of Privacy, is officially here, and her publicity offensive is in full force. She’ll be co-hosting The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon next week; she’s the musical guest on this week’s Saturday Night Live. After the extraordinary success of last year’s hit single “Bodak Yellow,” expectations for Cardi are high — but she’s more than willing to put in the necessary work.

Cardi’s meteoric rise has been well-documented: Over the course of six years, she went from struggling college student to grocery store cashier to stripper to hostess to Instagram star to reality star to the first female solo rapper to have a No. 1 song since Lauryn Hill in 1998. Now, at 25, she’s a Grammy-nominated superstar whose debut album was certified gold the day of its release — and she’s just getting started.

Cardi hasn’t been shy about how she got where she is: She works hard. “A lot of people think I’m just a dumbass, like, hoe-ass bitch because I can’t talk English properly and it’s just, like, yo if I was dumb, I would not be in the position that I’m in,” she told Fader in 2016. “It’s just like damn everybody wanna be famous but, like, people don’t realize being famous don’t make you like rich. Like, yo you really gotta work to get rich.”

Cardi has never hidden how much she works, and that fact is fundamental to her appeal. While much of pop revolves around a fantasy of effortless, flaw-free perfection, Cardi is upfront about how much labor it requires to be Cardi B: the plastic surgery, the physical discomfort of the elaborate outfits, the careful study of her genre, the songs that are engineered to follow what sells and become hits, the years of nose-to-the-grindstone hustling.

“Everything I do, I take seriously,” she told Vibe in 2016. “Everything, everything, everything. Everything I do takes me time.”

What makes the fantasy of Cardi B so successful is its transparency about how much work it takes to become a fantasy. And what makes it so unusual is that Cardi is able to be a woman in the music industry, to be open about how much labor it takes to be a woman in the music industry — and still be wildly successful.

Cardi’s most famous lines tend to be about working

Cardi became famous on Instagram, and her first viral Instagram video, posted in 2014, is instructive. It shows her twirling through a hotel hallway in a barely-there top, promoting an upcoming club appearance:

House of LANCASTER A post shared by Cardi B Official IG (@iamcardib) on Nov 24, 2014 at 9:37pm PST

“Canada, it’s cold outside, but I’m still looking like a thotty,” she says, preening, “because a hoe never gets cold.”

“A hoe never gets cold” instantly became an iconic and memeable line to everyone from Reddit to fashion bloggers — but it also fundamentally captures the Cardi ethos. Doing club appearances is work. It means wearing practically nothing in Canada in November. It means getting plastic surgery. (“I gotta go buy me an ass,” Cardi thought when she became a stripper, as she recalled to the Breakfast Club in 2015.) It isn’t just partying; it’s labor. “I was never the type to go out,” Cardi told Vibe in 2016. “I just always used to work. My job is the strip club. Even though people see it as a party to them, it wasn’t a party to me.”

So why does she do it? Very simply, because it’s good money.

That was the punchline of another of her viral Instagram videos. “People be asking me like, ‘What do you does? Are you like a comedian or something?’” she says, flipping her hair back dismissively. “Nah. I ain’t none of that. I’m a hoe. I’m stripper hoe. I’m about this shmoney.”

Cardi’s thing is doing the work and getting paid for it, and she made that abundantly clear during her turn on the VH1 reality show Love & Hip Hop in 2015. There, her primary storyline involved radio personality DJ Self, whom Cardi presented as her business partner and side piece. (Her real boyfriend was in jail.) But then: drama. Self was seeing other women and lying about it. Cardi was furious. Wig snatching and catfighting ensued.

The issue wasn’t, she explained in testimonials, that she was jealous. This was strictly a business problem. “Me and Self host together, we do gigs together,” she explained to the camera. “And it’s just like, ‘You lying is gonna mess up our business,’ and whatnot. And one thing about me: When you put my shmoney in jeopardy, now we got a problem.”

Putting the shmoney in jeopardy is an unforgivable sin in Cardi world: It’s her money, and she worked hard for it. Likewise, earning money is an act to be valorized and celebrated. “I don’t dance now, I make money moves,” goes the hook of “Bodak Yellow.” Cardi does her moves and gets her money.

She straightforwardly acknowledges that she works hard at her music, and that she does it to get paid: “I have a passion for music, I love music,” she told Fader in 2017. “But I also have a passion for money and paying my bills.”

So she does her homework and studies hard. “It took me like a year to complete the mixtape [Gangsta Bitch Music, Vol. 1],” she told Vibe in 2016. “Everything I do, it takes a lot of time for me to do it because only the best sells, you know? If you want people to take you seriously, you gotta do the best.”

But she also refuses to get precious about her muse or her artistry: She’s trying to make a living here, and that means that she’s chasing hits. “You gotta follow the trends, it is what it is,” she told Fader in 2017. “At the end of the day, you need to be with what sells. Sometimes it kinda crushes me because I wanna do music like how I like, but if it’s not selling and it’s not gonna work, then I’ll change my sound.”

In pop culture, women’s labor tends to be either glamorous or effaced

Cardi’s get-that-money ethos is a familiar one in hip-hop, where hustling is often valorized — at least for men. But it can still be difficult for women to access that kind of machismo without being criticized for it, making Cardi’s image all the more singular. When she won “Hustler of the Year” at the BET Awards last fall, she was the first woman ever to win the award, which has been around since 2006. (Previously, it had only ever gone to Jay Z, Diddy, Dr. Dre, and DJ Khaled.)

And since “Bodak Yellow,” Cardi has become a crossover hit, exploding into the realm of pop music, where the acceptable scripts for women are limited. In the world of popular music, it’s still rare and raw and scary for women to straightforwardly say that they work hard to create a fantasy image, and that they do that work because they want to get paid. It’s rarer still for them to make that labor fundamental to their image.

Everyone knows that Beyoncé works hard, but part of the fantasy she sells is effortless perfection. (“I woke up like this / Flawless.”) When she reveals her labor — on social media, or in her documentary — it feels artistic rather than mercenary, and glamorous rather than seedy. The resulting image “is equal parts sweat, control, and endurance,” as Anne Helen Petersen wrote for the Baffler in 2014. “This image does not take away from the mystique of Beyoncé, it adds to it: we like her more, not less, because of the supposed transparency: Girl works hard to be the Queen.”

On reality TV and social media, too, the labor that goes into creating an image is either effaced or glamorized. The labor of beauty can be Insta-friendly when it’s putting on a sheet mask and a silk dressing gown in flattering lighting; it can be good reality TV when it’s trying on elaborate dresses for a fancy event. But neither medium is willing to, for instance, spend time celebrating the act of sculpting a body with surgery for a specific industry — that would be déclassé. On the contrary, Keeping Up With the Kardashians has devoted multiple episodes to insisting that Kim Kardashian West does not have butt implants and does not use Botox.

In contrast, the labor that goes into Cardi’s beauty and Cardi’s music is neither glamorous nor effaced nor insistent on its own purity. It’s work, it’s hard, sometimes it’s unpleasant, but she’s willing to sweat it out for the money. “This is my work ethic,” she told Billboard in December: “I do not want to raise my future kids where I was raised, and I know the only way to do it is working, working, working, working, working.”

And the fact that Cardi is so insistent on working, working, working is fundamental to her appeal. When you watch her work, you’re watching a hustler in action — and, as Cardi will be the first to tell you, it’s a little inspiring.

“We all work hard, but in our different ways and in our different fields,” she says. “Who’s to say that I can’t inspire a woman who works at a Fortune 500 company as much as she inspires me?”The premiere of the Roseanne revival — 21 years after its initial finale and starring a Roseanne Barr, who now spreads right-wing conspiracy theories on Twitter — sparked several outrage cycles, massive ratings, and congratulations from President Trump. In fact, per ABC executives, the presidential election and Roseanne’s subsequent success has inspired the TV industry to consider a “heartland strategy” when approaching their programming.

“We had spent a lot of time looking for diverse voices in terms of people of color and people from different religions and even people with a different perspective on gender,” ABC Entertainment president Channing Dungey told the New York Times. “But we had not been thinking nearly enough about economic diversity and some of the other cultural divisions within our own country.”

This falls in line with how some people, and especially conservatives, have been talking about the Roseanne revival. The way this logic goes, Roseanne is one of the only shows on TV that dares talk about “economic diversity” and “cultural divisions,” political correctness or whatever be damned.

Related The classic American sitcom is exactly what we need in this fractured political moment

The weird thing about that line of reasoning, however, is that it’s not true. While Roseanne’s original run was indeed groundbreaking, in the years since, countless politically and socially relevant sitcoms have followed in its footsteps. Many of them are on the air right now; some are even already airing on ABC.

But since none of these shows have been getting even an ounce of the attention that the Roseanne revival has, we figured it might be time to spotlight some sitcoms that also center on working-class families, find ways to dig into timely issues without becoming too treacly about it, and talk out tough political issues with true empathy.

One Day at a Time (Netflix)

One of the go-to ways to describe a sitcom that can deliver serious talk amid serious laughs is to compare it to anything Norman Lear has touched, so we have to start this list with the sitcom the 95-year-old legend is currently producing. One Day at a Time is a reboot of Lear’s 1975 sitcom about a single mother raising two kids with the help of her mother and (to a much lesser extent) nosy landlord. Netflix’s version keeps that basic premise but updates it to be about a Cuban-American family living in Los Angeles. The fantastic Justina Machado plays single mother and Army veteran Penelope, while the legendary Rita Moreno taps in as her theatrical mother Lydia.

The show touches on everything from Penelope’s PTSD and depression to the everyday racism her son encounters to her daughter coming out to Lydia grappling with the fact that her beloved homeland will never be what it once was. (And yes, it’s also very funny!) One Day at a Time is one of our favorite shows here at Vox dot com slash Culture, so if you don’t give it a shot, just know that you have disappointed us greatly.

Mom (CBS)

Before most of the shows on this list were even glimmers in their networks’ eyes, Mom, now in its fifth season, was busy becoming one of the best things ever made by its co-creator, Chuck Lorre (who, incidentally, did time as a writer and producer on Roseanne’s original run). Following Christy (Anna Faris), a single mother of two, and her own mother Bonnie (Allison Janney, winner of several Emmys for her work on the show) as they struggle to break free from addiction, Mom has a few very sitcom-y issues here and there — like how theoretically working-class women live in such a huge house — but it’s by and large a forthright depiction of the twin struggles of poverty and addiction, bolstered by co-creator Gemma Baker’s willingness to let the show sink its teeth into complicated social issues.

Black-ish (ABC)

As creator Kenya Barris has put it, Black-ish follows in the footsteps of the Lear model of weaving serious topics into the framework of an accessible network comedy. Now in its fourth season, the show has tackled everything from police brutality to postpartum depression to the consequences of the 2016 presidential election. The series even incorporates debates around class mobility, since it relies on the perspective and voiceover of patriarch Dre (Anthony Anderson) — who, like Barris, grew up in Compton and now lives in an upper-middle-class Los Angeles suburb.

In Roseanne’s third episode, the Conners slept through “all the [ABC] shows about black and Asian families” —presumably Black-ish and Fresh Off the Boat, another entry on this list — which is a shame because Roseanne is lucky to share a night with it.

Grown-ish (Freeform)

Freeform’s Black-ish spinoff follows in the tradition of A Different World by tagging along with the oldest Johnson kid — Yara Shahidi’s glam Zoey — as she heads to college. There, she finds herself surrounded by people and perspectives she never encountered growing up and is forced to reconsider her accepted truths and what she might want from life. It’s still working out some of its growing pains, but Grown-ish is a fizzy surprise of a show that has made a sincere effort to address #millennial issues, like how social media affects relationships, the nuances of sexuality, safe spaces, and the very real tension of class differences on a campus that insists everyone is on equal ground.

Speechless (ABC)

Another ABC comedy that is consistently crushing it, Speechless follows the DiMeo family working to make ends meet and support their eldest son J.J., whose nonverbal cerebral palsy necessitates the kind of care they can only barely afford. Created by Friends producer Scott Silveri, whose brother has cerebral palsy, Speechless is smart and quick, keeping the DiMeos grounded while letting them be, as they would be the first to admit, the most lovable dirtbags you’ll ever meet.

With a stellar cast including Minnie Driver as a fiercely protective mom and Micah Fowler as J.J. — who actively resists and resents the sort of saintly clichés usually associated with people in wheelchairs — Speechless is an underrated gem lurking right under ABC’s own nose.

Big Mouth (Netflix)

We’ll allow that putting an animated comedy about the hilarious horrors of puberty on this list might seem like a bit of a stretch, but y’know what? We’re gonna stand by it.

Big Mouth — which stars excellent comedy voices like John Mulaney, Nick Kroll, and Jenny Slate — was one of our favorite TV surprises of 2017. It manages to balance gross-out jokes with real compassion for how much it can suck to grow up and figure out what sex means to you in a world that’s alternately fascinated and disgusted by it. In between letting an anthropomorphized “hormone monster” wreak havoc, Big Mouth actually tells some of TV’s most compassionate (and always timely) stories about consent, exploration, learning how to set boundaries, and the radical power of just being honest about your feelings, no matter how dumb or small they might feel.

Bob’s Burgers (Fox)

This animated sitcom, consistently one of TV’s funniest shows, even now in its eighth season, might not be as forthrightly political as some of the shows on this list, but it makes up for that with being one of the few to be set on the ground floor of class conflict in America, without making a big deal about it. Bob and Linda Belcher and their three kids run the titular burger shop, which has its loyal customers but also seems to leave the family barely enough to live on. (They even live in the apartment above the shop.) And because a restaurant is a great way to have others in the community come through its doors, Bob’s Burgers is slyly smart about interactions between the rich, the middle class, and the poor in America — and all of the ways they can break down.

Fresh Off the Boat (ABC)

And lo, another ABC family sitcom appears on our list. This one, originally based on Eddie Huang’s memoir of the same name, centers on a Chinese-American family adjusting to a move from Washington, DC, to a far more monochrome Florida suburb. Louis (Randall Park) runs a branch of a Cattleman’s Ranch barbecue restaurant, while Jessica (Constance Wu) juggles running the family and practicing real estate.

Not only is Fresh off the Boat a warm show, it’s also a deeply weird one that’s unafraid to have fun and let the Huangs indulge their quirkier habits (see: Jessica’s crime novel, and her son Evan’s vice hold on the neighborhood council). In the first season, that adjustment was a rocky one full of everyday racism. As the show’s gone on, it’s also tackled issues of citizenship and civic duty in a way that makes it clear some issues are relevant regardless of time period.

Superior Donuts (CBS)

Superior Donuts is unusual on this list for tacking subject matter TV almost always glosses over: gentrification. Based on the play of the same name by Pulitzer Prize winner Tracy Letts, the sitcom follows doughnut shop owner Arthur (Judd Hirsch) and his new young co-worker Franco (Jermaine Fowler), who’s certain that the shop can be saved from the wave of younger, richer people changing the face of the neighborhood with some better doughnuts and a better promotional strategy. The show doesn’t strain to incorporate issues, but its setting naturally suggests them, and its cast includes comedic heavy hitters like Katey Sagal, David Koechner, and Maz Jobrani.

Superstore (NBC)

One economic trend TV hasn’t kept up with nearly as much as it could have is the way most working-class jobs have shifted from the industrial sector to the commercial one, especially when it comes to jobs in the service and retail industries. That’s what makes Superstore, set in a St. Louis-area big-box store named Cloud 9, such a refreshing change of pace. Its characters clock in every day at a store that never seems like a place anybody enjoys working at or even shopping at. But how else will they get paid? With a surprisingly deep ensemble cast and a willingness to talk about issues other sitcoms get squeamish about, Superstore is one of TV’s best comedies.

The Middle (ABC)

What if we told you that all the things Roseanne does well when it comes to depicting the struggles of the white working-class in the formerly industrial Midwest were already being done just as well — and often better — on another ABC show? One that’s been on the air for nine years? And is created by former Roseanne writers?

We’re describing The Middle, the warm and affectionate look at life in the lower-lower middle class, centered on the Heck family of Orson, Indiana, who are trying to make their ends stretch enough to almost meet their needs, and often failing at that task. The show has explored the struggles of having too little money all the time, of living a very traditional life in an America that’s changing rapidly, and of so many other things, and it’s got some of the best characters on TV, especially in middle daughter Sue Heck (the tremendous Eden Sher). Hell, it even stars one of Hollywood’s more prominent conservatives (Patricia Heaton), if that’s what you’re looking for in a TV show.

But The Middle has never been as noisy as Roseanne (just as Heaton seems highly unlikely to get on Twitter and promote weird conspiracy theories). It’s not about shouting whatever you want, but instead, about navigating a world that doesn’t always seem to care how you’re doing, something it tackles with grace, humility, and respect. The Middle has never gotten nearly the amount of attention it deserves, from viewers, from critics, or from awards voters. That it’s ending (in May) just as Roseanne is revving up again feels at once apt and more than a little sad.

Honorable mentions:

NBC’s The Carmichael Show, an insightful comedy that ran for three seasons with the help of producer Lear; Fox’s Brooklyn Nine-Nine, which mostly sticks to zany antics but occasionally makes room for heartfelt episodes centering on race and sexuality; The CW’s Jane the Virgin, which was only disqualified for not being a sitcom but is one of the best shows on TV about how the political is personal and vice versa, period.Black Panther will be the first movie shown in a Saudi Arabian movie theater in 35 years. Yes, you read that right.

On April 18, Saudi men and women will be able to attend the screening at a swanky new theater in Riyadh featuring 500 leather seats and marble bathrooms. Choosing Black Panther was perhaps a no-brainer: It’s already raked in $1 billion worldwide to become the 10th-highest-grossing film of all time. It’s also a deeply enjoyable movie.

But it’s also a little ironic that a brutally repressive regime that consistently violates human rights has chosen to showcase a film that champions gender equality and cultural and racial diversity.

Heck, viewers will even be able to watch scenes where women drive cars.

The announcement that Riyadh will screen the superhero flick is another indicator that Saudi Arabia is changing — and it wants people to notice. The kingdom announced it would open movie theaters last December. AMC Theaters — which owns the cinema that will show the first Black Panther screening — plans to build 100 theaters across 25 cities in Saudi Arabia by 2030.

That’s a massive shift. Saudi Arabia started closing movie theaters after it embraced an extremely conservative interpretation of Islam in 1979. The recent decision to reopen theaters to the public was a massive blow to the country’s religious establishment: Saudi Arabia’s highest-ranking religious authority, Abdul Aziz Al Sheikh, warned against the “depravity” of commercial theaters in January 2017.

Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Culture also said that movies shown in the country “will be subject to censorship according to media policy standards of the Kingdom, stressing that will be in line with values and principles in place and do not contradict with Sharia Laws and moral values in the Kingdom.”

But Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto leader of Saudi Arabia, says he wants to modernize his country. He told 60 Minutes in March that opening theaters was one part of his decades-long campaign to do just that. Still, Saudi Arabia is a country that treats women as second-class citizens, that is committing severe war crimes in Yemen, and that beheads prisoners.

So keep in mind: Allowing citizens to watch Black Panther is one thing. Making Saudi Arabia a Wakanda-like place to live is another.There are a few different comedic subgenres lurking in Blockers: a raunchfest, a teen caper, a slapsticky parenting farce, a sex comedy, and a full-on gross-out escapade. They all collide on prom night, and the result is a collection of jokes and set pieces that never totally gel but are still a cut above a lot of what tries to pass for studio comedy these days.

Blockers is a tale of two trios: three teenage girls who make a pact to lose their virginity on prom night and three parents who are out to stop them. It’s also a thoroughly 2018 movie, pairing progressive ideas about sex and identity with the kind of emotional underpinning sported by a lot of raunch comedies in the Judd Apatow vein.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

And for the most part, it works. Blockers isn’t groundbreaking or particularly memorable. As comedies go, it’s pretty standard fare. But its characters and performances keep it light on its feet, even when the writing gets clunky.

The teenage girls are the best part of Blockers

What feels most refreshing about Blockers is the well-roundedness of the teen girl characters at its center. Julie (Kathryn Newton) is effervescent, in love with her boyfriend Austin (Graham Phillips) and best friend to her single mom, Lisa (Leslie Mann), who’s just starting to come to terms with the fact that when Julie goes to college, she will be alone. Kayla (a terrific Geraldine Viswanathan) is an accomplished athlete who’s close to her father Mitchell (John Cena) and bringing her lab partner Connor (Miles Robbins) to the prom. Sam (Gideon Adlon), who’s going to prom with the fedora-wearing Chad (Jimmy Bellinger) but totally crushing on cape-wearing Angelica (Ramona Young), doesn’t see her father Hunter (Ike Barinholtz) much since her parents’ acrimonious divorce.

It would have been easy for the girls to get slotted into stereotypes — the pretty one, the smart one, the jock — but brothers Jim and Brian Kehoe’s screenplay, in the hands of director Kay Cannon (a former 30 Rock writer who also wrote the Pitch Perfect screenplays), mostly resists the impulse. Blondes can be smart, athletes can be funny, and teen girls can have complicated emotions, bad ideas, and good impulses all at the same time.

Lisa, Mitchell, and Hunter are less complex than their children, with Lisa in particular registering as half-drawn. (It’s probably not coincidental that the movie feels like it was originally written with three dad characters in mind.) Lisa is clingy and a little silly; Mitchell is a huge, strong guy who is also a softie; and Hunter, probably the most complex of the three, is a screw-up who is still sometimes the voice of reason. They all want to be good parents who don’t interfere in their daughters’ lives, but when they see a group text message between the girls talking about a pact to lose their virginity on prom night to their dates, the parents go into overdrive.

From there, the movie turns into a chase caper, the kids oblivious to their parents’ pursuit but always staying one step ahead anyway. The girls ditch prom early and head to a friend’s lake house afterparty, and their parents aren’t far behind; they’re also in hot pursuit when the teens all decamp to a swanky hotel for an after-afterparty.

The whole story unfolds as a series of set pieces, most of which involve embarrassing situations or hilarious scrapes. It’s pretty standard fare — you’ll laugh! you’ll wince! you’ll smile sentimentally! — but by modern studio comedy standards, that’s enough.

There’s Apatow blood running in Blockers’ veins, but with an update

At one point, the parents, looking for the girls at Austin’s house, instead stumble in on his parents role-playing prom night sex. Later, to “prove” to a skeptical teenager that the trio are not cops nor parents, Mitchell takes part in a — well, in an activity involving alcohol, a funnel, a tube, and some ... squatting. There’s projectile vomit that leads to a car accident and some slinking in and out of hotel rooms and a bit of breakdancing, and in the end, everyone learns a valuable lesson about loving yourself and growing up.

All of this feels very much in the Apatow vein. Judd Apatow was not involved with this film in any formal capacity (though his frequent collaborators Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg produced the film, and Mann, who is married to Apatow, has also been in a number of his movies), but the strain of film comedy he birthed with The 40-Year-Old Virgin and Knocked Up pairs raunch with sentimentality to serve up surprisingly moralistic messages — and that’s just what Blockers does.

The adults each have to overcome their own hang-ups to become the sort of parent their daughter needs, whether that means being less overbearing, more involved, or the right kind of supportive. And they do all this while wading through awkward situations, various bodily fluids, and a minefield of mortification.

But Blockers is also noticeably different from Apatow’s movies. It’s a little more diverse, for one, and four of the six leads are female. It’s not myopically focused on sex, instead tackling what true friendship looks like (both for the girls and for their parents) and how the relationships between friends evolve over time. (One of the film’s most refreshing character details is the purely platonic friendship between the three parents, two of whom are single.)

The movie’s conclusions about sex are pretty basic fare for 2018: Sex is fine, as long as it’s consensual and safe, and preferably with someone toward whom you have warm feelings. And the teenagers, male and female alike, seem pretty chill about whether they’re having it or not. The girls’ pact is more about growing up together than it is about satisfying any physical urges — another way the movie feels different from an Apatow film.

How much viewers enjoy Blockers probably depends on how happy they are with that message being couched in raunchy scenes, some of which feel shoehorned in rather than organic. (One scene with Austin’s parents left the audience in my screening laughing, but possibly less for its humor than its shock.) The best part of Blockers is its cast, all of whom inhabit their roles with aplomb and humanity, elevating the film from standard comedy fare to something that can be genuinely touching. There’s nothing terribly original about Blockers, but these days, a competent studio comedy is rare enough that it almost doesn’t matter.

Blockers opens in theaters on April 6.President Donald Trump claims he coined the phrase “fake news.” (He didn’t.) But the actual art of “fake news” was pioneered by the Russians in the 1990s and 2000s, and they used it to try to help Trump win the 2016 presidential election.

This is the argument Yale historian Timothy Snyder makes in his new book, The Road to Unfreedom. According to Snyder, it was Russian leaders who first mastered “fake news” in the digital era, and they did it as part of a broader strategy to disorient their own society. That strategy goes something like this: Use the internet and TV to flood society with misinformation, demonize the institutions charged with uncovering facts, and then exploit the confusion that results.

This, Snyder argues, is how Russian oligarchs in the Putin era control citizens: They cultivate enough chaos so people become cynical about public life and, eventually, about truth itself. In the 2010s, Russia began to deploy these techniques abroad as a means of destabilizing Western countries. In Trump, they found a particularly useful tool, someone they could use to stoke America’s internal divisions and subvert democracy.

I spoke with Snyder about how this happened and why he thinks the great triumph of Russian foreign policy in the 21st century is its ability to create chaos in Western democracies using the tools it perfected on its own citizens.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

You argue in the book that Russia mastered the art of “fake news” and misinformation long before anyone else, and that that’s the main reason why they’ve been so influential in a world governed by the internet and social media.

Timothy Snyder

Russia doesn’t really change; the world changes around Russia in a way that helps Russia. We tend to think that the key to power is economic and technological strength, but that’s not the whole picture. Russia’s economy is not big and they don’t really innovate technologically, but they’ve always led the world in understanding the psychology of power. Psychological warfare is what they’ve done best going all the way back to the Bolsheviks.

Throughout the Cold War, Russia was always better than us when it came to penetrating their enemies and breaking them down from within. Rather than smashing things overtly, they would work from behind the scenes to cast doubt on things. They’d insert their people into enemy organizations and slowly create chaos from inside. They’ve always excelled at turning people against each other.

Russia lost the Cold War because the Cold War was decided by economics and technology; it was a material competition. But after the Cold War, we moved into a different world, a world defined by the internet, and that’s a much more psychological world. The techniques they’ve been honing for decades are much more powerful in this new digital world, where emotion dominates and everyone is connected and there is so much information floating around. This is a world of information warfare, and that suits Russia’s strengths.

Sean Illing

The other thing that seems important to understand is how Russian leaders adapted these techniques in the 1990s and 2000s to police their own citizens. They flooded their society with misinformation, then they attacked the institutions responsible for finding the truth, and then they capitalized on the confusion that followed.

Timothy Snyder

That’s a great summary, so I’ll try to lay out some of the details. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, there was a consolidation of various oligarchical clans in Russia, and it’s the Putin clan that emerged on top. And one of the first things Putin did was transform the information and media landscape.

He marginalized print media in favor of television, which he can more easily control. Second, he got rid of local news entirely, so that news is exclusively about larger themes of national greatness or injustices against Russia. He then unified television media so that there are five or six channels that are all peddling different stories that essentially transmit the same pro-Russia, pro-Putin message but in confusing and contradictory ways.

Sean Illing

And what’s the message?

Timothy Snyder

That you can’t really trust any of the information. That the whole world is conspiring against Putin and Russia. The real message isn’t that Russia is great or that any particular ideology is great; it’s that you can’t trust anyone or anything. There’s no reason to believe in anything. There is no truth. Your institutions are bogus.

Sean Illing

We’re now in a world in which information warfare is one of the primary modes of warfare, and you say that Russia, more than anyone else, is uniquely prepared for this kind of conflict.

Timothy Snyder

Americans often qualify the word “war” with “information” or “propaganda,” and the implication is that it’s not real war if it doesn’t involve combat, but that’s not how the Russians see it. War is about breaking the will of the enemy, and historically, combat was the means to that end. But you can break a country’s will without combat, and that’s how Russia uses misinformation.

You can see this in the development of their military doctrine and in the writings of the thinkers who most influenced Putin’s circle. They reached the conclusion that they could damage Western countries, and America in particular, without combat, and the internet was their main weapon.

Sean Illing

And they were able to do it because they understood the moral and cultural and political fault lines in this country?

Timothy Snyder

You don’t need a PhD in American studies to understand America’s basic conflicts. Race is our most divisive issue; it’s always been our most divisive issue. So Russia’s goal was simple enough: Use social media and the internet to push those buttons as much as possible and create more anger and polarization. And not only on race but on every contentious issue they could find.

Sean Illing

This seems like a good place to pivot to the Trump-Russia connection. You spend a whole chapter laying out why Russia saw Trump as the perfect vehicle for their cyberwar against America. Can you explain why that is?

Timothy Snyder

Obviously, there are numerous financial ties between Trump and Russia, and that’s a big reason why he was targeted. But they also understood that Trump’s weakness is that he’s not really a successful businessman. His strength is that he knows how to play one on TV, which are two very different things and two completely different skill sets.

But Trump is perfectly capable of playing a successful businessman on TV. And so he becomes this character in the American mind, and it’s that character that gives him the legitimacy to do things in domestic American politics and to propose himself as a presidential candidate.

His actual failures don’t matter; it doesn’t matter that Russian money kept him afloat all those years. What matters is that America is dominated by celebrity culture, and that’s a weakness the Russians could — and did — exploit.

“The real message isn’t that Russia is great or that any particular ideology is great; it’s that you can’t trust anyone or anything. There’s no reason to believe in anything. There is no truth. Your institutions are bogus.”

Sean Illing

You make a distinction between what you call “the politics of inevitability” and “the politics of eternity.” What is this, and why does it matter?

Timothy Snyder

One of the premises of this book is that we live in a world defined by ideas whether we realize it or not. And one idea, which I call the politics of inevitability, basically says that history is over, that liberal democracy is on the march and has essentially won. But this idea has clearly turned out not to be true.

The risk, however, is that we fall into what I call “the politics of eternity,” which says there isn’t really a future, that all the good things were in the past. And the reason why we don’t have these good things anymore is because of other people, usually internal enemies.

Russia has succeeded in building a regime that embodies the politics of eternity. No one has any idea what will happen in the Russian future. In fact, you can’t really talk about it, because you can’t really talk about Putin not being ruler. Instead, all you hear in Russia are fears about the West or fears about religious or ethnic minorities corrupting Russian society.

This is more or less what Trump has done in America. His whole vision, “Make America Great Again,” was about looking into the past and creating fear about immigrants and minorities. So he pushed vague promises about restoring the conditions of the past that his voters remember fondly.

The irony is that Trump insists the American dream is dead, and he has a point. But what he’s doing is turning this into a kind of zombie nightmare, where he’s actually going to make inequality worse and then blame other people for it, which will only make things worse.

Sean Illing

I walked away from your book feeling even more convinced that we’re trapped in the dynamic you just laid out, where more suffering leads to more resentment, which in turn produces more bad policies, and the whole cycle just perpetuates itself.

Timothy Snyder

The book is superficially gloomy, but it’s also deeply hopeful. I talk about all these points of crisis — in Russia, in Ukraine, in Europe, in America. But in each case, I’m also trying to point to a specific political virtue that is being challenged and that could be restored. And I’m actually trying to open up the conversation to that.

I think one of the things that’s gone wrong in our conversation, and one of the problems with the politics of inevitability, is that people think, “Well, everything’s going in the right direction,” which means they don’t have to think about what “right” means. You don’t have to actually ask yourself what’s good, what’s desirable. You can tell yourself that those conversations don’t matter because history’s just going to follow its own course.

The fundamental premise of the book is that we have to see ourselves as we are and where we are. We can’t assume that the system is going to correct itself. But we also can’t assume that we’re doomed. Both of those are a trap. The illusion of certain progress and certain doom are traps. We have to see ourselves right where we are.The Female Persuasion, the new novel by Meg Wolitzer, is self-consciously a zeitgeist book. It is a book about that once again fashionable concern, feminism, and about the ways women relate to each other.

But what’s most interesting about The Female Persuasion is less what its characters bring to feminism — their political motivations, their idealism, their labor — and more why they turn to it in the first place.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

For the two women at the center of the novel, feminism offers not just political purpose but, more crucially, a chance to find the attention and approval they so deeply crave. It is the messy, painful emotions of this book, rendered by Wolitzer with exacting specificity, that make it so stunning, while its zeitgeisty politics are rather beside the point.

The Female Persuasion’s central relationship unites two generations of feminism

Our two central women are Greer Kadetsky and Faith Frank, overachieving fourth-waver and aging second-wave icon, respectively, and their vexed, intimate relationship forms the heart of the novel.

Greer is a college freshman when we meet her, resentfully attending a third-tier liberal arts college after her stoner parents neglected to fill out the financial aid forms for Yale. She’s a passive good girl struggling to establish a new identity now that she’s at college, and becoming increasingly unsure that she can coast on being “the smart one” any longer. In the past, “facts appeared before her, and then she simply articulated them,” Wolitzer writes of Greer with characteristically brutal precision, “and in this way she became known as the smartest one in her class.” Now that she’s expected to interpret and analyze her facts, though, Greer finds herself flailing.

Feminism presents itself to Greer as a possible new identity after a frat boy gropes her at a party and Greer, outraged, joins a group of women in testifying that he assaulted them. She reads a few Jezebel-like blogs and watches a Vagina Monologues-like play. And feminism cements itself in Greer’s identity when Faith Frank comes to her campus.

Faith is “a couple of steps down from Gloria Steinem in fame,” and the editor-in-chief of Bloomer, “the scrappier, less famous little sister to Ms. magazine.” Greer knows little about feminism in general or Faith Frank in particular, but when she sees Faith speak, she is overwhelmed by the force of Faith’s warmth and charisma.

They share a moment. Faith gives Greer her business card. And four years later, when Greer graduates, she works that connection into a job at the new feminist nonprofit Faith has founded, backed by a venture capitalist of less-than-sterling reputation.

Greer does have political convictions. She was genuinely shaken by the frat boy who assaulted her, and genuinely wants to make the world a better place for women. But Greer is a striving Becky Sharp who thinks of herself as a principled Jane Eyre: Her political ideals aren’t quite as central to her identity as she would like them to be, not nearly as central her ambition. Feminism offers Greer an outlet for her ambitions, and moreover, it satisfies her desire to be close to Faith and her enormous presence, to find a new mother after her birth mother proved herself less than satisfactory.

That’s a desire Faith understands. Faith, too, found herself joining the feminist movement of the late ’60s partially out of principled political beliefs, and partially because it gave her a platform on which she might be noticed and admired.

So as The Female Persuasion goes on, Faith and Greer circle each other, each feeding the bottomless appetite of the other: Faith giving Greer approval and a sense of identity, Greer giving Faith worshipful admiration and respect. And while their mutual quests for love and approval are sometimes productive and nourishing and exciting, they can also be destructive. Each winds up sacrificing a friend to the cause along the way, Faith with few qualms and Greer with many.

The book’s feminist politics are weak. They’re also mostly beside the point.

The Female Persuasion is at its weakest when it tries to engage seriously with the politics of feminism. It is vaguely aware that second-wave feminism is considered out of date now, but it reacts with wide-eyed astonishment to the idea that feminism should be led by anyone besides well-educated middle-class white women: Women of color appear here primarily as props to be rescued or failed, or to briefly critique white feminism and then vanish again.

The solution Greer offers to the Trump era — the “big terribleness” that falls over the concluding chapter — is a Lean In-style manifesto that exhorts women to speak with their outside voices, and it’s never quite clear whether that book’s empty platitudes speak to the emptiness of Greer’s ambitions or are meant to be read as potentially constructive and empowering. This is not a book that is particularly interested in or good at critiquing systems of power.

Where it shines is in the emotional depth of its relationships. The by turns toxic and loving bond between Greer and Faith is the heart of the novel, but Greer and Faith’s other relationships — with their betrayed friends, with their lovers — sing with the specificity of their intimacy.

Perhaps most moving is the relationship between Greer and her high school boyfriend, Cory, who like Greer is a driven and ambitious high achiever until a family tragedy sends him back home to the suburbs to care for his traumatized mother. Wolitzer, who has also written middle-grade and YA novels, has a deft touch with teen love, and it shows in the echoes of pain Greer feels every time she sees the adult Cory, “as strong as a flare-up of a chronic illness.”

It’s that sort of fraught, earnest, deeply felt emotion that powers this book, that gives it its beating heart. The politics are more or less incidental, but the ways these characters relate are profoundly moving.Every week, some of Vox’s writers will gather to discuss the latest episode of FX’s spy drama The Americans. This week, a variety of writers offer their takes on “Tchaikovsky,” the second episode of the final season.

Elizabeth visits a long, mostly forgotten friend

Todd VanDerWerff: Last week, we learned that Elizabeth Jennings has been out there, being a spy, for the past three years, with no help at all from Philip. Remember in the season five finale when she told Tuan that the work they do is too difficult to do alone? (I don’t blame you if you completely forgot.) In “Dead Hand,” we got just a taste of how much it’s worn her down.

In “Tchaikovsky,” we get to see an Elizabeth who’s running so many different operations at once that you might wonder how she remembers who she is. When she contacts an old pal who can help her get hold of a piece of proprietary military tech, it’s natural to wonder if this guy has popped up in earlier seasons. (Dummy that I am, I forgot to check.)

But in the end, it almost doesn’t matter. What’s important here is that he refuses to work with her, then pulls a gun on her during their last meeting. But after an extremely stressful grappling match, it’s the general who dies, leaving Elizabeth covered in his blood. (Whether Elizabeth murdered the general or he killed himself was an open question in our group, thanks to the darkness of FX’s screeners. I think Elizabeth killed him, but if you disagree, reader, that’s just fine.)

And then Paige walks in and sees the bloody body.

This is The Americans in a nutshell. Is your duty more important, or your family? Should Paige hold back and not approach, or should she run in because she’s worried for her mom’s life? Or, let’s look at this another way: Is Elizabeth’s work with Paige stemming from her duty to her country or her duty as a mother to help her children become everything they can be? The knots are more twisted up than ever.

“Tchaikovsky” doesn’t have the propulsiveness of “Dead Hand” — a surprising amount of it is spent on business at the travel agency, for instance — but it continues the season’s theme of the marital split between Philip and Elizabeth manifesting itself in their approaches to their respective professions. I find it rather interesting that at this point in the season, the “character” I’m most worried about is their marriage.

And even if “Tchaikovsky” is a bit of a setup episode, a lot of the stuff it sets up is stuff I’m interested to see pay off. Stan finding out Oleg is in town promises something great once the two of them are in each other’s orbit again, while the ongoing peeks into what’s happening over in the USSR are making me wonder just how political (well, “political” insofar as we’re concerned about the policies of Mikhail Gorbachev) this final season is going to be.

But let’s answer the really important question here: If something happens to Elizabeth, is Claudia really going to become, effectively, Paige’s surrogate mother? I can’t imagine the two women having all that much in common, but God knows Claudia’s trying.

Libby Nelson: We did meet Gen. Rennhull before — or at least Philip did, way back in the finale of season one. He was “the colonel” then (he’s apparently moved up the ranks), ready to sell the secrets of Reagan’s “Star Wars” program to Elizabeth. At the last minute, afraid the meeting was a trap, Philip went to meet the colonel instead. But Rennhull was legit. It was Elizabeth’s meeting, on the other side of town, that was the setup. That’s when Stan shot her in the abdomen.

I had to look that up — and Rennhull’s relative obscurity, I think, is part of the point. Six years ago, he was a source important enough that meeting him was the climax of the season. (It was even the title of the episode: “The Colonel”!) Since then, there have been so many clandestine meetings, so many close calls, and more than a few loose ends. Who else have we forgotten? What other long-forgotten source from the past can turn up and knock down the whole house of cards?

Besides Rennhull, though, there was another echo of “The Colonel” in “Tchaikovsky.” That first-season episode also saw Elizabeth making a contingency plan should the worst happen. Back then, she could barely stand to be in the same room as Claudia; meanwhile, the Jenningses, still separated, were squabbling at Dupont Circle Travel over who’d get to walk into a likely trap.

Elizabeth insisted that she take the meeting with Rennhull to keep Philip safe to look after the kids: “After everything, it should be you,” she said. “I want it to be you.” They wouldn’t formally reconcile until after Elizabeth got shot, but that scene was a signal that their (admittedly far from normal) marriage was somehow intact.

Now Claudia is the contingency plan. Philip is barely in the picture. The breakup of a marriage, as Stan and Aderholt reminded us, is sad even if nobody’s life is at risk. Is Elizabeth’s biggest threat right now Philip — or is it her own riskiness, unchecked without him?

The gap between Philip and Elizabeth is becoming a chasm

Genevieve Koski: This episode really exposed just how wide the gap has become between Philip and Elizabeth, not only as a couple but as parents.

There’s a distinct delineation happening in the Jennings clan right now, and it’s split along gender lines: We get our first real glimpse of Henry (So grown! So stonewashed!) this season through his phone conversation with Philip, which centers on Philip’s travel agency woes specifically.

In one sense it’s comical how drastically different this is from what Elizabeth and Paige go through in this episode, but it’s also a little sad to see that Henry, away at that boarding school he was eyeing last season, is apparently as isolated from the women of his family as Philip is. (There’s a bit of an echo happening here with Stan’s connection to Henry, rather than his own child, as his marriage was falling apart.)

Philip is at least aware of the opposing forces that are pulling at the Jennings family — indeed, he was instrumental in establishing that divide — but Henry is still just out there dangling, blithely unaware of the invisible rift working its way through his family. And maybe that’s precisely why Philip reaches out to his son, a bastion of normalcy far removed — literally — from the terse conversations he’s having with Elizabeth about her work and Paige’s “mistake.”

It’s seeming less and less like Henry will become aware of the other family business before the series ends, at least in time for us to see him adjust to it the way we watched Paige do so over the last couple of seasons. It’s always been a bit of a joke how removed Henry seems from the inner workings of the Jennings clan — which is perhaps why I always love bringing him up in these recaps — but shuffling him away to boarding school has more or less downgraded him to guest star, both in his family and on the series.

Hell, we’ve spent more time this season with Sofia and Gennadi (whose FBI code name is apparently “Teacup”), two other characters I had completely forgotten about but who take center stage in Stan’s storyline this episode.

I admit to having some trouble tracking the specifics of Sofia and Gennadi’s marital woes and how they relate to Stan and Aderholt’s work with each of them, but the parallelism of a dissolving marriage with life-or-death stakes is clear enough, as is the irony of Stan telling Aderholt “I’m not a marriage counselor,” which is so thick you could spread it on toast.

Broken marriages are all over this episode — Stan and Aderholt both also briefly mention their own divorces — which sort of makes Stan’s storyline this episode feel like a thematically appropriate placeholder until we get to the Stan-informant reunion we really want, which is Oleg. That said, it did at least result in a nice spywork sequence (set to Talking Heads!) involving adjoining bathroom stalls and an X-ray machine, so it wasn’t a complete wash.

Caroline Framke: I forgot how comically bad Team Teacup is at being FBI sources, and how that entire storyline of Stan and Aderholt trying to make them at all decent was (maybe unintentionally) hilarious, but whew. Maybe the husband will pull out something interesting against all odds — that bathroom setup was, indeed, pretty impressive — but if anything, that pairing mostly serves to underline just how good the other undercover Russian couple at the center of this show actually is. As The Americans both shows and tells us over and over again, not everyone can handle this kind of work, let alone be anywhere near Philip and Elizabeth’s level.

But like Genevieve said, the contrast between Philip and Elizabeth’s current jobs continues to get starker in “Tchaikovsky.” Elizabeth is juggling state secrets about Reagan’s potential senility and trying to get her hands on a lithium-based reactor; Philip is sad he lost a client. The difference in their respective stakes would be laughable if Elizabeth’s weren’t so horrifying.

Last week, I wrote that it was only a matter of time before Paige realized that her parents’ work isn’t the clean-cut decency that they sold her. I did not think that would happen quite this quickly or — I’m so sorry — explosively!

It did seem as though Paige was already questioning her mother’s honesty when she asked her, straight up, whether KGB agents use sex to get information — and Elizabeth replied with a firm “no.” Even though Elizabeth followed up with a more wishy-washy “things aren’t so black and white” clarification, it seemed pretty clear that Paige didn’t totally buy it.

Frankly, I’m not sure what Elizabeth’s end game was in shielding Paige from the realities of the job. Of course she and Claudia would want to gradually ease Paige into the more harrowing aspects, but if she truly is continuing down this track, she was always going to have to learn the harsh realities of what her parents — and now she — are expected to do for the cause. Now, after Paige found Elizabeth drenched in someone else’s blood and viscera, there should be no going back to patriotic platitudes.

Libby: It seems out of character that Paige even asked — the honey trap/femme fatale isn’t exactly a new trope in American popular culture, and her parents once lectured her about how sex makes you vulnerable and you say things you shouldn’t. Of course no one wants to think about their parents having sex with strangers as part of their job, but Paige wasn’t asking if Elizabeth did it; she was asking about the KGB as a whole. The only explanation that makes sense is she was testing her mother’s honesty.

Is Elizabeth lying to Paige, though, or is she lying to herself about the realities of her daughter’s future? She seems to believe what she told Philip: Paige’s life will be different. She’ll have a professional job somewhere in the American security state and pass secrets to the Soviets on the side.

Her value to the KGB is so great that others might always do her dirty work. But even in the best-case scenario, she faces a life of risk (the State Department, we learned this week, isn’t exactly lackadaisical about security) and isolation.

The spycraft this season has been almost all about the women; Paige, Claudia, and Elizabeth are the ones on the missions while Stan, Philip, and Oleg are on the sidelines. (Stan confirmed this week that, like Philip, he’s happy to have left espionage behind him.) The Americans has some of the best female characters on TV, but it’s rarely about gender; is there a broader theme here that I’m missing?

Meanwhile, if Philip and Stan are both meeting with Oleg, they’re going to end up closer to each other professionally than they’ve been in a long time, and I’m very excited — and have some wild theories — about how that could play out.

What is this season trying to say about gender?

Genevieve: I am here for your wild theories re: Oleg, Libby, but the idea that there’s some sort of gender commentary happening with the distribution of spywork this season gives me pause. First of all, we did see Philip dust off his chops last week to meet with Oleg, and the spy-versus-spy conflict that meeting established suggests it may not be the last we see of it — though we may be seeing it in conflict with Elizabeth’s work, which is definitely different. And while Philip and Stan may have stayed on the sidelines this episode, ol’ Teacup was at least holding it down for spycraft with a Y chromosome.

What’s more striking to me about the spycraft differential — and where I think this vague sense of gendered work may stem from — is the extent to which Elizabeth specifically is shouldering all the “dirty work” she used to split with Philip. Both of them have engaged in their fair share of the more harrowing aspects of the job — sex and murder, basically — but with Philip out of the game, and Paige removed from those elements, at least for now, Elizabeth has to continue that labor on her own, with no one to share the emotional burden. (The idea of sex and murder as emotional labor is so quintessentially The Americans.)

With Paige now having witnessed one aspect of that dirty work and developing strong suspicions about the other, Elizabeth may now have someone to share the burden with — or, more likely, will take on an even greater emotional weight as a result.

Caroline: I have a feeling that we’ll have plenty of time to parse the significance of these gender breakdowns as the season goes forward, so I’m going to shift gears slightly and go back a bit to something “Tchaikovsky” does very well.

I actually disagree with Todd — the horror! — that this episode isn’t as propulsive as the premiere. Granted, “Philip gets frustrated with his travel agency” isn’t exactly spellbinding stuff, but the Stan storyline finds a way to hum along with that bathroom scene, and Elizabeth ping-ponging between assignments is tense in a way that recalls some of The Americans’ best moments.

I’d believe that just based on the stressful scenes of her evading security in the State Department alone. But that awful, riveting standoff ending still manages to steal that sequence’s thunder, especially for that lightning-quick moment in which Elizabeth goes from pleading with the general to spare her because she’s a mother to lunging at him with a rush of determination and panic. Director Matthew Rhys(!) once again crushes it, imbuing the entire episode with a thrumming, simmering unease that pushes in at the edges of every scene.

Todd: I was on set for the filming of certain scenes in this episode (notably the conversation between Elizabeth and Claudia about Paige’s future), and it was striking to watch Rhys work. Critics like me, used to parsing a filmed piece via its visuals, sometimes forget how much of direction is guiding the actors toward the performance that will best serve the material. And you might also think that on a show in its sixth season, the actors already know what they will be doing.

But watching Rhys work with Keri Russell and Margo Martindale to find the emotional core of the scene reminded me of how much craft is in every scene on this show. (I should also say that watching Russell go from “Keri Russell as Elizabeth Jennings” during rehearsal to ELIZABETH JENNINGS when the camera was on was a little awe-inspiring, as someone who can’t act his way off a bare stage.)

But I also like how willing Rhys is to just let quieter moments play out. I think back to his direction of “The Magic of David Copperfield V: The Statue of Liberty Disappears” (still my choice for the show’s best episode), and what was so striking about that was that nearly wordless opening montage of Martha leaving the US behind forevermore.

The scene where the characters just sit and listen to music is a good example of this. Rhys’s camera captures just the right angle on the individual emotional turmoil of these three women, but what stands out is the music, the way it informs the characters and the performances, and his trust in the performers to just put this over. (I find actors-turned-directors often have a higher trust in their performers than other directors, for reasons that should seem a little obvious.)

I also liked his direction of the State Department scene, with Elizabeth slipping away from the tour group and then evading security without raising the suspicion of her contact. The sequence conveys, readily, the desperation Elizabeth (and by proxy her country) feel in these waning days of the Cold War. But it also creates tension in what amounts to a couple of people checking badges in a room. It’s terrific stuff, just very small-scale.

Maybe this is what I mean by “Tchaikovsky” not being as propulsive — yes, it’s got some amazing sequences, but it also takes its time for these quieter scenes. But then, that’s why this show has always been one of my favorites — it depicts the dark, emotional labor (great catch, Genevieve) of spycraft, but also the little moments that still make life worth living for these characters. That balance feels like it’s slipping away this late in the game, so it’s nice to see it still exists on the margins.Cynthia Nixon is in the middle of a very familiar argument.

Nixon, who played high-powered lawyer Miranda Hobbes on Sex and the City for six seasons and two movies, recently announced her candidacy for New York state governor. And almost immediately, a debate emerged. Was Nixon’s time on Sex and the City a liability or an asset?

More crudely: Thinking about a Gov. Cynthia Nixon inevitably means imagining a Gov. Miranda Hobbes, separation between actor and character be damned. And whether that’s a good thing or not depends on whom you ask.

“New Yorkers are hoping Cynthia Nixon is exactly like Miranda,” wrote Jennifer Wright at the New York Post. “The take-no-nonsense badass Miranda is the right symbol at the right time — especially for young women.”

But at the New York Times, Gov. Miranda sounded like a terrible idea. Sex and the City, wrote Ginia Bellafante, “helped solidify the image of the city as a luxury brand — an elite, fantastical consumer paradise where it was never too early or late in the day to buy an $800 pair of shoes.” And so despite Nixon’s ostensibly populist politics, the article concluded, her association with frothy, silly Sex and the City might mean that she is not “the best vessel for her own invaluable message.”

Nixon is not her character, as both Wright and Bellafante are well aware. Her political qualifications or lack thereof are entirely separate from her time as Miranda. But any time celebrities run for political office, they take with them the baggage of their most iconic roles, and for some voters, the slippage between celebrity and persona becomes unavoidable.

Donald Trump’s time hosting The Apprentice had little relevance to what he would be like as a president, but the image it created of Trump as a competent, take-charge businessman was invaluable in his quest for the White House. When Ronald Reagan ran for president, he relied heavily on the avuncular intimacy he’d created with the American people after years of appearing on their television screens, in their living rooms.

Related Oprah and the fantasy of a celebrity president

So the specter of Miranda will continue to haunt Nixon’s run for office — and so will the question of whether serious, ambitious Miranda would be a good governor, or whether anything associated with frivolous and frilly Sex and the City belongs nowhere near the governor’s seat.

What’s most striking about this debate is that it is the exact opposite of the cultural conversation we used to have about Miranda. As recently as five years ago, the question wasn’t whether Miranda was too flighty to be taken seriously, but whether she was too dour and unpleasant to be worth paying any attention to whatsoever.

Miranda is eternally caught between the poles of hard power and soft power fantasies — and that makes her an increasingly confusing ghost to have haunting a gubernatorial race.

For most of Sex and the City’s run, no one wanted to be considered the Miranda

Of the four women at the center of Sex and the City, Miranda used to be considered the least aspirational. She was the killjoy, the cynic who didn’t believe in soul mates and who bought a house in Brooklyn instead of collecting Manolo Blahniks. And — perhaps most importantly — she had short hair where her co-stars had long, flowing locks.

In 2010, when a contestant on America’s Next Top Model was given a short haircut, her fellow contestants snickered that it made her look like Miranda from Sex and the City. The newly Miranda’d girl burst into tears. “‘Miranda Hobbes’ is the new ‘you’re ugly,’” concluded Jezebel at the end of the episode.

Miranda’s short hair was a metonym for all that made Miranda an odd fit for the show in which she found herself. Like Miranda herself, the haircut was serious where the rest of the show was dreamy, practical where the rest of the show was romantic. It was Power Bitch lawyer hair in a show built around the impeccable bedhead of Sarah Jessica Parker’s Carrie Bradshaw.

So when Sex and the City fans played the “which one are you” game, Miranda was widely considered to be the worst possible answer. “Let’s be real: no one ever says that they are the Miranda,” wrote Andrea Wurzburger in 2013. “But when a girl is told that she is, this is what she hears: ‘You’re annoying, you’re a pessimist, you care too much about work. You’re a party pooper. I hate you. I fast forward through your dialogue any time you come on screen.’”

Articles abounded arguing that Miranda was the worst character on the show, that she made you want to scream at her. She was too pessimistic, too serious, too cynical about men, for the frothy world in which she appeared.

In this decade, Miranda has undergone a feminist reclamation of sorts. The Instagram account Every Outfit on SATC began what it described to Vogue as an attempt to “reclaim and rebrand” Miranda as a Hillary Clinton-esque role model. “She’s always been the underdog, the awkward one,” they said, “but she’s a partner at a law firm, she has a brownstone in Brooklyn, she has a full-time housekeeper; that’s as aspirational as you can get.”

But celebrations of Miranda still generally find themselves beginning with a defensive undertone.

“The fact that everyone wants to be a Carrie and nobody wants to be a Miranda should be a federal crime,” wrote Elle in 2015.

“Contrary to popular opinion, Miranda is actually the best character on Sex and the City,” wrote Man Repeller in 2017.

For more than a decade, Miranda’s seriousness was an enormous liability. And now, just as it becomes aspirational, she’s been hit with a new problem: She is now, in fact, too silly, too frivolous, too frothy; not worth taking seriously at all.

Pundits make cracks about Cynthia Nixon’s “designer purse.” Every article about her candidacy has to pause for the inevitable “I couldn’t help but wonder” jokes, and even articles ostensibly arguing in favor of her political chops will admit that “the tweeting of embarrassing GIFs and salacious moments from her time on the show isn’t exactly a particularly dignified or elegant start to a major political push.”

In all of the requisite “Sex and the City star announces run for governor” headlines, there’s a little breath of scandalized incredulity: Not just an actor but an actor from Sex and the City is running for office. Can you believe it?

The Miranda paradox speaks to a fundamental conflict between hard power and soft power fantasies

In some ways, this shift is a natural consequence of what happens when we take a fantasy out of its original context. When Miranda was treated as a romantic fantasy for women about love and work, her cynicism was a liability; when she’s treated as a fantasy of a politician, her romanticism becomes a problem.

But the narrowness of the window of time in which Miranda was able to be unproblematically aspirational speaks to how narrow we keep the parameters of acceptable fantasy roles for women, and how strictly we police their boundaries. It is extremely difficult to make a serious, intellectual woman into a romantic fantasy, and it is extremely difficult to make a romantic fantasy into a political fantasy.

By contrast, the fantasy roles we offer men transition easily from one sphere of power to another. An action hero like Arnold Schwarzenegger goes from Terminator to Governator. A “businessman” like Trump goes from the boardroom to the Oval Office. Fatherly Reagan becomes the patriarch of the nation.

Regardless of the baggage and policies these men brought to their campaigns, it was easy for voters to imagine them as powerful, competent politicians because they were used to thinking of them as powerful, competent figures onscreen. And that’s a transition that’s much easier for men than it is for women. When men act out power fantasies, they get to use hard power: They shoot guns and beat people up, or they use their lavish wealth to hire and fire people at will. The presidency is an office of hard power — it’s the chief executive office — so the transition can occur seamlessly. It makes emotional sense.

But when women act out power fantasies, they tend to be given soft power. They are beautiful women with beautiful clothes, and they often use these assets to attract or compel men, thus gaining a mediated access to the men’s power without having to accumulate any of their own and become threatening. So on Sex and the City, Carrie doesn’t have much money, but that’s okay because, in times of crisis, Mr. Big can offer her his. (“He’s the next Donald Trump, except he’s younger and much better looking,” we learn of Big in the pilot.)

But when a power fantasy based in soft power tries to take up the mantle of hard power, we get confused. We don’t like it. It’s off-putting.

So Miranda was a weird fit for Sex and the City in the first place because she was an avatar of hard power, not soft power. She bought her own apartment, even when the other women in the core cast explained that doing so would make her unattractive to men and that’s why they all rented. Miranda wanted property of her own. She wanted money and professional clout. And that made some fans resent her.

And now, Cynthia Nixon is haunted by the ghost of Sex and the City because Sex and the City is a soft power fantasy, and we can’t imagine a figure of soft power — even one who never perfectly embodied that fantasy — acting as a political executive. It does not compute.Before many people join a network, it may not be so useful. But the more people join, the more useful it becomes. That’s the network effect. Facebook is a step beyond that — it’s the network effect on steroids.

This is what makes Facebook so great: It knows everything about you! That’s also what makes Facebook so awful: It knows everything about you. And while its 2.13 billion monthly users don’t pay any money to use the core service, Facebook makes plenty of money — millions daily — by selling access to users’ data to advertisers. And everyone on the site agreed to this when they signed up.

What happened with Cambridge Analytica illustrates how our personal boundaries for using that data in the real world are being tested. Facebook allows academic researchers more access to user data than commercial companies and app developers. So a researcher built a personality quiz app under those guidelines, and people used the app — and in doing so, allowed it to harvest anonymized data from their Facebook profiles.

But they also gave the app access to data from their friends, who did not directly consent to the terms of the app. So while only 270,000 users took the quiz, by Facebook’s latest estimate, the app was able to harvest data of at least 87 million users. Here’s the kicker: This was all aboveboard. The data collection didn’t violate any rules.

But what wasn’t allowed was selling that data — originally collected for research purposes — to Cambridge Analytica, which used it for business purposes.

This has a lot of people frustrated with Facebook. But at the end of the day, it doesn’t matter so much to Facebook’s bottom line whether you like their website, only that you’re using it. Because remember, you’re not just a customer; you’re also the product. And Facebook knows that as long as your 2 billion friends are online, you’re probably not going anywhere.

You can watch all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.People spend the majority of their lives in one of three places. The first is the home, the second is the workplace, and the third is any other social space.

Those “third places” are critical for relationships. Ray Oldenburg introduced the concept in his 1989 book The Great Good Place.

In their best iterations, third places are the building blocks of community — think public libraries, local cafes, or the neighborhood barbershop. But when Americans started building and moving into new suburbs in the 1950s, they had a problem. There weren’t enough social spaces to hang out with friends or meet their neighbors.

“The problem with our society since World War 2 is that the government ruined community by single-use zoning,” Oldenburg told Vox. “There are no places that people can get together where they live. It’s the dumbest thing in the world.”

So where did suburbanites go? Cue the mall music.

At the same time suburbs were being built, the first indoor shopping malls were designed. They were supposed to be the idyllic community centers for the suburbs.

Between 1970 and 2017, the number of American shopping malls quadrupled. It was the golden era of the mall. So many were built that they became de-facto social space for America’s suburban youth.

But 60 years later, social connections form as much on apps like Instagram or WhatsApp as they do in real life. And as more Americans do their shopping online, the predicted “shopping mall apocalypse” will eliminate a prolific, albeit imperfect, third place.

The decline of the mall though doesn’t need to be the death of the third place. Watch the video above to find out why.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.Light is flooding into the Arctic. There will be winners and losers.

That’s what brought an international group of scientists to the Barents Sea to investigate how plant and animal life will adapt to the new normal.

Two key factors that govern the Arctic ecosystem are rapidly changing: ice and light. The Arctic is the fastest-warming place on earth, and ice that used to form on the surface of the ocean is vanishing. That’s threatening species large and small that rely on it, but it’s also created an opportunity. Less ice means more light reaches the underwater ecosystem, benefiting the algae that anchor it as well as apex predators like whales and seals.

(To learn more, watch the video above.)

This video is part of a three-part series on the changing Arctic. Thanks to the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting for supporting Thaw. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe and stay tuned for more.

Footage and story made possible by Interdependent Pictures’ documentary film Into the Dark, coming in 2019.In the season finale of Divided States of Women, we traveled to the feminist haven of Iceland. For nine years in a row, Iceland has been ranked No. 1 on the World Economic Forum’s gender equality index.

We had to find out why.

In the country’s gorgeous but chilly terrain, we talked to the youngest woman to ever be elected to the Icelandic parliament and huddled with a group of men to talk about the near-certain pitfalls they experience with so much gender equality around them. Their responses may surprise you.China has embarked on the most ambitious infrastructure project in modern world history. It’s called the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), and it spans three continents and covers almost 60 percent of the world’s population. It’s how China plans to become the world’s next superpower.

The BRI essentially has two parts. The first, the economic belt, is made up of six corridors that direct trade to and from China. These corridors include roads, railways, bridges, power plants — anything that makes it easier for Europe, Asia, and Africa to trade goods with China. The second part, the maritime silk road, is a chain of seaports from the South China Sea to the Indian Ocean that direct maritime trade to and from China.

China is loaning trillions of dollars to countries willing to host these projects. They’re promoted as a win-win for everyone. Many of the countries involved need new infrastructure and access to new markets, while China needs new projects for its growing construction industry. But many of the countries involved in the BRI are authoritarian, corrupt, and in conflict — risky places for China to invest money in.

Watch the video above to see why China is willing to take that risk with its Belt and Road Initiative. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.At the 75th Annual Golden Globes, celebrities wore black to raise awareness about sexual abuse in Hollywood. In collaboration with a campaign called Times Up, they used their influence to convey the message: “Hey, bad men of Hollywood — your time is up!”

The campaign is comprehensive and inclusive, focusing partially on women that don’t have access to resources to report crimes against them or high-profile names that draw attention. But, this is a new turn and the media’s coverage of the experiences of celebrities is both exciting and illustrates a fundamental divide around when and where we care about sexual harassment in the workplace. The problem is hard to ignore when it impacts famous, privileged women, but what about the women that don’t have the spotlight on them?

This week’s episode of the Divided States of Women examines a different face of sexual harassment in the workplace: restaurant workers. According to the Restaurant Opportunities Center, 90 percent of women that work in the food industry have reported being sexually harassed at work. We dig into what that means, and what some people are doing to fight back.The idea that men get more distinguished with age and women essentially “expire” is such common knowledge that you might even accept it as truth, rather than what it is: unequal treatment.

As if the pressures to be thin and beautiful aren’t enough, women are also expected to miraculously not age. The anti-aging craze has grown exponentially in recent years. As of 2016, it was a $250 billion industry, expected to reach about $330 billion in 2021. This includes various treatments and products that promise to keep you looking young: Some people are even injecting themselves with the blood of teenagers. No, we’re not making that up. And, no, it doesn’t work.

This week’s Divided States of Women digs into the double standards women experience with aging, from popular culture to the movies and in our personal lives. We also talk to Stacy London about ways to combat anti-aging discrimination.Congress recently approved $380 million to fund state efforts to address the security of election systems ahead of the 2018 midterm elections. What’s that all about?

If you’ve been paying attention to the news recently, you know there’s evidence that Russia tried to manipulate the 2016 US presidential campaign. How Russia did it and the degree to which those attempts were successful is the subject of intense scrutiny. But the focus on foreign meddling has obscured another type of threat. American electronic voting machines, many of which haven’t been replaced in more than a decade, are being used well past their expected life span and are breaking down, leading to long lines and frustrated voters.

In her story on American election security, ProPublica’s Kate Rabinowitz revealed that many state and local election officials are suffering a funding crisis. Without the money needed to maintain and update electronic voting machines, officials have to make do with equipment that was manufactured in 2008 or even earlier. By isolating machines from the internet and keeping them in secure locations, officials are able to reduce the threat of widespread hacking, but the machines are plagued with more mundane technical problems that states have been slow to address and could have major consequences for future elections.

To learn what those problems are and how we got here, watch the video above.

This video was made as part of Vox’s collaboration with ProPublica. Read their full in-depth story here. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe and stay tuned for more from our ProPublica partnership.When discussing strategies to end discrimination, in the workplace and beyond, there is often a focus on blatant forms of racist, sexist, ableist, and other types of offensive language and behavior.

But what about actions that are harder to identify?

According to the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity, unconscious bias or implicit bias, as it is sometimes called, is a set of “attitudes or stereotypes that affect our understanding, actions, and decisions” without us even realizing it.

The concept has gained more attention in recent years as researchers and advocates are finding that discrimination, from job to college applications, are impacted by factors people may not be aware of.

This week’s Divided States of Women talks to two experts, Vernā Myers and Dr. Corey Williams, about why it is so hard to confront our unconscious biases, why we absolutely have to and some tips to identify these behaviors in our own lives.If you’ve ever seen a Corinthian column, you’ve probably seen a familiar leafy design. As the above video shows, that design is strikingly consistent throughout history.

These leaves actually have an originating myth courtesy of the writer Vitruvius, crediting the sculptor Callimachus with the creation of the Corinthian column. The acanthus leaves on the column have remained consistent over millennia and, over time, have come to represent more than just a sturdy plant.

They’re on display at the National Arboretum in Washington, DC, where columns that used to sit on the United States Capitol have been relocated. These striking columns aren’t just a historical record — they’re a symbol of how Corinthian design and acanthus leaves manage to endure over time.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes.Selfies are everywhere. They’re part of how we present ourselves, how we communicate — and increasingly, how we think about our appearance. And that isn’t always a positive thing.

More and more, concerns about appearance in selfies are driving people to get nose jobs. In a poll by the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 55 percent of facial plastic surgeons reported seeing patients who wanted surgeries to help them look better in selfies. That was an increase of 13 percent from the previous year.

But those concerns are often the result of a camera illusion that occurs when a photo is taken extremely close to a subject. Researchers from Rutgers University and Stanford University demonstrated that effect in a paper published in the journal JAMA Facial Plastic Surgery. They found that the nose looks about 30 percent larger at one foot away than it does from five feet away:

For anyone who’s taken a selfie before, that’s not entirely surprising. But researchers at Princeton created a tool that could fix that, by altering the apparent distance and position of camera and subject after the photo is taken. It’s a pretty uncanny effect (you can try it out for yourself), but it could prove to be an important technology in creating a forward-facing camera for pictures that feel more like us.

Watch the video above to see how this visual illusion distorts the way your face looks in selfies. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.It’s difficult to imagine watching a major news segment about gun control without hearing from the National Rifle Association. The group claims to represent millions of gun owners and calls itself “America’s longest-standing civil rights organization.” It has become a regular fixture in public debates about gun violence, arguing against even basic restrictions on gun sales and ownership.

But the NRA is a powerful industry lobbying group, often working on behalf of gun manufacturers. The group gets millions of dollars in direct donations from gun companies every year, and millions more in ad space that gun companies buy in NRA publications. Some gun companies donate a portion of every gun purchase directly to the NRA. The NRA has a “Golden Ring of Freedom” program that acknowledges groups that donate more than $1 million to the organization. “Golden Ring of Freedom” honorees include companies like Beretta and Smith & Wesson, the manufacturer that created the gun used in the school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

That allegiance to gun manufacturers means that the NRA’s top priority in any debate about gun violence is protecting the product — deflecting attention away from gun sales. And that creates a badly warped view of the gun debate, where commonsense solutions to gun violence are ignored while the public attempts to make sense of the NRA’s distractions.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes of Strikethrough, our series exploring the media in the age of Trump.The students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are changing the rhetoric around school shootings and gun control, and have succeeded in keeping the tragedy in Parkland, Florida, in the news for much longer than the media’s usual attention span.

With the March for Our Lives and planned school walkouts, student activists hope to turn their vocal protest of gun violence into a sustained movement.

Their activism got us wondering what other students were saying about school shootings and gun control. So we asked. We began a survey two weeks after the shooting at Stoneman Douglas, and within a few days, we had heard from 1,635 students around the world.

We heard from kids who wanted to arm teachers. We heard from a lot more who hated the idea. We heard about the drills in which students learn how to respond to an active shooter on their campus. We heard from a lot of young men and women counting down the days until they could vote.

And we heard from Parkland students directly about why adults should take this wave of student activism seriously.

“Why should they listen to me? Because I had to sit in a classroom, in the dark, next to 20 of my friends, watching us all text our parents that we loved them. Because we didn’t know if a shooter was going to come up to our door,” student activist Jaclyn Corin told me. “That’s why I’m credible.”

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes.The American plate has increasingly lacked nutritious food. This eating trend has serious consequences: There is a strong link between diets low in fruits and vegetables and obesity and diabetes.

One reason why Americans tend to choose less healthy options is simple: cost. Processed foods tend to have a lot more calories at a lower price; that’s more bang for your buck than fresh food if you’re on a budget.

Fresh fruits and veggies are more expensive to farm than crops that will be processed. Produce relies on human labor rather than machines, and machines are more efficient and cheaper in the long run. But the US government also doesn’t subsidize leafy vegetable crops in the same way it supports wheat, soy, and corn, vital ingredients in a lot of junk food.

Some programs in the United States are trying to steer consumers toward healthier options. Researchers are suggesting a junk food tax on “nonessential” foods like candy, soda, and potato chips as the next frontier in public health policy. Experts cite similar taxes on alcohol and cigarettes that have worked to curb consumption.

And there are programs trying to make produce more affordable for lower-income Americans. The Fruit and Vegetable Prescription Program, or FVRx, for example, enables doctors to give participants $1 vouchers toward fresh produce. Other potential solutions include community gardens and creative advertising for healthy eating.

More research is needed to find out which policies work best, but they are worth trying for one simple reason — if Americans ate more fruits and vegetables, they’d be a whole lot healthier.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes.The conversation about monuments, specifically Confederate monuments, has heated up in the last few months. Battles have been waged across the country about whether these monuments should be taken down. One such confrontation became deadly when, earlier this year, white nationalists gathered in Charlottesville, North Carolina to protest the removal of a monument of Robert E. Lee.

Some say monuments dedicated to those who fought for the Confederacy in the Civil War represent the vilest parts of our history and should be removed. Others, including President Donald Trump, have argued that they are part of our history and should remain.

Given these debates, it’s fair to ask: How do we decide who should have a monument dedicated to them? And why are there so few monuments of women and people of color?

This week’s Divided States of Women tackles these questions, and asks Sarah Eagle Heart, an indigenous rights activist, what it means to be left out of history.Amazon has hundreds of types of male condoms available, in all shapes, sizes, colors, and flavors. You can walk into pretty much any gas station, supermarket, or pharmacy and easily buy a male condom.

How many types of female condoms are available in the US? Just one. And you need a prescription to get it.

The first prototype for the modern female condom was created by a Danish doctor named Lasse Hessel. It was brought to the United States in the ’90s and didn’t sell very well. Women complained that it made noise, and without proper use, it would fall out during sex.

The company that manufactured them came out with a second, improved version but didn’t market it very well, and as a result, only about 8 percent of US women reportedly used one.

All of this despite the fact that female condoms are the only woman-initiated method of preventing both unplanned pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections, and they’re about as effective as male condoms.

Additionally, in 2017, the company that makes the only female condom approved by the US Food and Drug Administration switched to a prescription-based model, so if you want to get one, you need to go see your doctor or buy it directly from their website.

Watch the video above to see why it’s so hard to find a female condom.

You can watch all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.Since the sexual harassment allegations against Harvey Weinstein broke in October 2017, #MeToo has gone from viral hashtag meant to show the pervasiveness of sexual assault to a full-blown movement that encompasses dating, consent, and more. But as new discussions surrounding sexual harassment surface and the boundaries of the movement are tested, talks of a generational divide have started to emerge.

In January, Babe.net published the account of a young woman who said comedian Aziz Ansari pressured her for sex on a date. When HLN host Ashleigh Banfield criticized the accuser of harming Ansari’s reputation over a “bad date,” the 22-year-old journalist who wrote the story responded by calling Banfield a “burgundy lipstick bad highlights second-wave feminist” whom “no one under the age of 45 has ever heard of.”

On the flip side, Bill Maher claims the problem with the #MeToo movement is “fucking fragile” millennials.

But according to a survey Vox conducted with Morning Consult, a nonpartisan technology and media company, the experiences and opinions of ordinary women don’t fit this narrative of generational divide. In a nationally representative sample of 2,511 women around the country, we found that a majority of women of all ages support the #MeToo movement. And they agree on a lot more.

Watch the video above to learn more about our findings and what women of all ages have to say about harassment and the #MeToo movement. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.When you picture an alien, what do you see?

No one really knows what aliens look like, but we all have similar ideas about them. It’s often a creature with a big head, long arms and legs, and big, buggy eyes. We see these common images of aliens depicted in movies, books, and on TV shows — which are made by us.

Science fiction stories often explore the relationship between humans and aliens. So we find extraterrestrial creatures endowed with relatable human features. According to Charley Henley, a VFX supervisor who worked on Ridley Scott’s Alien series, “A lot of [Scott’s] designs are tied in with the human anatomy, and I think that is the common theme. We put a lot of humans into the aliens.” In our stories, we naturally anthropomorphize these creatures — so they end up looking, acting, and feeling just like us.

But when you talk to scientists actually looking for extraterrestrial life — and not imagining it — it’s a whole different story. Andrew Siemion, the director of SETI Research Center at UC Berkely, believes that if there’s any life out in space that’s similar to humans, they’d be using technology in a similar way as we do. So he and his colleagues conduct astronomy experiments to detect signs of technology out in space. But that doesn’t mean he has a better idea of what these creatures would look like. He said:

It’s science fiction. I mean, as of now, hopefully, someday we will detect life on another world — maybe many examples of life on many worlds — and then we can have more accurate science fiction. But I think as of now, a guess of a science fiction novelist is as good as a scientist. Science fiction is one expression of our profound sense of awe and wonder about whether we are alone in the universe.

Watch the video above to see how we humans perceive aliens and how that shapes our imagination of life beyond our planet.

You can watch all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.By the mid-20th century, road tripping was an iconic American pastime. A growing middle class meant more people had cars and jobs with paid vacation leave, and Americans used that time to travel with their families to visit sites like Mount Rushmore, the Grand Canyon, and Yellowstone National Park.

The joy of car travel was rooted in spontaneity and freedom. With so many motels and roadside attractions to choose from, all a family had to do was get in the car and start driving, knowing they could figure out where to stay on the fly.

But that wasn’t true for black Americans in the Jim Crow era, during which segregation was legal in the South and practiced just about everywhere else. Most motels, service stations, restaurants, and even public bathrooms were off limits. That meant traveling was more dangerous, more difficult, and definitely less “spontaneous.”

Thanks to a Harlem postal worker named Victor Hugo Green, there was a way for African Americans to know where they would be welcome. In 1936, he published the first edition of The Negro Motorist Green Book, a travel guide for New York City that listed businesses and private homes that would reliably serve African Americans. The book published an updated version each year and eventually grew to cover locations in all 50 states, as well as international locations in Mexico and Bermuda.

The Civil Rights Act of 1964 ended legal segregation, and the Green Book stopped publishing just two years later. Watch the video above to learn more about the Green Book.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes.For women, the pressures of parenting are real, whether you choose to have a child or not. And despite tremendous progress in equality from the bedroom to the boardroom to the kitchen, women still bear the brunt of child-rearing.

Another taken-for-granted assumption is a woman’s ability, physically and otherwise, to do parenting tasks. Every step of parenting is hard, but what about the expectations we put on mothers to have a certain lifestyle? We expect them to be middle class (not on welfare!), maternally and eternally selfless, even to the point of deeming someone — who may not tick all these boxes — downright irresponsible for deciding to have a child.

This week’s Divided States of Women digs into this unfair standard around ability and child-rearing. We talk to an expert on disability law and a mother who has battled being considered “unsuitable” for parenting, but is doing so successfully, joyfully, and lovingly.The ketogenic diet is the latest in US diet crazes, though it actually isn’t a new a diet at all.

Keto is different from other diets in the way it triggers your body how it gets energy. The human body is primarily fueled by glucose which comes from carbohydrates. On a ketogenic diet, carbs are drastically reduced to only 5 percent of daily calories and fat consumption goes up to 80 percent of calories. When the body runs out of glucose, the body can start to burn fat as an alternative source of energy. This fat burning state is called ketosis.

Keto could help to treat epilepsy and Type 2 diabetes, but its usefulness as a diet for weight loss is still very much debated.

Watch this video to learn more about why the ketogenic diet may or may not be an option you. Check out the rest of Vox’s videos on YouTube. And subscribe to our channel to catch up on our latest videos.Earlier this year, the Trump administration announced that it would terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for approximately 260,000 Salvadorans who live in the US. As a result, Nelsy Umanzor, a Salvadoran TPS holder, is now at risk of losing the temporary legal status that allowed him to work and raise a family in Maryland for the past 17 years.

TPS was established through the Immigration Act of 1990 to grant legal status and work authorization to immigrants from countries that were subject to armed conflict, natural disaster, or other extraordinary temporary conditions.

In 2001, after two destructive earthquakes rattled El Salvador, President Bush granted Salvadorans residing in the US Temporary Protected Status. After 18 years of renewals, TPS is set to end for Salvadorans on September 19, 2019.

As the deadline approaches, hundreds of thousands of families will have to decide whether to return to El Salvador to start all over again or stay in the US as unauthorized immigrants and return to the shadows.

Watch the video above to learn more about TPS and the ways in which its termination affects Salvadorans like Umanzor in the US.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.Now in its seventh year, the Syrian war has entered a new phase. Turkey invaded northwest Syria in January, while Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad reportedly dropped chemical weapons on his own people outside the country’s capital, Damascus. ISIS is confined to a few remote pockets of territory in the south and east.

But one of the most dramatic developments is happening in the north, where Kurdish people have set up an autonomous region, Rojava. What makes the situation unique is that they are calling it a “democracy.” They claim to seek representation from diverse ethnicities and religions while promoting gender equality and secular local governments.

Watch the video above to see how Rojava was carved out of ISIS territory, pushing the Syrian war into a new phase. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.Since the election of President Donald Trump, a record number of women have decided to run for office. The Center for Women and Politics at Rutgers University identified at least 79 women interested in running for national, state and local positions in the 2018 election.

But why does it matter if more women run for office? Does having more women in public office actually change women’s lives?

Turns out, yes. In this week’s episode of Divided States of Women, we go to Hawaii, the state with the largest numbers of women in public office. And it happens to be the best state for women, according to factors like health care access and the wage gap.

We also sit down with Hawaii Congress member Colleen Hanabusa and Rep. Beth Fukumoto to talk about anti-Trump activism and the pressures women experience when they run for office.Remember Sean Spicer, White House press secretary? He resigned after some testy encounters with the press. How about Hope Hicks, White House communications director? She resigned amid rising tensions in the administration. Then there’s “The Mooch”— otherwise known as Anthony Scaramucci. He was White House communications director for only 11 days before getting fired.

National Security Council staffer Rich Higgins? Booted. Staff secretary Rob Porter? Quit after allegations of domestic abuse. Omarosa? Resigned to return to her roots on reality television. If it seems like there’s been a ton of turnover at the White House, there has been. In fact, Trump’s White House has seen more turnover in its first year than the past five administrations. Is this cause for concern?

High staff turnover at the White House isn’t necessarily unusual. Newly inaugurated presidents often fill some spots in their administration with campaign staff and later replace them with more seasoned picks. But the sheer number of people leaving the Trump administration is unusual. According to Kathryn Dunn Tenpas, a nonresident senior fellow in governance studies at the Brookings Institution, the turnover at the Trump White House “is high, and it’s not just high, it’s off the charts.”

Tenpas compared turnover among the president’s most influential staff going back five administrations, “Since Reagan, the highest turnover rate during that first year was Ronald Reagan at 17 percent. [Trump’s] turnover rate during that first year was 34 percent. So he doubled the previous highest rate of turnover.” By comparison, the lowest rate of first-year turnover in a president’s first year was George W. Bush at 6 percent, while Obama had a turnover rate of 9 percent. So President Trump, with 34 percent, truly is extraordinarily high.

There are two potential factors contributing to this high turnover rate. First, on the campaign trail, Trump promised to “drain the swamp” and put a premium on loyalty. So, much of his initial staff were campaign holdovers without government experience.

Another factor was Trump’s rocky first year in office. Warmongering against the dictator of North Korea, a bitter rivalry with the press, and — of course — the massive ongoing investigation into Russian meddling in American affairs created a hostile work environment.

According to Tenpas, this high rate of turnover has important ramifications for the functioning of federal government: “When a very senior level person leaves there’s often a domino effect in which some of his junior staffers will leave as well because the incoming person wants to build their own staff.” Then, of course, all these new hires need to be trained and brought up to speed, which puts pressure on other staffers who need to step in to pick up the slack.

And there are some aspects of the job that can’t merely be learned — “within the sample, the most senior people are leaving, and those people are even more difficult to replace. They tend to have a little bit more expertise. Oftentimes, they have close relations with the president and a good rapport with the president, and those kinds of qualities and skills are not easily replaceable.” All this results in a White House that is increasingly isolated and unable to pursue its goals.

It’s true that most of Trump’s departures happened early in his first year. According to an analysis by the Washington Post, of Trump’s 28 staff departures in 2017, 10 of them left in July of that month alone. These staff changes could be a way for Trump to change course in the face of low approval ratings and a stagnant legislative agenda. But with senior aides losing their security clearances, and rumors swirling about even more resignations, there’s no clear indication that the Trump administration is stabilizing.

“I think when you get to this high level of turnover, then that raises questions as to how well his staff can perform and how well they can advance his agenda. If the door keeps revolving, and people are in and out, in and out, you don’t have any institutional memory. You’re losing expertise that you had. And it just makes your job more difficult.”

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.Studies have shown that the minimum wage is not enough money for most people to successfully pay all their bills and rent and take care of their families. While the fight continues for workers to receive a livable wage, there is another wage-gap loophole talked about less frequently: the subminimum wage.

Subminimum wages are less than the minimum wage and given to people based on certain criteria. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act, these can include student learners, people in certain service industries, and people with disabilities. Yes, you read that right: Employers are legally allowed to pay people with disabilities less money.

This week’s Divided States of Women digs into this labor practice. We interview an advocate for workers with disabilities and a disabled woman who started her own business.Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk — now an Oscar winner for sound mixing and editing — is a nerve-wracking film. Three separate storylines tell the famed World War II tale, where 330,000 Allied forces were evacuated from the Northern beaches of France, in a way that feels tense and sounds stunning.

Built around a score by composer Hans Zimmer, Dunkirk hardly ever slows down from start to finish. And a lot of that has to do with how Zimmer uses an auditory illusion caused by Shepard tones.

Named after cognitive scientist Roger Shepard, the sound consists of several tones separated by an octave layered on top of each other. As the lowest bass tone starts to fade in, the higher treble tone fades out. When the bass completely fades in and the treble completely fades out, the sequence loops back again. Because you can always hear at least two tones rising in pitch at the same time, your brain gets tricked into thinking that the sound is constantly ascending in pitch.

It’s a creepy, anxiety-inducing sound. There’s a clever simulator tool you can use to explore how this works.

In an interview with Business Insider, Nolan revealed that the entire soundtrack was built around the sound effect to create a feeling of ever-increasing intensity that would unite the three storylines. Zimmer — who has scored most of Nolan’s films since The Dark Knight — wasn’t the first to build a soundtrack around the illusion; David Julyan did a similar treatment for Nolan on The Prestige score.

But in Dunkirk, the soundtrack stands on its own as a defining part of the film. It's an auditory masterpiece.

Watch the video above to learn more about why the Shepard tone is crucial to the experience of Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk.The past few weeks of political news coverage have been dogged by Republican-fueled pseudo-scandals: allegations of deleted text messages, a “secret society” in the FBI, and a classified memo alleging misbehavior at the FBI.

In each case, congressional Republicans promised news outlets they were uncovering bombshell evidence of wrongdoing on the part of President Donald Trump’s critics at the FBI.

In each case, news networks spent countless segments repeating Republican allegations and investigating their truthfulness.

And in each case, the allegations turned out to be bogus.

These stories all have a happy ending. The truth came out, eventually. Fact-checking prevailed.

But if you look at these stories as red herrings — as pseudo-scandals meant to provoke news outlets in such a way that reinforced Republicans’ animosity towards the FBI — news networks fell for a cynical trap.

These stories highlight traditional media’s vulnerability to trolling. Politicians like Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA), who hype bogus allegations against political opponents, will often be rewarded with wall-to-wall news coverage, interviews, and media speculation. If those allegations turn out to be false, research shows that many viewers will still be influenced by the false information even after stories are debunked.

That’s created a news environment that rewards politicians who are willing to temporarily stake their reputations in order to bait news networks.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes of Strikethrough, our series exploring the media in the age of Trump.Method acting describes a broad framework for training actors to break down, understand, and portray their characters. The acting technique emphasizes tapping into one’s personal experiences to reproduce the emotions, actions, and behavior required for a dramatic performance.

But this approach remains controversial, because of the mental and emotional stress it can create in actors, and because of the extreme lengths some actors go to achieve it.

Although method acting was popularized by Lee Strasberg in the mid 20th century, it has its roots in early 20th century Russia. Konstantin Stanislavski, a Russian actor and drama theorist, and his peers at the Moscow Art Theater developed a “system” that method acting is directly based on. Stanislavski’s teachings emphasized critical, holistic analyses of scenes in tandem with self-reflection by the actor.

Stanislavski’s ideas spread throughout the US in the 1930s where they were interpreted and transformed by a subsequent generation of instructors, including Lee Strasberg, Stella Adler, and Sanford Meisner. These schools acting diverged, emphasizing and building upon different parts of Stanislavksi’s original system.

Strasberg’s interpretation emphasized drawing on personal experiences to relate to fictitious ones, Adler taught a greater focus on leveraging an actor’s imagination, and Meisner stressed the importance of inhabiting a scene truthfully, with less emphasis on abstraction and intellectualizing of the relationship between an actor and their character.

Today, method acting is perhaps best associated with actors like Daniel Day-Lewis, who is famous for going to extreme lengths to portray the characters he plays. From his breakout performance in My Left Foot, where he plays a quadriplegic artist, Day-Lewis has built up an impressive, critically acclaimed track record of dramatic roles. Day-Lewis and fellow method actors Gary Oldman and Meryl Streep are each nominated for Best Actor and Best Actress, respectively, at the 2018 Oscars.

But one critique of method acting remains: It’s impossible for audiences to know that an actor underwent intense preparation for a role unless they are explicitly told. Hollywood has thus conspicuously and carefully publicized high-profile productions featuring method acting performances, such as Leonardo DiCaprio’s performance in The Revenant.

So is method acting more about marketability than anything else? It’s impossible to say for sure. But the technique is a reliable way to raise dramatic stakes, and for studios to make movies more appealing to audiences.

Related Phantom Thread tells a sumptuous story of fashion and kink that keeps viewers at a distance

Watch this video to learn more. And check out the rest of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe to our channel if you want to make sure you don’t miss our videos!Ever wondered how biathlon came to be? Although it’s a popular sport in Europe, the combination of ski racing and rifle shooting strikes many Americans as odd and unfamiliar. But, it turns out, biathlon isn’t a Frankenstein sport that came out of nowhere. In fact, it has a long military history that stretches back several centuries.

It all started in Scandinavia during the 19th century, where a precursor to biathlon was a military drill that trained Norwegian soldiers to shoot rifles while skiing. As skiing grew in popularity, so did military applications of the sport. By 1900, ski warfare tactics had spread from Norway across Europe. In World War I, ski troops fought on both sides of the conflict and, once it ended, the modern Olympics gave ski troops a new avenue for their skills.

In 1924, an event combining skiing and shooting was included at the inaugural winter games in Chamonix, France. It was called “military patrol” and was included at several Olympics until 1948, when it was demonstrated for the last time in St. Moritz, Switzerland.

In the meantime, however, ski warfare continued to evolve.

During World War II, Finnish troops famously used their ski troops to frustrate Soviet invaders during the “Winter War.” Their success inspired other nations to improve and promote their own ski troops, including the United States, which deployed the 10th Mountain Division to fight in subsequent WWII battles. After the war ended, soldiers who had learned skiing for battle brought home a new love of the sport.

During the next decade, the ski industry boomed and the interest in the sport, combined with the decline of military patrol and culmination of the war, invigorated civilian biathlon competition. In 1960, the sport was officially introduced as an Olympic sport at the Winter Games in Squaw Valley, California.

Between then and now the sport has continued to transform. Although much has changed, modern biathlon still retains the unmistakable traces of its military origins. To learn what those are and more about the history of ski warfare, make sure to watch the video above.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.Camouflage is usually about blending in, but some of the most unusual camouflage during World War I wasn’t designed to do that.

Dazzle camouflage was a popular camouflage method, as the above video shows. Instead of attempting to hide a ship, the goal was to conceal the ship’s course through flashy misdirection. These colorful ships had artistically adventurous patterns that, due to the limitations of U-boat periscopes and torpedoes, were surprisingly effective at keeping ships safe.

Submarines and torpedoes were a big, new threat in WWI. Despite this, the U-boat had limitations: torpedoes required calculating the target’s trajectory. Factors like the angle a ship was traveling, its speed, and its distance from the U-boat itself all came into play. These things were usually determined by eye, through a periscope, or using a rangefinder.

Dazzle patterns made it a lot harder to determine a ship’s trajectory, because they helped hide key points of reference for torpedoes, like the ship’s overall orientation. Today, dazzle patterns are still used in types of face camouflage, and by car manufacturers when prototyping new models.

This video shows the basics of this unusual camouflage. If you want to learn more, you can explore the Navy’s archive of dazzle camouflage history, read this 1919 Popular Science article about the technique, or explore the life of Norman Wilkinson, the artist credited with inventing dazzle camouflage.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes.Smartphones are really hard to put down. The buzzing of push notifications, the nagging red bubbles on apps, and endless feeds create the perfect storm of distractions. They keep us constantly engaged with the device. And that’s kind of the point.

Our apps and devices have been carefully designed to hook our attention for as long as possible. But are those designs making our lives better?

Former Google design ethicist Tristan Harris who recently co-founded the Center for Humane Technology raises that question. He has become one of the most outspoken critics of how devices are intentionally made to hook users at the cost of their time and comfort. Some of his alternative designs illustrate what a different app ecosystem could look like — where health and time are prioritized over constant engagement.

By Design is a new Vox video series about the intersection of design and technology, hosted by Christophe Haubursin. Watch the video above to see the three main ways smartphones try to manipulate users’ attention.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube.The way single Americans pair up has changed a lot over the years. You may think these ups and downs of dating would be influenced by love and affection but it’s actually tied to something far less romantic: the economy.

In the late-1800s the predominant mode of courtship was “calling,” a practice where a woman would receive potential suitors at her house and spend time together under the supervision of a family member. Super exciting, I know. Marriage was a practical and economic arrangement where the main priority was property and strategically aligning yourself with other families. Compatibility and mutual affection weren’t a priority.

This all changed during the industrial revolution. Young people fled farms and small towns to live in big cities and work in factories, restaurants, and bars. They lived away from the prying eyes of their parents for the first time and found themselves surrounded by other single young people. This set the stage for what we now consider “dating.”

Watch the video above to see how the way we date has continued to follow trends in the economy decade by decade.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube.In 1987, police detectives — who’d later be made famous by David Simon, creator of The Wire — used flimsy evidence to pin a burglary, rape, and murder case on James Thompson and James Owens. Both men were both sentenced to life in prison. Then 20 years later, DNA evidence cleared each of them of the rape and unraveled the state’s theory of the crime. But instead of exonerating the two men, prosecutors dangled the prison keys, pushing them to plead guilty to the crime in exchange for immediate freedom.

What prosecutors offered was a controversial deal called an Alford plea. This little-known plea allows defendants to maintain their innocence despite pleading guilty. Prosecutors can pressure wrongly convicted defendants to take it by threatening to retry them, which could take months or even years. For Thompson and Owens, who’d already spent decades behind bars for a crime they didn’t commit, taking the plea meant they could walk out free men. But in the eyes of the law, they’d still be convicted murderers and unable to sue for wrongful imprisonment. For the prosecutors, the Alford plea keeps wins on the book and lets them skate by without admitting any wrongdoing. The deals also keep the cases closed, with the real culprits forgotten.

Last year, ProPublica investigated prosecutors’ use of Alford pleas and similar deals in cases of wrongful convictions and found they often cover up official misconduct. Uncovering these stories is especially difficult. No one tracks how often the wrongly convicted take an Alford plea. In Baltimore City and Baltimore County alone, they’ve found 10 cases since 1998 in which defendants with viable claims of innocence ended up agreeing to a plea or a similar time-served deal. Check out the story of the two Jameses above to see what happened after the Alford plea was offered in their cases.

This piece is the fifth installment in Vox’s collaboration with ProPublica. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe and stay tuned for more from our partnership.During the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Adam Rippon skated to Ida Corr’s “Let Me Think About It” for his short program. It was fun, powerful, and most of all, different. This is the first Olympic Games at which figure skaters have infinite creative freedom with their music, as they now can skate to music with lyrics.

Figure skating was not always woven in with music and artistry — it was very much a technical sport. The skaters had to literally carve figures into ice. As figure skating evolved, it leaned more toward performance. For decades, figure skaters skated to the classics like “Swan Lake” and “Carmen.” They chose these pieces not only because it’s great music but because of the clear storyline and the quality of the characters in them. With operas, in particular, it is easy to take the audience on an emotional journey.

Hugo Chouinard, a music designer who mainly works with figure skaters, says, “The most important is that the skaters like the music. Because if they don’t like the music, they don’t feel the music; there’s no emotion to convey to the public.”

And that is what Adam Rippon did for his musical choices for the Olympics. During the interview, he said:

I like to have two different moods for the programs, just so that I can show that I can skate to anything ... that I can interpret whatever piece of music. So for [a] short program, I want to do something that is really upbeat, that would get the crowd on their feet — everybody clapping. Short programs are only two minutes and 50 seconds, so you have not a lot of time to make a big impression. And then in free skate, I wanted to show the softer side and I want to show off my lyrical skating style ... something with long, sweeping edges and something that really made it seem like I was flying around the rink. I’m 28 and I’m going to my first Olympics; I’m going to skate to something that I really want to do. I wanted to really represent who I was. And I’m a fun-loving guy, so I just wanted to bring that to the competition.

To learn more about how figure skaters choose their music, make sure to watch the video above.

You can watch all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.Early reviews indicate that Black Panther will be a major hit at the box office this year. There are many reasons for why that is. Marvel superhero films tend to do well, the film has an all-star cast, and more generally, people think it’s a good movie.

But there are socioeconomic facts that support the film’s cultural significance. When it comes to diversity, Hollywood has a long way to go, especially if it wants to appeal to the evolving demographic profile of the United States. That’s the major theme of a series of reports authored by UCLA’s Bunche Center for African American Studies.

The 2017 edition of the report suggests there is a strong business incentive for Hollywood to correct its diversity issue. It also provides evidence indicating that minority audiences are more avid media consumers than the rest of the country. And our current best census estimates indicate that the American population will become majority-minority in a matter of decades.

As Darnell Hunt, UCLA’s dean of social sciences and author of the Hollywood Diversity Report, wrote:

Black Panther is like the perfect storm. It has everything going for it in the sense that it’s a major tent-pole film based around a Marvel character, and superhero movies are in now. … From a black perspective in terms of black culture, it is doing something that we rarely see, centering black themes, black issues in a major film with a major budget.

Watch the video above to learn more about what’s driving all the excitement behind the release of Black Panther.At the 2014 Winter Olympics, Josephine Pucci won a silver medal playing for the US women’s hockey team. Later that year, she retired.

Why? Concussions.

Pucci is not alone. Several prominent female players, including Pucci’s former teammates Caitlin Cahow and current US Olympian Amanda Kessel, have struggled with concussions at some point during their career.

The result has been an increased push for concussion safety awareness in women’s ice hockey. Just this month, Kessel’s teammate Angela Ruggiero, along with former Canadian Olympian Hayley Wickenheiser, announced a decision to donate their brains to science in the hopes of improving concussion research. For her part, Pucci is working to raise awareness as co-founder of the Headway Foundation.

It’s a movement that has been bolstered by a growing body of scientific evidence: In the past two decades, several different surveys have found that collegiate women’s hockey players are reporting concussions at a higher rate than many male athletes, including football players. In fact, researchers have determined that the discrepancy extends beyond ice hockey to all sports. In basketball, soccer, and other gender-comparable sports, female athletes consistently report a higher concussion rate than men. In 2012, the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine released a position statement that “in sports with similar playing rules, the reported incidence of concussion is higher in female athletes than in male athletes.”

The reason, however, remains a mystery.

For experts like Zachary Kerr, an assistant professor in the Department of Excercise and Sport Science at the University of North Carolina, a crucial question is whether the high rate of concussions is due to differences in reporting, as opposed to physiological factors. For former players like Pucci, style of play and gender bias are also important considerations.

What nearly all experts agree on is that the explanation probably involves several distinct social, cultural, and physiological factors. A quick survey of the research being done includes considerations of reporting bias and playing style, but also extends to hormonal differences, neck strength, and nerve fiber structure.

To learn how these factors might influence the high rate of concussions and what other explanations are being researched, make sure to watch the video above.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on our YouTube channel. Subscribe for the latest.Ever wonder how Olympic figure skating is scored? We talked to Mirai Nagasu and Tara Lipinski, two Olympian figure skaters, about the complex system and the incentives it creates for skaters.

Figure skating completely overhauled it’s scoring system after a judge rigged the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics pair’s event. The changes were intended to prevent collusion and guarantee that skaters were fairly judged, but they also changed how skaters approach the sport, which is why the scoring system remains controversial.

Figure skating programs have two components

Figure skaters perform what’s known as a “short program” and “free skate,” and they receive two sets of scores for each.

The Technical Element Score evaluates the difficulty of a skater’s jumps, spins, and footwork. Each move has a base value, and a nine-judge panel grades the skater’s execution of the move. A judge’s evaluation of a move can range from +/- 3 points, so for a move like the triple axel, which has a base value of 8.5, the maximum score, without bonus points, would be 11.5, and the lowest score would be 5.5. The final score for an element is calculated by removing the lowest and highest judges’ scores, taking the average of the remaining 7 scores, and adding that to the base value.

This is the reason why, at the 2018 US Figure Skating Championship in San Jose, California, Mirai Nagasu’s imperfect triple axel got her two more points than her US Olympic teammate Bradie Tennell’s flawless double axel.

Despite her stumble as she landed the jump, Nagasu attempted a triple axel, which has a higher base value than Tennell’s double axel.

The Program Component Score evaluates a skater’s presentation and artistry on the ice. Judges award points on a range from 0.25 to 10, awarding skaters for skating skills, transitions in their routine, performative elements, composition, and musical interpretation. The program component score, therefore, has a maximum of 90 points, unlike the technical component score which has no ceiling. Taken together, the sum of these component scores are the skater’s final score.

What this scoring system means for figure skaters

We spoke to Tara Lipinski, a former Olympian and the youngest person to receive a gold medal in the ladies singles event. She claims this new system rewards risk and difficulty over artistry, by adding more weight to the technical component of a skater’s routine. Skaters are incentivized to go for bigger jumps and to incorporate more jumps into their routines overall.

This can pay off for viewers, like in the case of Nagasu. She made history on Sunday, February 11, by becoming the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics during her free skate of the team competition in Pyeongchang.

Despite its ability to create historic moments like Nagasu’s triple axel, there is a downside to the new system as well. Fans and general audiences were stumped when American figure skater Adam Rippon, despite having skated a flawless performance, placed third behind Russian skater Mikhail Kolyada and Canadian skater Patrick Chan, both of whom fell during their routines. Chan and Kolyada were rewarded by the new scoring system for incorporating more difficult elements, even though they didn’t execute their programs as well as Rippon.

Watch the video above to learn more about figure skating scores and to see our interviews with Nagasu and Lipinski.

You can find the official rules for figure skating judges here and the scale of values for each element here.

Related Why the triple axel is such a big deal

This video and all of Vox’s videos are on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes.When I finally puked on the fourth night, I felt an odd sense of pride.

Inside the loud, stuffy ceremony room, people were laughing, crying, chanting, gyrating, and, yes, vomiting, around me. When my time finally comes, I think: Just aim for the bucket and keep your ass above your head like the shaman told you.

I try to wipe my face but can’t grab the tissue paper because it melts every time I reach for it. Nearby, a man starts to scream. I can’t make out what he’s saying on account of the shaman singing beautiful Colombian songs in the other room.

I finish vomiting and start crying and laughing and smiling all at once. Something has been lifted in this “purge,” something dark and deep I was carrying around for years. Relief washes over me, and I slowly make my way back to my mattress on the floor.

For four consecutive nights, a group of 78 of us here at a retreat center in Costa Rica have been drinking a foul-tasting, molasses-like tea containing ayahuasca, a plant concoction that contains the natural hallucinogen known as DMT.

We’re part of a wave of Westerners seeking out ayahuasca as a tool for psychological healing, personal growth, or expanding consciousness.

I flew to Costa Rica hoping to explode my ego. And I was not prepared for what happened. Ayahuasca turned my life upside down, dissolving the wall between my self and the world. I also stared into what I can only describe as the world’s most honest mirror. It was a Clockwork Orange-like horror show, and it was impossible to look away. But I saw what I needed to see when I was ready to see it.

Ayahuasca exposes the gap between who you think you are and who you actually are. In my case, the gap was immense, and the pain of seeing it for the first time was practically unbearable.

An ayahuasca boom

Ayahuasca remains a fringe psychological medicine, but it’s slowly working its way into the mainstream. Until fairly recently, you had to travel to South America if you wanted to experiment with the plant, but now ayahuasca ceremonies are popping up in the United States and Europe.

Indigenous people in countries like Colombia and Peru have been brewing the concoction for thousands of years, mostly for religious or spiritual purposes. It’s considered a medicine, a way to heal internal wounds and reconnect with nature.

It wasn’t until 1908 that Western scientists acknowledged its existence; British botanist Richard Spruce was the first to study it and write about the “purging” it invokes. He was mainly interested in classifying the vines and leaves that made up the magic brew, and in understanding its role in Amazonian culture.

Ayahuasca emerged again in the early 1960s with the counterculture movement. Beat writers like William Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, and Jack Kerouac all described their experiences with ayahuasca, most famously in Burroughs’s book The Yage Letters. Scientist-hippies like Terence McKenna and Timothy Leary then went to South America to research and experience the drug firsthand. All of this helped bring ayahuasca into Western culture, but it was never truly popularized.

Today, the tea is having a bit of a moment.

Celebrities like Lindsay Lohan, Sting, and Chelsea Handler have spoken about their experiences with it. “I had all these beautiful images of my childhood and me and my sister laughing on a kayak, and all these beautiful things with me and my sister,” Handler told the New York Post after her first ayahuasca trip. “It was very much about opening my mind to loving my sister, and not being so hard on her.”

Handler’s experience appears to be common. The scientific evidence on ayahuasca is limited, but it is known to activate repressed memories in ways that allow people to come to a new understanding of their past. In some cases, it helps people work through memories of traumatic events, which is why neuroscientists are beginning to study ayahuasca as a treatment for depression and PTSD. (There are physical and psychological risks to taking it as well — it can interfere with medication and exacerbate existing psychiatric conditions.)

What I was looking for

My interest in ayahuasca was specific: I wanted to cut through the illusion of selfhood. Psychedelics have a way of tearing down our emotional barriers. You feel plugged into something bigger than yourself, and — for a moment, at least — the sensation of separation melts away.

Buddhists, cognitive scientists, and philosophers have all made persuasive arguments that there is nothing like a “fixed self,” no thinker behind our thoughts, no doer behind our deeds. There is only consciousness and immediate experience; everything else is the result of the mind projecting into the past or the future.

But this is a difficult truth to grasp in everyday life. Because you’re conscious, because it’s like something to be you, it’s very easy to believe that a wall exists between your mind and the world. If you’re experiencing something, then there must be a “you” doing the experiencing. But the “you” in this case is just an abstraction; it’s in your mind, not out there in the world.

One way to escape this trap, I hope, is to get the hell out of my head

I spent about five years as a philosophy graduate student and another few as a teacher. I understood these arguments in intellectual terms but not in experiential terms. I’ve tried meditating, and I’m terrible at it. My mind is a parade of discordant thoughts, and as a result, I’m rarely present — in conversations, during meditation, in daily life.

One way to escape this trap, I hope, is to get the hell out of my head.

There are many ways to reach the truth of non-selfhood. Think of it as a mountain peak, with meditators and certain spiritual traditions ascending different sides. Psychedelic drugs offer a kind of shortcut; you get a glimpse of this higher truth without all those years of serious, disciplined practice.

That shortcut is what I was after.

Night 1: dread

The approach at this retreat center, called Rythmia, is all-encompassing. During the day they pamper you with all the luxuries of a wellness retreat — massages, volcanic mud baths, organic food, yoga classes, colonic cleanses. Then at night, you drink ayahuasca and put yourself through emotional and physical hell.

One of the first things I was told is that I had to enter the ayahuasca ceremony with a clear goal or question in mind: What do you want to learn about yourself?

The trained facilitators who led the ceremonies recommend that you begin with a simple request: Show me who I’ve become.

The question implies that at some point you lost yourself, that when you were a child, your soul was pure, open, uncorrupted by culture. As you enter society, you lose that childlike love for the world. You start to judge yourself by external standards. You compare yourself to friends, neighbors, and peers. You develop an ego, an identity, and your well-being becomes bound up with these constructs.

Do I really want to see what I’ve become? I’m pretty sure I won’t like the answer.

There’s nothing new about these ideas, but they strike me as true all the same. So I decide to focus on self-discovery.

It’s now 5:15 pm, and the first ceremony starts in 15 minutes. I’m terrified. “Do I really want to see what I’ve become?” I keep asking. I’m pretty sure I won’t like the answer — almost no one does, it seems.

The doors open, and all 78 of us here for this week-long session pour into the ceremony room, called the “flight deck.” The room is big, divided into three sections, and there are two bathrooms on each side. It’s dimly lit, and mattresses are lined up on the floor against the walls. The beds are only a few inches apart. At the foot of each mattress is a roll of toilet paper and a blue or red bucket.

I pounce on the first mattress I see; it’s near the door and just a few feet from the bathroom. I feel safe here. To my right is Chad, a photographer from Ontario who looks as nervous as I am but somehow seems more prepared for this. To my left is a giant window that opens to a view of the courtyard.

The stuff is nasty, like a cup of motor oil diluted with a splash of water

There’s a nervous collective energy. Almost everyone here is doing ayahuasca for the first time, and we’re all scared shitless. They announce the first call to drink, and I make my way to the front of the line. One by one, we take our cups, silently reflect on the intention for the evening, and then drink.

It’s my turn to drink. The stuff is nasty, like a cup of motor oil diluted with a splash of water. I throw it back like a shot of cheap bourbon.

We’re instructed to sit up and lean against the wall after the first cup. The tea takes at least 30 minutes to work its way through the body. I sit quietly for 45 minutes, maybe an hour, and then I lie down on my mattress and wait.

Nothing happens. I feel a little dizzy but nothing overwhelming. I go outside, walk around a bit, feel my feet in the grass. Then they announce a call for the second drink. I remember the mantra here: “Drink, don’t think.” If you can hear the call, if you can move your body, you drink. So I awkwardly drag myself out of bed and head to the front for a second cup.

About 30 minutes pass, and I start to feel ... strange. I can see colors, shapes, and shifting shadows on the wall. I’m nervous that something is about to happen, so I go outside and gather myself. I settle in one of the hammocks and stare at the stars.

Suddenly the stars start to spin in a clockwise direction. Then a little faster. Then, for reasons that escape me, I start yelling at the moon, saying over and over again, “Is there anyone up there? Is each other all we have?” (Don’t ask me why I did this.)

So it goes, for what feels like an hour or two. I keep hurling those two questions at the heavens but get no answers, no insights, just silence and spinning.

I walk back inside and collapse in my bed. For the rest of the night, I see sporadic visions of geometric figures, a few flashes of light, but that’s about it. Then one of the assistants starts to ring a gentle bell.

It’s 2 am, and it’s time to close the ceremony.

Night 2: “Don’t fight the medicine”

The next day I realize why I had no great revelations on the first night. I couldn’t let go. I thought I was prepared for the trip, but anxiety got the better of me. As soon as I thought something — anything — was about to happen, I tried to think myself out of the experience.

Tonight will be different. I’m going to stay in the moment, stay with my breath, and see what happens.

The facilitator is Brad, a kind, aggressively tanned guy from Indianapolis who was trained in ayahuasca by a tribe in Peru. The facilitators play an important role each night, even though there isn’t much one-on-one interaction. They set the tone, guide the ceremony, explain where the medicine came from and how it works, and they assist the people who need it throughout the night.

Brad tells us to let go and give in. “Don’t fight the medicine,” he says. “Just listen.”

It’s cooler tonight, but there’s a warm breeze rolling through the room. Most of the people around me are scribbling last-minute notes in their journals; others are sitting stoically waiting for the first call.

I take my first drink around 7:30 pm, though I can’t know for sure because phones and electronics are shut down as soon as you enter the flight deck. My intention is the same as it was the first night: Show me who I’ve become.

I can tell quickly that this will be different. It’s 30 or 40 minutes after the first drink, and already my senses are overwhelmed. Every time I open my eyes, the space around me starts to fold, kind of like what Einstein describes in his theory of relativity. But it also looks like a tightly woven spider web, and when I move my hand it starts to bend.

Before I know it, they make the call for a second drink. “Don’t think, drink,” I keep telling myself. So I stumble to the front and drink another cup. Then things get weird.

All of a sudden, Andrea has 40 or 50 yellow snakes gushing out of her mouth and into mine

I roll onto my right side and see Andrea, a woman from Toronto, struggling to vomit. Brad, the facilitator, had said the Peruvian and Columbian tribes that use ayahuasca see purging — vomiting, diarrhea, crying, laughing, and yawning — as a vital part of the healing the drug brings. When you purge, you’re expelling all the nastiness — the stress, the anxieties, the fears, the regrets, the hatred, the self-loathing.

All of a sudden, Andrea has 40 or 50 yellow snakes gushing out of her mouth and into mine. And then I’m immediately racked with the worst nausea I’ve ever experienced. First I curl up in the fetal position and then I spring onto all fours and try to puke. But I can’t get it out. I stay on my knees for another five or 10 minutes waiting for something to happen. Nothing.

Then I lie back down, roll onto my left shoulder, and am flooded with a resounding message for the rest of the night: It’s not about you! Andrea’s pain and suffering — the snakes — had passed into me, and that was the whole point.

For the rest of the night, maybe another three hours or so, I lie there thinking about how selfish I often am, and about the symbolism of the snakes. The feeling was so powerful that I started to cry. (Side note: People cry a lot on ayahuasca.)

The next day, Andrea tells me that she never managed to purge but that her nausea suddenly disappeared, after which she drifted into a peaceful half-sleep. I don’t know if that occurred around the time I saw those snakes, but the thought of it kept me up that night.

I’m not bothered by the thought of taking on her pain; it’s the whole wild scene — the snakes, the nausea, the visions. I can’t explain any of it, and yet it was the most authentic experience of my life.

Night 3: making love to my wife for the first time — again

I’m halfway through this thing, and so far it’s not at all what I expected. I still haven’t had to confront my past in the way I anticipated I would.

The third ceremony is led by two women. The facilitator is Abby, a young, quietly authoritative woman from Cincinnati who’s assisted by Kat from Montana. Both trained in Peru.

Abby begins by telling us that tonight is about the feminine spirit. “It’s a celebration of creation,” she says, “of birth and renewal.” The idea is calming.

I strike up a conversation with the guy next to me. His name is Brad and he’s another Canadian, a publisher from Toronto. This is his second trip to Rythmia, and he tells me that he plans to sell his business after this. “My whole identity is tied up in that,” he says, and “I don’t want that anymore.”

Before I can respond, there’s the first call to drink. The brew is thicker tonight, and it tastes like wax and vinegar. It hits hard and fast. I am hallucinating within 20 or 30 minutes.

I see myself floating in my mother’s womb, suspended in fluids and flesh. And then I see her life — it’s not quite like a movie; it’s more like a series of flashing visions that are just clear enough to resonate. I see her pain, her confusion. I see how hard it was for her to have me at 20 years old, and how little I’d thought about that.

I see her and my father, in a college apartment, wondering what the hell they’re going to do next. I realize how fucking terrified I would have been in that spot at that age. A wave of compassion washes over me; whatever resentments I was holding on to drop away.

Then the call for a second drink comes. I drink, walk outside, and then go right back to bed.

The scene shifts and I’m floating in what I assume is a kind of primordial soup. I think I’m a vibrating particle now, and string theory suddenly makes sense in a way I can’t explain.

Abby starts to sing songs called icaros, which are performed in ayahuasca ceremonies throughout the Amazon. I sink deeper into a trance. My mind is speeding, and my body is frozen stiff. But a calm takes over me, and I start to smile and laugh.

I start to see every moment of our relationship in which she reached out to me and I missed it

I roll back onto my right side, and suddenly I see my wife’s face. I relive the first time we made love. We’re in college near a lake on campus. I can see our bikes behind us, the water in front of us, the blanket beneath us, and the grass all around us. I can smell the air. I relive this moment, understanding finally what made it so special.

There was no ego. I wasn’t an isolated “I,” a separate person with a separate consciousness. The feeling, I imagine, isn’t much different from what advanced meditators experience when their sense of self disappears. You simply have no awareness of anything but your body and the moment.

But then the vision turns dark.

I start to see every moment of our relationship in which she reached out to me and I missed it. I see her asking me to go to a meditation class, and I decline. I see her pause to ask me to connect at the peak of a mountain after a long hike in Boulder, Colorado, and I shrug it off. I see her ask me to go dancing at a show near our apartment, and I watch myself mindlessly decline.

I see myself stuck in my own head, my own thoughts, my own impulses. And I see the disappointment on her face. I see her see me miss an opportunity to reconnect.

Then I relive all those moments again, and this time I see myself do or say what I should have done or said. And I see the joy on her face. I see it so clearly that it hurts. I see how much time I wasted, how much love I withheld.

I’m crying again, this time even louder, and the smile on my face is so big that my jaw hurt the next day. And I think about how I’m going to look at my wife when I get back home, and how she’ll know I’m seeing her — really seeing her — for the first time all over again.

Then the bells start to ring, and it’s time to close the ceremony.

Night 4: the most honest mirror you’ll ever see

I knew the fourth night would be rough when I saw the ayahuasca brew (each night it’s a slightly different recipe from a different tribe or region or tradition). It was so thick and oily that you couldn’t drink it. Instead, you had to force it down like paste.

The shaman, an Israeli man named Mitra, tells us that it was a 5,000-year-old recipe taken from one of the oldest Amazonian tribes in Colombia, where Mitra was trained. He’s tall, with a shaved head and an assured demeanor. He looks like he could demystify the cosmos and dunk a basketball at the same time.

I see how much time I wasted, how much love I withheld

This final ceremony is longer than the rest. Normally, we gather around 5:30 pm and finish by 1 or 2 am. This time we meet around 7:30 pm and don’t finish until sunrise the next day.

Mitra hands me my first cup, and I fall back to my mattress. I think it’s maybe half an hour before I slip into what I can only describe as the most vivid lucid dream.

I watch my entire life unfold as though it were projected on a movie screen. But it wasn’t my whole life; it was every lie, every counterfeit pose, every missed opportunity to say or do something true, every false act and ingratiating gesture, every pathetic attempt to be seen in a certain light.

The highlight reel is way longer than I imagined.

I see myself as a child groveling for attention from the “popular kids.” I see my 12-year-old self throwing a tantrum in the mall because my dad wouldn’t buy me the Nautica shirt that all those popular kids were wearing. I see myself in high school pretending to be something I was not, and I see all the doubts piling up inside me. I see all the times I self-censored purely out of fear of judgment.

I see myself building my identity based on what I thought would impress other people. On it went — one trivial act after another building up an edifice of falsehood.

I should note how unpleasant it is to see yourself from outside yourself. Most of us aren’t honest with ourselves about who we are and why we do what we do. To see it so clearly for the first time is painful.

The movie rages on into college and adult life, with my self-consciousness expanding. I see myself not looking into the eyes of the person I’m talking to because I’m playing out all the ways they might be judging me. I see myself pretending like my hair wasn’t thinning years ago and all the times I tried to hide it. And every time, the reason for posing was the same: I cared too much about what other people thought.

The experience made me aware of how often we all do this. We do it at home, at work, at the grocery store, at the gym. Most interactions are either transactional or performative. No one wants to make eye contact, and most of the time people freak out if you really try. We’re too self-conscious to listen. We’re thinking about what we’ll say next or how we’re being perceived.

All the posturing destroys any chance for a genuine connection.

The movie ends, and I’m exhausted. The meaning of the previous two nights is clearer now. I needed to feel small and connected before I could appreciate the absurdity of self-involvement. I had to relive those fleeting moments of union to see what made them so transcendent. And I had to go straight through my shame and regret to get beyond it.

When the ceremony finally ended, I sat up in my bed and starting scribbling notes to myself. Before I could finish, Mitra walked up to me and asked how I was doing. I tried to explain what happened, but I couldn’t.

He just kneeled, put his hand on my head, and said, “Happy birthday.”

The day after

I leave the retreat center around 11 am on Saturday to board a shuttle to the airport. With me are three people from my group.

One of them is Alex, a garrulous guy from London. I think he’s in his mid-30s, though I don’t really recall. He’s got this dazed look on this face, like he just saw God. His eyes are on fire with excitement, and he’s already planning his next visit.

“When are you coming back?” he asks me. “I don’t know,” I say. He doesn’t quite believe me. Everyone, he assumes, is coming back, either here or to some other place like this. I’m still processing what happened; the thought of the next “trip” hasn’t even occurred to me yet.

In four nights, I feel like I let go of a lifetime’s worth of anger and bitterness

We reach the airport, say our goodbyes, and then part ways. I’m standing in line waiting to go through customs, and I’m surprised at how relaxed I am. The line is long and slow, and everyone around me is annoyed. But I’m moving along, passport in hand, smiling for no particular reason.

Typically, I am one inconvenience removed from rage. Today is different, though. When a loud man rolls his heavy suitcase over my open toe, I shrug it off. Brief encounters with strangers like that are pleasant; the awkwardness is gone.

I’m not in my head, and so things aren’t happening to me; they’re just happening. It’s probably too much to say that my ego was gone — I don’t think it works like that. But seeing myself from a different perspective offered a chance to reassert control over it.

People say that a single ayahuasca trip is like a decade of therapy packed into a night. That’s probably an overstatement, but it’s not altogether wrong. In four nights, I feel like I let go of a lifetime’s worth of anger and bitterness.

What now?

At the time of this writing, I’ve been home three weeks. The ecstasy I felt in the days immediately after the trip has worn off as I’ve slipped back into my regular life. A tension has emerged that I still don’t quite understand.

I’m happier and less irritable than I was when I left. The tedium of everyday life feels less oppressive. Part of the reason is that I’m less anxious, less solipsistic. I really do find it easier to see what’s in front of me.

But there’s something gnawing at me. I want to go back to Costa Rica, and not for the reasons you might expect. Forget about the ayahuasca, forget about the tropical vistas, forget about all that. This experience was possible because a group of people came together with a shared intention. That creates an emotional intensity that’s hard to find elsewhere. Every person looks right at you, and you look right back.

But real life isn’t like that. I ride the Metro to work every day, and lately I’ve tried talking to random people. It’s a lot harder than you think.

Do you pay a price for taking this kind of shortcut?

A man sat across from me the other day wearing a Tulane hat (from the university in New Orleans). I used to live in the area, so I looked at him until he looked back, assuming I’d strike up a conversation. But once we locked eyes, I could sense his agitation and we both turned our heads. Nothing weird or hostile — just clumsy.

I’ve spent years making an heroic effort to avoid awkward exchanges, so I get it. But I’m honestly worried that in a few weeks or months, I’ll be that guy again. And in retrospect, this whole journey will feel like a brief holiday of awareness.

I asked my wife the other day if I seem different to her after the trip. She said that she always felt like she had to force me to offer my attention, especially in those quiet, simple moments, and that now I give it freely. I do find it easier to listen since I returned, and it’s amazing what a difference that can make.

I keep thinking about this idea that a night of ayahuasca is like a decade of therapy. Do you pay a price for taking this kind of shortcut? Are the effects short-lived? Maybe.

I know it’s hard to be in the world without being of the world. And the world is a lonely place full of lonely people. You can’t change that, but you can change your orientation to it. In my case, psychedelics made that a little easier.

And what of the self and the ego? I believed these things to be illusions before I took ayahuasca, and now I’m certain that they are. But what does that actually mean in day-to-day life? Not as much as it should. The ego might be a fiction or a construct or whatever you want to call it, but the sensation of it is near impossible to shake.

Even after taking what is arguably the most powerful ego-dissolving medicine on the planet, I still live in a world that reinforces the story of me all the time. There’s no easy way around all that.

I don’t know what life will be like in six months or a year, but I think ayahuasca was the greatest thing that has happened to my marriage. It wasn’t about becoming a better person; it was about appreciating the role my wife — and other relationships — play in my life. I had to escape my head to see that.

Now that I’ve had some time to think about it, I’d say ayahuasca is the best and worst thing I’ve ever done. I spent a week staring down all my bullshit and all my insecurities, and it was totally liberating. But it was also terrifying and not something I want — or need — to see again.

A question worth asking: If you looked into the world’s most honest mirror, what would you see?

Editor: Eliza Barclay

Photos: Kainaz Amaria

Photo illustrations: Javier Zarracina

Copy editor: Tim Ryan WilliamsWe knew this was coming.

When Sinclair announced that all stations in the company’s network, including ours, would be required to roll out a “Journalistic Responsibility Promo,” the mood at our station darkened. Our anchors were told in an email that the script they would read was a straightforward public service announcement about the dangers of biased news stories. But after we actually laid eyes on the script, many of us felt uncomfortable.

“Unfortunately, some members of the media use their platforms to push their own personal bias and agenda to control ‘exactly what people think,’” the anchors recited. “This is extremely dangerous to a democracy.”

We hated the way the PSA bashed other news outlets and the way it insinuated that we were the only truthful news source — despite the rightward tilt our network has taken over the years. Our anchors privately said they felt like corporate mouthpieces, especially when they found out no edits of the script were permitted. Yet bosses made it clear that reading the message wasn’t a suggestion but an order from above.

It seemed like everyone knew all of this was a bad idea. We expected fallout. But we didn’t know how viral the promo would get until Friday, when an edited Deadspin video featuring the robotic voices of Sinclair anchors reciting the same script word for word exploded on our Twitter feeds. Our station’s Facebook page was inundated with angry messages denouncing our journalism, our station, and our employees.

We are journalists at one of the 193 local television stations owned by Sinclair Broadcast Group, a media corporation with conservative and pro-Trump ties. We are writing this essay because we’re disturbed by the editorial direction our leadership is taking, and we want people to know that many of us at Sinclair reject what our company is doing. We’re writing this anonymously because if we spoke out under our names, we could lose our jobs — and potentially owe money to Sinclair.

It’s already an uncertain, strange time for journalists. Trust in the media is low. Right now, journalists need all the support they can get. This promo, despite the lip service it pays to “journalistic integrity,” encourages the opposite.

And just when we thought the bad publicity over the on-air editorial couldn’t get any worse, Donald Trump tweeted:

So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 2, 2018

For many of us, that was the death knell. The perception among much of the public was that Sinclair was Trump TV. Now it felt like that perception was a reality. Had Trump’s seal of approval put us in the same camp as Infowars and Fox News? This was a place many Sinclair journalists never expected, or wanted, to be in.

A station we’ve cared about for many years has been stripped of its credibility. The station lost longtime viewers — and respect from the community, its most important asset.

And we Sinclair employees have lost respect for our jobs.

Disconcerting content from the company didn’t start with this promo

Most of the time, we don’t feel like we work for Sinclair — we feel like local journalists who cover what’s going on in our communities. Our corporate leaders don’t influence our local stories.

They do feed us a stream of conservative-leaning nationally focused content. Sinclair recently produced a multi-part series on immigrants in Sweden, for instance, and the many alleged “issues” the country experienced as a result. Commentary by a former Trump aide, Boris Epshteyn, which runs under the title “Bottom Line With Boris,” now airs on many Sinclair stations multiple times a week, often boiling down topics to a simple message: “Donald Trump is right and Democrats are wrong.” When the Eagles won the Super Bowl, Epshteyn complained about athletes who refused to visit the White House.

Every time we have to hear Epshteyn’s catchphrase, “The bottom line is this,” we feel a little queasy. It makes us want to apologize to the people watching and tell them we wish we didn’t have to run this.

The tone of Sinclair’s national news stories has slowly become more slanted. We’ve gone from unusually aggressive coverage of Hillary Clinton’s emails to reporting on the so-called “deep state.” Sinclair pushes a daily segment that tracks terrorist-related incidents around the world. It feels like Sinclair management is turning up the heat on pro-Trump content, and we, the journalists at this station, are the frogs in the pot.

If we could escape that pot by quitting, we would do it tomorrow. But it isn’t that easy.

Under a clause that appears in many contracts (as Bloomberg News has reported), if an employee quits, he or she could end up owing the company thousands of dollars. The penalty for breaking a contract is a payment to Sinclair of part of the employee’s annual salary, based on a complex formula. That’s money most employees simply don’t have. It’s a decision between possibly going bankrupt or sticking it out for another X number of years. (When asked for comment by the Huffington Post, a Sinclair spokesperson said, “Liquidated damages are standard in our industry.”)

Faced with the choice between possible unemployment and staring into a camera to read this script, many chose to swallow hard and read it.

We feel for the dozens of anchors who appeared in the promo. We didn’t have to read the script on camera. Hardworking journalists, many of whom were beloved by their communities, are now picking up the pieces of their reputations. Their faces are plastered all over the Internet, people calling them shills, bobbleheads, and puppets.

We know some anchors tried to resist, but for many reasons, they felt pressured to read it. They had families to support. They literally couldn’t afford to quit. (A Sinclair spokesperson told the Huffington Post, “No one was told their job was on the line.”)

The fact that the editorial has gone viral probably makes many of them anxious and uncomfortable. While we’re sympathetic, we think anyone involved with the promo should feel uncomfortable. Maybe news directors, anchors, and producers did what they had to do, but now they should be asking themselves some questions. They should be questioning their values, as well as the industry they work in and the company that put them in this position.

So far, it doesn’t seem like Sinclair is backing down

We’d like to think Sinclair will learn something from this, that they will admit they made a mistake, apologize to their employees and viewers, and take actions to rebuild trust with both. We’d love to see a public pledge from Sinclair that no station in their network has to run anything it doesn’t want to.

But it doesn’t seem like that’s the plan.

In a response to the media, Sinclair wrote, “We aren’t sure of the motivation for the criticism, but find it curious that we would be attacked for asking our news people to remind their audiences that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media.”

To them, everyone is wrong. Every media outlet who reports on them is out to get them. Right now, it looks like they’re just going to charge ahead, cry “fake news,” and hope this goes away.

We wonder who they got that from.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.A few months ago, while shopping on eBay, I came across the Martin Luther King Jr. Game — manufactured in 1986, intended for players ages 6 to adult, and billed as “an educational and entertaining game about America’s greatest black leader.”

Was there really fun for the whole family in a game based on the life of America’s great martyr for civil rights? It took only $27.99 to satisfy my curiosity.

The Martin Luther King Jr. Game is a little like Chutes and Ladders. Players spin to decide how far they’ll advance on the board, then follow the directions for whatever space they land on. If you land on a space with a picture of Dr. King, you draw a “Decision” card, read the back of the card, and choose one of two options. One decision card reads: “WED CORETTA SCOTT OR SWITCH PLACES WITH THE PLAYER TO YOUR LEFT.” Another says: “GO TO BIRMINGHAM JAIL AND WRITE A LETTER OR LOSE ONE TURN.”

If you land on a space marked “QUOTES,” you read from a Quote card and move the indicated number of spaces. One card says, “We must all learn to live together as brothers, or we will perish together as fools. +1 Space.” Another says, “The Negro’s agony diminishes the white man, and the Negro’s salvation enlarges the white man. + 3 Spaces.”

In 1963, while sitting in his Birmingham jail cell, King wrote: “Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will. Lukewarm acceptance is much more bewildering than outright rejection.” That quote doesn’t appear on any of the cards in the Martin Luther King Jr. Game, but it compelled me to consider whether the game fostered the kind of shallow understanding King disdained.

After my 8-year-old daughter and I played a few times, I had my answer.

It’s a fast-moving game. Players travel chronologically across and up and the board, from King’s birth on January 15, 1929, to his ordination as a Baptist minister, the Montgomery bus boycott, his incarceration in Birmingham, the passage of the Voting Rights Act, the Poor People’s Campaign, and so on.

To the game-maker’s credit, they include a place on the board for King’s assassination. But the action doesn’t end there. Instead, the winner needs to move two more spaces past the assassination, from 1968 to 1986, when King is honored with a federal holiday.

It’s not difficult to understand why Cadaco, the white-owned manufacturer, made that the last square on the board, especially considering that the game was released in 1986 and probably sought to capitalize on the excitement generated by the commemoration of the holiday. But three decades later, it’s clear that creation of Martin Luther King Jr. Day cannot be viewed as a game-ending victory, not in the Martin Luther King Jr. Game and certainly not in modern America.

What we leave out when we teach kids about Martin Luther King Jr.

Today, we tend to mark Martin Luther King Jr. Day by celebrating shared values such as peace and equality. We teach children that King had a dream that his children would be judged not by the color of their skin but by the content of their characters.

But we seldom ask schoolchildren to read King’s books. And we seldom discuss what often comes as a backlash to progress, as Ibram X. Kendi has written so powerfully. Nor do we discuss economic injustice, a part of King’s message that’s been whitewashed almost into oblivion.

We forget, for example, that the full name of the legendary March on Washington was actually the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. King warned that ending legal segregation would not end inequality, and he began talking about concepts such as guaranteed jobs and guaranteed income.

After King’s death, racism roared and became part of a political philosophy that sought to hide its bias. Voting rights eroded, schools resegregated, and incarceration rates for black men soared. Kendi writes:

A new vocabulary emerged, allowing users to evade admissions of racism. It still holds fast after all these years. The vocabulary list includes these: law and order. War on drugs. Model minority. Reverse discrimination. Race neutral. Welfare queen. Handout. Tough on crime. Personal responsibility. Black-on-black crime. Achievement gap. No excuses. Race card. Colorblind. Post racial. Illegal immigrant. Obamacare. War on Cops. Blue Lives Matter. All Lives Matter. Entitlements. Voter fraud.

I wish the creators of the Martin Luther King Jr. Game had included the setbacks experienced by King and others in the civil rights movement. Players should lose turns when the FBI taps their phones, when bombs explode at their homes, or when they’re attacked by angry mobs, arrested, or hit in the head with rocks while leading peaceful marches for fair housing.

As we mark the 50th anniversary of King’s death, we should strive to get past the lukewarm acceptance exemplified in this game, in street namings and countless other well-intentioned tributes. We should remember the racism that so violently fueled opposition to the civil rights movement — and that hardly disappeared when segregation receded.

We should reflect on the role discrimination played then and continues to play now in creating racial disparities. We should think about how to fight our own racist ideas, even the subtle ones.

Commemorating King, whether on his birthday or on the day of his assassination, shouldn’t suggest that this symbol of the civil rights movement is a part of history long gone. It should serve as a reminder that the struggle continues, that the fight for equality is really the fight for democracy, and that King’s words still have the power to shake our complacency and call us to action.

As King wrote in another section of his letter from the Birmingham jail, we must “create the kind of tension in society that will help men rise from the dark depths of prejudice and racism to the majestic heights of understanding and brotherhood.”

I wish that were one of the quotes in the game.

Jonathan Eig, author of Ali: A Life, is working on a biography of Martin Luther King Jr.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.I stand at the door on my way to school, tears rolling down my face. A long skirt grazes my small, thin legs; a knot clenches in my stomach. It’s the first day of school, maybe second or third grade. Every year, my family insists I wear a dress or skirt to school on the first day, presenting myself as the proper female student. I am not.

What I didn’t know then — and what I am just now starting to explore — is that my discomfort on those first days of school was about more than just clothes. It was about who I am, and, as I now suspect, it was likely about my gender identity.

I do not want to write this now. I want to write another story: one that inspires, one that shows strength and clarity instead of confusion and trepidation. Putting my uncertainty into words is terrifying, yet I know the value of this exercise. Others have shared their stories with me so honestly. Now it’s my turn.

I’m a photographer who has spent the past three and a half years photographing and interviewing transgender and nonbinary youth. I believe this project, which I call “Transcending Self,” has saved lives. Young people write to me often. They tell me that reading others’ stories, seeing trans folk portrayed as whole humans, not outsiders, helps them remember that their lives have value. Transgender and nonbinary youth ages 18 to 24 have a suicide attempt rate of 45 percent, according to a 2014 survey. Learning that they are not alone can be the difference that keeps them on the safe side of this terrifying statistic.

“I would identify as nonbinary or genderfluid — terms I knew nothing about two years ago — if I was your age … I think?!” I tell Leo, an outspoken and assertive 19-year-old trans teen. We’re in his dorm room in Manhattan shooting pictures. It was something I’d been mulling over: I identify with what nonbinary and genderfluid people tell me: not understanding gender, feeling like others are faking it. The effort to fit into categories important to other people that seem constricting to you.

“Why can’t you know?” he asks. He doesn’t understand my uncertainty about how to describe myself. Binaries and their limits don’t exist for Leo or many of his generation. To him, my diffidence may as well be a foreign language. For the past year and a half, I haven’t been able to get his question out of my head.

When I was born, abortion was legal in just four states and only in cases of rape or the health of the mother. A woman could not have a credit card in her name. Being actively gay was still considered both a crime and a mental disorder, and interracial marriage had just become legal. Now young LGBTQ youth not only live in a more socially progressive world; they have access, at least virtually, to endless resources to help them make sense of their lives. And the internet gives them an unprecedented platform.

I had never considered my gender identity until I started this project. When I heard stories of trans boys, forgotten scenes from my childhood flooded my mind. I remembered wanting to dress like a boy: pants, no dresses, no pink, wanting to go topless, taking my fashion cues from celebrity boys or not-yet-out lesbians. I wanted to do “boy things,” like play sports. I wanted to be strong and fearless.

I also chose to paint my room pink and purple. I played with Barbie as well as Spock and GI Joe. I still like a miniskirt with Doc Marten combat boots. I do not fit into boxes.

Tara Brach, an author and Buddhist teacher, talks about what she calls the “spacesuit self.” She says that as we grow, we create a shielding barrier, a spacesuit, to help us navigate the world and protect ourselves. When our needs — for love, security, safety, identity — aren’t met, our spacesuit grows stronger and more protective. The trouble is that at some point, we may become one with the spacesuit and forget who’s inside. We then experience the separation of our true self, and we are left with loneliness, anxiety, and shame. I know too much about all these feelings.

In middle school, I began to craft a spacesuit self so strong that the very being I was disappeared. I borrowed others’ personalities to see if they would fit, if they would fix me. I tried to dress and talk like other girls — and felt like I was wearing drag. I cried when I got my period.

As an adult, I avoided any job that required me to dress nicely. Skirts and dresses, even masculine-inspired suits, seemed to rob me of my very self. My friends and therapists told me I should wear more revealing clothing to show off my body. They told me over and over that this was all because of my low self-esteem. I was told over and over again that I’m “difficult,” or “challenging.” My spacesuit hardened.

A lot has changed this past year, including the election of Donald Trump, the death of my father, the #MeToo movement, and, of course, lessons from my ongoing project. I was blind to a lot of truths. I am now being forced to see them.

In Paths of Life, author Alice Miller says about childhood trauma, “the truth about our childhood is stored up in our body, and although we can repress it, we can never alter it. Our intellect can be deceived, our feelings manipulated, and conceptions confused. But someday our body will present its bill, for it is as incorruptible as a child, who, still whole in spirit, will accept no compromises or excuses, and it will not stop tormenting us until we stop evading the truth.”

Jay is a transgender 5-year-old featured in my project. When his mother asked how he knew he was a boy, he replied: “My heart told me I’m a boy, and I’m copping it.” Jay will be free of the trauma Miller describes.

All humans need mirrors and screens and pages that reflect our inner and outer being. A young black girl who wants to be an artist needs to see black women who are artists. The less we are reflected, the more we are gaslighted, and the harder it is to form our solid selves.

I can’t say how my sense of identity, and my life, would be different if I had grown up in this generation. But I know I wouldn’t be pondering the question. Kids nowadays don’t feel like it’s a big deal to explore your gender. For people of my generation, doing so is much more fraught with anxiety.

I don’t know what my gender identification is. Does genderfluid fit? Yes. Gender-expansive? Absolutely. Nonbinary? I suppose. But I have no idea what that means to me now, and I don’t know if it matters.

I am no longer that young girl. I am older, and what people think of me has become less interesting to me. I’ve also lived nearly half a century as a woman. In that role, I have been harassed, assaulted, and belittled, and had to fight harder for my place in the world. I have made deep bonds with other women. I don’t know that I can leave that space.

Is there a box I can finally put myself in? That I can’t say. What I do know is that in working to create a space for young people to feel like they can express themselves fully, I needed to do the same for myself.

Annie Tritt is a freelance photographer based in New York and since 2014 has been working on “Transcending Self,” a project of photographs and interviews with nonbinary and transgender youth around the world. Follow her on Instagram here.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.When Davi, a 17-year-old in Oakland, California, found out that their true gender identity — nonbinary, meaning neither male or female — was finally recognized by the state, they felt a sense of relief.

“I will feel like I don’t have to explain myself all of the time,” Davi said. “I will be so grateful, and less tired.”

Nonbinary gender identity is not recognized by most states. Last June, Oregon became the first to recognize a nonbinary gender option on driver’s licenses. Since the bill passed, Washington, DC, and three more states followed suit: Washington, New York, and California, which became the first state to allow nonbinary residents to change their gender on all relevant legal documents, including birth certificates, to a gender-neutral option.

For nonbinary youth like Davi, that means nothing less than a shift from nonexistence to existence in the eyes of the law. “Most people have the privilege of feeling that,” said Davi. “[They] probably do not even think about that concept.”

For my project “Transcending Self,” I photograph and interview trans youth from around the world; what follows are excerpts from interviews with young people who specifically identify as nonbinary (or, occasionally, “gender-expansive”). I focused on the question of what it meant for them to have their gender legally affirmed by the government. The conversations have been condensed and edited for clarity.

“It is not a one-size-fits-all solution.”

Kyla and Mya, 18, twins from Los Angeles, California

Kyla

I expressed my gender identity relatively late into my sophomore year. Before that point was two years of soul searching, a process I had mostly kept to myself. What I feared the most during this self-exploration was that maybe I was making it all up. Maybe I was a cisgender girl after all who was just looking for attention.

One of the first steps to accepting being nonbinary was realizing that first, my experiences are not made up, and second, I am not using them for attention. The reality is gender-nonconforming people aren’t looking for attention. We don’t get much attention in media or society to begin with, and if we do, it’s often dehumanizing and violent.

A few of my friends are currently applying for the new nonbinary ID option or have already received it. I’m glad they benefit. Like gay marriage, however, it is not a one-size-fits-all solution. The costs of changing one’s legal identification [can be] an added burden to the transition process. Transphobia hasn’t gone away — there is still much to be done to ensure every trans and nonbinary person has a safe and affirming life.

Mya

I entered college with the Trump candidacy and will graduate college with Trump —hopefully — leaving office. I have trans friends who are rushing to change their names on their government documents because they are not sure if they will be able to do that under Trump. I know others are de-transitioning. Everyone I know is gearing up to battle infringements on LGBT, people of color, women, disabled, the working-class people’s rights, intensified surveillance, increased brutality, and the rescinding of social safety nets.

I am on some levels protected because I come from a solidly upper-middle-class background, can attend college, and am often coded as white. However, I am also queer and trans. These next [few] years will be a time of solidarity, organizing, and resistance.

I have mixed feelings about the nonbinary option, and I don’t plan on changing my gender to neutral. We don’t need “inclusive” surveillance. Gender should be removed entirely from all IDs.

“I will be so grateful, and less tired, once this all happens.”

Davi, 20, Oakland, California

I believe and hope [this new law] will solve many challenges in this community. It will help this amazing community of people feel heard and empowered. I will feel that my gender is being validated. Most people have the privilege of feeling that, and probably do not even think about that concept.

I will feel like I don’t have to explain myself all the time, such as my name and my “birth name,” my sex, and my true gender identity. As soon as I am able to change my documents to match my name and gender identity, I will, and I will be so grateful and less tired once this all happens. It gets tiring having to explain myself all of the time on this topic.

I feel that we are stuck in a binary world. We have been for thousands of years. I don’t think that gender-neutral folk can be accepted by the majority of people in this world until there is complete gender equality within the gender binary. I know that sounds horrible, and I hate how it sounds, but many people in this world only know the gender binary. That is where inequalities are based.

“I wish boys and girls didn’t have to follow strict categories.”

Nicole, 10, Northern California (name changed to preserve anonymity)

I never really wanted to be a boy, but I do like boy things. But … I wish boys and girls didn’t have to follow strict categories. I think [the new California law] is a good law because if someone really doesn’t feel they are a boy or girl, they shouldn’t be forced to put down either. I want people to like me for being Nicole, myself. Not necessarily being a girl or boy. Just Nicole.

My parents let me wear what I want, unless the clothes are dirty and gross; [then] they force me to put clean clothes on. If your parents force you to wear girl clothes, then when you have the time, do what you want to do. Find places where you have the freedom to do what you want. I would like to kick bad parents in the face for forcing kids to be who they aren’t.

Right now, I’m used to writing that I’m a girl, but it’s a maybe. We will see when I grow how things go.

“I think most frustrating is the feeling of having no self-determination.”

Riley, 22, Lake Constance, Switzerland

Swiss law requires trans people to be sterilized in order to have legal gender recognition. Nonbinary people are not legally recognized.

It’s a process. I tried different labels to see if this fits for me, and now I kind of stuck with “agender.” And I believe that comes closest to describe me. I am just simply myself, a human being. I don’t need to conform. And it is not something you choose. I am not able to conform, because I already am who I am. I’m agender.

I think also a lot of it has to do with the frustration — I have no energy or interest in society telling me how I should look, what I should do with my body, and how I should behave, and all that. I’m tired of people constantly telling me I should be more manly, or, “If you want to be a woman, you should do that and that.” It’s exhausting, and I am not having it any longer. So for me, being agender is also a way of telling society to stop. It’s my body, my life — you have no say.

But I think most frustrating is the feeling of having no self-determination. For everything about you or your body, you have to wait for a doctor’s approval. Document changes, hormone replacement therapy, etc., takes a lot of time, energy, and money for what is mostly just waiting where some stranger has more rights about your body than you do.

I want to be able to make my own decisions for my own life and body without needing approval from several doctors — for example, for changing my name. It doesn’t make any sense why I need an endocrinologist’s and psychiatrist’s certificate to do so.

I want to say something for all the young transgender, intersex, questioning, and gender nonconforming people out there: You are valid. Your lives matter. You are so beautiful and you are so important — let no one ever tell you otherwise.

Annie Tritt is a freelance photographer based in New York and has since 2014 been working on “Transcending Self,” a project of photographs and interviews with nonbinary and transgender youth around the world. Follow her on Instagram here.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Since the Columbine High School shooting took the lives of 13 people in 1999, nearly 200,000 students have experienced a shooting at their school.

For Jami Amo, who was a 15-year-old Columbine student at the time, that has meant reliving the horror from her childhood over and over again. “There’s a lot of things the time hasn’t changed,” she said.

But after the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, last month, Amo felt as though something was different. The students, having experienced something very similar to what she went through 19 years ago, were using their platform to speak out in favor of stricter gun control.

“When I see the Parkland kids, it’s inspiring,” said Amo, herself a gun violence prevention activist, in an interview with Vox. “There’s also an element of concern for them. Are they eating? Are they sleeping? Are they talking to a counselor ... they’re experiencing so much inside that nobody else necessarily gets to see.”

Then the Rebels Project, a group for survivors of mass shootings, contacted Amo to say that students at Stoneman Douglas, including senior Carmen Lo, wanted to start a pen pal program between Columbine survivors and Parkland students. Amo began reaching out to her former classmates, to encourage them to participate.

The following is a transcript of a phone conversation between Lo and Amo, in which the two survivors trade questions and share advice about how to deal with the repercussions of a particularly American kind of tragedy. The conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity.

Carmen Lo

People say that time heals all wounds, but how is the healing process for you, as it’s been 19 years since Columbine?

Jami Amo

There’s a lot of things the time hasn’t changed. But 19 years later, it’s not as fresh. The shock is gone. You have time to really process, to go through different stages of grief, not just in terms of literal life loss but normalcy lost, the innocence lost.

When you’re high school, that’s kind of your whole world. And when it gets turned upside down, it takes a while for that to sink in. So as we go through the years, you’ll have hard days and have better days. Some years will be better than others. But in the long term, yeah, there is the potential for healing and peace. But it’s definitely a marathon, not a sprint.

Carmen Lo

For a lot of us in this time, whenever someone asks what school are you from, we’ll say Douglas, and people won’t know how to react to us. What reactions do you get when people ask you what your alma mater is? Do they still treat you differently?

Jami Amo

It was still very much the same when I still lived in Colorado. After I moved to Pennsylvania, though, [people would ask] where I went to high school and I would say, “I’m from Colorado.” That would be the end of the conversation. But then when it would come up that I went to Columbine, you could see the jaws drop and you could hear the gasps. It’s like when you see a wreck on the side of the road. You can tell there’s interest and there’s always questions.

Columbine hasn’t been in the news as much anymore, but when it is, I still hear from people. They still attach me to that. Nineteen years later, that part is never going to go away. And I’m sorry for that. But I hope that what we’re doing, what you guys have started, is changing the dialogue. Now people can say, “Good for you,” because you worked to make all of these changes, hopefully.

Carmen Lo

If you don’t mind me asking, did you lose anyone close to you? How did you cope with that? For me personally, I was close with Carmen Schentrup [a Douglas senior who was killed in the shooting]. Right now it’s difficult to think about it, and I think about her every day. How do you go about dealing with those thoughts and feelings?

Jami Amo

None of my closest friends were killed; my family was intact. One of the victims I had classes with since kindergarten. I had friends in my grade whose siblings were killed. Especially in a community like high school, people are all connected. It was like throwing a rock into the pond and the ripples spread out.

All that being said, it was hard for me to watch what other people were going through. They had lost their brother, sister, girlfriend. That’s hard no matter the context, and to do it in the public eye is even harder.

For us, it felt like there was never going to be any justice for any of the victims because our shooters had killed themselves. That part might be different for you guys — not that anything is ever going to make it better or make it right again — but there may be some semblance of justice that brings closure to you guys.

What I wish I had done more of is really try to collect the memories of the people we lost. At the time, it was all so fresh. You could think of all of these moments you shared together. But 19 years later, that stuff is gone. There’s just a few bits and pieces left.

Carmen Lo

So how is it going back to school? How was it going back to what they call “normal”? I’m a senior, so I’m going to be leaving in a couple of months. But a lot of the underclassmen, a lot of them are still going to be in the school. That building is going to most likely stay there for the next several years. The security is just crazy now. It’s just hard doing the different things after school. Now they’re imposing new rules, like the clear backpacks [to allow easy inspection] and IDs.

Jami Amo

It is so hard to be in that space where you literally can’t avoid the physical reminders of what happened. For people who should be taking a class in the building [where the shooting happened] — and you can’t right now — that’s especially hard. It can be challenging to be in an environment where everything is pretty much the same, but at the same time, everything is totally different.

And of course the media wants to capture every moment. While it’s easy to understand why there is an interest there, it’s also hard to balance the desire for privacy. I hope that your community will continue to ask them for privacy and respect and to let you guys get back to normal.

Everything has changed, but some days will feel normal. You’ll have assemblies and laughter, and there will be fun again. But there’s always going to be, in the back of people’s minds, a guilt that you get to go on and the others don’t. And that’s part of the new normal, realizing that you can’t take for granted all the little things anymore. As a community, I hope you will find strength in each other.

Carmen Lo

It’s really crazy that the underclassmen have to stay in that environment. For a lot of people, it’s pretty hard focusing in school now. Some are forced to stay in those classrooms where maybe they hid in the closets. They are stuck in that environment and can’t get out. Then the media is always following them, especially with “the movement,” and it’s 24/7 along with security.

Can we compare the differences in reactions between what happened at your school and my school? I know that you guys were the “first” mass school shooting, and of course, you guys are no longer the worst one, which is just crazy to think about: 19 years later, we’re still dealing with this issue.

Jami Amo

There’s a lot of conflicting feelings about that. What happened to us, our community in particular, was really devastated and totally shocked. But the reality is that it can happen anywhere. And the safety that we live in is really nothing more than an illusion. That’s sad.

Nineteen years ago, it was shocking to a big portion of the country. There was a lot of outrage. We felt like politicians were on our side. When they said they wanted to help, we thought they meant that. It’s been frustrating that all this time later, obviously we’re not really better off than we were.

In terms of the reactions of the students, though, the difference is massive. There’s absolutely no doubt that what you guys have done in response to your tragedy, how you’ve taken charge of your narrative — there’s a lot of people who are really inspired by it.

Carmen Lo

So how did your views change, if they did, after what happened at Columbine?

Jami Amo

I was only 15 years old. I hadn’t given any thought to politics. After [Columbine] it became apparent that we need to do something with gun control. When no meaningful legislation happened after our shooting, a lot of us became jaded and cynical.

We just accepted the scale of the battle and accepted that this wasn’t going to be solved in one year or five years. We’re getting to a point now where I hope this year, we can see things are different as a direct result of the response that you guys have called for. For me personally, I have become much more involved with my legislators, I’m speaking at the march here in Philadelphia. So that part is different. My feelings are the same, but my willingness to act out on it has really changed as a result of what you guys are saying. Thank you for that.

Carmen Lo

For the most part, people in my school are for commonsense gun laws. Being that you are also a survivor, what do you want to see done?

Jami Amo

I would like to see more people acknowledge that gun ownership is a privilege. It shouldn’t be a blanket right, with no exceptions, no limitations. I don’t think that’s appropriate with where we are in our society today. I wish more people would take that seriously. But change is coming. People are going to be voting in November to choose candidates who support that.

Are you guys doing okay? Are you taking care of yourselves and trying to sleep? Are you staying hydrated?

Carmen Lo

We’re as good as we can be. I mean, obviously, the wound is still very fresh. It’s only been a month, but there’s just so much to do. I think a lot of people were in shock at the beginning and in denial. Like you said, a lot of people just don’t think it’s ever going to happen to them. But the reality of it is it can happen anywhere, at any time.

The worst part of it is that a lot of people thought that this was a drill because we had been preparing for that. After that, I think everyone kind of turned their sadness into their anger and their activism. I think the sadness comes and goes for a lot of people. I know a lot of people are having difficulty focusing while they’re in class. But I think they’re really trying to push through.

Jami Amo

It’s interesting you said you thought it was a drill because when it happened to us, I was in the elevator, and one of the boys said to me that it was probably just a senior prank, that it wasn’t anything to worry about. Then the hallway was full of smoke and you could hear gunshots. It became very obvious that it wasn’t a senior prank.

I hope that you are taking the time to experience your feelings, even the painful ones. It’s [also] okay to let it go and focus on something that makes you feel better. And you guys have your activism. You have memories of your friends that you can focus on. I think that’s important to try and balance your feelings with what you have to do and what you want to do.

A common sentiment was that what happened to us wasn’t that bad. What did I need counseling for? But what I know now, 19 years later, is that this is traumatic for everyone who was there.

Take the time and be patient with yourself and with one another. When you see somebody struggling, let them know that it’s okay if they need help to reach out. I know there’s a lot of resources right now. They’re not gonna be there in five years, 10 years, 20 years. It’s hard to find a counselor that you can connect with, but if you can find one, processing all of this in a healthy way is going to benefit you in the long run. There’s a lot more information about how to accomplish that now than there was 19 years ago.

Carmen Lo

We’re more united as a school and a community now more than ever before. It’s really nice to be able to talk to anyone about it; even strangers in school will come up and hug you now. We’re really appreciative of the staff and administration. The therapy dogs really actually do help. The dogs just come by, and everyone in the hallways will pet it and everyone has a smile on their face again.

Jami Amo

There’s a lot of people that are on your side. People like me, we’ve been wanting change for such a long time. We’re cautiously optimistic, and it’s because of how you guys have changed the dialogue.

One thing I know some of us are curious about: As a student who has studied [school shootings] in this country going back to Columbine, how do you — I don’t put any words in your mouth — feel about our response compared to your response? The actions we did and didn’t take?

Carmen Lo

I definitely wouldn’t blame it on any survivors, on any students. I definitely don’t think it’s their fault. I don’t want to play the blame game, but I mean, if I had to say what we think we are kind of disappointed that it’s taken so long for action to be taken. And that legislators, even to this point, won’t support us and what we’re seeking. We really hope that after this, change can be made.

Jami Amo

There are some of us who feel, and it’s not helpful, but we wonder: What if we had done more? What if we had been a vocal as you guys are being? We didn’t have social media, and we were very much at the beck and call of the media. They could print or air whatever they wanted, and we didn’t have a say. That led to some really mixed feelings about the media in our community.

But still, some of us wonder [whether] if we had done more, maybe we wouldn’t still be in that situation. I just wanted you to know that there is very much a feeling like that among other survivors. It’s angering to feel that people have grown complacent with it and they just accept it as part of the risk that comes with living in a free country. We don’t agree with that.

I just hope you know that it’s not that we didn’t try. It’s not that we didn’t speak out. It’s just that nobody listened.

Carmen Lo

You guys were just kids at the time. And this had never happened before. How would you guys know how to react to that? I don’t see this as your fault.

For us, I think because we’ve grown up with social media and it’s so easy for us to communicate with people across the country and around the world, that’s really been one of the most beneficial things for us. We’re able to utilize what we’ve grown up with to our advantage to get the word out and to spread the message.“There’s a part of me that says, ‘You could have done more. You could have been more active.’”

Nineteen years ago, Andy McDonald was a student at Columbine High School when two of his classmates walked into school armed with two sawed-off shotguns, a carbine rifle, and a semiautomatic handgun and fatally shot 12 students, one teacher, and themselves.

It was far from the first school shooting, but the details around the attack — the huge arsenal of weapons (which also included propane bombs and pipe bombs), the much-discussed role social isolation may have played in driving the killers’ actions, panic about the alleged influence of video games and metal music — marked it as the first of a specific kind of mass shooting.

Since Columbine, there’s been an average of 10 shootings a year in American schools, according to a Washington Post analysis. It is routine for them to be compared, in one way or another, to the Columbine shooting. But the shooting last month at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed by an ex-student wielding an AR-15, felt viscerally familiar to McDonald.

“This one I’ve really tried to stay away from,” he said. “It hit really close for me.” Yet McDonald also has watched the actions of the students at Parkland afterward with deep respect — and a twinge of regret that Columbine students did not do something similar.

Since the shooting at Stoneman Douglas, the students at that school have plunged into gun control activism; they’ll play a central role in the March for Our Lives protest in Washington, DC, this Saturday. As the Parkland kids speak out, Columbine survivors like McDonald have been reflecting on how the earlier tragedy continues to affect their lives nearly two decades later. Some feel a sense of hope that policy changes that make such shootings less likely could finally occur, while others remain skeptical. All of them had their lives upended.

These interviews have been condensed and edited for clarity.

“They’re experiencing so much inside that nobody else necessarily gets to see.”

Jami Amo

Columbine High School class of ’02. She was 15 at the time of the Columbine attack. A stay-at-home parent and gun violence prevention advocate in Philadelphia, Amo, has three children, ages 7, 4, and 1.

I am diagnosed PTSD. When [mass shootings] happen, I’ll get flashbacks. Memories that seem far away most days come back a lot closer when you see it on the news. It’s been almost 19 years, but it’s not something that you move on from.

I can’t go somewhere and not know where the exits are. I can’t have my back to the door, for example, when I’m in a restaurant. I don’t really see movies anymore — movie theaters make me very uncomfortable. I’ll have panic attacks and anxiety issues. For the most part, I’ve been able to work through these issues over the years. I can leave my house and still do things that I have to do. But on the inside, I’m totally a wreck.

I used to think nothing really significant happened to me on that day. I wasn’t shot. My sister [class of 2000] wasn’t killed. There were people who had it so much worse. And what I know now is that trauma is not about how bad it is for you compared to others. What happened at Columbine really was significant enough that I can say now that it’s okay that this affected me so deeply.

When I see the Parkland kids, it’s inspiring. There’s also an element of concern for them. Are they eating? Are they sleeping? Are they talking to a counselor? Are they taking care of themselves? They’re doing so much. And they’re experiencing so much inside that nobody else necessarily gets to see.

Part of me feels like, why wasn’t this enough to anger people on a broad level before? I’m grateful for it, but at the same time, it’s an interesting thing to wonder. What’s the difference this time?

“There’s a part of me that says, ‘You could have done more.’”

Andy McDonald

17 when the Columbine shooting occurred, class of ‘00. A social studies teacher who lives in Plymouth, New Hampshire, McDonald has three children, ages 9, 4, and 1.

There’s a part of me that says, “You could have done more. You could have been more active.” I wrestle with that, between my family and other things that I could be doing, those big-picture things that you want to do versus what you need to do right now. It’s hard. Those Parkland kids — that was me 19 years ago. The fact that this has continued to happen and nothing has been done about it is horrible.

One of the things that crossed my mind was, what if there were changes that were made after Columbine on a policy level? What could have been different today as a result? Would it have become part of the culture? That was part of my frustration.

I’ve worked with assembly programs and spoken to students all over the country and in places around the world. Big picture, that hasn’t worked. Maybe it’s worked to a certain extent, I don’t know. But I feel like I’ve tried to take what happened to us at Columbine and turn it into something positive. And every time these things come up, you see that it just wasn’t good enough. And that might not be fair.

“You may have to be more patient with us adults than we deserve.”

Samantha Haviland

Class of ‘00; age 15 at the time of the Columbine attack. She’s now a citywide public schools counseling director in Denver.

I traveled and did some speaking shortly after the shooting, through high school and a couple years of college. I told my story an awful lot, which tends to make you calmer when you’re processing some of those things.

The activism I was involved with after Columbine was more about anti-violence. I traveled for Crime Stoppers International, and I went to schools with the message that this was a very average day in a very average school. It was a campaign of, basically, “See something, say something,” that was anonymous. Don’t think it can’t happen to you, and keep your eyes out and be vocal if you see something that scares you. I traveled with a general message of, “Be kind to each other.”

I am very proud of the Parkland High School students. I think the direction they’ve taken it, the anger and frustration with us as adults, is very appropriate. I would tell the Parkland kids, yes, be angry. Yes, be vocal. Yes, be persistent with us. And take care of yourself and know that these are very complex issues. You may have to be more patient with us adults than we deserve.

What I worry about is that these students will take it personally that it takes us adults a long time to navigate this. I don’t want them to think we don’t appreciate them or love them or value their life. I worry about trauma victims who see the inaction of others as a personal affront, that they don’t matter. All students matter. Do not let us get away with walking away without having the conversation. With the volatility of gun control, I know that we’re going to have to have some really hard conversations because people have ideologized their access to weapons.

“My relationships with these people I went to high school with are so different.”

Kelly Vandamme

Class of ‘00; 17 years old when the Columbine shooting occurred. Vandamme is now an accountant in Littleton, Colorado, with two children, ages 5 and 3.

It became hard to deal with because no one understood. It was almost like I was being looked at as, “I know a girl that went to Columbine.” [I was] trying to find out who was really interested in me as a person instead of me being part of something that was unheard of at the time. I struggled a lot with dealing with it and finding people to talk to about it. It was such a unique thing to be part of a school shooting back then.

Then I moved back home and I realized I have amazing relationships with people I went to high school with that I don’t think I’d otherwise have. I think our friendships and our relationships are just stronger because there’s this inherent bond, and we don’t have to talk about the shooting. It’s not something you want to talk about that much. My relationships with these people I went to high school with are so different because they had to be. They’re the only people that can understand what you’ve been through, and who you are today because of it.

“Those kids don’t owe anybody really anything right now.”

Stephen Cohen

Class of ’99, he was 18 years old when the shooting occurred. He’s now a general assignment newspaper reporter in Seattle.

I hope that what the Parkland kids are talking about and what they are advocating for is really, truly what they believe — and it seems to me that they are. But if this is something that’s coming from the adults around them, tell the adults to fuck off. They should make sure they’re not being steered by anybody.

In the tradition I grew up in, there was a strong presence there of a conservative, evangelical bent. People thought Columbine was going to be the start of some kind of revival in the country. Of course they believed that, right? They had just seen their kids get murdered. How do you square that?

There’s a song that my brother and I performed at the memorial service, called “Friend of Mine.” It became an anthem of healing and community, but also it’s a deeply religious song. In the months after the shooting, my brother and I were flown around the country to go appear at different festivals. We went in front of a congressional delegation in DC at the Capitol. Then people would make donations that went to Columbine victims. We were this weird Christian rock star hybrid tragedy survivor thing for a summer, which will fuck with you.

Looking back on it now, that was a really weird time. I’m happy that we were able to raise money for the people who were injured, but I also feel deeply troubled about the fact that we were put in this very strange spotlight afterward.

That kind of stuff is incredibly disruptive. Even from good people whose motives are more or less pure, that stuff can put kids in harm’s way. It can delay them getting help. For me, it led to some very conflicted feelings later on in life. What exactly did I endorse at that time that I wouldn’t endorse now and would never have thought to have done that without somebody sort of steering me in that direction? That’s a hard thing to kind of square.

Because those kids don’t owe anybody really anything right now. They’re victims in this. For all of them, I just hope that they’re getting help.

“You let us bury every child, and then we’ll talk about school.”

Paula Reed

A teacher at Columbine High School when the shooting occurred, Reed has two children, ages 27 and 22. She lives in Lakewood, Colorado, and still teaches at Columbine.

I’ve been a part of a Facebook page called the Rebels Project, for survivors of mass shootings, for several years now. I ended up privately messaging a couple of teachers from several schools where there were mass shootings.

I get a lot of questions like, “I don’t know what to do. I’m so angry, but then I have to go to school, and I have to teach, and I have to act like everything is okay because I have to be strong for the kids.” Just for them to just be able to talk to a teacher who can say, “Yep. Been there, done that,” and to give them some pointers for how to get through it.

Teachers are by nature rule followers for the most part, and people know that. So they will ask you to do nearly impossible things. When you’re in shock, you’re even more likely to say, “Okay, I’ll try to do that.” It’s okay to dig in your heels and say, “Don’t tell me what I need and what I don’t need.” They tried to make us go back to school before we had buried the last child, and we said, “No. We’re not doing it. You let us bury every child, and then we’ll talk about school.”

I’m also still pretty jaded. When I talked to the teachers from Sandy Hook, and they said, “Do you think this is going to make a difference?” I said, “Nope. It’s not. The NRA is really powerful, and it’s not going to make a dent.”

Lead image credits: Morgan Levy, Corey Perrine, Sarah Priestap, and Ian Bates for Vox. Family images courtesy of Jami Amo, Andy McDonald, Samantha Haviland, Kelly Vandamme, Stephen Cohen, and Paula Reed.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.It was November 2014, and I was working on a feature story about a buzzed-about blood-testing company in Silicon Valley that promised to “disrupt” the lab industry with new technology. The company, Theranos, claimed its revolutionary finger-prick test would be a cheap and less painful way to screen for hundreds of diseases with just a few drops of blood.

Old-fashioned venous blood draws, where the patient watches as vial after vial of blood is collected, would quickly become obsolete, Theranos promised.

The interviews took a month to arrange. The public relations officer wanted to know, did I “plan on sourcing other people?” and implied that CEO Elizabeth Holmes might not be available to me if I did talk to other sources. I rejected that condition, but finally the company’s public relations contacts agreed to let me visit its site at the Walgreens in Palo Alto, California — one of the first such setups in the country — followed by a sit-down interview with Holmes at her office.

I arrived at the Walgreens on the morning of November 4 and was met by two Theranos press representatives who would supervise my visit. I took out my recording equipment (the story was for NPR) and began approaching patients who were waiting in line to check in for testing.

Some didn’t want to talk to a reporter, but others were open and gracious, sharing with me the reasons they had decided to give Theranos a try. One couple offered to let me come with them into the small testing room, set up to feel like a relaxing spa.

Where were the famous finger-prick blood draws?

A pattern quickly emerged — none of the patients I talked to that day could get a finger-prick test, as promised. Instead, they received a regular venous blood draw, the same as I’d received on numerous occasions at my doctor’s office, though the phlebotomist said the needle was slightly smaller.

I asked the phlebotomist: Was this standard? Did most patients get the venous draw? She told me they “did more finger sticks than venous draws,” but couldn’t give me a number. One of the PR people approached me — I was not authorized to talk to the phlebotomist, he said — and asked me to erase the audio I had recorded. I declined.

I asked him: Why were none of the patients getting a finger prick? Just bad luck and timing, he said. This wasn’t how it usually was, he promised. And wouldn’t I just rather get a finger prick myself and report on the experience, as so many other journalists had agreed to do?

I said no. I needed an actual patient to make a compelling radio story. So I continued waiting for other patients.

Soon, the two Theranos representatives approached me again — with a third on the phone, who said she wanted to talk to me. They were getting complaints about my asking patients questions, she told me. The main Theranos office had gotten several calls from people who had been in the Walgreens that morning, she claimed, complaining that a reporter was bothering them.

I hadn’t pressured anyone. The patients I’d interviewed had all been perfectly friendly and willing. I’ve also been a health reporter for 10 years and never have I been told I was pushing patients to do something that made them uncomfortable.

Something seemed very wrong.

Soon, one of the Theranos representatives approached me again, clearly nervous. They appeared worried. Unless I found a patient getting a finger prick, he said, they would likely have to cancel my interview with Holmes.

It was clearly a threat to try to steer me away from where the story was taking me: Theranos seemed to be doing very few, if any, of its revolutionary tests on actual patients. I asked the press representatives to get the other one on the phone again; I didn’t like being threatened, and I wanted to hash it out with her.

I kept pursuing the story; then something very strange happened

Meanwhile, I sat down with another couple, who had driven 45 minutes to experience the vaunted finger prick. Would they too be steered to a traditional blood test?

As I was interviewing them — but before we knew which test they could get — a sudden and jolting BEEP BEEP BEEP reverberated through the drugstore. “Fire alarm!” someone called out, and we evacuated to the street.

I’d never been in a drugstore when the fire alarm went off. There was no smoke and no fire.

I decided to cancel the feature. I had pitched it as a consumer-focused story about how often “less is more” in health care. I clearly no longer had that story. I made a few more calls to various experts on lab testing to try to figure out what was happening: Was Theranos for real? I was given an interview with a lawyer at Theranos, who promised me that “significantly more than 50 percent of the tests are done with a finger prick,” though she would say no more.

Now that Theranos has been implicated in massive fraud, that encounter serves as a reminder of the skepticism both journalists and health care consumers need to have in an age when public relations, marketing, and advertising try to guide the story and our treatment.

Theranos generated huge hype and laudatory coverage in places like the New Yorker, Wired, and Fortune by selling a compelling idea, even as its PR people couldn’t show me an actual patient who had benefited. Sometimes, in health care, an idea that seems too good to be true, isn’t. We all — patients and journalists — have to do our due diligence.

The PR tactics Theranos employed blocked journalists from providing the kind of scrutiny that might have revealed the fantasy the company was weaving for investors sooner.

And 11 months after my experience at that Walgreens, John Carreyrou of the Wall Street Journal published the first of his groundbreaking investigations surrounding Theranos, blowing the lid off the company’s fraudulent claims. Of the 240 types of blood tests the company said it did, only 15 used finger pricks.

Now comes the news that Theranos has accepted a settlement in the fraud case with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Which has me thinking.

Had someone pulled the fire alarm? I’ve been suspicious since the moment it happened.

Last week, I wrote to Theranos to ask. No surprise: No response.

This story was produced by Kaiser Health News, which publishes California Healthline, an editorially independent service of the California Health Care Foundation. Jenny Gold is a reporter for Kaiser Health News. Find her on Twitter @JennyAGold.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.EDITOR’S NOTE, 3/27: Since the publication of this essay, Jazmine M. Walker, a Washington, DC-based co-host of the Black Joy Mixtape podcast, has come forward to say that the author coerced her into an unwanted sex act. The incident occurred, Walker says, when the two were in a relationship while both were enrolled in the graduate program in sociology at the University of Mississippi, six years ago. Walker first made the allegation on Twitter, and repeated it in an interview with Inside Higher Ed; Vox has confirmed that she stands by her accusation. Robert L. Reece wrote in a tweet after the essay was published that “I’ve been coercive before, specifically with my ex about ten years ago.” He has declined to comment further. Vox is investigating the allegation, and related issues. If you have relevant information to share, Vox editors can be reached at firstperson@vox.com.

The look on his face was familiar. I’d been there myself.

It was the look of a man in reckoning — mentally replaying past sexual encounters, searching, pondering, trying to recall conversations and facial expressions, filtering through imperfect memories. Did she seem hesitant? Did I ignore the signs? Was I too aggressive?

This particular student sat in the front row of a course I was teaching called “Masculinities in America.” In the classroom, we discussed topics like trans men, female masculinity, men’s place in feminist discourse, and, finally, sexual violence, assault, and consent.

I asked students to think hard about whether they asked permission before they touched their partner intimately, or before a kiss. I was impressed by some students’ advanced ideas about consent. One woman mentioned that she’d heard coaches sometimes encouraged athletes to ask women to sign consent contracts before sex to avoid sexual assault or rape allegations. Another student spoke up to say this was not affirmative consent — that a person cannot consent to the entire process of sex at the outset.

I noticed that the discussion was concentrated among the women. The men in the class were noticeably silent.

The student in the front row caught my eye. He was an athlete, and I had been proud of his growth throughout the semester and his engagement with complex ideas about masculinity. But this conversation seemed to affect him differently, making him uncharacteristically uncomfortable.

He and I communicated via email after class. He told me the topic was difficult to grapple with, that he struggled to reconcile past encounters with his new knowledge of consent and coercion. I told him I understood how distressing it could be to recall those experiences but stressed the importance of sitting with the discomfort and learning from it. I suggested he visit the counseling center, although I’m unsure if he ever did.

As #MeToo continues to prompt conversation about sexual misconduct, what are the conversations that men across the country are having about this movement?

The controversial allegations against Aziz Ansari have shifted and broadened the discourse surrounding the #MeToo movement from workplace harassment, particularly involving celebrities, to a larger discussion about consent and coercion in sexual encounters.

Men on #MeToo and the gray areas of intimate encounters

Howard (a pseudonym to preserve anonymity), a DC-area lawyer I spoke to, said reading the Ansari story reminded him of what he described as his “creepy” pursuit of a woman friend in college. He told me that he similarly refused to take no for an answer even though she had expressed little interest in a romantic relationship with him. Influenced by “virtually every movie ever,” he told me, he felt it was his job to win her over.

Over time, conversations with female friends helped him realize how inappropriate his courtship was. Yet ultimately, Howard said he found his behavior “disturbing in its normality.” This was not just the actions of a single overzealous person: It was fundamentally how men had been taught to pursue relationships with women.

Other men I talked to — admittedly fewer of them — offered more positive experiences navigating the potential ambiguity of consent. Michael, a film student, recalled the end of a date with a woman he’d been intimate with in the past. Hoping to continue their sexual relationship, he began to kiss and touch her. “I was thinking, ‘Oh, okay, we’ve been here before, we can do whatever,’ but if she wasn’t feeling it at the moment or if things had changed, I didn’t recognize it at the moment … until I saw her face and how uncomfortable she was. I backed off.”

These realizations are not exclusive to heterosexual interactions. Tom (also a pseudonym), a gay man, described to me a first-time sexual encounter with a partner in which he felt hesitant and reluctant to continue but at the same time uncomfortable retreating or saying no.

“I was clearly not ready,” he said. “I was shaking. I was not in a good place mentally. I wasn’t even in a good enough place mentally to say ‘We should stop.’” Tom’s partner eventually noticed his visible discomfort and suggested they halt things, and Tom eagerly agreed.

Both of these situations epitomize that gray area that looms larger and larger in discussions I’ve had with men about consent and coercion. Although Tom admits he was not prepared to have sex that evening, he acknowledges he tacitly consented. Had his partner continued, Tom would not consider the partner a rapist, he said — but he would definitely consider him a bad person.

Among the men I spoke to, several questions emerged: Whose burden it is to make consent explicit? Is it the responsibility of the aggressive partner to notice nonverbal signals of discomfort and withdraw or renegotiate a sexual situation? For example, Tom said by asking if he was okay and if they should continue, his partner gave him “permission to say no,” which freed him from the pressure of following through and the internal debates about whether he had actually consented.

“Permission to say no” stands out as an important concept in these situations. Even though Tom’s experience was with another man, it may be especially important for heterosexual couples that men are hyperaware of their women partners’ nonverbal communication. Because men and women typically enter sexual encounters with disparate social power — and often with unequal physical power — and expectations, their interactions are especially sensitive to pressure and coercion where women may feel sex is obligatory or that they may be in physical danger if they refuse.

James, who is finishing his doctorate in criminology at the University of California Irvine, emphasized how this moment “brings the conversation to the ground … outside of the legal ramifications.” He told me that with his friends, he’s been privately talking about the importance of affirmative consent and how asking questions does not have to be a barrier to enjoyable sex. James was quick to point out that that sex with his partner has improved since asking questions and seeking affirmative consent became a regular part of their routine; it doesn’t “break the mood.” Such questions not only decrease ambiguity but also emphasize that sex is about the mutual pleasure of all parties involved.

Furthermore, Tom, who is part of the BDSM community, suggested to me that kink culture may offer the broader culture direction on minimizing the grayness in sexual encounters. He suggested that safe words, where partners agree to stop if either of them says a certain signal word during sex, might be a useful tool to combat people’s apparent aversion to using the word “no,” particularly during the middle of sex.

“I’ve found that it’s psychologically easier to say a safe word than to say no because we’re taught not to say no,” he said. “It’s hard even in sexual contexts, because we’re taught not to hurt people’s feelings.”

He also wondered about the larger benefits of the concept of “negotiation,” where partners plan and agree on which activities they will and will not engage in during sex. Of course, each of these approaches is subject to its own brand of power politics and coercion, but they may serve as useful safeguards.

It is important to remember that gray areas are not an innate part of sexual encounters. We allow gray areas to persist through our aversion to speaking openly and honestly about our sexual desires. And by allowing these gray areas to exist, we offer an excuse for people who seek to take advantage of ambiguity to fulfill their sexual goals.

Looking back, looking forward, and consequences for coercion

Creating a better future is only one goal of the Me Too movement. We — we men — must also look backward and acknowledge our past wrongs, even if we have little guidance with how to process these feelings and what to do about them

Apologizing to our victims or asking for forgiveness may seem like the right response to confusion or guilt. This was ultimately Howard’s course of action, and he emphasized that “it has to be an apology in which you acknowledge what you did … and understand why it was wrong and tell that person that you know why it was wrong.” However, in these cases, we run the risk of forcing past partners to relive trauma merely to assuage our own guilt.

Although each of the men I spoke with acknowledged that they and other perpetrators should face consequences for coercion, they weren’t sure what those consequences should be. Although legal institutions are woefully unprepared to tackle the murkiness that comes with issues of consent, it is relatively easy to punish celebrities.

As we saw with Harvey Weinstein, Kevin Spacey, and others, we can publicly pressure the media industry to stop working with high-profile people who commit sexual indiscretions. But #MeToo has expanded to encompass non-celebrities, for whom that option does not exist. And incarceration, even if the legal system made it possible, has demonstrated little impact on lasting behavioral changes.

Tom seemed partial to a type of rehabilitation for these incidents. He drew a parallel to alcoholism, saying that rehab is not only about helping the person improve his life; it is also a public signal that this person admits and accepts his past wrongs and is committed to doing better. But Semi, a freelance writer, questioned whether rehab or counseling is an effective long-term solution. “If somebody is forced to go into counseling, they tend to resent that,” he said.

Ultimately, the search for the type of sustainable solutions and cultural changes necessary to ensure the safety and pleasure of intimate encounters remains elusive. History shows us that troublesome tendencies, particularly those that benefit groups in power — in this case, men — are not easily stamped out. It is important to ensure the solutions we implement do not fall victim to the typical twists and turns of oppression, where those who benefit find ways to circumvent measures designed to maintain our mutual safety. We have to remember that what we’re trying to accomplish — achieving social reforms, dismantling rape culture, and defining and solidifying consent — is a process.

“This is going to take a really long time,” Howard says, “It’s not just, ‘We had the #MeToo movement; now we’ve moved on. We live in a post-sexual harassment America.’ That’s just not going to happen.”

Robert L. Reece is an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Texas at Austin. He received his PhD at Duke University and is from Leland, Mississippi, a small town in the heart of the Mississippi Delta. His work has appeared in a number of academic and public outlets.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.There’s a branch of Christianity that promises a direct path to the good life. It is called by many names, but most often it is nicknamed the “prosperity gospel” for its bold central claim that God will give you your heart’s desires: money in the bank, a healthy body, a thriving family, and boundless happiness.

This was not the faith I grew up with on the prairies of Manitoba, Canada, surrounded by communities of Mennonites. I learned at my Anabaptist Bible camp about a poor carpenter from Galilee who taught that a good life was a simple one.

But when I was 18 or so, I started hearing stories about a different kind of faith with a formula for success. At first, I followed my interest in the prosperity gospel like a storm chaser, finding any megachurch within driving distance of a family vacation. I started at Yale Divinity School for my master’s ready to devote myself to analyzing this unusual theology.

By 25, I was traveling the country interviewing this movement’s celebrities for my doctoral research. Eventually, I wrote the first history of the prosperity gospel from its roots in the late 19th century to its modern mix of TV preachers and suburban megachurches.

During my years of research, I talked to televangelists who offered spiritual guarantees that viewers would receive money from God’s own hands, I held hands with people in wheelchairs praying at the altar to be cured. They, too, thought faith contained an implicit promise of earthly reward.

I thought I was trying to understand how millions of North Americans had started asking God for more than subsistence. How they seemed to want permission to experience the luxuries of life as a reward for good behavior.

In popular culture, the movement was best known for Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker, the de facto king and queen of 1980s televangelism. Their media empire toppled when Jim was convicted of financial fraud and the scandal cemented in most people’s minds the idea that the prosperity gospel was fundamentally about gold faucets, thick mink coats, and matching his-and-her Mercedes — and very little else.

Some believers in the prosperity gospel seek wealth. But others just want reassurance.

It is true that the prosperity gospel encourages people — especially its leaders — to revel in private jets and multimillion-dollar homes as evidence of God’s love. But among the less well-heeled believers, I sensed a different kind of yearning, one that wasn’t entirely materialistic. Believers wanted an escape: from poverty, failing health, and the feeling that their lives were leaky buckets.

Some people wanted Bentleys, but more wanted relief from the wounds of their past and the pain of their present. People wanted salvation from bleak medical diagnoses; they wanted to see God rescue their broken teenagers or their misfiring marriages. They wanted talismans to ward off the things that go bump in the night. They wanted an iota of power over the things that ripped their lives apart at the seams.

What they wanted was reassurance: that if they prayed, and believed, and lived righteously, they would be rewarded with some measure of comfort.

The prosperity gospel is a theodicy, an explanation for the problem of evil. It is an answer to the questions that take our lives apart: Why do some people get healed and some people don’t? Why do some people leap and land on their feet while others tumble all the way down? Why do some babies die in their cribs and some bitter souls live to see their great-grandchildren?

The prosperity gospel looks at the world as it is and promises a solution. It guarantees that faith will always make a way. If you believe, and you leap, you will land on your feet. If you believe, you will be healed.

I would love to report that what I found in the prosperity gospel was something so foreign and terrible to me that I was warned away. After all, the moral and logical flaws in this theology are all too evident; it explains away misfortune as something that can and ought to be held at bay through faith and prayer. But what I discovered was both familiar and painfully sweet.

I felt the lure of the promise that I could curate my life, minimize my losses, and stand on my successes. No matter how many times I rolled my eyes at the creed’s outrageous certainties, I craved them just the same. I had my own prosperity gospel, a flowering weed grown in with all the rest.

Married in my 20s to a lovely Mennonite. Then a baby in my 30s. I won a job at my alma mater straight out of graduate school. I felt breathless with the possibilities. It was a certainty, plain and simple, that God had a worthy plan for my life. I wanted God to make me good and make me faithful — with just a few shining accolades along the way. I was willing to accept some setbacks but thought each one would also serve as a step forward; any hardships would be only detours on my long life’s journey. I believed God would make a way.

I don’t believe that anymore.

The reckoning that challenged my theology

One moment I was a regular person with regular problems; the next, I was someone with cancer. Stage 4 cancer. Before my mind could apprehend it, it was there — swelling to take up every space my imagination could touch. A new and unwanted reality. There was a before, and now there was an after. Time slowed to a pulse. Am I breathing? I wondered. Do I want to?

Every day I pray the same prayer: God, save me. Save me. Save me. Oh, God, remember my baby boy. Remember my son and my husband before you return me to ashes. Before they walk this earth alone.

I plead with a God of Maybe, who may or may not let me collect more years. It is a God I love, and a God that breaks my heart.

Anyone who has lived in the aftermath of something like this knows that it signifies the arrival of three questions so simple that they seem, in turn, too shallow and too deep.

Why?

God, are you here?

What does this suffering mean?

At first, those questions had enormous weight and urgency. I could hear Him. I could almost make out an answer. But that’s been drowned out by what I have heard a thousand times from people down here. “Everything happens for a reason” or “God is writing a better story.” Apparently, God is also busy going around opening doors and closing windows. He can’t get enough of that.

For believers, do all things really “work together for good”?

A world I love is ending, and so many people seem to know why. Most of their explanations are reassurances that even this is a secret plan to improve me. “God has a better plan!” “This is a test and it will make you stronger!” Sometimes these explanations are peppered with scriptures like, “We know that for those who love God all things work together for good” (Romans 8:28).

Except that the author of that passage, Paul, worshipped God with every breath until his body was dumped in an unmarked grave after being summarily executed by the empire. But I know what they’re saying. It would be nice if catastrophes were divine conspiracies to undo what time and unfaithfulness have done to my wandering soul.

Other people want to assure me that what I’ve had is enough. “At least you have your son. At least you’ve had an amazing marriage.” I have been stripped down to the studs, and everything of worth I have accumulated is being appraised with a keen eye.

I am certain that when I die, some beautiful moron will tell my husband, “God needed an angel,” because God is sadistic like that.

This is what I think about sometimes. What people will say to the man with sandy hair and eyes I have loved since we were 15 and thought we would never die.

We want to believe we can shape our life’s course

I don’t think I knew enough about longing 10 years ago when I started investigating the prosperity gospel. I had just bought a little house with the man I love. I filled it with books, Ikea furniture, and a soft dog with legs as stout as soup cans. I was steeped in the lore of eternal youth. My life was something I could mold, or at least correct with a surge of determination. It was the same unlimited confidence that the prosperity gospel calls “victory.” Nothing was broken yet that could not be fixed.

What gives the prosperity movement breadth and depth for many is its thorough accounting for the pain of life and the longing we have for restoration. For those trapped in failing bodies or broken relationships or the painful possibility that their lives might never be made whole, Americans turn to this message of hope. If life is a game, one with rules for success that anyone can use, then maybe they can win.

I had always loved to hear those delicious reassurances that the best is yet to come, bits of scripture and common wisdom and folksy advice from strangers and friends. God is making things right. God will save me from the unthinkable. I will not be eaten up by cancer before my hair turns gray.

I know the temptations of believing such things. It is hard to give up the hope for perpetual worldly betterment. But today will have to be like any other, with bloodwork and test results, decisions to be made and side effects managed. Today will be filled with possibilities and inevitabilities, with only the slenderest separation of difference between them. And enough reminders that joy persists, somehow.

Kate Bowler is an assistant professor at Duke Divinity School, the author of Everything Happens for a Reason: And Other Lies I’ve Loved (from which this piece has been adapted), and the host of the podcast Everything Happens. Find her on Twitter @KatecBowler.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.At age 6, Sarah McBride used building blocks to create a make-believe version of the place she dreamed to visit one day: the White House. McBride’s early dreams came true. She interned at the White House in 2012, during her senior year at American University — where she came out publicly as transgender at the end of her term as student body president. And at the 2016 Democratic National Convention, she made history, becoming the first transgender person to speak at a national convention.

McBride’s new memoir, Tomorrow Will Be Different: Love, Loss, and the Fight for Trans Equality, describes her experience as a trans woman, helping Delaware become the 17th state to protect trans people from discrimination, and her relationship with Andy Cray — a transgender man and activist — who died of cancer at the age of 28, only days after their wedding.

McBride says addressing trans equality is a life-or-death matter. “When I think of families accepting and embracing their transgender children,” she told me, “I remember when a mom of a transgender daughter said: ‘When my child came out, I was faced with a decision — whether I wanted a happy daughter or a dead son.’”

I spoke with McBride, currently the national press secretary of the nonprofit Human Rights Campaign, about the issue of coming out as trans, the “empathy gap” of liberals, and the ban on transgender people in the military, among other topics.

Our conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.

Hope Reese

Being a young activist for trans rights is central to your identity. And now we’re starting to see activism in this younger generation — most recently in the Parkland protests [after the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida]. What advice do you have for young activists?

Sarah McBride

Young people have always been at the forefront of social change, whether it was Sylvia Rivera and Marsha P. Thompson at a young age helping to launch the Stonewall Uprising or John Lewis organizing a march across the bridge in Selma.

Students are turning tragedy into action and taking on an issue that for far too long hasn’t seen enough action. They will get to decide who was right and who was wrong in this moment — and I think elected officials and the public at large understand that.

Hope Reese

Recently, a trans person openly enrolled in the military, despite Trump’s ban. How do you see this issue playing out?

Sarah McBride

This president’s discriminatory and dangerous ban on transgender people serving in the military was entirely impulsive and erratic. This was not done, contrary to his assertions, in consultation with his generals. It was not done in consultation with the Pentagon. It was done based on a whim, by a commander in chief who has governed with bigotry from the start. Fortunately, several court positions have affirmed that this ban is based on nothing but animus and is, indeed, unconstitutional.

What we’ve seen from the public’s response to this ban is similar to what we saw in North Carolina [where Republicans passed, and later partially repealed, a bill preventing trans people from using the bathroom corresponding to their gender identity] — every time they attack us, they end up creating a national dialogue that only further opens hearts and changes minds, sowing the seeds of the destruction of the politics of hate.

Hope Reese

I’ve heard that part of the reason we don’t see more trans people in the media is because there are many who just want to pass and don’t necessarily want to come out as trans. How important is it to come out?

Sarah McBride

Frankly, I think one of the more dangerous narratives that exists in the LGBTQ community is that everyone has to be out. It’s a dangerous burden to put on an already marginalized community — particularly when being out, for transgender people, can end up being an asterisk on your identity. While coming out and sharing one’s story can be incredibly empowering, and I want to build a world where everyone feels comfortable and safe doing so, the reality is that’s not the world faced by far too many LGBTQ people, particularly trans folks.

I’m fighting for every person to be able to live their gender identity or sexual orientation the way they feel they need to. By requiring people to be out, you’re violating that principle.

Hope Reese

In your book, your family comes across as supportive and loving, but when you first came out to them in December 2011, your transition was a challenge for them. You write that your parents “were struggling with the same empathy gap that ... was one of the main barriers to trans equality among progressive voters.”

Sarah McBride

I was prepared for the initial shock and extreme fear that my parents expressed when I first came out to them. Frankly, that’s one of the reasons why it took me so long to come out. But I resolved to be patient with them, and to walk with them through that process of what, to them, at first felt like a loss. It eventually led to not just acceptance but pride — in the fact that they’ve raised three great kids, two of whom are LGBTQ and have the courage and confidence to share those identities and that beauty with the world.

When my mom first asked, “What are the chances that I would have a gay son and a transgender child?” she was asking it out of a place of self-pity. My hope is that she has gone from asking that question from a place of pity to a place of awe.

Hope Reese

This generation of trans youth are, perhaps, the first to come out starting at a young age. How can you talk to families about their trans children?

Sarah McBride

Embracing a child when they come out as transgender can be a matter of life and death. We know, based on all of the available research and on the overwhelming consensus of the medical establishment, that allowing a transgender child to live their authentic gender identity has significant benefits for their long-term mental and physical health.

There are a lot of misconceptions and misinformation about what it means to allow a transgender child to live authentically. But despite the misinformation and myths, transgender kids are, in many cases, thriving.

Hope Reese

When you say that there are myths about what the transgender path looks like — what exactly are they? And why are they harmful?

Sarah McBride

The myths are that there’s some sort of early medical intervention [such as hormones or gender reassignment surgery]. The reality is that when a child comes out as transgender, they’re what’s called “socially transitioned” — they’re allowed to live authentically. They’re allowed to be called by their name and pronoun. It’s not until later in life, as puberty starts to hit, that there’s any degree of medical intervention — hormones, etc. Even then, it’s temporary medical intervention, done in consultation with medical professionals. It’s done in a way that gives them the maximum amount of time and space to make decisions.

There’s also a misconception about when people know they’re transgender. By all accounts, gender identity is something that is known from a very early age — frequently, it’s one of the earliest memories. This is something that these youth are insistent about, consistent about, and persistent about. The families that are affirming their children are doing so in a lifesaving way in consultation with medical professionals.

Hope Reese

The point you raise about how early transgender people know their gender identity — in 2013, author and New York Times opinion contributor Jennifer Finney Boylan told me that gender identity is formed in the sixth week of pregnancy. Is this science up to date? And how much does it matter when it comes to someone’s identity?

Sarah McBride

The science continues to explore the causes and sources of gender identity. Families, particularly if they’re having a child come forward expressing trans identity, need to educate themselves and seek out support from medical professionals.

But I also think we too often try to medicalize trans identities. We focus too much on whether it’s a medical transition or the potential scientific forces of gender identity. The reality is that, for whatever reason, transgender people exist. They’re part of the natural diversity of humanity — and a beautiful part, at that. The more pressing question before society that I seek to work on is: Do we treat transgender people with dignity and respect?

Hope Reese

What did you learn about being a woman, about how society treats women, after your transition?

Sarah McBride

Before I came out, I was so consumed with the transphobia I would face, understandably, that I didn’t think as much about the sexism and misogyny that would come my way. It was truly everywhere. Whether it’s the double standard of walking down the street and being treated as both a delicate infant and [a] sexualized idol in the exact same moment, or the double standard of being forced to work two, three, or four times harder to get half as far — while being punished, simultaneously, for exerting a degree of determination, tenacity, and ambition that is required to work that hard.

Hope Reese

Many anti-LGBTQ arguments fixate on the “bathroom issue” — which you express frustration with.

Sarah McBride

I frequently hear, “Why are we all talking about bathrooms so much?” Frankly, transgender people would rather not talk about bathrooms. We are pursuing full dignity and equality in society. It’s opponents of equality who are focusing on restrooms. One reason is that everyone feels a little bit vulnerable in a restroom, so it becomes fertile ground for scare tactics and fearmongering to take hold.

If these opponents allow for discrimination to occur in bathrooms, it is the closest thing to a silver bullet in legislating discrimination throughout daily life. If a trans person can’t use the restroom that makes sense for them safely, it becomes much more difficult to go to school, work, and nearly impossible to leave their house for more than a few hours. That’s what these efforts are: thinly veiled attempts to legislate transgender people out of public life.

Hope Reese

In North Carolina, you posted a selfie in a public bathroom protesting the legislation, which went viral. But some of the perhaps well-meaning comments, saying you should have access to the women’s restroom because you “fit in” — that you looked like a “typical” woman — troubled you.

Sarah McBride

When we start policing gender expression, when we start saying, “You don’t look woman enough to be in the women’s restroom,” or, “You don’t look man enough to be in the men’s restroom,” we’re not just kicking transgender people out of restrooms — we’re going to be kicking cisgender people out of restrooms too. Bathroom policing has often impacted cisgender women who don’t conform to gender stereotypes. Who “present” too masculine. Whose hair is cut. That’s why trans equality is so inextricably linked to the broader fight for gender equality.

Hope Reese

The Affordable Care Act included language protecting transgender people from discrimination based on sex stereotyping and gender identity in health care. Where does this stand now?

Sarah McBride

The Trump administration has announced that they are revisiting this regulation. There have been court challenges by anti-equality activists to undo or undermine that regulation. The overarching ban on sex discrimination in the ACA is still enforceable, and transgender people who face discrimination can still bring suit under that statute, no matter what happens to the regulation.

But what’s clear is that discrimination remains far too common in health care — whether in accessing medically necessary transition-related care or whether it’s transgender people accessing any care without discrimination. If you can’t access health care, if you can’t live, then all of the other rights wash away.

Hope Reese

The commonly cited statistic is that 41 percent of transgender people attempt suicide. It feels like a shockingly high statistic. Does the number tell the whole story?

Sarah McBride

It’s still cited widely, but the challenge is that there aren’t a ton of surveys about the trans community that are wide enough and collect enough data to get a clear picture of what that looks like. One of the most important things in that statistic is the fact that when transgender people are affirmed by their family members, that number drops in half. When they are affirmed by their community, it drops even further.

The statistic is so clearly a byproduct of a society that stigmatizes, discriminates, and harasses transgender people far too often. It underscores, for me, that LGBTQ equality is not a luxury issue. It’s not a social issue. It’s not an issue that should be reserved for when we’ve addressed other issues. It’s truly an issue of life and death.

Hope Reese is a journalist in Louisville, Kentucky. Her writing has appeared in the Atlantic, the Boston Globe, the Chicago Tribune, Playboy, Vox, and other publications. Find her on Twitter @hope_reese.Eight years into our marriage, sitting in a therapist’s office with my husband, I mustered all my courage and said my deepest, darkest truth: “When we have sex, I feel like I’m being violated.” The unwanted sex at times made me sick: Once I had to run straight from bed to the bathroom, where I retched into the toilet. I spared him and the therapist that detail.

My husband shrugged and, staring ahead with more indifference than disdain, replied, “She’s always so melodramatic.” His response didn’t surprise me. It was his standard reaction to my complaints about the sad state of our marriage, his way of training me to see my needs — emotional connection and communication — as excessive, and his (primarily sex) as entirely reasonable.

I had dragged us to couples counseling because I could no longer live in the vacuum left behind after the emotional intimacy had seeped out of our marriage. My husband hadn’t noticed the loss, proclaiming himself happy. At home, having tried without success the therapist-prescribed exercises for restoring emotional connection — check-ins about feelings, “nonsexual” touch — my husband lobbied for his own solution: “The thing you need is really complicated and difficult, and it’s not something I can do. But the thing I need is easy and quick. Why can’t you just give me the thing I need?”

I acquiesced. At the time, it didn’t feel like a choice; it felt inevitable. I lived every evening dreading the signals of my husband’s desire. I bargained my way out of sex as often as I could. I gloried in being sick enough to have the right to refuse.

On the nights when I couldn’t get out of it, we used a method that I had taught myself to tolerate and that he, astoundingly, tolerated as well: I read a book to distract myself for as long as I could while he did the thing he needed to do. I did not let him kiss me for the last several years of our marriage. That was the rule: You can fuck me, but you can’t kiss me, and I don’t have to pretend to like it. This satisfied him.

Submitting to sex with a man who knew it was unwanted, who knew I felt deep pain at our lack of emotional connection, and who knew — who had been clearly told — that it felt like a violation, broke something in me. Knowing that he could still enjoy and feel emotionally fulfilled by that unwanted sex shattered my idea of our marriage. I felt like a sex doll. I felt unselfed.

But I blamed myself. I was the one whose desire was “deficient,” according to my husband and our sex-obsessed culture. When multiple couples therapists over several years made no significant impact, I blamed myself again: I should have been more forceful when I said my dark truth.

Only 15 years later, as I witness so much outrage on the behalf of women who have been shamed, coerced, and bullied into sex in so many other contexts, do I wonder: How could my husband listen to me say what I said — even once, even timidly — and sleep well that night, much less continue to insist on sleeping with me?

Our culture condones sexual misconduct in marriage

Reactions to my marital experience will likely depend on the reader’s age — which reflects the enormous evolution that the legal and social definitions of appropriate sexual behavior have undergone over the past 50 years. Marital rape was legal everywhere in the US until the mid-1970s and was not outlawed in all 50 states until the 1990s. Even today, it is not prosecuted as harshly as rape outside marriage.

These facts tell me that I matured from child to college graduate in a country where men “owned” their wives so completely that they could commit sexual violence on them with legal impunity. In that context, my acquiescence begins to make sense — even though my educational and professional background ensured I knew, intellectually, I was entitled to refuse sex.

I am a humanities professor who teaches feminist theory, models feminist behavior for my students and my own children, and has achieved success in a male-dominated field. Last year, my teenage son and I chanted in support of women’s reproductive rights at the Women’s March in Washington. And yet for years I submitted to unwanted sex from my husband, leaving me sexually traumatized long after I ended that marriage. All the feminist texts I had read could not drown out what I had absorbed from society and popular culture: that it was my duty to satisfy my husband, regardless of my own feelings.

Countless movies and TV shows — including this year’s Best Picture, The Shape of Water — have used the shot of a husband jackhammering away above his blank-faced wife as shorthand for a stale marriage. But nowhere do we ask what it would feel like to be that woman, night after night, or whether the husband’s insistence might even be a kind of assault.

In private conversation, nearly every woman with whom I have broached this subject has shared stories — her own, a friend’s, or both — about suffering unwanted sex in marriage. And yet despite the #MeToo movement, the heated discussion around the New Yorker’s “Cat Person” short story, and the Aziz Ansari debate, the subject of sexual misconduct in marriage has not arisen in our public discourse.

The majority of sexual encounters in America take place in marriage. Half of adults in America are married, and married or cohabiting people have sex twice as often as single people. Do we believe there is no painfully “bad sex,” coercion, or sexual assault in marriage? If we do recognize the prevalence of these things, why aren’t we talking about it?

Defending yourself against sexual assault in a marriage is uniquely difficult

The questions about what constitutes consent and assault raised by the Babe.net article about Aziz Ansari become only more disturbing in the context of marriage. In the New York Times, opinion writer Bari Weiss wrote of “Grace,” who had the disturbing encounter with Ansari, “If you are hanging out naked with a man, it’s safe to assume he is going to try to have sex with you.” But what if you lie next to that man every night, and prefer to sleep naked? Should he assume your body is perpetually available to him for sex?

Weiss advised, “If he pressures you to do something you don’t want to do, use a four-letter word, stand up on your two legs and walk out his door.” But what if you know the “pressures” will never stop, and the only way you can escape them is to leave a lifelong relationship? And what if “his door” is also yours?

Leaving a marriage is much harder than calling an Uber. It requires breaking up a family, and deciding that avoiding unwanted sex is worth giving up half the time you would have spent with your kids. It means financial turmoil from which you might never fully recover. If you have kids, it may mean incurring the wrath of the person with whom you will be required to co-parent for decades, and so it also may mean losing his family, whom you love but who will no longer love you because you have hurt their darling boy. How do you assert your agency when its price is the pain of others?

The issue at hand is not about Aziz Ansari, or about any one man. It is about that “emotional setting” Lindy West wrote of in the Times, quoting feminist activist Susan Brownmiller, in which women feel unable or not allowed to resist male sexual overtures. The institution of marriage provides a prefab version of the setting West describes. It gives a man years to accomplish the emotional manipulation that men on dates must squeeze into an evening. How can we consider such a persistent campaign for a woman’s compliance anything but assault?

Because marriage is sanctified, by your community if not also by your god; because it is now widely understood as a bond of love, not a social or financial codification; because in it, our expectation for female caretaking and reverence for male sexual desire meet in the gospel of a woman’s “sacrifice”; and because of the dangerous myth of postfeminism — we have come to see marriage as a relationship that is not about power, in which women cannot feel sexually violated or dehumanized.

Only when women say otherwise — in public debate, but also to each other, and to their partners, sons, and daughters — will we confront how the institution of marriage can hide damaging behavior that we’ve begun to question in so many other settings.

This writer has chosen to remain anonymous to protect everyone involved in this article.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.On a mild night in early May last year, Asma boarded the metro for her daily ride from the residential neighborhood of Agios Nikolaos to downtown Athens. She’s a trans refugee from the Middle East whose name has been changed to protect her identity.

Before she could get off at her stop, however, she was assaulted by a passenger. “He was maybe 20 years old and with his girlfriend,” says Asma, 24, who asked us not to reveal her nationality. During the short 15-minute ride, the man continued to look at her aggressively and started yelling in Greek. Finally, just before her stop, the man approached her. “He was very angry and tried to hit me.”

“I feel like here is the same as the Middle East — Greece is not the paradise we imagined” -Asma, 24

Asma’s everyday life in Greece has been punctuated by verbal and often physical assault, and Asma now goes to great lengths to avoid the metro, often walking for hours to reach her home. Though using the metro would mean a much shorter travel time, it leaves her unable to escape a potential attack.

Asma is not the only transgender refugee in Greece who has been assaulted recently. That same month in 2017, two were attacked on the island of Leros, an incident that left one woman hospitalized in critical condition.

Since 2015, more than 1 million refugees fleeing war, persecution, and economic devastation have migrated from Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan to Europe. Most enter the region through Greece and Italy before heading to central Europe within days or weeks of their arrival. Greece’s shaky economic situation, lack of job opportunities, and poor camp conditions left few refugees wanting to make Greece their new home.

But in March 2016, the closure of the Macedonian border that divides Greece from Central Europe disrupted the migrants’ path out of Greece. Now, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, an estimated 50,000 refugees and migrants from the Middle East and North Africa remain stranded in Greece, struggling to survive, their vulnerability increasing with each passing day.

A number of these refugees also belong to the LGBTQ community. These people fled their homes not just to escape the war but to flee persecution for their sexual orientation or gender identity. In their home countries, trans individuals face the threat of lengthy jail terms, torture, rape, and even murder.

“Being queer in this world is lonely,” says Moira Lavelle, a founding member of LGBTQI+ Refugees Welcome in Greece, an organization based in Athens. “Being an LGBTQI+ refugee in Europe, in Greece, is dangerously lonely.” The exact number of trans refugees in Greece is hard to estimate — many are uncomfortable identifying themselves to refugee organizations.

For transgender men and women, their arrival in Greece should mean they are finally able to express their true identity. In early October, the Greek parliament passed a new law that eliminates the requirement that trans people undergo gender-affirming surgery before their gender is legally recognized. This was a victory for trans rights, making everyday chores that require an ID accessible to trans people who might not be able to afford or access surgery, or who might not want it.

Still, this new law was passed amid much opposition, and, according to one poll, more than half of Greeks remain opposed. Many trans refugees are encountering a culture far less accepting of their gender identity than they were expecting.

Over the course of more than six months, we interviewed and documented the lives of several members of the trans refugee community in Athens, including five trans women from the Middle East and North Africa. All names have been changed to protect their safety.

Asma, 24, nationality withheld to protect her identity

Asma has been in Greece for just over one year, and the metro attack in May was not the only abuse she has faced. Spat at and verbally harassed almost whenever she leaves her house, Asma feels that every day she endures a new psychological scar. “I feel like here is the same as the Middle East — Greece is not the paradise we imagined,” she said.

From a very young age, Asma felt she was a girl, and she recalls resenting her parents for forcing her to wear boys’ clothing. As a minor, Asma became involved in a relationship with her male schoolteacher — a relationship that could have cost them their lives if exposed.

The danger of exposure did not lie in their age difference, which is not uncommon in countries in the region, though Asma would have been below the age of consent. The danger was in engaging in a queer relationship.

The couple fled to Syria, where Asma was able to register as an LGBTQ refugee with the UNHCR and received hormone replacement therapy to start her transition from male to female. Only two years after they moved to Syria, Asma found herself alone once again as her boyfriend left her to marry a woman.

She stayed in Syria another five years but returned to her home country in 2013 as the war began to intensify. Shortly after she returned, she was arrested by Shia military forces. “I was thrown in jail and raped for many days,” she says. “I thought I would die.”

With the help of family members, Asma was eventually released. But because she was sexually abused by another man while in jail, when Asma returned home, everyone believed she was gay. This led to her being ostracized and threatened daily by the community. Finally, Asma fled to Greece with money that her grandmother had saved and given her in secret. She still lives in fear that family members might discover her address in Athens and track her down.

Zahra, 42, Iraq

Zahra, a 42-year-old trans woman from Baghdad and Asma’s roommate in Athens, left Iraq for one reason: to live openly as a woman. In Iraq, Zahra worked as a waiter in a cafe in Baghdad, only wearing women’s clothing in the safety of her own home. Upon reaching Greece in December of last year, Zahra could finally express her gender identity as she saw fit.

Zahra dreams of the day when, together with her boyfriend, who still lives in Iraq, she will be able to live without fear in a more trans-friendly country than Greece. But for now, that’s impossible. For the time being, Zahra focuses on what she can control — her appearance.

Over the summer, she started laser hair removal for her face and chest, and, despite the steep cost, hormone replacement therapy. To pay for these procedures, she began working as an escort for the first time in her life, something she never thought she would have to do — especially in Europe. She prefers not to discuss her work.

Sabah, 27, Iraq

Moving to Greece meant that 27-year-old Sabah, too, was finally able to express her gender identity. Originally from Basra, Sabah had pretended that she was gay. Last year, homosexuality was criminalized in nearly half of the provinces in Iraq — the same provinces that were under ISIS control. But being trans carries even greater risks. While gay people face their own stigmas, trans people, she says, are considered aberrations of nature.

Sabah’s family did not accept her trans identity. “When they found out about me, my father and uncle tried to cut my legs,” she says. The damage from the large machete-like knife was so severe, “the neighbors had to take me to the hospital.”

Sabah’s ordeal did not end there. Arrested and thrown in jail twice for being trans, once by Islamic groups and once by the Iraqi government, she was tortured and raped both times, she says. The second time, after five months in jail, the judge gave Sabah a choice: either stay behind bars forever or leave the country immediately. She chose the latter. In May 2017, Sabah arrived on the Greek island of Chios.

Sabah was looking forward to reaching Europe — she had an aunt in Sweden who knew her secret and accepted her for who she was. Greece, however, was not the progressive country she was expecting. In Chios, Sabah says, she was beaten and verbally abused regularly by locals. She wasn’t sure “if it was because I am trans or because I am a refugee.” After three months, she left for Athens, where she still largely conceals her trans identity because of her experiences in Chios.

Rabia, 20, Iraq

Rabia, at 20, was forced to flee Basra because her family — particularly the men on her mother’s side of the family — attacked and threatened to kill her for being trans.

“My mother’s brother saw me walking on the street with one guy,” she says. “When they saw me they followed me and they came back to my house to beat me. They beat me over the head with a metal bar, and I had to get surgery.” Leaning forward in her chair, she parts the hair around the scar, a thick white line running along the side of her head.

“I don’t feel safe here” -Rabia, 20

Still, Rabia did not leave Basra until her mother’s brother and his two sons killed her mother when they discovered she was saving money for Rabia to leave the country. Rabia fled to Baghdad, where she lived with friends and worked as an escort. When she found out that her cousins and uncle were still looking for her, Rabia immediately left for Greece, arriving on Chios in the early spring of 2017.

Having spent all of her money on the journey to Greece, Rabia again worked as an escort. But work conditions were much worse. In Baghdad, Rabia received the equivalent of €100 to €300 per client ($123 to $370). In Chios, given the stigma of being a refugee, she could only charge €10 to €20 ($12 to $25).

Even though she is now living in Athens, Rabia is too scared of harassment to present as a woman outside the safety of her home. “I don’t feel safe here,” she says.

She hopes to escape Greece and undergo gender-affirming surgery.

Nadia, 28, Morocco

In her early teens, when she realized she was trans, Nadia started hormone replacement therapy with the support of her mother and two younger brothers. The treatment softened her facial features before she could develop a more masculine bone structure.

But life in her home city of Marrakesh was not easy. Though starting hormone treatment early protected her from unwanted attention in public, family members and neighbors who knew she was assigned male at birth shunned her and her parents.

“We all did this because we know we don’t have any future in our country” -Nadia, 28

Before she reached her 20s, Nadia chose to move to another city in order to protect her mother and younger brothers from the stigma of having a transgender person in their family. After several years of being unable to find work — her ID cards and official documents were still under her male birth name and had photos of her as a boy — Nadia chose to make the dangerous journey to Europe.

“We [trans people] all did this because we know we don’t have any future in our country, and also because we know we will die alone in our country,” she said.

“That’s why we try to go in these boats even though we don’t know our fate — we might die, but we also might not.”

Despite the difficulties, both physical and emotional, that the LGBTQ refugee community continues to face on a daily basis in Greece, they still a deep sense of hope in the community. “I still have hope for a better future,” Asma said, smoking hookah in her living room with a group of trans refugees — a group she now calls family.

Fahrinisa Campana is an independent multimedia journalist and a graduate of the Columbia Journalism School. She is currently based in Athens, covering stories about gender, migration, and human rights in developing countries and post-conflict environments.

Demetrios Ioannou is a Greek photojournalist and documentary photographer based in Athens. His work focuses on humanitarian issues, conflict, and the Middle East.

Correction: Moira Lavelle is a founding member of the organization LGBTQI+ Refugees Welcome in Greece.“I am too old to mince words,” Marilynne Robinson writes at the outset of her extraordinary new essay collection What Are We Doing Here?. In a conversation, the 74-year-old novelist and Pulitzer winner doesn’t pull punches either, particularly when it comes to guns.

“The reason I wouldn’t carry a gun is because it is an immoral act walking around imagining you’re going to kill someone,” she told me. “It’s a recipe for a completely deranged society. It’s grotesque.”

Robinson — a cherished thinker on American identity, Christianity, and rural life in the US — is perhaps best known as the author of the Gilead novels, a trilogy that focuses on the family of a Congregationalist pastor named John Ames. Among the novels’ fans is Barack Obama — who called Ames one of his “favorite characters in fiction.”

The genesis of most of the pieces in What Are We Doing Here? began as lectures she’s given over the past few years at universities, seminaries, and churches. In the collection, she offers a wide-ranging and clear-headed polemic claiming that Americans all too often surrender thought to ideology, whether that system be capitalism or Darwinism. As she sees it, both the political left and right in this country “share false assumptions and flawed conclusions that are never effectively examined because they are indeed shared.”

An antidote to all this, according to Robinson — who taught at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop for more than 25 years before retiring in 2016 — is the “poetry, eloquence, wit, imagination, depth of thought” found within a humanities education.

I recently called Robinson at her Iowa City home to talk about her new collection, among other things. Our conversation, lightly edited for clarity, appears below.

Eric Allen Been

One essay you wrote for the New York Review of Books in 2013, about how this fear drives gun ownership, feels particularly relevant in light of the Parkland mass shooting. Have your thoughts on American gun culture changed since you wrote that piece?

Marilynne Robinson

In this individual case, this young Nikolas Cruz fellow, he was clearly in some particular state of mind that was special to him. He might’ve had some general fear — he clearly was a lonely creature at that point. I think sometimes people go over the edge because they can’t imagine any sort of decent future life for themselves. He had just lost everybody. I don’t know how it would feel to be as young as he was and fear life itself.

I do pity him. Society did him harm by allowing him to destroy every good aspect of his life in such a hideous way. But the thing that bothers me is that people like him are people who nourish this idea of living in a hostile world, of collecting guns because they feel as if they are somehow at odds with American society as it has developed. They fear the socialist takeover that’s supposed to come any minute or whatever — these fantastic exaggerations of things that are fictional to begin with.

All these narratives do is make gun selling profitable and make sure there are plenty of guns in the environment for people to use for suicide or shootings.

Eric Allen Been

It’s probably some magical thinking here, but I’m starting to get the feeling that we’re finally hitting a breaking point when it comes to guns in this country.

Marilynne Robinson

It’s uplifting to see how articulate these young people are. They are so incisive in their thinking and passion. All we’ve been hearing about is how schools are failing and the rest of it. But I don’t think we’ve ever had young people that were more beautiful specimens of ideals and insightfulness. It’s beautiful.

Eric Allen Been

What are your thoughts about the [National Rifle Association’s] proposal, which Trump endorsed, to have armed teachers in school?

Marilynne Robinson

Normalizing the idea that we should all go around capable of a lethal act at any moment is completely corrupt and crazy. I wouldn’t carry a gun. The reason I wouldn’t carry a gun is because it is an immoral act walking around imagining you’re going to kill someone. It’s a recipe for a completely deranged society. It’s grotesque.

I acknowledge the intimate difficulties that seem to be involved in this thing, but if guns were banned, it would not hurt my feelings. But that’s impossible to imagine. As a practical matter, they will be around forever, probably in enormous numbers. But if they weren’t, I’d be happy.

Eric Allen Been

You write in one of the book’s essays that we are “not successful at defining what is deepest in us.” Some have argued that Trump tapped into the psyche of the downtrodden — that he was saying things they couldn’t express. Do you find that sentiment accurate?

Marilynne Robinson

The whole category of “downtrodden” makes me nervous. I think there are people who are not paid fairly for the work they do, and I think there’s a lot of them in America. I think they’re more appropriately thought of as being the victims of other people’s greed or dishonestly than being people who are downtrodden. We have to be loyal to a broader sense of social justice than we have attempted for a long time now. We have this idea that if we crank up the economy, it will lift all boats.

But the economy is not designed to lift all boats. It’s become more and more exploitative of low-wage labor. Some people are so mad that they’re just throwing rocks. But a lot of people are not downtrodden. They are simply appealed to by the offer of big tax cuts and all the rest.

I don’t know what the demographics worked out to be in this recent election, but a lot of college-educated people, a lot of white suburbanites, a lot of people who are not the downtrodden loved Trump and continue to love him. It’s an escape to say that he’s the creature of the downtrodden. He sided with the people who created and maintained him.

Eric Allen Been

In the ‘60s, a lot of religious groups became supporters of social reform — specifically, I’m thinking about the civil rights movement at that time. Today, it can feel sometimes like that has flipped in a lot of cases.

Marilynne Robinson

When people identify as groups, they look after their own self-interest as a group. They idealize the norms of their own group behavior. They have leaders that articulate the norms of the group, so they do not, themselves, reflect over what their religion actually says. It’s inevitable, and it’s good, that people think about social issues on the basis of religion. But as soon as it becomes a group or movement, it has a very great capacity for being corrupted.

Eric Allen Been

You write that “one is expected to bemoan the present time, to say something about decline and the loss of values,” but that you “ … find a great deal to respect.” What do you respect in our present moment?

Marilynne Robinson

We were just talking about the young people in Florida, and young people all over the country. My experience, day to day, with people I deal with is that they are fair, they are charming and courteous people. I have virtually never had any moments of unpleasantness with a student of mine, for example.

I really do believe that you could stop 300 people on the street and you would have a better House of Representatives than we do now. We filter out people who are, perhaps, the most humane, the most rational, the most uncorrupted, in the process of electing so many of our politicians.

Eric Allen Been

You’ve had your quarrels with the Harvard professor Steven Pinker about his views on religion. But in his new book Enlightenment Now, one of the arguments he makes is that the media often presents an inaccurately negative view of the world. That seems to be somewhat in line with what you just said.

Marilynne Robinson

I don’t know. I was talking to an audience about gun violence the other night. And only in America does this happen in this way, of course, and for obvious reasons — because of all these guns. But I said at the same time, it’s also true we have a low and declining violent crime rate. If you’re going to talk about the situations and nature of the society as a whole at this moment, you need to take both of these pieces of information into account. And this was not met with approval.

There is this way if you say something like this, people can treat you like you’re glossing something over. But we know about this lowering of the crime rate because of the media — we have no other source for information like that. I think that people that receive this type of information tend to shrug it off. I’ve had the experience of people shrugging it off in real time.

Eric Allen Been

You have great admiration for Obama, and he is a friend. You write that those who opposed him did so because they “knew how remarkable of a leader he could be.” What do you mean by that?

Marilynne Robinson

I feel very privileged that I’ve had some direct contact with him and corresponded with him to some extent. He’s a brilliant man, you know. A well-meaning, enormously courteous man. I think that if he came through in an unmediated way with the Republicans and if they were not slanging him all the time, he would have had great potential to not only be a charismatic leader but [be] one of great substance. He is a constitutional scholar. He knows what a great American president should know.

Eric Allen Been

What do you think of those on the left — the intellectual Cornel West comes to mind — who have accused Obama of outright war crimes because he carried out so many drone strikes?

Marilynne Robinson

Well, I’ve never talked with Obama about things like that. You have to think people have a certain range of options. If you were trying to keep casualties to a minimum, I can see why you would think that drone strikes were much more effective than an invasion force. It’s not a good choice. I’m sure that he would not have done it happily, but given the range of possibilities that they are, if the objective is to maintain a lower rate of casualties, for both sides, I can see how you might, as president, be forced into a situation like that.

One of the things that bothers me about liberals is that they don’t feel obligated to come up with a better choice. Originally, Obama talked about taking prisoners out of Guantanamo and putting them in the Supermax prison in Colorado. He didn’t end up doing that, but I read about the Supermax and it’s an absolute atrocity — it should be torn down to the ground.

Obama couldn’t do anything more normal with them, because that would not have been politically possible. But the Supermax is horrible. Destroying it should be a cause in itself, and it doesn’t need more people living in it.

Eric Allen Been

You write that our country needs to regain its direction, to recover the memory of the best it’s done and try to do better. How can we do that?

Marilynne Robinson

Well, the great things that have been done for the general welfare of our country are things like public schools and universities. The infrastructure that was created at such an enormous rate in the ‘50s. Also, the Marshall Plan, for instance. We are now locked into such an adversarial situation when it comes to the allies of America, you know.

Eric Allen Been

Robert Reich, the former labor secretary for President Bill Clinton, argues in his new book The Common Good that the US presidency has to have a moral authority. What do you see as the president’s moral role, and how should we judge it?

Marilynne Robinson

I think we’re getting a very elaborate instruction in that whole issue now. I think that there’s been a strong feeling in America, traditionally, that people’s character is of one kind. That is, if you will cheat in a small part of your life, you will cheat in the large, significant part of your life. If you will be faithful in small things, you will be faithful in great things.

I think we’re watching now a presidency that has no idea of the types of restraints that honorable people place on themselves, and that we’re seeing institutions that are very seriously threatened that have never been threatened before. It is so novel for us to have a president that is so deficient in that respect.

Eric Allen Been is a freelance writer who has written for the Wall Street Journal, the Boston Globe, Vice, Playboy, the New Republic, the Los Angeles Review of Books, and TheAtlantic.com.In the fictional African nation of Wakanda, beads made of “vibranium” heal bullet wounds, and a bulletproof suit absorbs and stores the energy of hostile blows. Levitating trains cruise past vaulting skyscrapers with thatched roofs, as saucer-shaped aircraft carve arcs in the sky.

Wakanda, a fantasy nation that serves as the setting for much of Black Panther, is a vision of an African nation that’s not only unencumbered with a history of colonialism but by a great margin the most technologically advanced country in the world.

The blockbuster superhero film has broken box office records and is predicted to rank in the top-10 grossing superhero releases ever in North America. Black Panther also brings into the spotlight Afrofuturism, which draws on fantastical elements to explore both the history of the African diaspora and imagines a technologically advanced, alternative universe. Jordan Peele’s Get Out, nominated for Best Picture and three other Oscars, also gives a nod to Afrofuturism through a plot in which white people use advanced medical procedures to turn black people into automatons.

For a better understanding of the cultural significance of Afrofuturism (and Black Panther), I spoke with John Jennings, a professor in the media and cultural studies department at the University of California Riverside and co-founder of the Black Comic Book Festival in Harlem. Jennings teaches a course on Afrofuturism, leaning heavily on Get Out.

Jennings, who grew up in Mississippi, was “blown away” by the film.

Our conversation has been condensed and edited for clarity.

Hope Reese

The term “Afrofuturism,” according to the author Carvell Wallace, writing in the New York Times magazine, “isn’t just the idea that black people will exist in the future, will use technology and science, will travel deep into space. It is the idea that we will have won the future.” How do you define it?

John Jennings

Afrofuturism, to me, is looking to the past, trying to examine it, and try to deal with an unresolved task around race and identity in this country, in the diaspora. It’s also looking to the future. Both of these sides are wrestling. Black Panther is dealing with the now. You can say Afrofuturism is science fiction, but the setting of Black Panther is current day. It’s a parallel universe of: What if slavery didn’t happen?

It’s a mainstream term for this latest iteration of black speculative culture. Afrofuturism was coined in 1993 by cultural theorist Mark Dery [in an essay called Black to the Future, part of a collection Flame Wars: The Discourse of Cyberculture] to describe the trends of science fiction production and other modes of Afrocentric techno-culture that were being afforded via the burgeoning growth of the World Wide Web.

Since then, it has grown into a unifying mode of cultural production that has seen a huge resurgence in the past 10 years and, yes, Black Panther is a prime example of that renewed interest.

Hope Reese

How does the genre intersect with social justice?

John Jennings

The future for black people in America was supposed to be connected to only three spaces: one, the hold of a slave ship; two, the plantation; and three, the grave. The construction of a space of agency, joy, and true freedom has always been the central focus of black speculative culture. As exciting as Black Panther himself is, his light can never be brighter of the idea of Wakanda.

The notion of a black future in our country is still a radical political idea.

Hope Reese

In Black Panther, Wakanda appears to be all black. But in the film, other parts of the world, like Los Angeles, experience racial violence. Is part of Wakanda’s success due to the fact that there isn’t any racial strife since the country is homogenous?

John Jennings

Wakanda’s success is due to the fact that it is an unconquered, uncolonized African nation. What happens when that’s allowed to transpire? Other countries, like Ethiopia, have not been conquered directly by European forces — so we do have models.

I also wonder what it means about black spaces that are forced through segregation. After Reconstruction, black towns would pop up because black people were not allowed to mix, not allowed to be part of society. The black towns flourished in the 1920s and then were destroyed by racist mobs.

There was the black Wall Street massacre — the destruction of one of America’s wealthiest black neighborhoods in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1921. These spaces that are either self-created, to protect borders or resources, or forced to segregated, can flourish because they’re just dealing with themselves, to a certain degree.

There is something to be said about sovereignty and space. Across the world, race and space will always play off each other, they’re indexes of each other.

Hope Reese

The Black Panther character predates the political party of the same name. But are the two related? At one point when the Black Panther party was gaining momentum, the character was briefly renamed “Black Leopard.”

John Jennings

Yes, the character predates the party by three months or so. The character was originally going to be called “Coal Tiger.” So it was coincidental that it shared the same name as the political party.

But in the film, they’re not unrelated. Coogler is from the Bay Area, where the Black Panther party was created, and he imprints some of the party ideologies into the film in subtle ways. For instance, the nature of how Wakanda fights is about defense. And the party was originally the “Black Panther Party for Self-Defense.”

The Black Panther as an animal in the wild does not ever attack directly. But it does defend when it is attacked. If we want peace, and you come at us, we will defend ourselves. That’s referenced in the film. Wakanda is a peaceful nation, but it will defend itself.

There’s artwork in the film by Emory Douglas, who created artwork for the Black Panthers. So Coogler is making a direct connection between some of the radicalized politics around defense of the black body in the ’60s.

Hope Reese

I sympathized with Erik Killmonger, the supervillain in Black Panther. His father was from Wakanda, but — for complicated reasons — he was born and grew up in LA. He never really felt like he belonged anywhere. His anger and isolation compel him to return to Wakanda to enact revenge.

John Jennings

He’s an index for African Americans. Every one of us goes to search back and find where our ancestors come from. I just did that. Being from Mississippi, I wondered what part of Africa my descendants were stolen from. (I am mostly West African, but 39 percent European.)

With Killmonger, his voice is the pan-African voice of “Where do I come from?” His body has become a battleground for these tropes. He’s angry and disrupted because of the loss of his heritage. It’s why black Americans say to those in Africa, “Why didn’t you come and find us? Why didn’t you reach out to us? You knew we were over here. Why do you treat us this way?” It’s about not having a space to call your own.

Hope Reese

You’ve said the recent uptick in horror films can be attributed to tumultuous events in history — like World War II, 9/11, and, recently, the election of Donald Trump. Could the appeal of Afrofuturism in Black Panther also be linked to current events?

John Jennings

There’s a tension between what you’re told you are and who you know yourself to be. People who were descended from slaves are not immigrants. Your culture, your language, your storytelling — everything is taken from you. You have to figure out a way to negotiate that thing, and Afrofuturism gives us a space for negotiation. Between the unresolved past and the impending, potentially bright, future.

Hope Reese

You teach a course on Afrofuturism using the film Get Out. Get Out ends on a fake-out: You think that the protagonist Chris Washington is going to get arrested by the police for the murder of a white character who tried to kill him — but he ends up being fine. But what if Get Out had ended with the police arresting Chris? Does Afrofuturism always have a happy ending?

John Jennings

It’s funny that you mention that — they did shoot that ending. In the director’s cut of Get Out, there’s a version where Washington, [the protagonist, played by Daniel Kaluuya], goes to jail. He strangles [his girlfriend] Rose until she dies. The reason [the director doesn’t choose this ending], of course, is because then Washington becomes what they say he is — the animalistic brute.

I don’t think Afrofuturist stories always have a happy ending. They’re a mode of storytelling that helps us work through issues around race and the technologies of race. Does any story have to have a happy ending? Just because the word “future” is part of “Afrofuturism” doesn’t mean that black people have any notions that the future won’t have bad things occurring. I think that “happy” is very subjective — it’s a joyous notion that an Afrocentricstory even exists at all.

Hope Reese

In Morgan Jerkins’s new collection, This Will Be My Undoing, she makes a compelling case that narratives about black Americans don’t often show a full range of humanity. For instance, slaves are universally depicted as passive victims — we hardly ever think of them as laughing. How does Black Panther challenge assumptions about race?

John Jennings

The interiority of those slave narratives — she’s absolutely right. One of the narratives of the slave body is [that they are not human]. That’s what made a Christian nation even capable of having slaves. They abstracted the body, pulled the soul out of the body. “This is a beast, this isn’t a person.” “I need to help this thing.”

It’s very complex, the way we have constructed the ideas, visually, around race. At the end of the day, we’re just talking about a certain amount of melanin in one’s skin.

The women in Black Panther — those beautiful, beautiful, dark-skinned black women — that particular spectrum of beauty is something that’s [not universally accepted] in Africa, in India, in China. People are bleaching their skin to become whiter. It’s very telling that the first millionaire who was a black woman made her money from hair straightening products.

In Black Panther, the optics alone are groundbreaking. This is the kind of stuff we need to fight against on a day-to-day basis.

Hope Reese is a journalist in Louisville, Kentucky. Her writing has appeared in the Atlantic, the Boston Globe, the Chicago Tribune, Playboy, Vox, and other publications. Find her on Twitter @hope_reese.When I was 19, I gave a short speech to the Iowa House Judiciary Committee about my experience growing up with same-sex parents. I had no idea the speech would be recorded or that a video of it would become YouTube’s most-watched political video of the year. I had no idea it would transform me, literally overnight, into a poster child for the “normality” of families headed by same-sex couples in our state, giving me the opportunity to advocate for other families like mine who were facing exclusion. I had no idea it would eventually lead me to advocating for LGBTQ inclusion in the Boy Scouts of America.

Over the past two weeks, I have been simultaneously inspired and heartbroken by the response of the teen survivors of the school shooting in Parkland, Florida. When 16-year old Emma Gonzalez cried, “We call BS!” in a Florida rally aimed at strengthening gun control laws, I felt her power — the outspoken students have inspired junior high and high school students in my own community in Iowa, with more than 250 students walking out of class just last week. At the same time, nobody, especially kids, should have to spend their time for grieving and recovery thinking about politics.

As someone who organized as a young person around a controversial issue, I recognize some similarities between the Parkland teens and the movement I was part of six years ago. Of course, there are huge differences between gun safety reform and ending LGBTQ discrimination in the Boy Scouts. But there are unique challenges having to do with organizing as a young person that I have lived through. Some of what I learned through trial and error might help them.

About a year and a half after my speech went viral, I launched the organization Scouts for Equality. I had earned my Eagle Scout rank in 2007 and loved my time in the Boy Scouts, in part because my local units had never had a problem with my parents. But I also knew that in many other communities, families like mine would not have been welcome and that their policy banning LGBTQ members had to change. Further, when I was growing up, the Boy Scouts taught me that if I saw something wrong, I had a responsibility to do something about, and thus, Scouts for Equality was born.

Along the way, we were told over and over again that we’d never succeed. Yet in less than five years, we won a near-total victory — the Boy Scouts ended their ban on gay youth in 2013, then their ban on gay adults in 2015, and their ban on transgender participants in 2017. It wasn’t easy, but we learned an important lesson: to persevere even when the conventional wisdom is that your goal is a pipe dream.

Because of the leadership from the Parkland survivors, junior high and high school students all over this nation have a newfound platform of their own. Young activists should not be afraid to use the power they have. Speak up, and the adults and media in your community will listen.

Maintaining momentum is the hard part.

Realize that you’re going to be in this fight for the long haul.

When Scouts for Equality launched, we knew it would be a multi-year campaign. And barely six weeks after we started the group, the Boy Scouts came out and doubled down on their ban. It was a gut punch, threatening to derail us before we even had the chance to really get off the ground.

But we were not going to give up.

The key to staying disciplined is to focus on what you can control. Keep clear goals in mind and keep your eye on what you want, not on the obstacles. If you let go of the aspects of the debate that you can’t control, you may find that you have more power than you think.

An important step is to think critically about why the status quo is the way it is and figure out who has the power to change it. This is absolutely vital but often overlooked. We took note that the Boy Scouts’ most important asset was their brand, which gave them access to corporate donors — even though those donors had rules against giving to organizations that discriminated. That was a tension we used to our advantage.

For gun safety, the people with the power to change our laws are politicians who can vote to reform gun safety laws and keep us safe. Politicians respond to one thing more than anything else: reelection. If you want to change their minds, change their reelection odds.

Passion is incredibly important, but the National Rifle Association isn’t successful only because of passion. The group is incredibly organized, it represents a highly concentrated interest (i.e., gun owners and manufacturers), and it can mobilize political activists. The money it gives to political candidates matters, but it is only one part of the organization’s recipe for success. Above all, the NRA is able to create political consequences — partly by running attack ads that fire up its members to come out to the polls. Simply put: passion and organization are the key ingredients to change.

Another lesson: It’s okay — in fact, it’s crucial — to ask for help. We worked with important allies like Change.org, GLAAD, and the Human Rights Campaign, all of whom helped to amplify our message. Then we teamed up with Jeremy Bird, the national field director for Barack Obama’s 2012 reelection campaign, to build out a field team and put the needed local pressure on the Boy Scouts: city by city and council by council.

One thing I learned from Bird was the importance of organizing with heart and sharing personal stories. With Scouts for Equality, I had one story I told over and over again on TV, in newspapers, and in online news stories: my own experience growing up in the Boy Scouts with gay parents, how my parents were great leaders, and that they shouldn’t have had to hide who they were in order to be involved. Short and simple and effective.

As activists, your stories and your experiences will affect people. Take some time to write out your thoughts. Have a 90-second pitch on why you care about gun safety. What is your story? And you don’t have to have survived an attack to have a story about how gun violence affects you and your community.

Talk about why you care about this issue, share stories about why your classmates care about this issue, talk about why this matters now.

I learned early in my life that when young people are willing to stand up and speak with conviction, adults will listen, even though — and frankly, especially because — they are young.

If you don’t do this work, nobody else will

When you have meetings, make decisions about what you are doing next. Making decisions is making progress. Take careful notes. Never finish a meeting without scheduling the next one. When you’re getting stuff done, break it down into individual actions. When you finish one action, your question should be, “What is my next action?”

This next recommendation is for young men in particular: Be careful about talking over women in meetings. You probably do it reflexively and without thinking about it. I certainly did until I was called out on it by a dear friend and colleague. I’m still not perfect at it today. Be aware of it!

Effective communication is a huge part of getting stuff done. Talking on the phone tends to be much more effective than texting or emailing, especially if the matter is time-sensitive. Avoid conference calls if you can, but use them if you have to. If your team gets large enough, set up a Slack channel or other communication and team management service.

Momentum is everything. Keep moving forward. Some of the things you will want to do will probably cost some money. Pick one person to handle the money you raise and spend. Ask people to pitch in. It doesn’t have to be much. Get adult help if you want or need it. Do not do bake sales or car washes to raise money. Fundraisers will almost certainly not be a productive use of your time at this stage.

Ask people to give directly. Remember that if you don’t ask them to give, they probably won’t — you are actually doing them a favor by giving them an important chance to make a difference in supporting your work. When I was raising money for Scouts for Equality, I was always surprised by how many people thanked me after I asked them for their financial support. They felt like they were joining our team.

You won’t need that much money, at least not at first. Don’t let it be a barrier either for your group or for people who want to be a part of it. For the moment, nobody should draw a salary or stipend, barring exceptional circumstances. If you get to a point where people do need to be compensated for their time, be as transparent and honest as you possibly can.

My final piece of advice to any young organizer is maybe the most important: If you don’t do this work, nobody else will. The only way out of this mess is to work our way through it — what’s in the way is the way.

There are incredible organizers and leaders in the trenches doing this work every day, and they need your help. Our team at Scouts for Equality knew we had a chance of succeeding where others had failed, and we knew that their work made our success possible. Learn from those who came before you, join with your friends and allies, and roll up your sleeves. They’ll tell you it’s impossible until the day you win.

Zacharia Wahls is an Eagle Scout, a co-founder of Scouts for Equality, and the author of the best-selling book My Two Moms: Lessons of Love, Strength, and What Makes a Family. He is a candidate for the Iowa Senate.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.It was 9:15 am on a Tuesday, right in the middle of third period. The students in my eighth-grade English class were working on projects, poster paper and crayons scattered across the floor.

Suddenly, the loudspeaker crackled, and our principal’s voice was heard throughout the school.

“Attention, all students, faculty, and staff,” she said, loudly but calmly. “There is an active shooter in the Challenger wing of the building.” Then the briefest of silences, followed by a semi-orderly stampede.

My students knew what to do. My entire class made a beeline for the door, speed-walking down the hall toward the exit and then out onto the field at the base of the stairs. They knew they weren’t supposed to run, but some of them couldn’t help themselves. Once outside, they formed lines with their classmates, awaiting their teachers’ instructions.

I trailed behind them with a few other teachers, ready to locate the kids who would inevitably take this drill as an opportunity to goof off. After lining up my class outside, we shuffled back into the building, preparing for round two. There were at least three rounds for each drill, in order to cover several different scenarios, allowing students to experience what to do in each. Each round included a shooter in different areas of the building, which would prompt students to respond by either exiting the building or preparing to barricade and “counter,” should the shooter enter the classroom.

On the outside, I appeared calm — I’ve done this drill at least five times before. But in truth, I could barely hold it together. These drills touched on my deepest fear about a horrific school shooting: As a teacher, I was expected to protect my students with my own life. I worried that if such a moment came, however brave I wanted to be, I simply wouldn’t be able to do that.

But let’s pause to think about how dystopian this is: Ordinary men and women, drawn to teaching by their love of children and learning, have to think about scenarios that might typically haunt the dreams of soldiers in wartime. It’s certainly not what one would expect when they pursue their degree in education — and, contrary to what some might say today, it’s not what teachers signed up for.

I find myself thinking about this drill day after every mass shooting — which is to say, far too often. The Parkland, Florida, school shooting last week was one of the 10 deadliest mass shootings in modern US history and produced at least 17 dead bodies. There will continue to be more.

And so I go back to that Tuesday, time and again.

What we teach students to do when there’s an active shooter in the building

Our school district had moved beyond the “lockdown” and shelter-in-place drills that were once the norm. We’d implemented the increasingly popular “ALICE Training” earlier that year — a strategy for handling school shootings that compels both students and teachers to be active participants in their survival.

The program posits that if an active shooter situation were to occur, everyone in the school should make the best decisions possible to ensure the maximum number of lives saved. No more passive waiting. Each letter of the word ALICE stands for different tactical approach that could be useful in different scenarios: alert, lockdown, inform, counter, and evacuate.

As a kid in the ‘90s, I grew up with the typical shelter-in-place drill. I remember hiding under desks in the dark, teachers locking the doors and sitting with us. When ALICE was brought to our school, the program’s representatives told us that those strategies turned teachers and students into sitting ducks.

They offered an analogy to drive home the point: “If there was a fire in one end of the building and you were located in the other, what would you do?” Clearly, the answer was: Get the hell out. In a fire drill, students had marked exits that would be the safest to use in an emergency. The same thing, then, should be applied to any sort of dangerous situation — read the situation and shape your response based on what’s unfolding.

And so our school began ALICE drills: We role-played scenarios in which a gunman had broken into our building. If a shooter entered the classroom, students were instructed to throw anything they could at them: books, desks, chairs, anything. We practiced this by tossing empty water bottles at a faculty member “pretending” to be the gunman. The logic? If the shooter was already in the classroom, all bets were off.

The order was to do anything possible to survive, even if that meant breaking ankles while jumping from my classroom’s second-story window. No one, of course, thought the shooter would be deterred by airborne textbooks. But maybe he’d be distracted long enough for a few students to escape. Maybe while he ducked, a teacher might tackle him, causing his gun to drop. (In that instance, students were instructed to put an empty garbage can on top of the weapon — not to touch it themselves.)

I’d gone through several ALICE drills before that Tuesday, but for some reason, this particular day’s events are the ones that haunt me. After we all returned to the classroom to wait for the second drill to begin, my students no longer could focus. Some were gleeful over a chance to escape school work. Others were as anxious as I was, their eyes flicking to the loudspeaker, awaiting our principal’s next command.

“Where would we go?” one girl eventually asked me. “Like, if this were real. We wouldn’t just go to the field. So — where would we go?”

The classroom suddenly got quiet.

“Anywhere,” I found myself saying. “Market Basket,” I added, naming the grocery store down the street. “Starbucks. The Dollar Tree. You’d go there and call for help.” If they lived close enough, they should aim for home. Or a friend’s house. But as far away from the school as possible.

That exchange opened the door to a slew of other questions. Why do we need to use the stairs instead of jumping out the window? How do we work the teacher phone if we need to dial 911? Could we use our cellphones to text our parents?

I answered all of the questions as patiently as I could. There was another moment of quiet, and then: “What if you got shot? Like, protecting us? What would we do?”

This was the question I dreaded — the question I couldn’t answer.

Because I doubted that I could do that very thing. I wasn’t sure if I could be the teacher who locked all her children in a closet and essentially offered herself instead — like Victoria Leigh Soto, who died during the 2012 Sandy Hook shooting. I didn’t know if I could be the teacher who threw herself in the way of bullets, like assistant football coach Aaron Feis, who, according to some accounts, protected his students when he was killed during the recent Parkland, Florida, massacre.

I applaud those people who responded coolly to the most horrifying situations imaginable and made the ultimate sacrifice to protect their students, but at the same time, such superhuman bravery simply cannot be a routine expectation of educators. And yet it feels as though today it’s sneaked into the job description — an awful addendum in invisible ink.

It’s horrific that teachers in our country are the first line of defense against shooters

The ALICE Program does not suggest that teachers should protect students with their own lives, and the experts never made these demands of us during our training. The program is designed to empower all individuals within a school environment to make smart choices that differ from circumstance to circumstance.

However, given the prevalence of school shootings, and the fact that there are educators who have made such sacrifices, it’s inevitable that teachers feel the pressure to be heroes if a gunman suddenly appears. There have been parents, for example, at district-wide meetings who have proposed that teachers carry weapons themselves, arguing that it’s the job of an educator to fight for their children’s survival.

Don’t get me wrong. I would do everything I possibly could do to protect my students, and I would never put a student in harm’s way to save myself. But I also doubt that I’m the type of person who willfully throws herself in the path of bullets. And along with this realization came a huge wave of guilt.

On the heels of that guilt, however, came another feeling — one more like anger. Why should any teacher be forced to choose between saving students’ lives or coming home alive to their own families? Why do we live in a society where educators need to be trained in how to respond to a psychotic gunman?

School shootings are preventable. The majority of Americans favor stronger gun laws. It’s the politicians who are the problem — the ones who receive millions of dollars from the National Rifle Association and can therefore, time and again, only muster “thoughts and prayers” instead of action and change.

All of this — the guilt, the anger, the frustration — circled through my mind after my eighth-grade student asked that question. What if you got shot while protecting us? I never answered her. Instead, the loudspeaker crackled, and our principal’s voice cut through the air:

“Attention, all students, faculty, and staff,” she said. “There is an active shooter in the Explorer wing of the building. This is just a drill.”

De Elizabeth is a writer and editor, currently working as the weekend editor for Teen Vogue. Her writing can also be found in Romper, Glamour, Allure, and HelloGiggles. Previously, she held a career in English and theater education and worked as a director/choreographer for middle and high schools in the New England area.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.On Thursday, in his statement on the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, President Trump assured America’s children that we “are never alone.” As a 17-year-old and a senior at West High School in Salt Lake City, I found this strained attempt at consolation empty and infuriating.

I was born in April 2000, a week shy of the Columbine massacre’s one-year anniversary, the event that marked the beginning of the modern school shooting epidemic. By the time I started kindergarten, there had been five more fatal school shootings in elementary, middle, or high schools.

As I near the end of my senior year, the number has swelled to 32 since 1998, not including suicides or gang-related violence. School shootings are etched into the timeline of my education as clearly as talent shows and picture days.

President Trump’s statement is meaningless. We have been alone for 20 years.

When Congress failed to pass gun reform after Sandy Hook, it was baffling. If 20 dead first-graders were not a call to action, then a call to action would never come. But that does not mean we’re stuck.

In 2016, the Associated Press found that only 15 percent of Americans believed gun policy should be a top-five political priority of that year. Though 92 percent of Americans support universal background checks, gun reform was a less significant issue to voters than terrorism and the economy.

But I can feel this changing. For older voters, gun violence may not feel so dire, so personal. But for those of us in school, there is nothing more personal. I was in seventh grade when Sandy Hook happened. I saw a school that looked like mine, with kids that looked like me, suddenly turned into a war zone. I spent the weekend after Sandy Hook terrified to return to school. When I did return, I was anxious whenever I was on my school’s first floor, reasoning that the second was safer.

I couldn’t stop thinking about the layout of my sister’s elementary school, worrying that her classroom was too close to the school’s entrance. I eyed closets and windows in my own classrooms, imagining where I would hide were a shooting to happen.

The teachers led drills, telling us to crouch beneath our desks. One sketched a diagram on the whiteboard to show us how to turn our desks into a barricade if the day came. “Lockdown” drills were routine.

My experiences are not unique. In American schools, the fear of gun violence always looms. Last week, even before Parkland, a car backfired outside my school, interrupting class with a sharp pop-pop-pop; adrenaline shot through my veins as I grabbed a friend in panic. All 32 pairs of eyes in the class widened as our teacher rushed to the window to confirm it was only a car.

For the students in Parkland, the ever-present fear turned into reality — and heightened worries in other schools. My friends whisper about who they fear would attempt something similar. They discuss how hard it would be to escape were an attack to happen on the lawn where we eat lunch.

But the terror felt by the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School has been matched by their outrage and their desire to tell their stories. A student journalist interviewed his classmates as they crowded into the dark closet of their culinary classroom — one interviewee expressed as much disbelief over our country’s resignation to school shootings as she did over the shooting happening outside the door. With remarkable poise, she said: “This shouldn’t be happening anymore … no amount of money should make guns more easily accessible.”

Many of her classmates seem to feel the same way. In the same video, another student says she had wanted to be a junior member of the National Rifle Association and was planning to celebrate her 18th birthday at the shooting range, until this experience. Now, she “couldn’t even fathom the idea of a gun in her house or on her body.” On Twitter, Marjory Stoneman Douglas student Carly Novell rebuked conservative pundit Tomi Lahren’s charge that the left’s calls for reform were insensitive, writing, “I was hiding in a closet for 2 hours. You weren’t there, you don’t know how it felt. ... This IS about guns and it’s about all the people who have had their lives abruptly ended because of guns.”

At a candlelight vigil Thursday night, the entire crowd chanted, “No more guns.” At a Fort Lauderdale anti-gun rally, Parkland survivor Emma Gonzalez called “BS” on common objections to gun control — and video of her, too, went viral. Now, across the country, students are planning to stage walkouts in protest of gun violence on March 14 and April 20. On March 24, the survivors of the Florida shooting are holding a “March for Our Lives” in Washington, while others march across the nation.

Maybe the NRA and its supporters will dismiss our outrage as the “emotional” reaction of people too young to recognize the complexity of the gun debate. But young students feel a kinship with those at Marjory Stoneman Douglas. In one of the gruesome videos circulating on Twitter, I see a pair of Hunter rain boots on a gunned-down body, the same boots I see my little sister wear to school. I see a classroom that looks like one where I go each day, and I see students grieving friends who just as well could have been mine.

Before, students did not see this. The nightly news did not show the gore now splashed across Twitter. The newspapers did not provide the students’ unfiltered accounts of their trauma or their cries for change. But now we see each other, and we hear each other.

In two months I will turn 18, and in November I will vote in my first election. So will many of the students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas, and those watching across the country. I will make sure that every candidate I support is fighting for commonsense gun regulations. I will do my best to make sure that my vote prevents my children needing to learn how to use their desks to stop bullets. And as the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas have courageously shown, I will not be alone in this fight.

The NRA and its supporters in Washington pushed away every commonsense regulation that would protect our schools, but they pushed too far. Now an entire generation is pushing back.

Elizabeth Love is a senior at West High School in Salt Lake City, Utah. Her writing has been featured in the Huffington Post and the Salt Lake Tribune. Find her on Twitter @lizlove000.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.On March 21, 2017, CNN published an article on a new study from the American Journal of Public Health that found the average life span of an autistic person is 36 years. I wasn’t shocked by this news. I know how dire things can be for so many of us on the spectrum, but that number struck me for a very specific reason. I had just turned 35 the previous month.

Since I learned this news, I’ve been anticipating the milestone of turning 36 with a mix of confusion, dread, and a host of other feelings I can’t quite articulate. I’ve had more existential episodes than usual, brooding about the meaning of life. It’s been a lot like a midlife crisis — except that (I kept thinking) my own midlife might have happened as long as half my life ago. The average age of death for autistic people who live to adulthood might be older than 36 (and as of now, there is still no age-specific data). Still, the figure from the research journal haunted me.

At some point between that moment and now, I made a pair of promises to myself:

1. I had to make it to 36.

2. Once I did, I needed to do something to mark this morbid accomplishment — perhaps writing something to help the next generation of autists approach their own birthdays just a little easier.

The good news is that I have officially, as of 8:35 am Eastern on February 7, made it.

The bad news is that living while autistic doesn’t always leave one with much energy to write all of the meaningful things that you want to write to improve your life and the lives of other people like you.

Turning 36 scared the shit out of me. I want the fact that autistic people die so much earlier than the average American to scare the shit out of you too.

Here’s why that number is so low — and all the ways I’m lucky to have made it to 36

Some caveats. First: Not all studies on autism and mortality agree on the average age of our deaths. If you think I’m being overly dramatic by picking one that appears to cite the youngest age, here are some other recent studies with more positive results. One says 39 is the average life span; another says 54. By “positive,” though, I mean “studies that determined autistic people live longer, on average, than 36, but still found that we die significantly earlier than our non-autistic counterparts.”

Second, whenever I write about autism, there’s always someone who shows up to point out that I’m not really autistic enough to count or that I’m not the kind of autistic person that people are thinking about when they think of the tragedies and pressures that face people on the spectrum.

Because I can speak, work, and maintain a semblance of a social life — and because I am able to hide my most severe symptoms from other people — they assume that I am too “high-functioning” to be considered autistic. Before that happens here, let me say that, yes, I am probably at a lower risk of death than many autistic people. Not because I’m “higher-functioning” or because my autism is mild, but because I happened to be born into a certain body and a certain set of circumstances.

For example, the study that CNN cites, “Injury Mortality in Individuals With Autism,” primarily focuses on — as you can guess from the title — death from injury. As a child, I was never a wanderer (as many autistic children are), which put me at a low risk for drowning and other related deaths. I’ve had seizures, but I don’t have epilepsy (as many autistic people do), which puts me at a lower risk of death.

I also don’t have to worry that my incredibly supportive parents will murder me for being too much of a burden to them. That makes me luckier than others with my condition. More than 550 disabled people have been murdered by their parents, relatives, or caregivers in the past five years in the United States, according to the Autistic Self Advocacy Network.

“We see the same pattern repeating over and over again,” ASAN says of the grisly phenomenon. When disabled children are killed, the media focuses on the “burden” that the murderer faced in having to care for them. People sympathize with them instead of the victim. And in the worst cases, this can lead to lighter sentencing.

There are also ways that I am safer than many of my fellow autistic people that we don’t yet have the statistics for but that I can definitely see in the world right now. As a cisgender white woman, I do not worry that I’ll be killed by the police like 15-year-old Stephon Edward Watts or 24-year-old Kayden Clarke. Nor will I have to suffer the serious long-term health effects that this kind of constant fear and dehumanization can have.

The stress of living with autism is exhausting

You can’t entirely separate my incredibly privileged and lucky autistic ass from these devastating statistics. Autistic adults who don’t have a learning disability, like me, are still nine times more likely to die from suicide than our non-autistic peers. Autistica, a UK charity, explores some of the complex reasons that might be behind this alarmingly high suicide rate in a report on “the urgent need for a national response to early death in autism.” Or you can just take a look at my own laundry list of issues to get the general idea:

I’m tired all the time. The coping mechanisms that I developed as a bullied and undiagnosed child — from learning to mimic the behaviors of people who are more naturally likable than me to holding entire conversations where I reveal nothing about myself for fear of being too enthusiastic, too annoying, too overbearing, or simply too much — are not great for managing a remotely healthy life or building self-esteem. The effort it takes to fit in is increasingly exhausting as I get older.

All that hard work to make other people more comfortable around me feels more and more pointless. I appreciate that I have people in my life who have assured me that I can just be myself, but unlearning almost 36 years of shitty coping mechanisms and performances also takes a buttload of work. My sleeping patterns, due to anxiety and possibly to autism itself, are erratic at best.

I value the social and career gains that I made when I had more energy and inclination to blend into society. I’ve wanted to be a writer since I was old enough to read, and I’m now lucky enough to survive on writing alone. But with it has come chronic anxiety, which seems to increase exponentially. There is, however, one calculation that I’m always doing in my head: whether my contributions to my family, friends, and the world are at least equal to all that I feel like I’m taking from it. I always feel like I’m at a deficit.

I repeatedly have to tell people I’m not a math savant. I’m tired of watching people who aren’t on the spectrum tell shitty versions of our stories while I can’t find the funding or the audience to tell my own. I’m tired of watching people get feels and inspiration from shows like The Good Doctor while they can’t seem to give a shit about autistic people in real life.

I’m so, so sick of watching people pay lip service to the value of autistic life while funding research into prenatal testing for autism at one end and supporting euthanasia for autism on the other, all in the name of preventing suffering. As if these measures that suggest that autistic birth should be prevented — or that they have a duty to die if they are too much of a “burden” on their loved ones — don’t make me feel worthless.

Even when I’m not actively struggling with any of the above, there’s the constant stress and anxiety. My resting heart rate is in the 90s. My body aches in ways that I can’t entirely attribute to age. My energy level appears to be similarly deteriorating.

This should not be a good enough outcome for any autistic person. We all deserve better than this.

So what do I want you to do about it?

I’ve spent my whole life being told that non-autistic people are so brilliant and intuitive when it comes to social issues. Like many autistic people, though, I haven’t always felt like I’ve seen much empathy, compassion, or understanding. And the evidence is starting to suggest that we’re not wrong about the level of judgment and stereotyping we face.

If you want to understand people on the spectrum, I’d recommend starting with some of the following: Listen to us. Invest in our work. Invest in science and actions that actually make our lives better now instead of chasing a hypothetical cure. Don’t kill us. Think twice about sympathizing with the parents who do kill us. Don’t rush to armchair-diagnose every mass murderer with autism — like what happened with the most recent Florida school shooting. Give your money to marginalized autistic people instead of charities like Autism Speaks, which dedicate only a small percentage of their budget to programs that will actually help autistic people. Think about how hard we’re working to exist in your world and consider meeting us halfway.

Tell us we don’t bore you. Tell us we don’t drain you. Look at us somewhere other than the eyes — we’re really not comfortable with eye contact and are tired of being forced to make it for your benefit — and tell us that we deserve to be alive.

And then act like it.

Sarah Kurchak is a writer, autistic advocate, and retired professional pillow fighter from Toronto. Her work has appeared in outlets including the Guardian, the Establishment, Fusion, and Vice. Find her on Twitter @fodderfigure. This piece was adapted from an essay first published on Medium.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.It was 3 am, and I was awake — again. I stared at the clock next to my bed hoping to fall asleep, but I couldn’t stop thinking about the episode of Westworld I had watched the day before. Then I thought: I had already gotten five hours of sleep, I’m awake — why wait until the morning to find out what happens? I reached quietly for my iPad and tiptoed into the dark living room, making sure not to wake my wife. I watched the next three episodes, my iPad glowing from 3 to 6 am.

It was last summer — June 2017 — that streaming content became a real problem for me. Sneaking in episodes in the middle of the night became routine, and I even hid my habit from my wife. Binge-watching began to affect my sleep and my stress levels. “Addiction” is a term with loaded connotations, but my obsession with streaming felt like a dependency.

Here’s the weird thing about binge-watching — everybody does it. It’s socially acceptable to admit that you spent hours bingeing Game of Thrones over the weekend. It’s this kind of social tolerance for TV-heavy evenings that makes it hard to know when it’s becoming a problem.

For me, that moment of reckoning came months later, on Christmas Day last year, when my wife confronted me to tell me that my fixation on content was starting to disrupt our relationship.

The discussion was a wakeup call. Was I really watching more TV than everyone else? Even if that wasn’t the case, was it still a problem? And if the answer to that last question was yes, what could I do about it?

I’ve always loved marathoning movies. But streaming television was different.

I was probably predisposed to streaming dependency. I’ve always been a movie lover — in the early 2000s, I used to stop by Blockbuster after work, grab three or four movies, and watch for hours by myself at night or over the weekend. I was watching plenty of content, but there were obstacles in place to keep me from going too far. I had to get up and drive to a store to get movies. And when a film finished, I felt a sense of completion.

I first got into streaming television when my siblings figured out we could watch HBO Go using our parents’ cable subscription. I began watching Game of Thrones religiously, and then marathoned completed series like The Wire and Entourage. I joined Netflix so I could watch House of Cards and stayed to binge Breaking Bad. For many years, it seemed like there were no television shows built for me, but, as I’m not the first to note, the character development, high production design, and complex themes of this new generation of shows set them apart.

It was two summers ago — summer 2016 — when I had an unnerving experience with streaming content that foreshadowed what was to come. I decided to watch an episode of Game of Thrones at 11 pm on a weekday night. The episode turned out to be one of the most emotionally intense in the history of the show, concluding — this can’t possibly still be a spoiler — with the death of the beloved Hodor. The episode hit me hard; I couldn’t fall asleep for hours. The next morning, I woke up bleary-eyed and too tired to function — my wife and I agreed that I shouldn’t watch the show at night anymore.

A year later, I left my job doing business development at Atlantic Media, becoming unemployed for the first time ever. I spent that summer networking and chasing down potential opportunities; I devoted part of my nights to catching up on shows as a reward.

My content consumption increased in step with my stress. What started as an hour or two of TV a day ballooned to three or four. On days when I didn’t have interviews, I’d binge in the middle of the night and early in the morning. Sneaking away to watch Westworld at 3 am didn’t feel so crazy when I didn’t have a fixed 9 am start time, and I convinced myself that I’d change as soon as I was employed again.

But streaming content was chipping away at my sleep — and nerves. The more interviews I had, the more I retreated to television afterward. Combining the intensity of a show like Westworld with the stress of daily job interviews had put me on edge. I’d always been an early riser, but now I often found my mind racing at 4 am thinking about the next interview — or the next show.

My “rock bottom”

By the time I started my new job, I was no longer watching in the middle of the night. Still, the habit crept into other corners of my life. I’d get up an hour early to watch an episode of Narcos, or stream Big Mouth as soon as I got home. Instinctually, I’d rush to flip off the TV the moment I heard my wife’s key in the front door.

During a Christmas trip to see my wife’s family in suburban New York, I constantly reached for the television remote, looking for something to put on in the background while the family chatted. In previous visits, I was fully engaged in conversations. Now I subconsciously craved content. One morning, I fumbled with the unfamiliar cable remote, trying to figure out how to get to Netflix. When I couldn’t, I settled on watching “BIG3,” Ice Cube’s new basketball league featuring retired NBA players in half-court three-on-three matchups. That’s how desperate my situation had become.

At the airport, my eyes were glued to my iPad watching The Infiltrator, a Bryan Cranston action movie I barely liked. As soon as I got home, I watched a rematch of last year’s NBA finals.

That night, my wife confronted me. “You have a content problem,” she told me. Screen time was dominating my attention, she said, and she was concerned about its effect on my health and our relationship.

I knew that things had gotten out of hand and vowed to take action.

That night, I slept for the first time without my iPhone and iPad on the nightstand by my bed. When I woke up again at 3 am, I fought the urge to head to the living room to get the tablet.

When I woke up hours later, I looked at my technology-free nightstand and felt a feeling of peace I hadn’t experienced in a long time — no racing mind, just the calm of a full night’s rest.

I turned to television to relax — but it was just stressing me out more

I soon realized that this was only the first step.

It became clear that streaming content had become a substitute for more productive, and essential, parts of my life. First, it colonized the time when I should have been sleeping. Then it took over the downtime I needed before and after work to relax, time I used to spend listening to music or purposely doing nothing. Tuning in to intense, episodic television, it turns out, is not a great way to unwind.

Finally, it cut into time with my wife. Our Wednesday “date nights” — often dinners out, trips to night events at museums, and walks — and other evenings across the week had been steadily replaced by Netflix or Amazon Prime. We had dialed back on activities where we actually talked to each other. Streaming content had become a daily ritual.

Streaming TV was compulsive for me in part because it was so easy. I didn’t have to leave the house to be entertained. There was also the social pressure: With today’s arms race of quality content, there’s always “the next show” that everyone is talking about. I didn’t want to miss out.

I know this will be a constant struggle, trying to balance my love for quality movies and TV with my need to sleep and desire to spend more quality time with my wife. I’ve been thinking a lot about responsible solutions to the problem. My wife and I have abandoned our nightly weekday watching of The Crown, deciding only to watch on dedicated weekend “movie nights.” I will take the same approach to returning to seasons of Westworld, Game of Thrones, and other shows in which I’ve become deeply invested. I will also try to stop watching shows with all the “prestige TV” elements that are meant to appeal to people like me but aren’t actually that good, like Narcos.

I’m aware that others may have far worse bingeing problems than me. But I’ve learned that it’s not really about how much streaming content I watch relative to my friends and colleagues. It’s about whether my viewing created problems with the people who were important to me.

Mike Saewitz is part of a Vox sales and partnerships team in DC dedicated to growing the business in Washington. A digital strategist and former journalist, Mike spends his days discussing Vox’s new explainer studio and other unique advertising ideas with clients including NGOs, associations, and corporate CSR, public affairs, and communications teams.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Francisco Cantú never thought he would become a US Border Patrol agent.

The grandson of a Mexican immigrant, Cantú had been studying international relations in college, but became “tired of reading about the border in books” and wanted to see the realities of border life for himself. So in 2008, he went to Arizona to enlist in the US Customs and Border Protection Border Patrol Academy.

During his four years as a Border Patrol agent, Cantú sent men, women, and children trying to cross the American border back to Mexico. He spoke with people whose loved ones had been injured or killed during the treacherous journey, saw the desperation of those who sought work and a better life, and witnessed young girls being stopped from entering the US to reunite with their mothers.

As the years went on, he was tormented by nightmares. “A huge part is conditioning you to accept all these violent or traumatic things that can be part of the job, and to see that as part of your day-to-day work,” Cantú said.

In The Line Becomes a River, Cantú shares his experience working for four years as a Border Patrol agent, exploring how immigration statistics “[do] little to account for all the ways that violence rips and ripples through a society, through the lives and minds of its inhabitants.”

But over the past week, Cantú has come under fire as he promotes the book’s publication. Some critics argue that his book humanizes Border Patrol agents, and activists in San Francisco have called for his book reading to be canceled. An NPR headline — the “Border Patrol Does Good Work” — was “particularly damaging,” Cantú said in a statement. Instead, he said his primary aim in writing the book was to illustrate “the dehumanization of migrants.”

This conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.

Hope Reese

You became a Border Patrol agent because you had studied the border and wanted to see what it was like firsthand, but what about your co-workers? What draws people to this kind of work?

Francisco Cantú

I wasn’t a law enforcement-type person, so expected to be the odd man out. But I was surprised. Nearly a third to a half of the Border Patrol is Hispanic. A huge number come from the Southwest. Their parents were migrants. I’ve heard of agents who crossed over as kids and are first generation themselves. So all of those stereotypes — of, for instance, a white racist who wants to keep Mexicans out of the country — were turned on their head.

There are 18,000 agents — there are more Border Patrol than FBI, DEA — when you talk about that many people, there are people who are cruel and callous, and there are also some of the most kind and compassionate people I’ve ever met. For many, it’s a way out. For some, you either join the cartel or join the Border Patrol agency. People growing up in small communities near the border would see that the people who were the most well-off were either working for the cartel or working for the Border Patrol. It’s a generalization, but that’s something I heard.

Hope Reese

You write of being in Border Patrol: “It’s true that we slash their bottles and drain their water into the dry earth, that we dump their backpacks and pile their food and clothes to be crushed and pissed on and stepped over, strewn across the desert and set ablaze.” And recently, Border Patrol agents were accused of destroying water stations that had been installed by a humanitarian group. Is this behavior typical?

Francisco Cantú

It’s important to me to know that I never did that. But I saw it happen. I knew it happened. I wore a uniform, and I tried to grapple with this — my own culpability, and the ways I could and couldn’t extract myself from the institution I worked for.

One of the most impactful experiences was when I encountered a dead body in the desert. For me, to see the dead body and be the one talking to that person’s family in person when they’re in the middle of grappling with that death — I carry that with me all the time. Our policy of prevention through deterrence — pushing those crossing out from the heavily patrolled urban areas to the remote areas of the desert — serves to weaponize the landscape. That’s why people are dying in the desert.

The humanitarians that set up those water stations are working to fill a deadly void that has been left open in our policy. So for Border Patrol to destroy the aid they leave is unacceptable.

Hope Reese

You grappled with the question of what it means to be a “good” agent. How do you think about that now?

Francisco Cantú

There were parts of my nature that made me a good agent. I liked to be outdoors, to learn to read the landscape. And there was something exciting about the detective elements of the work — learning to cut for signs, track people through the desert, investigate smuggling cases.

But for me, there was always tension knowing that all these people I was positioned against were risking everything for a better life. You reach a point where you think: If I was a parent separated from my child, I would do the same.

There was a middle-aged woman who had become lost, and I was responsible for taking her back to the station. She had these silver dollar-sized blisters on her feet. I had also become licensed as an EMT, and I bandaged her feet. She watched me and thanked me. She called me a humanitarian. It was a strange moment. I’m not a humanitarian. I’m part of a system that is sending you back to a place from where you are risking your life to flee.

Hope Reese

How is the Border Patrol different or similar from the police or the military?

Francisco Cantú

Border Patrol is paramilitary — it’s between these two worlds. A huge part is conditioning you to accept all these violent or traumatic things that can be part of the job, and to see that as part of your day-to-day work. There isn’t a culture of talking about the ways you might be impacted by the trauma — that creeping unease about how a job can cause you to bottle up compassion or internalize violence.

Hope Reese

How critical are you of the Border Patrol as an institution?

Francisco Cantú

It’s important to remember that in the summer, the entire Border Patrol becomes a search-and-rescue mission. The realization that people are dying in the desert … Border Patrol agents on the ground aren’t writing border policy. But we’re enforcing it. The Border Patrol is simultaneously there to put out the fire, and the institution is what started the fire.

That’s what’s missing from our conversation about immigration reform. We still don’t acknowledge these people who are dying in our debate.

Hope Reese

You write about how it’s more difficult to attempt to cross the border than it was 20 years ago. What are the side effects of that “success”?

Francisco Cantú

Human smugglers are going to charge more, so it becomes more and more expensive for the people who are trying to cross. It also becomes more and more lucrative for the smugglers. The immigrant really becomes more and more of a commodity — it’s just another part of the spiral toward dehumanization.

Another part of what’s happened is that the drug cartels, as they have become more powerful, have taken control of the human smuggling operations.

Hope Reese

You observe that the language we use to describe migrants can be dehumanizing. Can you elaborate?

Francisco Cantú

We talk about immigration as a “flood.” A “wave” of migrants. In Spanish smugglers are called “polleros,” which means “chicken rancher.” And the migrants are chickens. What all of those metaphors do is lump the migrants into this indistinguishable mountain of people.

Hope Reese

After you left the Border Patrol, you worked at a coffee shop, and a man named José would come there to eat breakfast with you, every day, for two years. Then he left the US, his home of 30 years, and traveled to Mexico to visit his dying mother. When José attempted to return home to his wife and sons in the United States, he was arrested at the border and deported.

Francisco Cantú

José’s story transformed the way I see all of this. It gave me a deeper and more devastating understanding of the way the border rips through a person’s life. Not just the person who’s crossing, but the lives of their family.

For someone in José’s situation, if he’s on the other side trying to get back to his family, he’s terrified walking around in a border town because he’ll be preyed on by human smugglers. Human trafficking and drug trafficking in these communities are closely tied.

José’s family was literally extorted for money, and his life was threatened. He was afraid. And that happens to a lot of crossers. Or he will try to cross and be kidnapped by someone who will hold him for ransom. If he does make it, he’ll be terrified of getting pulled over on his way to work. I talked to some people who were afraid a helicopter would land on their yard and kidnap them in the middle of the night. It makes these people live a life in fear.

Hope Reese

What were your thoughts when you first heard Trump’s proposal of a wall?

Francisco Cantú

People don’t understand that there are already border walls, and 700 miles of fencing. At the station where I worked, there were several miles of 20-foot-high fencing, made up of these huge panels of steel mesh, and it really didn’t stop much. Smugglers would pry open panels from the ground, put these hydraulic tire jacks underneath, and lift them up so cars could drive underneath. Other smugglers would bring welding torches and weld doors or areas to crawl through.

In my experience, that’s not an argument for a bigger, stronger wall. No matter what obstacle we put up, people will find a way around it. So do we spend more time and money on a wall? Do we ask our policymakers to conceive of new ways to make our border more hellacious to cross? Or do we find ways to reform our system? Or send aid to these countries? There could be much better uses for that money.

Hope Reese

Was there a moment when you realized you wanted to leave the Border Patrol?

Francisco Cantú

At the time, I wouldn’t have told you I was leaving the Border Patrol because of all these nightmares, or because I had come to disagree with the work. I got a Fulbright fellowship to the Netherlands to study rejected asylum seekers who were remaining after their deportation orders. Pursuing studies was a way to get out that looked like I was moving forward. It wasn’t until I had distance that I began to grapple with what the dreams meant.

A few months before I left the Border Patrol, I went to see a movie about a guy who slowly lost the ability to tell the difference between his dreaming life and waking life. I remember driving home and breaking down, pulling over to the side of the road and weeping. I had to look at myself and realize — something’s happening here, you’re not all right.

Hope Reese

You have received some backlash in the last couple of days, with critics saying that your book humanizes Border Patrol agents and activists in San Francisco even calling for your book reading to be canceled. How do you respond?

Francisco Cantú*

In some of the interviews I gave, I’ve been asked, “Oh, the Border Patrol rescues people a lot, right?” Which is kind of a leading question. And I’ve said, “Sure, the Border Patrol rescues people.” But the larger picture is the violence of this policy of enforcement through deterrence is what is putting people there in the first place. It’s like the fire chief setting a fire and the firefighters getting praised for putting it out. One quote I gave in an interview was pulled out of context. I said “the border patrol does good work.” But I want to be clear: That’s not my message.

On a larger level, what I’ve seen unfold, even in this short week, is that there’s an eagerness among some media to humanize the Border Patrol. Since I represent a relatable Border Patrol agent, a lot of the media about the book has been focused on that, and given more weight to humanizing me as a former Border Patrol agent, or Border Patrol agents in general, over focusing on my message: the dehumanization of migrants.

The Border Patrol is backed by the most powerful country in the world. They wear the uniform of the US government. The migrants are the ones we need to be talking about and humanizing. They’re the ones whose identities and names are being overlooked. Migrants are constantly made anonymous by border policies.

*After answering this question from Hope Reese, Penguin Random House also provided Cantú’s statement to the news site Splinter.

Correction: The term “chicken rancher” used to describe smugglers is “pollero” in Spanish.

Hope Reese is a journalist in Louisville, Kentucky. Her writing has appeared in the Atlantic, the Boston Globe, the Chicago Tribune, Playboy, Vox, and other publications. Find her on Twitter @hope_reese.One year ago, President Trump stood before me and thousands of other cheering workers at the Carrier plant in Indianapolis and told us that he was there to save our jobs.

I’ll never forget how it felt. All the months I’d spent worrying — how was I going to pay my bills? How was I going to support my 3-year-old son? How was I going to pick up and move on from a job I loved — all that worry was gone.

Standing there was the guy who made it all possible, the president who had just been elected on a promise that he would stand up for us, the men and women who built this country. I’d never felt so proud to be an American.

Now, a year later, I’ve lost my job. As of July 20, 2017, I was laid off, due to Carrier’s parent company United Technologies Corporation deciding to send away my job along with more than 600 of my coworkers (which is more than half the employees) at the Indianapolis plant, plus another 700 workers at our sister plant in Huntington, Indiana, which was completely shut down! And President Trump? He tweeted in November that he was “making progress” with Carrier, but nothing came out of it. It turns out that he did nothing but make a bunch of empty promises.

Today, I feel betrayed and deceived — as if President Trump used my pain, and the pain of working class America, simply to win political points. One thing I don’t think President Trump grasps is that when he promises something, there are real people out there whose lives can be upended if he fails to follow through. We at Carrier depended on him to deliver on those promises.

For 10 years, I lifted 30- to 70-pound fans roughly 1,000 times a day and slid them into furnace casings for top-of-the-line heating systems. It was tough, repetitive work — but I learned to love it. At Carrier, I worked with 1,500 other steelworkers, and we were like a huge, multicultural, multigenerational family: some Democrats, some Republicans, some who never voted. Many, many weeks, we spent more time with each together than with our real families.

That factory and the wages I earned there allowed me and many others to support our families, to plan for our futures, to keep our communities thriving. In 2007, I started at a rate of $17 an hour and moved up to $23 an hour, along with great health care coverage, during my tenure with the company. For decades, working at Carrier meant that we were part of Indiana’s middle class.

This meant that I had the security of a retirement pension to fall back on. I had a good union job that allowed me to do other things I enjoyed, like playing drums in my church’s gospel band. I even thought about going back to school and pursuing a bachelor’s of science in theological studies — taking advantage of the education reimbursement program offered through my union contract.

I was there on the shop floor in February 2016 when we were told they were closing our plant and that we should expect layoffs in the future. It wasn’t because of poor performance. We were a successful, well-respected factory. It was because a bunch of people at the top of the company decided to move our factory to Mexico so they could pay a lower wage for the same work. Men were in tears that awful day. People fainted. The hope of a decent life for many now seemed gone.

And then President Trump came in and made our anguish into his presidential stump speeches. He talked about how he’d picked up the phone and called UTC’s CEO Greg Hayes and told him that he had to stop the layoffs — and that Hayes had agreed. A lot of people took him at his word. It turns out we were wrong to have done so.

The truth is, President Trump could have saved our jobs. UTC collects $5.6 billion — about 10 percent of its overall revenue — yearly from federal contracts. As president of the United States or CEO of America, Inc., he could tell companies like UTC that if they want to do business with the federal government, then they can’t outsource American jobs. He chooses not to do this.

In fact, 56 percent of the top 100 federal contractors — companies like UTC, GE, and General Motors — continue to offshore jobs. In return, they’ve been given almost $21 billion from the Trump administration, according to a report from the activist group Good Jobs Nation (which helped put together this story). UTC alone has received around $1 billion in federal contracts since Trump took office.

Even Hayes agrees that he and the company got a “good deal” from Trump on Carrier. Us workers? We got a raw deal.

I got laid off in July. I don’t remember much from my last day. It was all a blur, kind of like being at your own unexpected funeral.

I finally found a new job working at a hospital — it pays six dollars an hour less than my job at Carrier. Still, I’m one of the lucky ones. Many of my friends still haven’t found work. One former coworker, who should be on the verge of retirement, is now making 10 dollars an hour at a warehouse job. That’s the best job she could find. At Carrier, my friend was making about $22 with good benefits and plenty of opportunity for overtime work.

Since I lost my job at Carrier, I’ve had to move in with my cousin, I lost my car, and I’ve had to live off a tight budget. Losing the job at Carrier has really impacted my ability to fully support my 3-year-old son. I hate the fact that his mom and I had to find a more affordable but not as nice preschool for him. I can’t afford fun outings like the world-famous Indianapolis Children’s Museum anymore. Worst of all, the extra hours I work to make ends meet mean less time with him.

Today, I’d like to tell President Trump that he can still do something to live up to his promises. He can sign an executive order that keeps companies that send jobs overseas from being eligible for federal contracts. It’s that simple. That — not empty rhetoric — would show me and all of America’s working people that he cares about us and our families.

Quinton Franklin is a 38-year-old, single father of a 3-year-old boy, who was born and raised in Indianapolis, Indiana. He worked for Carrier from 2007 to 2017, and was a member of the United Steelworkers Local 1999 Union. He serves as an associate minister at Friendship Missionary Baptist Church on the west side of Indianapolis, where he’s been an active member since he was a child.

Michael Oles of Good Jobs Nation assisted in putting together this piece.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Last week, I read the Babe.net article describing an encounter between comedian Aziz Ansari and a woman identified only as “Grace.” I read about how Ansari allegedly pushed past several verbal and nonverbal cues suggesting that Grace was not comfortable with their sexual encounter. I had a sickening moment of truth: I’ve done that.

It was just over four years ago. I was 22, newly single, and in college. I had just broken up with my long-distance girlfriend of five years and had spent the past few years hearing all about my friends’ and roommates’ hookups. I was excited to be single and date around. I kept a mental list of several women around school whom I wanted to sleep with.

I had an acquaintance, “Julie,” who was on that list. I’m not using her real name here, and I’m writing this piece anonymously, to protect both of our privacy. We had been to parties together, laughed together, and on a couple of occasions, I had walked her home. We liked each other enough to flirt, which eventually turned into the occasional texting conversation or phone call. I got the sense she was attracted to me.

After a couple of weeks of texting, Julie invited me on a trip to her home a few hours away from campus. I felt a little weird about going, as we didn’t know each other very well. But I said yes — to me, the invite felt like a pretty big sign that she wanted to hook up, and I was eager to have sex.

We arranged our travel plans. She would drive her car, and I would sleep over at her place the night before we left because we had to wake up early.

That night, Julie and I hooked up — and I ignored several of her verbal and nonverbal cues telling me to stop. Years later, I have come to believe that I came alarmingly close to raping her. I’m still disturbed by how normal it felt at the time.

The verbal and nonverbal cues I ignored

I arrived at Julie’s house at around 11 pm. We walked upstairs to her bedroom, which was small and cozy, lit by a star-shaped lamp.

I looked around. Her mattress was basically the only thing to sit or sleep on. It was clear — we would be sharing the bed. My face flushed, and my heart beat faster. I took this as a sign that a hookup would happen.

I lay in bed with Julie, her head resting comfortably on my chest, and we talked about this and that. We were dozing off a bit when we both turned on our sides to face each other. I could see her eyes were closed, but I sensed she was still awake. I touched my forehead to hers. She brought her mouth to mine, and we kissed.

As we were making out, we couldn’t find our rhythm. It felt like either her mouth was too small for mine or my mouth was too big. It seemed like she didn’t want to open hers all the way. I kept finding her teeth with my tongue, or going in for a mouth-half-open kiss, only to land on her pursed-shut lips. In the moment, I blamed first-hookup awkwardness.

I moved my hands under her shirt, pulled her close, grabbed her ass, and hoisted her above me so she could straddle my waist. It seemed sexy. She was still kissing me. I took off her shirt and bra.

At some point, I went down on her. I don’t remember any verbal cues to stop, but what I do remember is a significant nonverbal cue: She wasn’t making any sound. No moans, no breaths, no words. She seemed stiff. But I kept going because, well, I thought that oral sex was something people typically enjoyed. I worried I wasn’t doing it right, so I tried different spots and techniques, but nothing changed.

After some time, which I now realize was far too long, I stopped and asked if she was okay. She hesitated before speaking, and sat up.

“I don’t think we should have sex. We’re friends, and I think having sex will make things complicated.”

I responded almost immediately. “I don’t think it will make things complicated. I’m totally fine with figuring that out later.” I kind of laughed, I think, because I thought I was being charming. My feelings at the time were: We’re in the middle of having sex. It’s already complicated. Stopping now doesn’t make it less complicated. I was also horny, and Julie was hot, so I disregarded her feelings; I lurched toward her and starting kissing her neck.

“Are you sure you want to stop?” I whispered in her ear as I moved my hand toward her crotch.

“I just don’t think we should, because we’re friends.”

She never physically stopped me from touching her. At the time, I took that as a sign that she actually wanted me to continue. Her verbal objections, I convinced myself, were her poetic way of telling me she liked me enough to want to be in a relationship with me.

She was telling me to stop. And I didn’t. At least not at first. Instead, I continued to touch her clitoris, kiss her neck, and take off my underwear. She continued to say nothing and do nothing, and she was still stiff. I rubbed my penis across the outside of her vagina. She was wet. I convinced myself that this was further evidence that she wanted it.

I positioned myself for penetration but paused right before pushing inside her. At that point, things kind of snapped together for me. She didn’t want this — maybe she hadn’t pushed my hand away, but she had verbalized not feeling comfortable doing it. So I stopped.

It took me years to realize that even though I stopped, I’d still violated her.

I don’t remember what I said then. I don’t remember what she said either. But I remember that we talked in bed for a while. It felt normal. The next morning, we drove to her house. I met her mom and her old friends. We saw her old neighborhood. It was polite and pleasant but much less flirtatious. We didn’t have sex. I kissed her on the cheek when I said goodbye. After that, nothing really happened between Julie and me. I saw her around school, but that was it. I still follow her on Instagram.

I remember talking with my roommate after I got home. She wanted to know how my weekend went — I told her that Julie and I didn’t have sex because she wanted us to stay friends. I remember saying, “I hate when people aren’t clear about what they want. She seemed like she wanted to fuck me, so I kept going, but all she kept saying was that it would be weird. If she didn’t want to fuck me, she should have just said so.”

I realize now that this was my problem, not Julie’s.

Toxic masculinity affects all men

I considered myself a feminist back then. I still do — I fight for gender equality, and I actively try to be a better man every day. But it still took me years to realize that what I did to Julie was wrong. It was coercive. She told me she “didn’t think we should have sex,” and I kept trying anyway.

I thought I was getting signals from Julie that she wanted to have sex before the encounter started — the flirting, inviting me to her home. Maybe she did want to have sex. But at some point, she changed her mind or, at the very least, wasn’t sure how she was feeling. It wasn’t enthusiastic consent throughout, and at two different points, she objected. I ignored that.

In the years following the incident with Julie, I began to realize, often while reading articles online about enthusiastic consent, that what had happened between us wasn’t fully consensual. But it wasn’t until I read the Aziz Ansari story and the media conversation surrounding it that I realized the extent of what I had done.

I’m still not sure what to call what I did — assault? Coercion? A violation? What I do believe is this: If I hadn’t stopped when I stopped, I would have committed rape. But in that moment, it didn’t feel that way — it felt normal. I had convinced myself that she still wanted me despite her objections.

I don’t think I’m the only man who has done something like this. I think rape culture is so pervasive that men sometimes don’t realize when we’re actively committing assault. When Grace confronted Ansari via text message after their night together, he responded: “Clearly, I misread things in the moment.”

With Julie, I was aware of her verbal and nonverbal cues. But I had been socially conditioned to believe that women would want to have sex with me if I could convince them. I remember watching teen movies like Superbad and American Pie Presents: The Naked Mile, where men were portrayed as entitled to sex with women simply because these men were virgins and it was their “rite of passage.” My first orgasm was while watching internet porn, where consent to have sex is implicit. My middle school health class taught me about anatomy and drugs, but never consent.

As I aged, I ignored discussions of consent because I believed all sorts of myths about rape: that it’s only something that happens violently between strangers, when the woman is completely drunk, or between a powerful older man and a much younger woman. I never got the message that rape and assault was happening to women all around me and being perpetrated by men just like me.

Toxic masculinity praises sexually active men. Sex is conquest, competition, and a measure of self-worth. There is rarely a punishment for pressuring a woman to have sex with us — there is only, we are taught, the reward of sexual pleasure if we succeed.

But what we need to do is admit our faults. There are a million ways to say no, and we need to stop ignoring them. We need to make “enthusiastic consent” our mantra and keep it in mind whenever we might have sex.

I’m engaged now and have been with the same partner for four years. In the years following the incident with Julie, I’ve changed my behavior in bed. I try to let go of penetrative sex as a goal. I spent my younger years learning about foreplay and intimacy as a “means to an end.” Now intimacy, in all forms, is the end. The best way to get there is to listen to my partner’s words, actions, and body throughout sexual encounters — even if that means stopping sex in its tracks. That is its own form of intimacy.

I haven’t talked to Julie in years. I’ve thought about reaching out to apologize to her, but I’ve decided against it because it could upset her. Instead, I’m committed to continuing to change how I approach sex, and always making sure there is “fuck yes” affirmative consent.

I also want to talk to other men about this issue — it’s a conversation I’ve had with male friends, though not regularly. I remember one instance when two male friends and I were talking about sex, and we all admitted to engaging in some type of coercive behavior. None of us were proud of it. These are the kinds of discussions that need to keep happening.

Men, especially the most liberal, caring, and self-aware among us: look harder at yourselves. Rape culture ends when we stop raping.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.“How do you know what you want to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to in bed?”

The first time I heard the question, it caught me by surprise. I was talking with a student journalist about my first book, Yes Means Yes: Visions of Female Sexual Power and a World Without Rape. The book is framed around the idea of affirmative consent — that “no means no” is not enough, and only a freely given, enthusiastic “yes” counts when it comes to sex. As the interview wound down, the reporter, a young woman, asked me the surprisingly personal question off the record. She wanted me to teach her how to know what she wanted in bed.

That was the first of many times I’d come to hear that kind of question from women young and old who have been so discouraged from prioritizing their own sexual pleasure. I heard it enough that I wrote my next two books to help women overcome that self-alienation, and help all of us change the cultural institutions that create it. Their distress demonstrates why we so badly need to change the way we think about sex — and why people who don’t actively pay attention to their partner’s needs in the bedroom risk violating them.

The collective anguish of all these women has been haunting me this week in the wake of the publication of a Babe.net piece about one woman’s evening with Aziz Ansari, which ended, she says, with him repeatedly disregarding her verbal and nonverbal boundaries as he pursued his own sexual agenda. I’ve lost track of the number of people in both low and high places who’ve written that the encounter was “fair game.” The response reveals the deeply ingrained ways our culture believes a woman’s resistance is a fun challenge for men to overcome, and that “consent” is a free pass one can bully out of a woman if persistent or crafty enough.

It doesn’t have to be this way. But to change things, we need to talk about how we can better educate young people in this country about sex, consent, and pleasure.

We don’t prioritize sex education in this country

The basic principle at the heart of affirmative consent is simple: We’re each responsible for making sure our sex partners are actually into whatever is happening between us. Since decent human beings only want to have sex with people who are into it, this shouldn’t be a hard sell. But if you’ve been raised to think of sex as a battle of the sexes, or a business deal in which men “get some” and women either “give it up” or “save it” for marriage, it can still be a jarring idea, like suggesting to someone that there’s something they could breathe other than air.

In the absence of comprehensive, pleasure-based sex ed, we rely on media and other cultural institutions to model what sex should be like. Whether you turn to abstinence propagandists, mainstream pop culture, or free internet porn to fill in those gaps, you’re likely to wind up with an incredibly narrow and bankrupt idea of how sex works, one that positions men as sexual actors, women as the (un)lucky recipients of men’s desire, and communication of consent as lethal to both boners and romance.

(That’s not to say there aren’t a few good models out there for those who seek them out. One of the sexiest movies in recent memory — Call Me by Your Name — shows a man breathlessly asking another man if he can kiss him. It is scorchingly hot.)

We already prioritize educating kids on safety outside the realm of sexuality. Take the risk of getting injured in a fire: In any given year, around 3 percent of US school-aged kids will encounter a fire at school. The odds of a student being injured in one of those fires are so small as to be functionally zero. It’s likely that the fire risk to American students is so low in part because we prepare them so well to stay safe. We teach them fire safety every year starting in kindergarten, and build on that knowledge with regular drills, until responding to the threat of fire becomes second nature. Imagine if we prepared students that well to take care of each other during sex.

Sex ed in US public schools isn’t regulated by the federal government, and the resulting patchwork of curricula is a de-standardized mess. Nineteen states require sex educators to teach that sex should only happen after marriage. Only 24 states and Washington, DC, mandate that schools teach any kind of sex ed at all. And only one — California — mandates that students receive education in affirmative consent.

Affirmative consent changes the morality at the core of sexual interactions

The need for affirmative consent education shouldn’t be taken to imply that perpetrators of sexual violence are just hopelessly confused. Studies show that most rapists are perfectly aware their victims aren’t into what’s happening. And social science has also clearly demonstrated that men (and women!) are perfectly capable of understanding social cues, even ones where someone is saying “no” without using that actual word.

It’s impossible to know for sure what Ansari was thinking on the night in question, but this is a seasoned performer who knows how to read a crowd, and a “relationship expert” to boot. It strains credulity to imagine he truly thought she was excited about what was happening between them. What’s much more likely is that he didn’t care how she felt one way or the other and treated her boundaries as a challenge. Either way, his alleged behavior was dehumanizing.

Teaching affirmative consent does something profound: It shifts the acceptable moral standard for sex, making it much clearer to everyone when someone is violating that standard. I think often of the two men who intervened when they came upon Brock Turner assaulting an unconscious woman at Stanford — they knew instantly that something was wrong, because she was clearly not participating. Contrast that with Evan Westlake, who in high school witnessed his two friends raping a semi-conscious girl at a party in Steubenville, Ohio. When asked why he didn’t intervene, he told the court, “Well, it wasn’t violent. I didn’t know exactly what rape was. I always pictured it as forcing yourself on someone.”

I’m sure there are many differences between Westlake and the two men in the Turner case — and these cases are different from the Ansari situation — but the one that stands out to me is that Westlake was raised here in the US. The two men on bicycles in Palo Alto were Swedes, raised in a country that teaches healthy attitudes toward sexuality and gender in school, starting in kindergarten, including lessons on not just biology but healthy relationships, destigmatizing taboos around sex, and, yes, affirmative consent. They knew that a woman who is lying still and not participating in sex is a woman who isn’t consenting. And it prompted them to take action.

Affirmative consent, when taught well, also removes heteronormative assumptions from sex ed. If we’re each equally responsible to make sure our partner is enthusiastic about what’s happening, gender stereotypes — such as that women are passive and men are aggressive — about sexuality begin to break down.

It also requires that we teach and model sexual communication. Good consent education teaches students things like how to overcome awkwardness and make sexual communication feel like a fun part of the action, the importance of paying attention to body language, and the most vital part: that if you can’t tell if your partner is having a good time, you have to check in.

We need to teach girls that sex is supposed to be pleasurable

Consent education does something else transformative: It tells girls that sex is supposed to be for them.

When I speak at schools, I always ask young people if the clitoris was included in their anatomy diagrams, because it’s a quick test of whether sexual pleasure — especially female sexual pleasure — is part of the sex ed conversation. (It almost never is.) Traditional sex ed, when it’s not outright abstinence propaganda, focuses on telling kids how to avoid pregnancy and disease. Many adults fear that if we acknowledge to young people that sex might be pleasurable, it will encourage them to have it. That’s ridiculous.

Most kids figure out that sex seems like fun all on their own, and when we refuse to admit that basic fact to them, we just seem like unreliable sources. What’s more, countries with a pleasure-first approach to sex ed have roughly the same average age as the United States for first sexual encounters (around 17 or 18 years old).

But the most damaging thing that happens when we leave pleasure out of sex ed is that we allow girls to go on thinking that sex is something that’s not really for or about them. Boys learn not to worry about girls’ pleasure, and when girls and women have sexual encounters that don’t feel good — whether they’re just unsatisfying or actively abusive — they’re primed to accept that’s just how sex is.

Which brings us back, reluctantly, to what happened in Aziz Ansari’s apartment that night. This not a story about how inherently confusing sex is, or how women need to make throwing drinks in men’s faces great again, or any of the hot takes you’ve read recently. I get the appeal of these frames — they require so little of us. But cultures are made of people, and people can always change them. Even the sexual culture.

The Ansari story is, at its heart, about how much pain our outmoded sexual culture is causing. How this culture is so profoundly enabling of sexual violation that it comes to seem “normal.” Statistically speaking, it probably even is. But it doesn’t have to be.

This essay is adapted from the book Unscrewed: Women, Sex, Power and How to Stop Letting the System Screw Us All, by Jaclyn Friedman.

Jaclyn Friedman is the creator of three books, including Yes Means Yes: Visions of Female Sexual Power and a World Without Rape and Unscrewed: Women, Sex, Power and How to Stop Letting the System Screw Us All. Friedman hosts Unscrewed, a popular podcast exploring paths to sexual liberation.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.In April 2014, one of my sons fell from a height of eight or nine feet. He landed feet first, with his left foot and ankle hitting the ground first, resulting in multiple fractures. What followed were three surgeries, weeks in a hip cast and in a wheelchair, months of physical therapy and counseling to work through the panic attacks.

My son is autistic — sensory processing issues go hand in hand with autism. While visiting a state monument, he stepped off the edge and fell. An injury like this is difficult for any kid, but amplified for an autistic one. The feeling of confinement from the cast and restricted movement caused my son to have repeated panic attacks. He worried constantly that something bad would happen, his fears often keeping him awake. Once he couldn’t sleep for 48 straight hours, and I stayed awake with him the whole time.

When he fell, I was employed. Less than 10 days later, I was not. At the time, I was doing bookkeeping work for a home therapy company and was forced to miss more than a week of work following the accident and my son’s first surgery. When he returned to school, I tried to return to work. But the panic attacks continued, and I often had to leave. I was unable to keep up, and my supervisor became increasingly frustrated. I wound up in a “quit or be fired” scenario. As a single parent, I was already struggling with the demands of work and the needs of my kids. The accident ended the juggling act.

Without a job, health insurance is not affordable for me, and so I’m now covered by Medicaid. When I heard last week that the Trump administration approved plans to force work requirements on Medicaid recipients, I was terrified.

I have an 11-year-old boy as well, who is as brilliant, creative, and determined as his brother — and he’s autistic too. What that means is my days, and theirs, are completely unpredictable.

Both are easily frustrated and overwhelmed at school. Most typically developing kids make use of readily understandable verbal and nonverbal language when it comes to social cues; my kids don’t. Norms about personal space or expected behavior in class, school hallways, or the cafeteria don’t make sense to them.

My boys are aware they are different. When there’s a disconnect in navigating the social communication that most of us take for granted, they melt down. When they melt down, they act out and often hurt themselves. They bang their heads on walls, desks, tables. One hits himself; the other pulls his hair out of his scalp and scratches himself until he bleeds. One has tried to throw himself down the stairs at school more than once.

The best efforts of committed teachers, counselors, and school administrators are not always enough to reach my kids. When kids are hurting themselves, schools have to pull in a parent. I’m divorced, so that parent is me. Sometimes I can talk my kids through a crisis over the phone. Other times, I need to go to school to work through the meltdown. Other days, they are so raw they can’t finish a school day and are sent home.

Last week, the Department of Health and Human Services’ Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services sent a policy letter to state Medicaid directors titled “Opportunities to Promote Work and Community Engagement Among Medicaid Beneficiaries.” The letter details a plan to support state efforts to attach a work or “community engagement” requirement to Medicaid benefits. While my home state of Texas has not yet applied, I’m scared it eventually will, given the state’s conservative bent.

I don’t know what I would do.

The challenges of keeping full-time employment while caring for two autistic boys

The subtext of the Trump administration’s latest move is this: All these slackers on Medicaid kicking back all day doing nothing should really be working.

There is a false narrative that people on Medicaid or SNAP (food stamps) are collecting these benefits out of choice rather than necessity. I am on Medicaid because being a caregiver to my kids makes employment a huge challenge. I can easily get a job. I cannot keep a job.

In addition to the challenges of getting through a school week, there are appointments with therapists and psychiatrists. There are IEP (individualized education plan) meetings with teachers, case managers, school psychologists, and administrators. There are phone calls from teachers, staffings and conferences. All this eats away at my employability.

Businesses value workers who are predictable in scheduling requirements. Even jobs I’ve taken under an explicit understanding of my situation have been tough to keep. It would only take a few weeks of teacher phone calls and leaving work to handle a meltdown before the disapproving looks and casual critical comments started. As much as a manager may understand my unique needs, many businesses find it hard to function without reliable employees. My situation renders me unreliable, through no fault of my own, and so I become essentially unemployable.

Medicaid is essential for covering my family’s needs

I depend on Medicaid to cover medical costs for my boys, who are covered primarily by my ex-husband’s policy and secondarily by Medicaid. Without Medicaid, I could not afford their doctor visits and prescription copays. One of my sons takes six prescription medications daily, some related to autism, some for asthma; the other takes two prescriptions daily for autism-related conditions. Medicaid covers all medical, dental, and prescription copays for them.

There’s also my own health — Medicaid covers medication and monitoring for several chronic conditions, including high cholesterol and anxiety. I take four prescription medications daily. Losing Medicaid would mean having to shift some of my financial resources to pay for these drugs, meaning money taken away from the needs of my sons. Without these drugs, I would be at heightened risk of stroke or heart attack, and if I had a heart attack I’d be unable to care for my children. For me, access to health care is essential to the survival of my family. Medicaid is a necessity, not a luxury.

I live in a state already hostile to Medicaid recipients

It’s important to note that there is a caregiver exception in the work requirements letter. Quite simply, I don’t trust it. State Medicaid directors have been charged with implementing this new policy, and I live in Texas, a conservative state.

When the Affordable Care Act passed, Texas declined the opportunity to establish a state exchange and refused federal money for Medicaid expansion. My oldest son has been on the interest list for waiver programs — programs that cover services like respite care (extra caregiving that would occasionally free me from being on call 24 hours a day) — since he was 3 years old. He’ll be 14 in a few months.

The last Texas state legislative session was spent on both successful and unsuccessful attempts to further restrict access to abortion, pass a bill restricting transgender bathroom use, and instill fear in Texas’s immigrant community with the passage of SB4 — an anti-sanctuary city bill. Texas has no track record of prioritizing Medicaid recipients. So, no, I don’t trust the state of Texas to have my boys’ or my best interests in mind should they implement a work requirement for Medicaid requirements.

Families like mine are not unusual. Chances are you know and love someone who’s in similar circumstances. See us. Listen to us. Our lives will be affected in scary and permanent ways if we lose our access to Medicaid.

Trish Florence is a mom, a community organizer with TX21 Indivisible, an unapologetic feminist, and an activist for racial, social, reproductive, and economic justice. You can find her at the middle school her boys attend or in the offices of her congressional representatives, Rep. Lamar Smith, Sen. Ted Cruz, and Sen. John Cornyn, fighting for the future of her children. Find her on Twitter @SATX_Trish.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.“That’s just not a good move,” my father snickered. “I mean, maybe if you’re Ryan Gosling. But that is not a good look for Charlie Rose.”

It was only a matter of time, I figured, before one of the recent sexual abuse allegations would come up during a recent visit home. My father chose to focus on the Charlie Rose “trick” of surprising women who were working at his home by emerging from the shower, semi-naked.

My father’s tactic represents a common one for people who want to criticize Rose and the other sexual predators filling our newsfeeds right now: He took a shot at Rose’s physical attractiveness, or lack thereof.

I can’t lie; it’s been vengefully satisfying to see powerful men like Harvey Weinstein, Louis C.K., Matt Lauer, Kevin Spacey, and Rose fall from grace over the past several months. Hearing victims speak out about these men’s aggression, manipulations, and perversion of power — and hearing others who wield comparable power openly criticize them on national stages (what’s up, John Oliver!) — gives me hope that things are changing.

People are finally holding some of these men, as well as the deeply embedded patriarchy that supports them, accountable. What’s not as heartening or progressive is the discourse surrounding that accountability. In October, Samantha Bee came out swinging in a video addressed to Harvey Weinstein, insisting, “Your dick is ugly” — and it was hard not to hear a broader judgment about the producer’s appearance. Many others went further. Howard Stern called Weinstein a “big fat guy,” adding, “There is no girl on the planet that wants to see Harvey Weinstein naked and is going to get aroused.” About Rose, Seth Meyers said in on his show: “Usually when someone that old is walking around naked, a couple of male nurses lead him right back to his room.”

Why should we care about someone like Weinstein (or Rose) being body-shamed? Because body-shaming him body-shames everyone else who looks like him but did nothing wrong. It also distracts from the problem with what he did, which has nothing to do with his looks. What made these acts abusive is the lack of consent, not the appearance of the predators.

And that perpetuates rape culture. As long as we keep acting as if sexual abuse is wrong because the abuser is physically unattractive or sexually deviant, abusers deemed attractive and “normal” will be more likely to get away with it.

The attractiveness trap in discussions of sexual assault

Given his crudity, and his own obsession with other people’s looks, Donald Trump makes for a tempting target for ridicule. But as Lindsey Averill wrote for CNN in response to a New Yorker cover depicting Donald Trump as a plus-sized beauty queen, “beneath this joke at Trump’s expense are sexist and fat-shaming ideas.” Research has shown that body-shaming is harmful to the targets’ mental and physical health. Yet we can’t seem to get past this idea that if someone doesn’t fit societal beauty ideals, sexual activity with them is inherently repulsive.

One unfortunate effect of this is that we consider conventionally unattractive people less credible victims of sexual assault or harassment. We wonder who would be attracted enough to someone to target them, as if these crimes were purely about sexual allure, as opposed to toxic abuse of power. Hence Donald Trump’s claim that he couldn’t have sexually assaulted journalist Natasha Stoynoff because, “look at her … I don’t think so.”

Body-shaming can also become a sort of code for calling out violations we can’t quite put our fingers on. We use words like “gross” and “disgusting” and “creepy” when what we really mean is “nonconsensual.”

The problem is, in part, that many people still have trouble understanding what “nonconsensual” even means. Eighteen percent of college students in a 2005 Washington Post poll said that if someone hasn’t said “no,” they’ve consented to sex. 32 percent of college men in a survey published in the journal Violence and Gender said they’d “force a woman to have sexual intercourse” if they knew they could get away with it, compared to 13.6 percent who said they’d “rape a woman.”

Those figures should prompt lots of serious discussion — none of which would have to do with supposedly unappealing bodies.

The Charlie Rose scandal, for example, could have been an opportunity to talk about how you can sexually harass someone without saying a word, because nudity without consent is harassment.

Relatedly, many criticisms of sexual predators are overly focused on supposedly repulsive sexual acts. Both the Louis C.K. and Weinstein accusations have given commenters the chance to pronounce that men masturbating in front of women is inherently “gross.” Never mind that plenty of couples enjoy mutual masturbation consensually.

This kind of commentary perpetuates sex negativity, spreading the idea that the only acceptable way to have sex involves a conventionally attractive cis heterosexual married couple in the missionary position with the lights off. Disparaging the act of masturbation in front of a partner, or displaying a penis, disparages those who enjoy these acts just as mocking the idea of older people being sexual shames the elderly. And that’s not progress at all.

“The notion of sex positivity doesn’t demonize any sexual desire except nonconsensual,” says Good Vibrations staff sexologist Carol Queen. “Why it would be any more problematic for someone to masturbate in front of a person than any other nonconsensual thing is ridiculous.”

Other malign effects of our misguided focus on standard notions of attractiveness

This kind of discourse feeds into other myths. Among other things, the focus on the conventional desirability of predators and their victims downplays assaults by women. After all, women are stereotyped to be more physically attractive and universally desired by men, leading people to wonder, when women in power take advantage of men, why wouldn’t he want it?

We’ve collectively bought into a fallacious binary that says women are the “fairer sex” — fundamentally more beautiful, gentler, less sexually aggressive, and less threatening — while men are ever and always poised on the cusp of violence and sexual depravity. So, sexual harassment at the hands of a woman is deemed not only more forgivable but almost laughable. Again: A sexual abuser’s looks and gender are irrelevant to the crime.

So. During my future family dinners, I’ll be using the recent allegations as a jumping-off point to talk about consent. I’ll point out that many couples enjoy mutual masturbation, but that masturbating in front of someone requires consent, just like any sexual act. I’ll explain that what makes Charlie Rose’s shower trick an unforgivable violation is not his age or looks, but that he’s using his power to deprive people of their consent before his nudity even entered the picture. When you aren’t given the chance to say “no,” you can’t say “yes.”

And that’s wrong — even if Charlie Rose looked like Ryan Gosling.

Suzannah Weiss is a freelance writer and editor currently serving as a contributing editor for Teen Vogue and a regular contributor to Glamour, Vice, Bustle, and other publications. She is working on a book about sex and feminism. This piece was adapted from an essay first published by the Establishment. Twitter: @suzannahweiss.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.I was sitting on Nantucket with a glass of wine in hand when I realized I couldn’t stomach the job any longer.

I was a lobbyist between 2003 and 2010 in Washington, DC. I quit in disgust. Years of legalized bribery had exposed me to the worst elements of our country’s political workings. Not even my half-million-a-year salary could outweigh my conscience.

In my years as a lobbyist, I worked for the alcohol industry, for the racing car industry, and for a billionaire named Carl Icahn. I met with hundreds of Congress members advocating for the political interests of my employers and clients. Now I make my living as a journalist and host of the Decode DC podcast, where I help listeners understand the inner workings of Washington.

When I tell people I used to be a lobbyist, their ears perk up. To me, people are intrigued because it feels like a hidden world. Most Americans don’t think they’ve ever met a lobbyist or actually understand what the hell a lobbyist does. Their only association is Jack Abramoff, who served time in a federal penitentiary for, among other things, bribing members of Congress. He was a bad guy, and his actions left a bitter taste in the mouths of the body politic.

But the truth is most lobbyists are not at all like Abramoff or his cronies were back in their glory days. They were the exception to the rule. Today, most lobbyists are engaged in a system of bribery but it’s the legal kind, the kind that runs rampant in the corridors of Washington. It’s a system of sycophantic elected leaders expecting a campaign cash flow, and in return, industry, interest groups, and big labor are rewarded with what they want: legislation and rules that favor their constituencies.

It’s a system that only responds to money, and after years playing and paying the game, I wanted out, fast.

Lobbying is perfectly legal — but it’s a right that gets abused

Now, before everyone gets their panties in a wad, let me be pointedly clear about something: I support lobbying and believe it’s an essential part of our constitutional right “to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.”

Everyone in this country, from the left to the right, deserves a voice, and they should be heard loud and clear. If that means hiring a lobbyist to represent your point of view before Congress, awesomesauce. If that means you take to the streets, demand meetings and town halls with cowardly members of the House and Senate, or, better yet, run against them, I’m your biggest advocate.

But what I don’t support are Supreme Court rulings that have repeatedly told us money is an absolutely protected form of speech. A string of cases like Citizens United and others has opened the barn door to unlimited “dark money” campaign spending. Cases like Citizens gross me and most everyone else out because the result is the money in your politics becomes the voice in your politics. Americans’ right “to redress” comes at a cost, and if you don’t have the cash, chances are you’ll be ignored.

Bottom line: Those with the most money have the largest voices. Those with the least are rarely part of the process. That makes the legality of the practice of lobbying less relevant because it’s an uneven playing field.

My career in lobbying started with civil service

One doesn’t just become a lobbyist. There’s no college major or curriculum for it like studying law or medicine. Instead, you have to get a job in government. You have to become a cog in the wheel, and you have to learn the tricks of the trade, so to speak.

My career path was frankly the perfect road map to becoming a lobbyist. I started as an unpaid intern in the Senate and rose up through the ranks. Then I became the staff director for a Senate banking subcommittee and worked on important pieces of legislation like Sarbanes Oxley, put in place as an answer to Enron and its greed.

But the most important thing I did every day was to sit my ass on the floor of the Senate. I learned everything there is to know about how to make the Senate function smoothly, and, of course, the opposite: how to gum up the place so it came to a grinding halt. Both are equally effective when you’re in the business of dealmaking and getting legislation across the finish line or not.

But then something changed. The Senate became more of a place where you’d hear, “I object!” than it was a place where you’d hear, “The bill is passed.” And that’s why I got the hell out. Deals weren’t the norm. They became the exception.

So after six-plus years in the Senate, I “sold out” in 2003. I took everything I knew, every contact I’d made, every deal I’d struck in my political career and cashed in to become a good ol’ lobbyist.

I had fun at first. Unlimited expense accounts, nights out on the town, expensive bottles of wine, elaborate meals with sitting senators and Congress members — that was my life.

I attended fundraising breakfasts that led to committee hearings with the same Congress members or senators — a meeting that cost me or my political action committee a hefty $2,500 voting on the very legislation we’d talked about over bacon and eggs that morning.

Then there’d be a lunch fundraiser with a different Congress member, paid for by another $2,500 check to discuss the issues my clients cared about. Then they’d go and vote on those issues. It was an endless cycle of money trading hands for votes.

It’s a wonder members of the House and Senate actually have time to legislate when they spend so much of their damn time raising money.

Here’s how a legal “bribe” goes down in Congress

There’s always a subtleness that comes with campaign checks and public policy. But sometimes the subtlety goes away. When I was representing the wine and spirits distributors, I had scheduled a meeting with a member of the Nevada delegation. I had two of my Nevada clients with me, and we sat waiting patiently in the member’s reception area before I was summoned into his office.

I was asked to leave my clients in the lobby for the time being. When I entered his office, he stood up and shook my hand, and then asked me point blank: “Jimmy, we’ve called your PAC fundraiser on numerous occasions, and she hasn’t returned our calls. So why exactly are you here for a meeting?”

He held in front of me a call sheet with the times and dates both he and his fundraiser had called us for donations. They were highlighted in yellow. And my only response was, “I don’t know, Congressman, but I’ll take care of it.” He told me he hoped so and then said I could bring my clients into his office. They walked in, we sat down as if nothing had happened, he said he supported every one of our pertinent legislative issues, and then we all shook hands and walked out. Now this guy is no longer a member of Congress, but he supported my clients’ interest — and the legislation my clients wanted eventually passed the House and Senate and was signed into law.

How easy could an all-but-basic bribe have been, really? In a cab back to the office, I thought, “Oh, my God, did that just happen to me?” Thank God nothing quite as explicit ever happened again after that — but the winking and the nodding, that kept going and going and going.

Over the years, the work began to weigh on me. Every fundraiser was yet another legal bribe. Every committee hearing I’d look up and think, “I just bought his vote.” And every time I got a bill passed or, better yet, killed, I’d think to myself, “That wouldn’t have worked if I hadn’t bought the outcome.”

This is what I was doing Monday through Friday for basically 52 weeks of the year, excluding congressional recesses and holidays. Put yourself in my shoes. Think you could handle it? Think your bank account could handle it? Better yet, think your conscience, your morals could handle it?

Mine couldn’t. I couldn’t bear the thought of playing the game. Maybe it would’ve been better if Congress actually gave a damn about your issues, what your clients had to say. But they often don’t. All too often, they just care about the money.

After eight years of paying for meetings with politicians, I had to get out. I sat on Nantucket with the guy I was dating at the time, and we talked about how gross it all was. At that point, MSNBC had offered me a decent contract as a “talking head,” and while it was way less than what I was making as a lobbyist, I just did it.

I got out and never looked back.

This isn’t a right or left issue. It affects everyone in Washington.

Know this: Lobbyists are not bad people. They’re simply doing their jobs, and those jobs are not only legal but protected by the First Amendment. The political left loves to shit all over lobbyists, but they dial for dollars just like their Republican brethren. And as for the political right? Well, at least they make no bones about paying to play. It’s “free speech by God. The Supreme Court makes it so!”

Blah blah blah. The hypocrisy from both sides is staggering.

President after president, including Trump, has decried the influence of money and lobbyists. And they’re right on the money. But that’s their biggest problem: They all decry the money yet beg for it like they’re in some Dickens novel: “Please, sir, may I have some more?”

The problem in this country isn’t our politicians left or right. It’s the money they can’t live without. If you really want Washington to change, then you should push to get rid of money in politics. It will take a constitutional amendment or a radical shift in the makeup of the Supreme Court, but hey, we've done both before.

And stop bitching about lobbyists, for Pete's sake. Stop crapping all over them for representing you, the American people, after they leave government service.

Oh, and by the way, if you really care, do something about it. After all, you're the people, and that's whom politicians fear the most.

Jimmy Williams is the host of DecodeDC in the Scripps Washington Bureau. He is a former MSNBC contributor and longtime Senate staffer and lobbyist.

Correction: Updated to reflect the correct legislation, Sarbanes Oxley, that Williams worked on while he was in government.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.The posting from an online casting site announced an audition at a local theater for a production of Agatha Christie’s “Ten Little Indians.” Each role specified the age, gender, and race, and I matched one of them. I was 62, female, white, and a few years into retirement from my 37-year career as a probation officer for Los Angeles County. For the last two years, I had been taking an acting class for seniors in Los Angeles, but I had not tried to get paid work out of it until now.

I’d read in one of my acting books to dress as the character you’re auditioning for, so I ran around my house pulling out clothing that was the opposite of my usual wardrobe to create an English spinster outfit: an A-shape, mid-calf, tweed skirt; plain, long-sleeve blouse buttoning to the neck; horn-rimmed glasses; flat shoes with laces; hairpins to flatten my hair; and no makeup. I was tall and slender, and I knew I was attractive enough with my medium-length blond hair at the time. When I was done with my transition, I looked and felt drab, dowdy, and old.

I had decided to attend the audition after networking with other retirement-age students in my classes who were not only going to auditions, but booking parts. The idea intrigued me. Most people think of actors as being in their 20s or 30s, with Botox-free and bikini-ready bodies. Few outside of the casting world think of the myriad roles available to those of us at or past retirement age.

This story is republished from Narrative.ly

It’s a subsection of actors who have little trouble finding gigs, and the idea of becoming an actor after retirement is popular since many senior centers offer classes in acting. Last year, nearly 200 seniors signed up for a seminar, “Showbiz After 60,” on how to break into the business. About 14 percent of my agent’s clients are over age 50, though he represents more senior actors than most agencies do and estimates that about five percent of paid actors in Hollywood are seniors.

When I entered the audition room that first time, I immediately wanted to bolt. It was filled with actors, some in their 20s, some elderly and beautiful, some homely, slender, portly, gruff, sophisticated. All of them, including those there to audition for the same role as I, were dressed in jeans and T-shirts.

I had a schizophrenic internal dialogue going:

I want to leave.

No, you’re staying and going through with this.

But I look like a jerk.

It doesn’t matter, you’re doing it.

I asked someone what I was supposed to do.

“Put your name on the list, get the sides, and wait until your name is called,” he responded without looking up from what he was reading.

“What are sides?”

“A part of the script for you to read,” he answered, again without averting his gaze.

I wrote my name on the sign-in sheet and picked up my sides from a pile. When I was called, I walked into a bare room and was met by five people, near-clones of each other, sitting at a long table.

“She’ll be your reader,” one said, nodding to a young, attractive woman standing in a corner. “Start when you’re ready.”

I didn’t know what a reader was, and I was too embarrassed to ask, so I began to read my opening line. The woman read the other character’s line in a bored monotone.

Oh, so that’s a reader.

I survived the audition and made my getaway.

I didn’t get the part, but I did get a little bump in my self-confidence. Over the next 10 years, I continued auditioning. Now 72, I have appeared in dozens of commercials as well as roles in television, film, video, and theater, typically playing grandmothers, society women, and even sexy seniors.

The union for movie and television actors has a diversity-in-casting incentive program, and seniors are one of the targeted groups. I once got an audition and then booked a day-player role on General Hospital as a result of this program. I’ve also landed roles like “Queen of the Gym” in a mock news segment, and another as a Granny rapper.

The funny thing is, I had long suffered from stage fright when speaking in front of large groups. As a probation officer, I spent my days writing criminal sentencing reports for judges and supervising those convicted of crimes. I had never wanted to be an actress.

I grew up in a middle-class family in Los Angeles, went to UCLA, got married and had two children, and eventually three grandchildren. After retiring at age 60, I found a class in the online catalog of Emeritus College in Santa Monica, which offers courses for seniors. It was called “Scene Study” and was listed in the Theater Arts section.

It didn’t compute in my mind that class members actually acted. Had I known, I would never have taken the class. Instead, I pictured students sitting in their seats with each one reading a line or two from a play before the class analyzed it. I’d always enjoyed plays and figured I could handle that, so I enrolled.

I walked into the classroom on the first day. People of all descriptions in the baby boomer and senior age ranges were making their way to their seats. The teacher was a petite, energetic woman. Most of the students seemed to know each other; they had been taking the class for a while. I was the newbie and felt intimidated.

Right after I sat down, an elderly, stooped, gray-haired man approached. “You want to read this with me?” he said, holding out a few sheets of paper — the opening scene from Death of a Salesman.

“Okay,” I responded.

He walked up to the front of the room and turned to see if I was following him.

“Come on,” he said with a spark of irritation in his voice, because I hadn’t moved from my chair.

Oh my God, I thought, we’re supposed to read standing in front of everybody?

I could hear my heartbeat banging against my eardrums. Slowly, dragging it out as long as I could, I walked up to the head of the class and began to read my lines in a shaky voice.

Suddenly, a strange thing happened. I became so engrossed in the role that I completely forgot a roomful of strangers was watching and judging me. When we were finished, everyone dutifully clapped, snapping me out of my trance.

I looked up and realized where I was, and that I was not the wife in the play. What a rush — I was hooked and wanted more. That started me on a weekly journey of attending class, rehearsing, learning about the world of acting and enrolling in another acting-for-commercials class for seniors in Hollywood.

In that class, the teacher distributed commercial scripts to the students and gave us time to study them before filming each student performing the simple dialogue. At the end, we viewed ourselves as the teacher replayed the video and added comments.

I hated seeing myself on film; I seemed so amateurish. But over the months, I learned how to deliver the copy, always giving a little extra punch to the name of the product I was hawking.

The teacher lectured about getting professional headshots, creating a résumé, attending auditions and finding an agent. I started reading books about acting. I found myself analyzing the performances of actors I saw in movies and on television, often thinking I would have delivered that line differently than a Hollywood great.

My classmates were from different backgrounds: teachers, a doctor, a few lawyers, some housewives, a flower shop owner. Some students were taking the class just as a pastime. But others were partly supplementing their living from it. A former salesman had been in several major commercials on television, including one for a clothing warehouse. My peers gave me referrals for photographers, casting sources, and agents.

I’d always suffered from insecurity and worried about what others were thinking of me. That probably came from growing up with a domineering father who had to be the center of attention with my mother, sister, and me in the background.

I was frightened to be in the spotlight. I might have failed in public for everyone to see. The thought of becoming an actress pushed those buttons. Yet I couldn’t resist it.

I had my headshots done by a 30-something, low-cost photographer who led me into the dark, depressing living room of his apartment which he had turned into a studio. I would have left if my classmate hadn’t assured me that he was legitimate.

The photographer proved to be a pleasant guy, and two weeks later the headshots were ready. I studied the proof sheet carefully as tiny images of myself with a variety of facial expressions stared back. Every photo seemed mediocre, and I hated them all. I had thought I’d play characters in their 50s, but the photos told me that was unrealistic, and that my dyed-blond, short, blow-dried hair was way past its due date.

What did I think I was doing?

A few weeks later, an agent visited the acting-for-commercials class and advised the seniors to let their hair grow out, get rid of the fake colors, and audition for older roles. “You’ll book more work.”

I had been dying my hair blond since I was in my 20s. I didn’t even know what my natural color was. Slowly, my hair grew out to a snow-white hue. I kept it at chin length and let its natural curls have their way.

The agent was right. With my new hairdo, I got more attention. In fact, there seemed to be a lot more work for older actors. Soon, I booked my first paid acting job. It was a commercial in which I held the sign of a legal services company while roller skating down the sidewalk.

Somehow I managed to stay upright on the skates, but I couldn’t stop myself and had to roll into the arms of a “catcher” who was standing off-camera. I earned 400 dollars. I couldn’t believe it. Didn’t they know I would have done it for free?

Some months later, an agent, Daniel Hoff, came to the acting class looking for seniors to add to his client roster. He filmed us as we each read the script he had brought. Within a few weeks, his office called and offered me representation. Now that I had an agent, the auditions and jobs were rolling in.

I started to feel like a real actress as my résumé began filling up.

I once rode a mechanical horse for a commercial. Another time I was a grandmother riding in a Subaru on the moon with my family, all of us dressed in space suits.

I have played a homeless woman sitting on a bus bench in L.A.’s Skid Row at 3 o’clock in the morning for a music video. I was a trash-talking gangster granny holding a machine gun on Comedy Central’s The Ben Show.

I was in a video clip on The Doctors wearing a rubber suit that added 200 pounds to my frame. I work several times a year at UCLA Medical School portraying patients for student training. I also played the older, rich wife in a music video by country singer Trace Adkins called “Marry for Money.” I was one of six supporting exercisers in the Jane Fonda Prime Time: Firm & Burn workout DVD.

I am now a member of SAG-AFTRA, the actors’ union. Acting hasn’t made me rich, but it supplements my pension and savings. Acting also offers me exciting challenges, fun, and a sense of accomplishment.

Most recently, I appeared in a video comedy skit on the 2014 Film Independent Spirit Awards, playing the smothering mother of the show’s host, Patton Oswalt. In the audience were many Hollywood celebrities, including Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie.

The résumés of some of my fellow classmates have grown alongside mine. One was a regular in the “Off Their Rockers” TV series. Still others have had roles in plays and movies. We always compare notes when we encounter each other at auditions or acting class reunions.

I could have run out that first day in the senior community acting class 12 years ago or at the first audition where I felt so out of place, but I didn’t. Now, I have discovered my own second act.

Lee Gale Gruen is an actress and author of the memoir “Adventures with Dad: A Father and Daughter’s Journey Through a Senior Acting Class” (available on Amazon.com). She writes a blog, Reinventing Myself in My Retirement.

This essay originally appeared on Narrative.ly.

More stories from Narrative.ly:

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.I wasn’t entirely surprised to hear that my fiancé’s father had announced he would “wear black to mourn our wedding day.”

I’ve never met the guy, but I knew enough about him not to expect anything different. We had hoped to have the support of my fiancé’s mother, who, just weeks before, had come into our home, embraced me, and said, “We’re family now. You have us.” She’d even sounded excited when we called to tell her how the proposal went down on the phone. But not 24 hours after our little engagement banner flickered across Facebook, the celebratory comments were edged out by a hysterical phone call.

“How could you do this to me? To the family?” his mother cried. “Why did you have to announce it publicly? You’re so selfish!”

She had, apparently, already been flooded with calls herself — even accosted at the grocery store — in their modern Orthodox Jewish community in New Jersey.

This story is republished from Narrative.ly

“What a shame,” people said to Lee’s mother when they heard of our engagement. “This is so terrible.”

So in turn, she told him, “You’re going to realize you’re wrong. You’re making a mistake.” The groupthink had won out.

When she added the less-than-comforting caveat, “This has nothing to do with Helaina. It’s not personal,” she was telling the truth. It’s not personal. It’s just because I’m only half-Jewish.

During one of my regular late-night scrolls through Pinterest, weighing the differences between high-top and low-top floral arrangements, my aunt’s name popped up on my caller ID.

“You’ll never guess who just called me,” she said.

It was the long-lost love of her life from 40 years ago, who had left her instead of marrying her because his Jewish mother threatened to disown him.

“He was carrying on about how he was so stupid, that he’s divorced now and miserable,” she relayed. “He kept saying he made a huge mistake.”

The year was 1973, and my aunt Fran, from my mother’s Italian (and non-Jewish) side of the family, was 23. A young man named Sam selling cosmetics approached her at the gym, saying, “I know you. I saw you at a club last weekend. I noticed you. I remember exactly what you were wearing.”

My aunt shrugged it off with a smile. She was used to every guy on the block approaching her to dance, even when she was taken. She was that girl. She was on the scene back in the disco days of New York, the life of every party. To this day, she has not met a party she doesn’t love.

Sam tried several times to get her number, and when she finally gave in, they went to a place called Adam’s Apple, a club on the Upper East Side, for their first date. He ordered fish and explained that he was “kosher.”

“I looked at him like he had 14 heads,” she told me. “I didn’t know what kosher was, but he explained it. I didn’t understand it, but I didn’t care. I ordered a burger.”

What began as a game of hard to get quickly spiraled into an intense love affair: They went to Las Vegas to see Frank Sinatra, they went to see Little Anthony and the Imperials perform at the Waldorf Astoria, an occasion to which Sam wore his best green corduroy suit — which was in, back in the day, my aunt assured me — and to see boxing matches at Madison Square Garden.

Within a few weeks, he told her: “I could never marry you because you’re not Jewish.”

“What did I care?” my aunt said. “I was 23. I wasn’t looking to get married.”

As months turned into years, my aunt’s feelings about marriage changed, but Sam’s did not, and neither did his family’s.

“I thought I was going to be able to convince them to accept her. I was young and thought I could do anything I put my mind to,” Sam told me. “I believed in the end it would be okay, and that if my family didn’t come around, I’d be strong enough to marry her anyway.”

But the ultimatum did finally come, and Sam spent months in a depression, feeling stuck, unable to choose between the love of his life and the family he loved — and the religion he truly believed in. No matter what he chose in this situation, it could be a “huge mistake.”

There was only one way to find out: make the decision, the same one my fiancé found himself faced with years later.

I met Lee in the fall of 2013 after he pitched me one of his clients for a story. He worked in public relations, and I was a freelance journalist.

Our relationship was healthy and exciting and honest from the beginning, and we bonded over many of our shared values. As we walked around the outskirts of his Brooklyn neighborhood and passed Hasidic couples or families — this was before I knew exactly how strict of a background he came from — Lee would often comment on the faults many religions have, that they push people apart and keep them separate.

“I went to Sunday school, I celebrate Hanukkah with our little electric menorah, but I’m not really religious,” I told him. “I enjoy a lot of Buddhist teachings and principles, but I don’t even know if I’d define myself as a Buddhist. I just believe in being good to other people and to yourself, being generous, open … stuff that just seems kind and human.”

“Thank you! Exactly!” he practically shouted, kissing me gently on the mouth. It was as if he had found someone who agreed with him for the first time in two and a half decades.

I later found out that was precisely the case.

If Lee actually practiced the religion, his family’s objections might be easier to understand. But he doesn’t. He left that community years ago — quietly, though, so nobody outside his family really knew.

One day, about six months into our relationship and long past saying “I love you,” he started to act a little strange after a trip to his family’s house for Passover, and it took me a week of relentless journalistic digging to find out what was up.

We were sitting on the bed in the apartment he shared with his former college roommate in a second-story walk-up in Brooklyn. The window was cracked open, the clouds and the setting sun frozen behind the stone angel that topped a nearby church. The windowsill was lined with a couple of open cans of Pepsi, his watch, a bag of Cheez Doodles, and seashells from our first vacation together, when we knew that yes, this was it.

My heart raced as I waited for it. Something bad happened. He doesn’t love me anymore. He’s been diagnosed with a horrible disease.

“My family told me if I ever married you, they would disown me, because you’re not Jewish.”

“That’s all?” I asked with a smile and visible relief. He was stunned that I wasn’t flipping out, and I explained that, if anything, I was concerned for him; that I didn’t want to break up his family and wouldn’t make him choose.

“You’re not going to make me choose, but they are. And if they’re going to force me to choose, that’s the easiest choice I’ll ever make,” he said.

The most common reaction when I tell people what’s happening with my fiancé’s family is shock and disgust.

“Hello, what year is this?” they gawk. “How can they do this to him? That’s honestly just sick and sad. I’m so sorry.”

I tried to arrange visits with his mother, brother, and sister, hoping they would come around. I never got to meet his father, who outright refused. We showed up, going to a couple of Lee’s friends’ Orthodox weddings, and met several dirty looks and whispers with smiles.

When we began planning our own wedding, we chose a Sunday for the ceremony so they could all attend (no traveling on Friday night or until sundown Saturday), and made sure kosher meal options were available.

One of Lee’s friends declined the invitation to be a groomsman because, “Well, you know. You understand.”

Lee told his friend that, yes, he did understand, texted him back, “All good,” and went back to watching the basketball game.

“It’s not all good!” I said, hand on my hip, standing in front of the TV, practicing for wifehood. “What does that mean, ‘He discussed it with his wife’s family and everyone thinks it’s best not to’? Why the fuck is it anyone’s business? He’s your friend! Their families aren’t even going to be there!”

I knew better than to drive a wedge between a man and his childhood friends, but I still wanted to angrily Sharpie through their names on our invitation list.

The whole fiasco, while disappointing, had a silver lining: the opportunity to see Lee communicate his own strong convictions in a rational and respectful way.

Toward the latter half of Sam and Aunt Fran’s six years together, the pressure began to build. At 27, she was thinking about marriage, and whereas Sam once believed he would be able to convince people to come around, that he might even have the strength to break away from the entire community and accept it if his friends disowned him, now he was literally pulling his hair out.

He was feeling pressure from both sides to choose either the love of his life, my aunt, or his family and the ability to attend his relatives’ birthdays and graduations.

“I don’t know what to do,” he would sob. “I don’t know what to do.”

My aunt offered to convert to Judaism, but even then, they would not be accepted since the bloodline of their children would not be fully Jewish.

In that relationship, my aunt says, she felt like she was the other woman and Sam’s wife was his religion.

“Some people have the strength to walk away, and other people can’t,” she said.

As for the guilt she would have felt if he did choose her over his family, she doesn’t think it would have been as bad as he thought it would have been. But the forbidden love affair had become a source of strain and tension, always in the back of their minds, lingering over every kiss and every day that passed, as more and more of their circle of friends got married.

In Sam’s apartment on 31st Street, the dozens of conversations finally came to one final talk, one final night they would spend together. Holding each other, crying, knowing that this night would be their last, it was more painful and tormenting, perhaps, for him, than it was for her, because he was the one making the decision.

“I prayed that night, for her to be healed, for myself to be healed, and I wondered, and still do, why am I suffering?” Sam said. “Why am I being tormented? Why can’t two people just be in love and be happy?”

Sam spent a year grieving before he met another woman — a Jewish girl, just 17 years old to his 28. She was nice, but, he says, there was no doubting it was “different.”

After he got married, he contacted my aunt several times. My aunt will tell you that just six months in, he asked her to go away with him, to skip town, which she turned down. He will tell you that he reached out to her over the years just to say hello, that he missed her, that he wanted to see how she was doing.

“I wouldn’t trade those six years for anything,” my aunt says. “We had what most people didn’t have forever. I know what a soul mate is, and what’s what we were. Most people just say they were, but we were.”

My father called Lee’s mother to ask whom invitations should be sent out to, even if there was no chance any of her family members would attend. It was, of course, a gesture of respect.

“Will it be a religious ceremony?” she asked him.

“No, the kids want to choose a nondenominational justice of the peace,” my dad said.

After three weeks without a response from his mother, Lee finally called to ask her himself. I believe her answer would have been “no” even if we did have a rabbi and a chuppah.

Like my aunt, I accept it, and I understand it, and that does not mean I’m okay with it.

When things really came to a head, I overheard him in the other room.

“This is why I can’t stand this religion. Can’t you see what it’s doing? You love Helaina, I’m your son, yet somehow this is distressing for everyone? It’s crazy,” he said. “I don’t understand why the opinions of strangers matter to you so much. I’m sorry you feel it’s selfish, but we literally aren’t doing anything wrong or anything hurtful.”

He was standing up for me, and for us, but really, he was standing up for himself.

Sam’s marriage ended in divorce, but not before Sam and his modern Orthodox wife had three children together. And when they got divorced after 19 years, he called my grandmother to try to track down my aunt.

I was 11 at the time, and I remember the way my grandma said in that sweet, angelic way, that Sam had called, saying his name in a way that was playfully mischievous. Whoever he was, she liked the guy, and she got a kick out of the fact that he’d called.

My aunt, by then, was married, having just officially tied the knot in Las Vegas on a whim after a common-law marriage that spanned nearly two decades.

“Maybe I was lonely; maybe I just wanted to reconnect with my first love,” Sam says of that decision to make the call.

One thing was unmistakable: He told her he felt that he had “made a mistake.”

Perhaps he had already attended all of those family events he would have been banned from, or perhaps, with enough decades to reflect, he knew he did make the wrong choice, and was hoping for a second chance.

Out of curiosity, I asked Sam: “What would you do if one of your three children wanted to marry someone who wasn’t Jewish?”

“I wouldn’t approve of it,” he said. “I was brought up with these values, and it’s been in my blood. I would tell any young man that’s part of the Orthodox religion not to get involved with a non-Jewish woman. The pain is too much, as is the family destruction.”

After some more consideration, he added, “If it was the only way, and one of my children loved them, I think I would want to try and understand, have them convert or whatever. I don’t know how to think differently.”

While Lee’s ability to think differently has ended up estranging him from a select few people, it has ultimately solidified the feeling that our decision to get married is the furthest thing from a mistake either of us has ever made. We believe that if you’re not actually harming anyone or anything, pursuing your own happiness is nothing to feel guilty about.

As for the wedding itself, we’re looking forward to dancing an entirely secular hora with friends and family who have no qualms about celebrating with us.

And we did end up choosing a Jewish man to marry us: a standup comedian who has his own dog rescue and could not be more perfect.

Helaina Hovitz is an editor and journalist living in Lower Manhattan who has written for the New York Times, Glamour, Salon, Vice, the New York Observer, Forbes, Teen Vogue, and others. She is the author of After 9/11 and co-founder and editorial director of Headlines for the Hopeful.

This essay originally appeared on Narrative.ly.

More stories from Narrative.ly:

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.I’ve been a proud Jew all of my life. Yet over the course of 2017, I’ve started practicing more and more aspects of my faith. I chalk this up entirely to my fiancée, Katie. Shortly after we got engaged in February, she started the process of converting to Judaism. I’ve been at her side as she’s learned what the holidays mean and how to read Hebrew, and it’s changed us.

We joined a synagogue and started going to weekly services as much as we can. We’ve taken two classes on Jewish traditions and theology this year; Katie frequently sends me messages with lists of Jewish books to read and movies to watch. We’ve started doing volunteer work in our synagogue, and begun a tradition of regular Shabbat dinners with a group of Jewish friends. When Katie formally converted in November, my mother — a daughter of Holocaust survivors — wept with pride.

There’s just one fly in the ointment, one giant elephant in our living room: the Christmas tree.

My Jewish journey, from grinch to a tree

Christmas is the biggest thing separating American Jews from mass American culture. It’s the biggest holiday of the year, made inescapable by decorations and seasonal music. It’s also inescapably Christian, as much as the holiday has commercialized and secularized over the years. The nativity scenes, “Joy to the World,” even Santa — we don’t have saints in Judaism — are all reminders to us Jews that we aren’t in the majority here.

So for many Jews, skipping Christmas — even hating it — is an essential part of our Judaism. That was me, up until now.

I spent my early years in a mostly Catholic neighborhood in suburban Maryland, one of roughly three Jewish families. When my paternal grandparents, who were Christian, would send us Christmas gifts, my mom would usually rewrap them in Hanukkah paper. Our annual Hanukkah party, to which all of our friends in the neighborhood were invited, was a marker that we weren’t being sucked in: that we were different, and proud of it.

This sense of Yuletide alienation stuck even after we moved into more cosmopolitan Washington, DC, when I was in high school — and well into adulthood. The anti-holiday called Jewish Christmas, the Chinese-food-and-a-movie ritual born of two immigrant communities’ alienation from Christian America, was a fixed date on my calendar. I cared more about Jewish Christmas, and all of the grinchiness it entails, than I did about most actual Jewish holidays.

There was no theological defense for this. It was bound up, in my head, with the idea of Jewish difference and survival.

My greatest fear for American Jewry isn’t that we become victims of another Holocaust; that seems wildly unlikely even despite the recent surge in anti-Semitism. It’s that we, slowly but surely, lose our identity as Jews — that being a Jewish American becomes less of a core part of one’s identity and more of a background fact, like being of Irish or Italian descent. Celebrating Christmas, it seemed to me, was one step toward the quiet oblivion of neutered Judaism. There needed to be lines, and this was one of them.

That all started to change when I met Katie in the fall of 2015. She was, and is, everything I could want in a partner. Religion, a deal breaker for so many couples, was barely an issue. Her family, lapsed Catholics and avowed atheists, didn’t have much in the way of religious tradition to pass on. She was more than fine with my insistence that our future kids be Jewish; she came to embrace the tradition herself.

Christmas, though, was a red line.

In her family, the holiday was entirely stripped of its Christian content — but it remained the most important time of the year. It’s one of the only times when she and all four of her sisters, who live back home in her native Canada, clear their schedules and get together at their dad’s house. It’s a time for family, for unwrapping presents and drinking eggnog in your pajamas.

It’s the part of the year Katie looks forward to most. She spends the entire time after Thanksgiving — which, because she’s Canadian, means late October onward — stringing up lights and wearing holiday sweaters. She and the other sisters will call each other on Skype, pull up a Hallmark movie, and push play at the exact same time so they can make fun of it together in real time despite geography.

There was no way I could ask her to give all of this up. It would be cruel and vaguely misogynistic, a man forcing his future wife to give up the celebration that brings her closest to her family because it’s not his custom.

When I spent Christmas with her family last year, I really started to get why it mattered so much. Seeing the happiness on her nephews’ faces when they opened presents on Christmas Day, feeling included and cared for when I opened the presents they had bought for me — it was an experience that couldn’t be replaced, a vital expression of love and togetherness.

I couldn’t be the one to kill that. For my new life to flourish, my inner grinch had to be put down. I had to reconcile myself to the fact that come December, there would be a Christmas tree and a menorah, candy canes next to Hanukkah gelt, stockings on the banister and latkes in the frying pan. Chrismukkah, as The OC’s Seth Cohen dubbed it, had become my new reality.

How I learned to stop worrying (as much) and love Christmas (sort of)

This is now the second year that Katie and I have been living together, and the second year we’ve had a Christmas tree. But this time, it feels different — more fraught, somehow.

She’s fully Jewish now; the idea of two Jews celebrating Christmas seems weirder than an interfaith couple doing the same. What’s more, we’re officially getting married, which means what we do now sets the tone for what we do for the rest of our lives. I felt a sense of urgency this year, a need to reconcile myself to the inevitable years of Christmas celebrating down the line.

So I did the first thing any good Jew would do under these circumstances: I looked at the data.

The most comprehensive research I could find was a 2013 Pew Research Center study, which surveyed 3,475 Jews across the United States. According to Pew’s sample, 35 percent of all American couples with at least one Jewish partner — nearly a third! — had a Christmas tree in their homes in the past year.

Yet there’s a huge divide between couples who are both Jewish, like we are now, and couples with only one Jewish partner. A scant 7 percent of couples where both partners were Jewish had Christmas trees; the figure was 71 percent, more than 10 times larger, for couples with only one Jewish partner.

What’s more, intermarriage seemed to be connected to the decline in Jewish identity that I and so many other Jews fear. Pew found that 96 percent of Jews married to other Jews were raising their kids to be “Jews by religion,” yet only 20 percent of Jews married to non-Jews were doing the same.

Disentangling correlation and causation here is not easy. Is a Christmas tree a symptom of intermarried couples’ lessened connection to Judaism, or does it actively alienate their kids from their tradition?

Am I quietly compromising on the thing that I cared about most — my children’s Judaism?

Putting the question in such stark terms is, in a way, very comforting. Because if the answer to that question is yes — that American Jewish identity is so weak that it can’t survive a tree — then we’re doomed no matter what.

For Christmas to be a problem for my family’s Judaism, it would have to swamp all of the things that we love about being Jewish. Not just latkes and twice-a-year synagogue attendance; I mean the sense of community, of history, of tradition, of family. We’ve spent the past year learning about everything Judaism has to offer, as a culture and a religion. I mean lighting the Shabbat candles, dancing at a Purim party, and volunteering in our synagogue’s effort to sponsor a refugee family’s resettlement in the United States.

If those things, which dominate our religious life 11 months out of 12, can be fatally undermined by participating in Katie’s secular Christmas, then our Judaism is much thinner than it has come to feel.

A thick identity, something that permeates and shapes the rest of one’s life, can’t be defined in purely oppositional terms. Judaism is not the absence of Christianity; it is its own powerful, vital thing. Surely a bit of secular Christmas cannot outweigh thousands of years of tradition.

This is what, as a Jew thick and thin, I have to believe.

How to have a Jewish Christmas

As the question of “can Jews survive Christmas” has become less vexing for me, another question has become more important: What does a Jewish Christmas look like?

During the process of reconciling myself to Christmas, I called up our rabbi — Aaron Miller of Washington Hebrew Congregation — for help sorting through my own feelings about Yuletide. Aaron, in true rabbinic form, declined to give me a simple answer.

“It’s a really complicated question,” he said. “I would be more nuanced with it.”

What Aaron meant by that is there isn’t just a simple binary, “do you do Christmas or don’t you” choice at work. There are all sorts of questions beyond the obvious ones, like whether you have a tree, that set the tone for how your Judaism and Christmas intersect. Do you host Christmas dinner, or do you go to a relative’s? Do listen to all kinds of Christmas music, or just the secular songs? Do you volunteer on Christmas day?

A healthy Jewish approach to Christmas, he suggested, lives in those gray areas. Judaism is a fact of our relationship, and so is Christmas. The trick is to make our Christmas as Jewish as it can be, to keep the family-oriented parts of the tradition that Katie loves while also insisting on some kind of reminders that we remain Jews even during Christmas.

There are plenty of ways to do this: serving Chinese food at Christmas dinner, say, or doing tzedakah (charity) on Christmas day. The point is less the specific action and more that it has some kind of obviously Jewish connection, something that gives Judaism a place in the Christmas proceedings.

“There are Jews I know who grew up Jewish — both their parents are Jewish, they married a Jew — and they had a Christmas tree in their house,” Aaron said.

In some ways, he pointed out, many Jews are already doing a version of the holiday. The very idea of Jewish anti-Christmas, going to eat Chinese food and see a movie, gives December 25 the same kind of family event status that real Christmas has for other Americans.

“So many Jews I know come together at Christmas and eat Chinese food,” he said. “Is it that if you have a spiral ham, then coming together for Christmas is verboten — but if you have kung pao chicken, which is definitely trayf, then it’s okay?”

There is, in the end, no escaping Christmas in an overwhelmingly Christian society. Jewish isolationism has already come around to a kind of Christmas-like celebration. Our new Jewish Christmas is less a surrender and more an admission of the obvious.

When you reframe the question — not do you mark Christmas as a Jew, but how do you do it — the worst anxieties produced by the holiday diminishes. Not every issue is resolved — I’ll never like Christmas music, no matter how much I’m forced to listen to it. But ultimately I can learn to live with Christmas, the way Jews have learned to live in so many different societies over the course of the years: by adapting.

So this year, when I was trimming the tree, it didn’t feel so alien. I added my personal touches — a big-headed porcelain Batman, Chewbacca and Rey from Star Wars, a felt chili pepper to represent my love for spicy food — and saw a bit of myself in the holiday. When I added the Star of David ornaments and tree topper, I saw more than just myself — I saw our happy Jewish future. And I felt a little more at peace.I held my toddler’s hand as I walked her into a synagogue for the very first time, her father and infant sister following behind us. With every concrete step almost as tall as her little legs, climbing each one felt like a monumental accomplishment for her, even with my help.

We entered the narrow room full of Rachels and Sarahs, were introduced to Eli and Abraham, and found an empty carpet square to sit on, claiming our place in the circle. With my daughters in my lap and my husband to my left, the familiar words began, and the songs and prayers of my childhood filled the room. “Shabbat shalom, hey!” sang the room in chorus. I watched my daughter look around in wonder. My usually shy child didn’t look nervous, the way I’ve come to expect she will in new situations. She soaked it all in, a smile spreading across her face.

This story is republished from Narrative.ly

The rabbi handed my toddler a wooden replica of a Shabbat candlestick, and she clutched it in her small fingers. At the end of the song, she declined to give it back, holding it to her chest like it belonged to her. “Can we light the candles?” she asked me. I assured her we would.

Until recently, I had considered myself a non-practicing Jew, a reformed atheist who found my way back to some sort of spirituality and began to embrace the cultural history of Judaism that I was raised with. Growing up in a predominantly white, majority Jewish town in South Florida meant I lacked much of the social context of what it meant to be Jewish in the world. I thought the Holocaust was in the distant past, something that had no relevance to the present day. I had never experienced discrimination or prejudice because of my religion.

I learned the stories from the Torah but not the real meaning behind them. As far as I was concerned, they were just that: stories. Stories in the way Harry Potter is a story. Stories about splitting the sea, about flooding and arcs, about enslavement in ancient Egypt. Stories that did nothing to help me understand the world or my place in it. And so I turned away from the faith I was raised with.

But then I had children, and suddenly it seemed incredibly important to make sure Judaism was present in our home. I felt an urge to ensure that we — and they — were connected to our culture, to understand where our family came from. My husband’s history with Judaism was much like mine, but we hung mezuzahs on our door frames, displayed menorahs decoratively. I started asking my grandparents questions about our history, the stories of how their families emigrated from Russia at the turn of the 20th century.

My grandmother took a bunch of photo albums and boxes down from a closet and told me about how her mother’s family name was shortened — Americanized — after they passed through Ellis Island. I sifted through the photos, examining each one and listening to the stories my grandmother remembered about the people staring back at me in shades of black and gray, chins and noses pronounced, hair dark.

These pictures of people that I had never met, would never meet, became some of my most prized possessions. I collected them like valuable jewels, finding them the perfect frames and arranging them in a gallery wall in the stairway of my home, reminders of where and who I came from. We settled down in a neighborhood of Boston where my grandfather had grown up, one that used to be predominantly Jewish but whose demographics had changed during white flight to the suburbs two generations ago. The giant churches we’d drive by every day still bore remnants of that history — Hebrew letters carved into the stone above the entryways.

We began shopping around for synagogues when I was pregnant with my oldest child, but never committed to attending a service. It was something we wanted to do but not something we wanted to do enough to follow through with it. We attended a Passover seder at a friend’s house, lit Hanukkah candles at our own. But still, I felt a disconnect from my faith. I was just going through the motions for the sake of my children. At this rate, Judaism would mean as little to them as it did to me.

But then a news alert came across the screen of my phone, three days before Donald Trump’s inauguration. The Jewish community center a few miles from my home had been evacuated following a bomb threat. I felt my palms begin to sweat as I stared at the notification in disbelief, jaw slightly slack. The room became very small as I focused on the little screen on the table in front of me; it was almost like my vision had become tunneled and unable to look anywhere else. I was sitting in the dining room of my home, the room with neon chartreuse walls, but everything looked black.

Not here. Not now.

My mind traveled back to the JCC near my childhood home. The sprawling compound, the basketball courts, the pool, the community room where dance classes were held. I hadn’t stepped foot into a temple since my bat mitzvah almost two decades before, and had spent the years since only tangentially connected to my Jewishness, but suddenly it was the only thing that mattered. Anti-Semitism, which until this time in my life had been only a theory, instantly became incredibly real. Even here, in the liberal bubble of Massachusetts, hatred is alive and well.

Suddenly, the relative safety and privilege that I grew up with as a white American Jew has cracked wide open, revealing the rotten underbelly that’s always been here, the one I have chosen not to see. Anti-Semitic hate crimes are at their highest levels in years. JCCs around the country are getting bomb threats at an alarming rate. Steve Bannon, an anti-Semite, is in the White House. Swastikas appear like hideous confetti on walls and buildings all over the country. Jewish cemeteries have been vandalized. This hatred is not new; it has been here all along. But its brashness is something new. It is meaner, darker, more ominous. It is more urgent. It is knocking on my door, begging to come in.

And while President Trump may have reminded us about his Jewish family members, and assured us at a recent press conference that we’re “going to see a lot of love” under his administration, so far, I don’t see it. And using his family to prove he isn’t anti-Semitic is about as effective as someone using a black friend to prove they’re not racist. It’s empty, hollow, a silencing tactic.

Of course, there are other communities that have much more to be afraid of under Trump’s reign, marginalized people whose fears are more urgent and are already playing out in devastating ways via Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids, deportations, and imminent threats of violence. People of color in America who have been afraid their entire lives, for whom this kind of fear is not new. A fear that my grandparents and their parents felt, that my own children may too. A fear that has turned walking into synagogue with my family into an act of bravery.

Now more than ever, I want to teach my children what it means to be Jewish. Our faith has a long history of resistance: No matter how many times history has tried to erase us, to wipe us out, we have survived. We have resisted our own demise, and we have fought for the rights of others. Our people were active in the civil rights movement and fighting alongside black folks in the 1950s and ’60s. Today, my family has Black Lives Matter signs in our home and on our shirts. Before my oldest daughter could even walk, she marched with me as a Jew for the liberation of Palestine, strapped to my chest in a sling.

We come from the oppressed, and mostly we have become privileged through the assimilation of many Jews into whiteness. But with assimilation and privilege can come complacency, which is something many white Jews like me and the people I grew up with can fall into all too easily. It is through complacency that we forget even the recent past, the Holocaust of only two generations ago. It is through complacency that we can become perpetrators of the oppression we were once victims of via a vote for Trump or a belief in marginalized people’s ability to “bootstrap” their way to success.

Our family name is not Jewish; it would be easy for us to hide, to go unnoticed. Instead, we will teach our children to do what our people have done for thousands of years. When times get dark, we step into the light. As our country becomes a scarier place to be Jewish, our act of resistance is to embrace our faith and our culture with both arms. It is through turning toward, instead of turning away, that we connect to our roots as oppressed people. And it is this Judaism, the one that centers the fight for justice, that I connect to; it is the one that finally makes sense. Instead of turning away from our community, we are choosing to become part of it for the first time in our adult lives.

As the group in the synagogue headed downstairs for the dinner portion of the Shabbat evening, my timid child had darted out of the room ahead of us to follow the group, never looking back to see if we were there. “Come on, Mom and Dad!” she shrieked, her excitement bouncing off the walls, carrying down the hallway. “This way!” Her small feet, in their gray boots with the pompoms on the sides, pitter-pattered in a half-run, half-walk toward the stairs. I scooped up her sister and raced after her.

We were home. I knew it in my gut, and so, apparently, did my little girl. When we returned a second time because my daughter had been asking to go “back to Shabbat,” I became overwhelmed with emotion, choking on the words of the HaMotzi in a room full of people who also knew the words. “We give thanks to God for bread / Our voices rise in song together / As our joyful prayer is said.”

My kids are still too young to understand what this means, but they will. We will be registering my daughter for Hebrew school in a few months, when she’s old enough to attend. We have chosen to join the congregation, paid our membership dues. My girls will know what it means to turn to a community of people who share their identity, an identity that has historically been persecuted and marginalized, and to find safety and belonging within it. They will know that when times get hard, we can turn to each other and make it through.

Our existence is resistance in and of itself, but it’s time to do more. Today I teach my children to assert our faith and become part of a Jewish community when once again the world tells us that we don’t deserve to exist. But we do deserve to exist, and we will fight for that right, just like we always have.

Britni de la Cretaz is a freelance writer, recovered alcoholic, and baseball enthusiast living in Boston. Follow her on Twitter at @britnidlc.

This essay originally appeared on Narrative.ly.

More stories from Narrative.ly:

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.I’ve sat through unsolicited back rubs. Walked quickly past leering colleagues. Endured demeaning jokes. Once, I was so embarrassed by lewd comments from an Oscar-winning actor on a red carpet that I didn’t do the interview I had been assigned. An older, married male colleague asked me to tell him my sexual fantasies. Fearing for my job, I didn’t respond at all.

These snippets from my experience producing and reporting in television and online news for more than a decade are nothing special. They are the all-too-common drip of indignities women suffer daily and across industries. Far worse occurs too, and in less glamorous-seeming jobs, without celebrities, cameras, and skin-brightening LEDs. But television news’s long hours, low salaries, tight quarters, and coverage of atrocities and tragedies can create a climate where, as one friend in the business put it, “people treat people like shit.”

There is a particular sexism that women in TV news face that is different than in other workplaces. I have witnessed it, experienced it, and likely abetted it with my silence. I may have complained to female colleagues, but never formally. Despite the torrent of #MeToo, I still feel uneasy writing about it. The ground is shifting and once-powerful and trusted news titans are getting fired — Matt Lauer, Charlie Rose — but the power structure that they profited from, and that stifles women throughout the industry, remains firm.

Sexism in TV news hinges on two big traits — aesthetics and power. For women on television, appearance (and colleagues commenting on that appearance) is part of the job. That means it can be difficult to determine when a comment has crossed the line from professional to personal. The strict rules around women’s appearance also make it harder for women to attain power in the industry — they get pushed out for not being young enough or thin enough or otherwise not meeting a particular physical standard. The physical standards for men are nowhere near as strict.

At the same time, television news is centered on celebrity anchors and hosts who wield a disproportionate amount of power. They can get away with tremendous abuses of that power because they are so valuable to the networks. And when those all-powerful hosts are disproportionately men, it’s no surprise that women are vulnerable to abuse — and fear reprisal for speaking out.

Appearance is as important as content, if not more so

Superficiality can be inherent in any visual medium, but it’s television news’s stock in trade. Discussion of appearance is out in the open in television news in a way that it isn’t in other industries like tech, finance, or even other newsrooms, like radio or print. A TV reporter’s appearance is a job credential considered alongside her ability to write, research, or interview. And women must adhere to a particular beauty standard on television that isn’t required of their male counterparts.

Staff routinely comment on a woman’s appearance if she works on camera. Hosts are asked to change clothes, wear a certain hairstyle, or apply more makeup. I’ve seen it done privately, but also publicly, in front of a control room full of people. Regardless of where it occurs, it’s always done under the auspices of bettering the news product.

Different outlets have different aesthetics that they champion. Women reporters on Fox look different from those on Vice. But the beauty standard for women on television has long been designated by men, who continue to run most of the industry and shape what is news and who delivers it.

Appearance matters in the broadcast newsroom because it also matters outside of it. Audiences constantly comment on and degrade the appearance of on-air talent, and women are far more often victims of this than men. Whoever sifts through a station or show’s snail mail or email regularly finds criticisms of an anchor’s face, blazer, or weight gain. Just ask any television newswoman with an inbox of any kind — she undoubtedly gets reams of feedback from viewers about her looks.

A particular appearance is more rigidly enforced for women than men

Unsurprisingly, it’s white, young, and thin.

I remember reporting a story I was proud of and then being yelled at by a superior for not wearing lipstick. Others have endured worse reprimands for their physicality than this, but it underscores the value a particular look holds for women in television news.

I was once in a screening with a high-profile anchor who told the producer to nix a shot that made her butt look big. It was done, no questions asked. Goodbye, shot — but also goodbye, sound bite and piece of the important interview that accompanied it. It’s not that women on television news broadcasts should ignore appearance; rather, the problem is a rigorous, limited standard of beauty that is both prized and reinforced on television. And this anchor knew this all too well. At the time, I thought she was being overly concerned with her image. Now I realize she was merely protecting herself in a business that would dump her the second she violated the code.

The emphasis on women’s appearance creates an environment where mean and sexist comments can fly. Today show staffers once likened anchor Ann Curry to Big Bird, photoshopped her in a yellow dress next to a picture of the Sesame Street character, and asked, “Who wore it best?” This kind of thing is pretty common in the business. TV news loves a good blooper reel — the montage of talents’ on-air mistakes and questionable wardrobe choices — and screens them at staff-wide gatherings. But this well-meaning tradition sanctions public embarrassment. It also reinforces that commentary on looks is just part of the job.

Men can age on television; women can’t

Be it at the news desk or in front of the weather green screen, women age out of television news jobs in a way that men don’t. From the second they set foot in the trade, they are racing the clock, the neck wattle, and the laugh lines. Men age and rise in the ranks, while women are passed over for top posts.

When 46-year-old Joan Lunden departed Good Morning America in 1997, she told viewers it was so she could spend mornings with her kids. The real reason was quite different. “The words are, ‘We’ve decided to make a change on the show,’ and so they found a 30-year-old version of me,” she told Oprah.

Peter Jennings anchored World News Tonight for 22 years; his tenure only came to an end when he died. Dan Rather helmed CBS Evening News for 24 years. Tom Brokaw anchored NBC Nightly News for 22 years. Their female equivalents don’t exist. Katie Couric anchored CBS Evening News for just five years — and she was replaced by a man. Discussion of her tenure often focused on her legs, and whether she was likable.

The producer-anchor relationship is inherently weird, power-wise

The current absence of women at the top creates a vicious cycle that makes it difficult for women to succeed in the future. At the network level, and at talent-driven local shops, the whims and opinions of hosts are prioritized — and those hosts tend to be men. Men like Matt Lauer are godlike figures. They greenlight stories they like, kill ones they don’t, and hold power over their production staffs.

At ABC, NBC, and CBS, men report three times as much news as women do, according to a 2017 Women’s Media Center report, which surveyed on-air appearances by reporters and anchors and producer credits in more than 24,000 news pieces in 2016.

When famous men are the faces and identities of stations and networks, it can be particularly problematic for female producers who are practically invisible to news consumers. Since the talent is the face and voice of a story, the average viewer is apt to assume that he also did all of the legwork, when in fact producers do it. I assumed this myself before working in the field.

This makes it difficult for female producers, editors, and camera operators, who are already less visible in the industry than famous men, to get credit for their work beyond the walls of their own offices. The approval of a male host is not only desirable, but it can be consequential for a woman’s career.

Compounding all this is the chasm of pay between talent and producers, editors, and camera operators who work so closely and symbiotically together. Even generous holiday gifts, like a massage or champagne, can’t remedy this. The average news producer salary is $40,000. Lauer reportedly earned between $20 million and $25 million per year. When women earn so much less than their male bosses, they are at yet another disadvantage when it comes to progressing their ideas and advocating for themselves.

There aren’t nearly enough women making the decisions at the highest levels of television news. That needs to change.

We are in the middle of a powerful reckoning that sexism has shaped how the news is reported and what stories are told. But it doesn’t have to be this way.

There are women fighting the status quo. I’ve worked with female talent who purposely wore certain clothes and minimal makeup to draw attention away from their appearance. Christiane Amanpour is well-known for this. In her book The News Sorority, Sheila Weller reported that Amanpour wore the same parka for three winters. A newsman source told her of Amanpour, “Most men on TV wore more makeup than she did.” Amanpour’s appointment to replace Charlie Rose feels like vindication, but it is only one step when many more are needed.

But these isolated examples aren’t enough. More women are needed throughout television news, but certainly at the highest levels. Women comprise 33 percent of news directors and 44 percent of newsrooms. Men in television news still control the lion’s share of stories that air, the way people look and what they say on television, and the off-camera work environment. And nothing will change until that does.

Allison Yarrow is a journalist, a TED resident, and the author of the forthcoming 90s Bitch: Women, Media, and The Failed Promise of Gender Equality. Find her on Twitter @aliyarrow.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.When I was a child, one of my teachers gave us a writing assignment called “The Box.” We were supposed to write down five things, and only five, that we would take with us from a burning house. I don’t remember what I wrote down, but I do recall it was hard. Pets and family were exempt, and I just couldn’t think of five material objects that warranted a place on such a precious list. What could be important enough?

Late on the night of Monday, December 4, as fires raged near us in Southern California, I found myself asking the same question.

I was at my parents’ house in Ventura, a picturesque beach town. The power had gone out around 9:30 pm, due to the fire, and I retreated to my bedroom to read by candlelight. An hour later, I heard concerned voices coming from the first floor. I went downstairs to find my parents huddled over a map with a neighbor.

They were tracking the path of a fire that had started earlier that evening near Thomas Aquinas College in Santa Paula, over 25 miles away from us, called the Thomas Fire. It was moving faster than expected due to the powerful Santa Ana winds. We looked worriedly at one another. Our neighbor went back across the street, promising to stay awake and monitor the situation.

Not 20 minutes later, he was banging on the door of the house next to ours. The ominous glow over the hills behind our homes was growing.

It was time to pack.

The box becomes the backpack

As I pulled my travel backpack out of my closet, my mind flashed back to that writing assignment. I made a mental list of sentimental items to take, like the precious letters from friends I’ve saved over the course of my life. I closed my eyes and took several deep breaths. I knew that I couldn’t afford to lose time to a panic attack. My pulse slowed. I opened my eyes and got to work.

I made a beeline for my dozens of journals, which I’ve kept fastidiously ever since I was a child, and packed all of them. Next were several scrapbooks of letters, cards, and notes that I’ve collected from friends and family over my lifetime. I added a few pieces of art made by my friends. I put on as much jewelry as my fingers and wrists could hold, none of it particularly valuable but all of it precious. Almost every piece belonged to one of my late grandmothers.

In went my toothbrush, my daily anti-anxiety medication, and charging cords. A change of clothes, stick of deodorant, underwear, and socks.

My backpack not even half-full, I stopped and looked at my shelves and opened drawers. I didn’t want to take anything else. I grabbed my tattered copy of Letters to a Young Poet by Rainer Maria Rilke, the book that saved my life when I was first struggling with depression, but that was it for books. I didn’t care about clothes. Tchotchkes and keepsakes faded into insignificance. Everything was replaceable.

I’d moved cross-country from Washington, DC, back to California only a few weeks earlier — with two full suitcases and a backpack. I was struck that I could still have so much stuff. An inordinate amount of stuff. None of it mattered anymore. I grabbed my backpack and left.

Build a kit

There is no shortage of advice about what to take with you in an evacuation, ranging from the practical (prescription medication, a change of clothes) to the sentimental (keepsakes like photo albums). The Department of Homeland Security recommends keeping an emergency supply kit on hand at all times, one that includes water and non-perishable food, first aid materials, flashlights, and copies of documents like Social Security cards or birth certificates. Due to California’s predilection for earthquakes and wildfires, my parents have always kept these documents in a fireproof box in our house. That box was the first thing to go into the cars.

Next were supplies for our two cats and two dogs, which we’ve kept lined up along with their carrying crates ever since my mother’s recent “disaster preparedness” phase. After watching coverage of the catastrophic hurricane season this year and thinking about the growing effects of climate change, she insisted that everything the animals would need be organized in one place. The cats howled and clawed at our bare arms as we corralled them into crates. The dogs were wild-eyed, and made panicked sounds as we clipped them into their portable bed in our Subaru.

Finally, we threw our first aid kits into the car and moved on to valuables and sentimental items. Framed photos. Rare maps. Several bags filled with what must have been fifty of my father’s journals (like me, he writes daily) and his collection of fountain pens. A box of letters written by my great-grandmother.

I interviewed several others who had to pack up during the Thomas Fire not knowing if or when they’d see their homes again. All of our houses, out of sheer luck, survived. At the time of writing, the Thomas Fire has claimed nearly 800 structures, at least 427 of which were in Ventura. It’s the largest wildfire in the county’s history and currently the fourth largest in California history.

“I should have taken more. … I just didn’t know what else to do.”

My next-door neighbor Rosemary Vigorita was fast asleep when we saw the fire creep dangerously close to the road just above our house in the hills. It looked to be less than half a mile away. Rosemary collected passports, her wallet, and her computer. She put on her grandmother’s diamond earrings, which she was still wearing when I interviewed her three days later, and scooped up two framed photos of her parents as she dashed out of the house. She had a few minutes to go back and throw clothes and a book into her bag.

Then Rosemary ran across the street to pull our elderly neighbor out of her house. She lives with a caregiver and was still asleep as flames licked the ridge less than half a mile from our street.

“Those walls held my stuff, but they also somehow held my experiences.”

Sarah Shirley is from Santa Clarita, California, and grew up camping in Ventura with her family. Now a renter in downtown Ventura, her apartment is just five blocks from a downtown apartment complex that the fire destroyed. A friend drove her home on the night of the fire to pack, so she had time to think about what to take with her.

The first thing she packed, following recommendations, was identification documents. Then she took her gohonzon, which is a Japanese term for an “object of devotion” in Nichiren Buddhism. Sarah’s gohonzon is a mandala on a scroll, inscribed with writings by the Buddhist monk Nichiren Daishonin in the 13th century. A practicing Buddhist, Sarah chants to her gohonzon every morning.

Like everyone else, Sarah packed the basics last: functional, comfortable clothes and the electronics she needed to work from home and stay in touch with family and friends. She didn’t get emotional until her friend told her it was time to go. “Those walls held my stuff, but they also somehow held my experiences,” she said, “and I had to figure out how to take those with me.”

What can you take?

As I write this, over half of my city is still without clean drinking water. Entire neighborhoods have burned to the ground, and many families I know have lost everything. Some whose homes have been destroyed didn’t have the time to pack like we did, and are now doing their best to recover and rebuild.

Though each of us packed different items, we all experienced a universal moment of clarity in the midst of disaster: You can’t take the most important things with you. The loss of prized possessions, like our irreplaceable photos and files and writings, would have certainly been devastating. But we are alive.

Sarah Doyel is a freelance writer, activist, and health justice advocate making the connection between wellness and social change. She blogs as the Feminist Vegan. Support the verified GoFundMe campaigns for the victims of the Southern California fires here. Donate to the Thomas Fire Fund here.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Doug Jones defeated Roy Moore in the Alabama race for Senate on Tuesday. According to the CNN exit polls, this is largely due to the massive turnout and support of Black women voters. At only 26 percent of the population of Alabama, Black people represented 30 percent of the electorate, with 97 percent of Black women voting for Doug Jones (compared to white women’s 34 percent). This, in the face of reported attempts at voter suppression, is a display of fierce determination. In multiple articles and social media postings, many championed Black women’s unwavering dedication. #Blackwomen started trending on Twitter.

Mark Ruffalo announced that he has it on good authority that God is a Black woman. J.K. Rowling is of the same opinion. Others are urging their platforms to let Alabama serve as an example of the way Black women can save America. One popular account simply repeated the phrase on a loop, “Trust Black women. Trust Black women. Trust Black women.”

As a Black woman myself, I can’t help but read into the quiet implications of these public platitudes. I can’t help but feel that the Black woman only gets to be God this week because, to many, God is an infinite source of non-reciprocal support. God is an enigma that shows up for us no matter how many times we fail to show up in return.

When I see the words “trust Black women” repeated as a mantra, I fill in the rest of the sentence with “to clean up this mess” or “to do the work.” This has been the expectation of us since our arrival here. And while we ricochet from God to Mammy and back again, we never quite land at fully fleshed human being with needs. These celebrities aren’t urging for the belief of Black women on any other ordinary Tuesday, when we’re trying to save ourselves and no one else. Most days, we’re met with skepticism at every turn.

Black women know skepticism intimately. It’s in the questioning of our qualifications at work. It’s in the public support of the abusers we’ve named. It’s in gender being repeatedly sidelined in the fight for racial equality. It’s in requests for verifiable proof in the recounting of our experiences with misogynoir. Every essay, thread, or Facebook status on our mistreatment is met with: “How do you know that was racism/sexism/what you say it was?” Who believes Black women but Black women?

Last week, I spent the day in bed, immobilized by the way America fails Black women in this respect. I had read Nina Martin and Renee Montagne’s NPR investigation on Black maternal mortality in America, and was rocked with a collective kind of grieving. It chronicled the way the combination of a dismissal by doctors and a societal unwillingness to take seriously the way racism and sexism impact our bodies is literally costing us our lives.

They cite a 2010 study conducted by Arline Geronimus, a professor at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, which found that Black women’s bodies are “weathering” at alarmingly high rates from chronic stress. The chromosomal markers of aging of Black women in their 40s and 50s appeared an average of seven-and-a-half years older than white women the same age. As the study notes, Black women are 243 percent more likely to die in childbirth than white women.

But public calls to trust Black women are scarce when it’s about our wellbeing, the quality of our lives, the conditions under which we navigate the world. The issue in America is not that Black women aren’t entrusted with care-taking and saving others. The issue is that no one trusts Black women when we say that we need support the most. When it’s time to pay dues to the church, who’s calling Black women God? Is the world listening to Black women when we’re talking about ordinary struggles, about saving ourselves and not the rest of the world?

When I saw CNN’s exit polls, I didn’t see Black women donning capes and rushing to the polls to save the state of Alabama from Roy Moore. I saw Black women showing up for themselves, because they knew nobody else was voting with them in mind. I saw them choosing the candidate who will best advocate for their interest in their own civil rights, their right to their own bodily autonomy. I saw them showing up to make sure they weren’t represented by somebody with a history of bigotry and alleged pedophilia.

This isn’t to say that we don’t owe Black women a debt of gratitude. But it’s okay for Black women to look out for themselves without carrying the rest of society on their backs and at the forefront of their minds. We can praise Black women without turning them into caretaker caricatures. If white celebrities, activists, and ordinary people want to properly thank the Black women who elected Doug Jones, it requires that they reframe their PSAs. They’ve got to decenter the saving of themselves, and let go of the notion that clinging to Black women’s ankles is the proper way to move into a better America.

The basic task of listening to and trusting Black women must be applied in ordinary life on a small and large scale — in the doctor’s office, on the street, and in the comment section. It must extend into amplifying, lifting up, and supporting us. Black women deserve fiscal, emotional, and systemic support.

We deserve more bodies at protests in our honor. We deserve advocates for fair compensation for our work. We deserve to be backed up and fought for, not just trusted, not just believed. Beyond praising Black women for the way they’ve served Alabama (and America at large), people must begin to ask themselves how they can best return the favor, and then start doing it.

Black women in Alabama didn’t just talk about Doug Jones, they showed up for him in their local voting booths. It’s about time we show up for them, too.

Dominique Matti is an essayist, editor, and cool mom based in Philadelphia.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Roy Moore’s surprising defeat in Alabama included evidence of a slight dip in the number of evangelical Christians participating in the Alabama election. Based on the exit polls, it appears that a small group of self-identifying white evangelicals stayed home instead of voting Republican as they had in previous elections. Also, 2 percent of evangelicals and conservatives said they wrote in a candidate, a significant total in such a close outcome.

Still, among those white voters who identified as evangelicals, a robust 80 percent voted for Roy Moore. This is the same percentage of self-described white evangelicals nationally who supported Donald Trump in the 2016 election.

During this fall’s campaign, the controversy over Moore and his alleged cases of sexual assault produced a predictable storyline about the “evangelical” response to Moore. One widely reported polling statistic had 37 percent of Alabama “evangelicals” saying that they were “more likely” to support Moore following the allegations.

As a professor who studies the history of Christianity — and an evangelical — I find myself continually frustrated with news pieces like this. When I read such stories about “evangelicals,” I wonder who these “evangelicals” actually are, and why much of the media is so eager to peddle storylines, however implausible, related to evangelical hypocrisy.

Anyone who thought for a second about the supposed evangelical reaction to Moore should have been incredulous. To me, the charges against Moore are disturbing and disqualifying. Many of his supporters disagree. But really, would anybody tell a pollster that allegations that a candidate had sexually abused minors would make them more inclined to support that candidate?

Whoever these “evangelicals” might be, they’re obviously saying that they don’t believe the charges against Moore, and they’re sticking by their man in the face of “fake news.” (43% of voters said in exit polling that they thought the charges were “definitely or probably false.) I’m not trying to defend Moore here, I’m just suggesting that the power of the “fake news” theme gives Moore’s defenders a ready response against the explosive charges women have made against him.

Nate Silver called out this silly interpretation on Twitter:

I'm seeing this data point cited a LOT and would encourage some caution about interpreting it.



For most voters, "more likely to support after allegations" means "I'm a Moore supporter & don't believe the allegations" and not "I approve of the conduct the allegations allege". https://t.co/KfYsoS0zhv — Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) November 13, 2017

It’s an all-too-common cycle. Some in the media believe and promote the absolute worst about evangelicals. Those evangelicals then lament fake news, even when the news (like the charges against Moore) seems not so fake.

Part of this is just a fundamental problem with polling. There are so many possible meanings left open by the way a question is framed, the context in which it is asked, the person responding, and the reporter’s interpretation.

Even more problematic, these stories employ a vague concept of “evangelical,” a term that has become almost totally disconnected from its historic meaning. Since 1980 and the rise of the Moral Majority, “evangelical” has become a descriptor more associated with politics than with theology or Christian practices. Evangelical spokespeople from Jerry Falwell to Franklin Graham have done as much as the secular media to create this impression. It has left us with a deeply diluted public image of what the word means. Polls make this problem worse by relying on self-identification of evangelicals, and evangelical self-definition has shifted over time.

I suspect that large numbers of these people who identify as “evangelicals” are really just whites who watch Fox News and who consider themselves religious.

To me, the controversy involving the reasons for evangelical support for Roy Moore reveals how little we understand evangelicals as a group in modern America.

Who really identifies as “evangelical” today?

One challenge in determining what “evangelicals” believe is the difficulty in getting solid polling data on any subject. Observers have noted that ever since the advent of cellphones, reliable polling has become ever more difficult. Polls routinely get no more than a 10 percent response rate. Some academic experts, including sociologist colleagues of mine at Baylor, have begun to despair about using polls to gather reliable information about anything at all.

FiveThirtyEight gave a good, balanced overview of the problems in polling four years ago, and the problems have only gotten worse since then.

The second difficulty is this self-identification issue. Some polls do use other means of determining who an evangelical is, such as church affiliation. But most pollsters simply ask a person if they identify as an evangelical, and if the answer is yes, then that person is taken to have evangelical views about Donald Trump’s latest antics, or whatever the topic is.

This is highly dubious. For instance, if you ask more probing questions, it turns out that significant numbers of these “evangelicals” do not go to church. One study of the 2016 GOP primaries showed that these non-churchgoing evangelicals were more likely to support Trump — around 53 percent of Trump supporting evangelicals marked that they seldom/never went to church. That percentage dropped to around 36 percent for Trump-supporting evangelicals who went to church weekly. Of course, a strong majority of self-identified evangelicals went on to support Trump in the general election.

In many cases, we have no idea how many of these “evangelicals” read the Bible regularly, have been born again, or share other hallmarks of historic evangelicalism. A recent study from LifeWay Research suggests that less than half of self-identifying evangelicals are deeply committed to classic evangelical beliefs.

To be fair, many polls do explicitly break out white voters from black, Hispanic, and other voters, giving some additional texture to the political views among self-identified evangelicals — so not all polls are free of nuance. And if my hunch is correct, it would be worth investigating how the term “evangelical” became code for a kind of nominal Christianity in America.

Evangelical Christianity was founded to combat nominal Christianity

The thing is, evangelical Christianity was founded to combat nominal Christianity, meaning a Christianity that is more a cultural label than a vital, active faith. Most experts trace the origins of evangelical Christianity to the mid-1700s and the coming of the Great Awakening. Many countries in those days, including Britain and its colonies, had established denominations and churches: government-funded religion. Having tax-supported churches and ministers often bred complacency and corruption. It did not foster voluntary, heartfelt devotion to God.

Revival preachers like John Wesley, Jonathan Edwards, and George Whitefield — the most famous person in Britain and America in 1740 — told people that it was not good enough to be baptized into your local church, just by accident of birthplace. You needed to make a personal, transforming commitment to Christ, an experience that the Bible referred to as being “born again.” This “new birth” would lead to a life centered on the “gospel” of salvation through Christ.

What today’s “evangelicals” have in common

The most common definition of evangelicalism, one crafted by British historian David Bebbington, boils down to four key points. First is conversion, or the need to be born again. The second is Biblicism, or the need to base one’s faith fundamentally on the Bible. The third is the theological priority of the cross, where Jesus died and won forgiveness for sinners. The final attribute of evangelicals is activism, or acting on the mandates of one’s faith, through supporting your church, sharing the gospel, and engaging in charitable endeavors.

In today’s media, “evangelical” has shifted from the historic definition to become more of a rough political and ethnic signifier. What today’s “evangelicals” have in common is not so much Biblicism or action for the gospel, but a self-defined sense of religiosity and a dogged commitment to Republican politics. And being white.

Evangelical faith has always had political ramifications, of course. For example, many evangelicals fought in the era of the American Revolution to end the tax-supported denominations, which had often persecuted evangelicals. But evangelicals were not much on the political radar screen in modern America until 1976, with the candidacy of the “born again” Jimmy Carter.

But 1980 and the Reagan Revolution convinced many evangelicals that they could have both piety and political power. The most visible evangelical leaders became not evangelists like Billy Graham but political operatives and, later, Fox News contributors. Most of the news media was happy to focus on this new political brand of evangelicalism, even if it became more and more distant from its historic roots.

The image of political evangelicalism fails to recognize most of what was happening in the weekly routines of actual evangelical Christians and their churches. As Bebbington’s definition suggests, most of a typical evangelical’s life has nothing to do with politics.

Finally, as seen in the story on growing “evangelical” support for Roy Moore, the news media loves stories on “evangelical” hypocrisy. Evangelicals have always been capable of hypocrisy, of course. Anyone who wears their faith on their sleeve is going to be held to a higher standard, and there’s nothing wrong with that. But too often, we actually know little about the “evangelicals” being charged with hypocrisy. Other than political allegiances, we don’t know much about what the term evangelical means anymore.

Before you read a story and despair about the state of evangelicalism in America, then, pause for a second. The reality about evangelicals may indeed be bad and disheartening. But are polls really supplying accurate information about “evangelicals” and their beliefs? Or does our country largely misunderstand what it means to be evangelical in America today?

This essay is adapted from an article on The Gospel Coalition.

Thomas S. Kidd is distinguished professor of history at Baylor University. He is the author of books including, most recently, Benjamin Franklin: The Religious Life of a Founding Father (Yale University Press, 2017). An earlier version of this article appeared at the Gospel Coalition, where Kidd blogs.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.When I graduate this May from Yale, it will be with two master’s degrees, a lot of pride, and about $200,000 in student debt.

After working for the state government and a solar company while living amid the San Francisco Bay Area’s housing boom, I didn’t have a ton of savings to draw on when I went back to school. Nor could my family afford to foot the bill for three years of Ivy League graduate school. Still, I was passionate about the environment and renewable energy’s potential to alleviate its stress, so I figured the foundation graduate school would lay for my career would be well worth the student loan burden.

It’s a calculation I still stand by, as my years at Yale have already been tremendously rewarding. I’ve gotten everything I could possibly want out of my education, and feel well positioned to be a force for good after school.

Related The GOP tax plan would blow a hole in American science

That said, $200,000 of debt is a hefty sum when contemplating a career focused on creating public rather than personal value. If I pay this back over 30 years, at my average loan rate of 6 percent, I’ll pay about $230,000 in interest over the life of the loans.

This makes the student loan provisions of the GOP tax plan particularly painful. The House version of the plan makes several changes to the tax code aimed at generating revenue by raising rates on higher education. I’ll admit that complaining about the education taxes aimed at the wealthy — such as the plan to institute an excise tax on endowment fund managers paid in excess of $1 million a year — is unsympathetic. However, one of the tax reforms directly targets graduate students, a population not known for excess wealth.

When universities waive graduate student tuition in exchange for teaching or research services, this waiver would become taxable. Under the new plan, a student making $20,000 from her teaching services at a $60,000-a-year university would be taxed as if she took home $80,000-a-year in income. Not only does this revision increase a student’s tax basis, but in our example it also bumps the student into a new tax bracket — meaning that what she owes goes from 12 percent to 25 percent. In short, our student whose $20,000 teaching stipend would have generated about $2,400 in taxes would now be facing a much heavier income tax burden of more than $14,000.

Adding to the cost of education is a proposed elimination of the student loan interest deduction, which affects all students using loans to cover their tuition.

Obviously, this plan makes higher education a greater economic burden and further out of reach for average American families. It’s a strange plan for a country that is beginning to show signs of losing its competitive edge in higher education, but recent changes in public opinion suggest this is just the GOP continuing to play to its base.

A recent Pew study found that 58 percent of Republicans said colleges and universities have a negative impact on society. Jason Delisle of the conservative American Enterprise Institute may have summed up Republican legislators’ thinking on higher education recently while speaking with Politico: “Very few Americans care. … Very few of them are privileged enough to get a graduate degree from an elite institution. I think they’re like, ‘Complain all you want.’ It’s just not going to resonate with Main Street America.”

As we enter the House-Senate reconciliation phase of tax reform, I call on our legislators to question this assumption. While polls indicate a lack of concern for education, the economy remained the highest-priority issue for Americans in the 2016 election. Students pursuing graduate education go on to conduct the research, develop the technologies, and found the companies that create new jobs and keep the US economy competitive amid increasing international competition.

Moreover, an increasing number of graduate students are emphasizing social impact alongside economic rewards when choosing where to work after school. Students who graduated from my program last year have founded ventures focused on healthy, affordable frozen meals, college preparedness in inner cities, and carbon footprint management software for energy consumers.

Meanwhile, the percentage of graduate students taking out more than $40,000 in loans to pay for their studies increased from 14 percent in 2004 to 47 percent in 2012. Education has become more expensive, and those of us taking out loans do so because our families don’t have tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars to finance our education. So it’s foolish to conclude that by cutting interest payment deductions and taxing tuition waivers, the GOP tax plan is redistributing wealth from an out-of-touch elite. In fact, it’s taxing the nation’s future entrepreneurs, educators, and scientists, who are increasingly focused on societal benefits but can’t afford to pay for their education out of pocket.

More broadly, our legislators should bear in mind the long-term effects of discouraging Americans from pursuing higher education. This tax reform effort comes at a time when we’re making it significantly more difficult for those educated abroad to immigrate to the US and we’re considering new tariffs on imported technology and manufacturing materials. Taken in concert, these policies invite the question: If we aren’t educating Americans so that they’re prepared to innovate, won’t let in the people who are, and are discouraging new technology imports, how are we going to grow the economy?

This article is adapted from an essay originally published on Medium.

Kristofer Holz is a joint MBA/MEM candidate at the Yale School of Management and the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, focusing on financial and policy innovation in the energy sector. Prior to Yale, he worked in natural gas regulation for the California Public Utilities Commission and solar development for SunEdison.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.In June, a man I’ve never met messaged me on my professional Facebook page. He asked me about a news story I wasn’t involved in and didn’t know anything about. I apologized and assumed he’d move on.

And then he asked me to have his children.

As a local TV reporter, I could fill this entire piece with harassing comments and gross requests from people I’ve never met and never want to meet. I’ve had a man tell me my skin makes him “want to waltz,” whatever that means. One guy asked me if he could be my slave.

There’s an old local TV news saying: Every day, people invite you into their homes. You’re in their living rooms and kitchens, delivering them information. They put their trust in you, they learn things from you, and after a while, they get to know a part of you — the public part. You become a slice of their lives, and a part of their city.

Many times, this can be a wonderful thing. People say hi to you on the street and compliment your stories. An older woman might bring baked goods to your TV station. Through your reporting, you come to know almost every neighborhood and every street in your town. It’s an amazing feeling.

And then sometimes it’s different — a little darker. Sometimes much darker. People believe they have a right to your body, whether you like it or not. They think they own a part of you, because you’re on TV in their town, and you’re a pretty girl in a pretty dress who’s there for their entertainment. It doesn’t matter what’s in your head or how hard you worked on your story.

Harassment in the media is a problem — the recent news about Charlie Rose and Matt Lauer makes that painfully clear. That’s another piece for another time.

But there’s another problem running through local TV news that affects women daily: harassment from the people who watch the news.

A woman in the business sent me this message. She’d been anchoring a newscast, reading a short video piece called a VO/SOT.

This side of local news includes the guy who screams, “F**k Her right in the p***y,” behind your live report. Or the local woman who sends you racial slurs because she doesn’t like the way you look. Or the man who sends flowers to your station over and over again. For the hundreds of young women in local broadcast news, there are thousands of stories of harassment.

And after my own experience, I asked women in the business to share their stories with me.

This is just one of the many screenshots they shared with me.

Imagine this: You’re a young woman in your first or second job. You’re hundreds, if not thousands of miles away from your family, surviving on slim paychecks, living alone, and working odd hours. It’s relatively easy for people to find out where you are, thanks to the constant social media updates about your news story that day.

And along with some guy who wants you to kick him in the balls, you’re dealing with people like this:

“He calls the station asking for me, he creates fake aliases on the phone and on the internet to get me to respond … he’s told me he loves me; we’re going to be together. He’ll find me one day, etc. …

“When this started I was fresh out of college, 22 years old, first job in TV. Moved away from home, lived alone and hadn’t made too many friends yet.

“Something like this can be so scary for a young woman to try and deal with. … This guy even showed up at work one day looking for me.”

Harassment by viewers is so commonplace, it’s basically become part of the job. You’re a public figure in a small town, a woman always dressed up and made up. Your first creeper is a rite of passage. A text from a weirdo obsessed with your shoes is just a hilarious screenshot. It’s something to laugh about at drinks with fellow reporters — until it isn’t funny anymore.

I’ve tried to understand why these people threaten and harass journalists. Is it power? Sex? They’re just inappropriate weirdos and creeps?

I don’t know. But I do know these people are harassers, and what they’re doing is inexcusable.

The wild and wonderful world of local news take its reporters everywhere — it’s amazing and exhilarating, and many times, these young journalists do it alone.

It’s less amazing when you’re constantly worried about the man who pretends to be a recruiter for a major network but is really a serial sexual harasser. Or mentally preparing yourself when an older man approaches you while you’re reporting, and you can tell by the look in his eye that he’s going to say something lewd and offensive.

The kick in the chest doesn’t just come from harsh words or threats to safety; it’s also the complete disregard for your intelligence and hard work. It’s that squirming feeling in your heart when you realize that many people consider women in TV news, first and foremost, eye candy.

Why? I think it’s a hellish mix of the industry’s standard of hiring generally attractive women, and society’s penchant for reducing women to their appearance and sexuality. Regardless of the cause, it’s affecting those who don’t always have the power to fix those problems, at least for now — young women in low positions of power. For women of color and LGBTQIA women who don’t appear cisgender, it can no doubt be even worse.

So we continue to be flooded with messages like this:

“I, along with most men, like our pretty anchors and weather girls so much that we determine which news to watch by who has the prettiest girls. …”

Too many female TV newsers are taught to be polite and friendly, even in the face of blatant harassment. It goes against years of conditioning and stereotype to flip the switch and be aggressive, because women are rarely taught how to do that. Even now, when I deflect any kind of harassment, there’s still a little twinge of guilt that I have to brush away.

Harassment is a reality for everyone in the business, regardless of gender. Some of my friends, male anchors and reporters, are told to lose weight or to shave. One anchor emailed me explaining how someone asked him to show off his legs so they could see how hairy they were.

Men are dealing with it too. But, I’m writing from my perspective as a woman, so I’m choosing to keep my focus on events close to my own experiences.

As I wrote this article, I read a lot of stories from women in the business. At the end of many of them, they asked: Next time this happens, what should I do differently? Should I be more aggressive? Smile and try to be polite? Every question was filled with a vague sense of guilt and one damning thought: Am I overreacting?

And you know what? That’s happening to me right now, as I write this piece; I’m starting to feel guilty about complaining.

Let’s go back to the guy who wanted me to have his children. When I responded to him, telling him not to contact me again, he got angry.

“There’s a thousand other half-cute journalism grads who’ll easily replace your milquetoast-ass tomorrow. So don’t flatter yourself. No one gives a shit about you.”

The fact that his rage was fueled by my rejection was pretty obvious, but I’d be lying if I said it didn’t affect me.

Because for a while, I thought he was right. Who would give a shit about some small-town news girl getting creeped on? We’re a dime a dozen, generally represented in popular media as vapid bimbos with half a brain.

I sat on this post for months. I started working on this in late spring, but every time I came close to publishing it, doubt started worming its way into my heart. A little voice whispered to me: Who cares?

And then other women began stepping forward, in other industries. Allegations emerged.

And the more women I saw come forward to tell their story, the more people reacted. Other woman echoed that feeling of helplessness, of weakness. And I realized that these experiences, no matter how slight or different, absolutely do matter.

I’m tired of getting messages that make me feel ashamed or have me looking behind my shoulder when I walk to my car at night. I’m tired of talking with other women in the business, feeling their fear and shame, hearing their stories like confessions.

And when I got tired of the man asking me to have his children, I went to my station about it. Not all stations are helpful when women come forward with their concerns, but mine was. They supported me wholeheartedly. I got in contact with our local police, who also supported me and assured me that it wasn’t a foolish move to report the message.

That experience was one of the two bright spots in this whole mess. The other was the women I spoke with.

Despite this barrage of threats, sexual requests, and invasions of privacy, the woman journalists I spoke with still press forward in their passion. Journalism is already an emotionally and mentally taxing business — to also deal with external threats and still create compelling stories is a testament to the strength of women working in the business.

This essay is adapted from a post on Ellen Meny’s blog.

Ellen Meny is a local television reporter in Oregon. In her spare time, she runs a personal blog, aptly named Ellen Meny’s Blog. You can find her on Twitter at @ellenmeny. If you have your own stories of harassment, please email her at ellenmeny@gmail.com.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.It is the year of our lord 2017 and everyone is sorry. I’m sorry we’re here, you’re sorry you have to read this, and the parade of high-profile sexual offenders are the sorriest of all.

Louis C.K. is sorry he’s so famous and so admired that whipping out his dick caused women to be upset (even though he totally asked first, you guys). Harvey Weinstein is sorry that he grew up in the 1960s and 1970s. Al Franken? He’s just sorry he let everybody down. (Minus the 36 SNL alums who swear he treated them with nothing but “respect and regard.” Which I guess will not be the title of his inevitable tell-all.) But not as sorry as Kevin Spacey, who’s sorry that Anthony Rapp has terrible memories of him.

“I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior,” Spacey wrote. Because yes: It would have been pretty bad had he come onto an underage young man in this hypothetical situation that Spacey would like us to believe never happened.

So congrats! Everyone is sorry! (You get a sorry, and you get a sorry, and you get a sorry!) Now Matt Lauer is the latest carrier of the sorry torch.

“To the people I have hurt, I am truly sorry,” he said in a statement following his firing from NBC for sexual misconduct. “As I am writing this, I realize the depth of the damage and disappointment I have left behind at home and at NBC.”

And had he just left it, we at least would’ve been an apology on par with Jack Berger’s in Sex and the City when Berger dumps Carrie Bradshaw via Post-It: “I’m sorry, I can’t, don’t hate me.” But alas, Lauer continued — they all have to continue — one-upping his predecessors with a cornucopia of feelings, sentiment, and … nothing concrete. Plus, a denial.

“Some of what is being said about me is untrue or mischaracterized, but there is enough truth to these stories to make me feel embarrassed and ashamed,” he continued. “I regret that my shame is now shared by the people I cherish deeply.”

So he is sorry that he’s ashamed. And sorrier still that he has to share that shame. (This was his shame, goddamn it, and how dare he be made to divvy it up.) But even worse, amid his sorries and regrets and appreciation to those rallying around him, he is sorry that we’ve been given information that isn’t necessarily true. “I’m sorry,” I can imagine him saying, “that some of you don’t know the whole story.”

And I get it, man, I do. I get it as much as I get the apology of George H.W. Bush, who blamed his tendency to grab women by their derrieres on his wheelchair and on our inability to recognize comedic timing. “At age 93,” a statement from Bush’s people read, “President Bush has been confined to a wheelchair for roughly for five years, so his arm falls on the lower waist of people with whom he takes pictures,” a statement read. “To try and put people at ease, the president routinely tells the same joke (‘Do you know who my favorite magician is? David Cop-a-Feel!’) — and on occasion, he patted women’s rears in which he intended to be a good-natured manner.”

“To anyone he has offended, President Bush apologizes most sincerely.”

The former president is sorry that you humorless women weren’t into his bit — “David Cop-a-Feel” being indisputable comedy gold — and he is sorrier still that they couldn’t distinguish between a good-natured tap on the “rear” and the kind that causes women’s stomachs to drop in shock and revulsion. And while I personally am sorry the word “rear” was used in a professional context — and sorrier still to be reminded through that “joke” that David Copperfield has had his own allegations against him — I am still less sorry than President Bush, who regrets that we don’t know that wheelchairs exist on a plane where you have no choice but to be handsy.

But with so many allegations floating around, it’s important that we press pause to acknowledge that while someone may have done something bad, the accused might not have known it was “bad.” Maybe, when the door locked at the press of a button in a certain Today show host’s office, it would’ve helped if a woman hadn’t internally screamed or sat frozen in fear and learned to laugh it off because it’s just flirting, it’s just a joke, and I thought we were all just having a great time. Because, Jesus, lighten up! These men are sorry.

And they have so much to be sorry for. They’re sorry they got caught, sorry they weren’t smarter and sneakier, sorry they have to take time out of their day to say they’re sorry. They’re sorry they’re being painted as someone they tell us they aren’t (despite being exactly that thing).

“I’m sorry that people are so jealous of me,” Gretchen Weiners infamously says in Mean Girls. “But I can’t help it that I’m popular.”

At least Gretchen was being genuine.

Because the thing about the year’s apology marathon is that they all lack the one thing that makes sorry stick: remorse. By hiding behind excuses, behind success, behind technicalities, or behind the names of SNL alums who swear Al Franken is good enough, smart enough, and goddamn it, people like him, they make it very clear what they are sorry for: being unlucky enough to be dragged publicly in the wake of their bad behavior.

Real remorse looks like quiet, simple defeat. It is the sound of the Charlie Brown Christmas soundtrack with your head down shamefully walking off into the night. It is the complete and total acceptance of one’s own shittiness, and the acknowledgement of being The Worst. It is taking accountability and retiring your post to somebody better, somebody more worthy.

So let’s save time on the next one. Let’s prematurely accept the apologies for being so famous, so rich, so slim-seeming in a suit. Let’s prepare ourselves for how sorry somebody is for their affinity for explicitly describing their sexual fantasies to a co-worker, or how their khaki zippers keep opening without being prompted, or how well-endowed they are. (So, honestly, it’s actually your fault for being offended at what you saw in the first place.) Over the next few days and weeks and months and years, we are going to be hearing the word “sorry” a lot. I’m just sorry no one actually is.

Anne T. Donahue is a writer and person from Ontario, Canada. She’s written for Esquire, Cosmopolitan, and Playboy, and her first book, Nobody Cares, comes out in September 2018. You can find her on Twitter at @annetdonahue.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.As one of the authors of a textbook on criminal justice, I’m literally the person who creates the textbook definition of rape. This year, next to that definition, I inserted a photo of Brock Turner, the Stanford Univeristy student who committed a brutal, infamous sexual assault on the campus three years ago — and served a paltry three months in jail.

To my amazement, a photo of that page, taken by a female college student, went viral and received a wave of news coverage. My decision seemed to hit a nerve.

The Turner case felt like a breakthrough moment where the public was widely on the side of the victim of sexual violence for once. To see this memorialized in an academic textbook — even if Turner had eluded a just punishment — felt to many people like a step in the right direction.

At the time, I didn’t think much of my decision to include the photograph in the new edition of Introduction to Criminal Justice: Systems, Diversity, and Change. I’m always on the lookout for real-world examples to help my students understand various aspects of our legal system, and this seemed like a good one. So I was astonished not just by the publicity, but by the positive responses: people thanking me and sharing stories about rapes and assaults they had experienced.

For those unaware, Turner had been a student at Stanford in 2015 when he sexually victimized an unconscious woman outside a fraternity house — near a dumpster — during a party. (Stanford has since turned the site into a small memorial space honoring the victim.) The case drew widespread attention from the media and continued to interest my students, who often asked about it in class.

Their curiosity about the case prompted me to include Turner in a section of my textbook that discusses the changing definitions of crime over time — specifically, on the page that focuses on the definition of rape in the FBI’s data collection efforts.

Turner’s case illustrates how rape law shifts over time

Turner’s case provides a particularly clear example of these shifting definitions, and it even led to a change in California law. Turner was indicted on five charges, and was ultimately convicted of three felonies: assault with intent to rape an intoxicated person, sexually penetrating an intoxicated person with a foreign object, and sexually penetrating an unconscious person with a foreign object. Turner was eventually sentenced to six months in prison, of which he served just three — a fact that infuriated many people (including then-Vice President Joe Biden).

The two dropped charges were rape of an intoxicated person and rape of an unconscious person. They were let go because, according to California law at the time of Turner’s offenses, a rape could only be committed if a penis was used to penetrate a person without consent, and there was no DNA evidence to suggest that had occurred Turner’s case.

The jury did find Turner guilty of penetrating his victim with an object (his fingers), which California law described as a sexual assault. While local jurisdictions use a variety of terms to refer to the same action, the FBI (and other agencies gathering crime data) defines rape as “[a] type of violent crime . . . that includes penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with a body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.” Therefore, under the FBI’s definitions, Turner’s actions were considered rape, but not California’s.

Citing the Turner case, California lawmakers decided to expand the definition of rape in the state. In 2016, a bill jointly sponsored by Democratic state Reps. Cristina Garcia and Susan Talamantes Eggman, proposed to update California’s antiquated rape definition “in response to a loophole in California state penal code that the Brock Turner case highlighted.”

This bill became law in 2017, at which time Garcia said: “Sexual penetration without consent is rape. It is never invited, wanted or warranted. Rape is rape, period.” She also stated, "When we fail to call rape ‘rape,’ we rob survivors and their families of the justice they deserve.” That’s why Turner’s case is so important; it shows the limitations of rape law and how it continues to shift as our society evolves.

Historically, rape has been treated as a crime against a man’s property: his women. It was not considered a crime against a person. Over time, the definition of rape has expanded to include marital rape — nonconsensual penetration between married individuals. The marital rape exceptions began being removed from law in the 1970s. Prosecutions of marital rape were legally impossible previously.

The definition of rape has also expanded to acknowledge that men and boys can be and are raped. It wasn’t until 2013 that the FBI rape definition was updated to include men and boys in addition to women and girls as individuals who can be raped. In addition, in 2013 the FBI updated its definition of rape to remove the word “forcibly” to reflect the contemporary understanding of rape — that it does not necessarily involve physical force. Rather, rape can be perpetrated against a person who is unconscious, coerced, or otherwise incapacitated. Without consent, any penetration is rape.

Discussing the changing legal definitions of rape encourages students to examine more broadly why society remains resistant to viewing rape and sexual assault as violence.

My students are keenly aware of Brock Turner

The volume and tenor of the media attention surrounding Turner’s case also provided an important opportunity for discussion. Although Turner did not appear in the first edition of the text, students asked about him routinely in and out of class. They asked why he initially was referred to in some places as the “Stanford swimmer” — when others accused of similar types of violence were described based on their alleged criminal actions, not unrelated sports achievements.

It appeared to the students, and to many in the public, that Turner was being treated with unearned deference.

In my class, students learn that the majority of people who commit sexual violence never interact with the criminal justice system, and that those who do frequently serve no time at all. The textbook prompts students to interrogate deeply these facts about sexual violence and to offer ideas as to how to make the justice system more just for all.

One reporter I spoke with about the textbook asked an important question: “How will I know that society does finally view rape and sexual assault as violence?”

My answer: One way you’ll know is when survivors are no longer afraid to come forward to share their story with friends, family, and authorities because they think they will have to first prove they didn’t want to be raped or sexually assaulted. Survivors want to, and should, be believed, just like those who report burglaries, robberies, aggravated assaults, motor vehicle thefts, murder, and other crimes are generally believed. Cue the “but women lie about rape” comments. In fact, rape, like other types of violence, is rarely falsely reported.

Second, when rapists and sex offenders are punished formally and given sentences similar to those committing other types of violence. Historically, conviction rates for rape are among the lowest for any crime — and only about one-third of rapes and sexual assaults are even reported to the police, according to the Department of Justice. (The fact that Turner served any time makes this case different from most sexual violence cases brought in the nation.)

Third, when people who write or talk about rape and sexual assault receive support from both women and men in similar numbers. The comments I received from members of the public about the viral textbook page were predominantly from women. While I appreciate their support, I wonder why more men aren’t engaging, since rape and sexual assault are issues that affect all of us. If you think sexual violence does not affect you because you are male, or because you don’t have daughters or sisters, you are wrong. Rape and sexual assault is a societal problem, and my hope is that everyone in society works hard to eradicate it.

We all — men and women — must shine a bright light on all sexual violence. We will know progress has come when rather than shame and judgment, survivors of rape and sexual assault are given empathy and support — just like all other victims of violence.

The survivor in the Brock Turner case received a lot of empathy and support, and she deserved to. It’s time all survivors receive the same.

Callie Marie Rennison, PhD, is a professor at the School of Public Affairs at the University of Colorado Denver. Her research focuses on the nature, extent, and consequences of violent victimization and has been published in a variety of journals, books, and other outlets. In 2016, she was awarded the Bonnie S. Fisher Victimology Career Award from the Division of Victimology in the American Society of Criminology.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.In June 1967, I walked across the quad of Howard University, a light-skinned, 19-year-old sophomore. It was Black Power days, when I was on fire to learn the black history America had largely ignored. On that wide walkway, I ran into a boy from class who broke into a toothy smile, stuck out his much darker hand, and shook mine vigorously, laughing like he had no sense.

“Congratulations,” he said.

“Congratulations for what?”

“For not being a bastard anymore.”

“What are you talking about?” I said, snatching my hand away. “I was born legit.”

“No, you weren’t,” he said. The day before, the Supreme Court’s decision in Loving v. Virginia had overturned laws in 16 states outlawing interracial marriage, and he assumed this meant my parents’ marriage was finally legal. In fact, my parents were married in New York, where their union was officially sanctioned, but the Loving decision was still a watershed — the start of a long journey to learn the truth about my mixed family’s place in America’s racial landscape.

This story is republished from Narrative.ly

Nearly 25 years before Loving, my parents married for love. To escape Indiana’s anti-miscegenation laws, my mother staged her own disappearance, going underground to marry my father in New York. After she vanished, the FBI was called in to search for her, and finally pronounced her dead, likely the victim of foul play. Her family still believed her dead when Loving was won.

When my brothers and I were born in the 1940s, the federal census’s racial categories dictated who we were. We were biologically mixed blood, but it said NEGRO on our birth certificates, with no indication of our mother’s whiteness. For more than 50 years, on government and school forms, job applications, doctors’ records, and the census, we dutifully checked the box that said Negro or Black. The facts of our births meant nothing to the Census Bureau. By the centuries-old “one-drop rule,” one drop of black blood made us 100 percent Negro. The government said so.

However, in my private life, checking that box never shielded me from the parade of strangers who challenged my identity. It’s the olive skin, light eyes, and soft curly hair that confuses them and starts a guessing game about my ethnicity. Thrown off, they ask, “What are you?” like the gas station attendant who demanded to know if I was “Spanish, Eye-Talian, Injun, or Jewish.” When I told him I was black, he whooped and jumped back from the car, then yelled across the pumps to another gas man. “Come ’ere and lookit this gal. She says she’s black.”

Or the Egyptian cab driver who insisted I looked like his sister and needed to confess my Egyptian roots. Or the Puerto Ricans, Greeks, Berbers, and Sicilians who talk to me in their tongues. Or the white colleague who was so incredulous when I explained why I don’t try to pass for white that his face turned red. Or the house salesman in Louisiana who gushed over me until he understood I was black, and then slammed the office door and pulled the shade down.

Or the black people who call me high yellow, redbone, and half-breed. Or accuse me of thinking I’m better than them and enjoying near-white privilege. Some were discriminated against by light Negroes — refused from Negro bourgeois clubs or marriage to the lighter partners who could bleach their lines, because their skin was darker than a brown paper bag. Some thought that was my fault, although it was black people with two black parents who exacted those criteria, wanting to protect whatever paper bag brownness got them in white America.

This confusion has plagued me my entire life, and finally drove me to search the census records, to see how people like me have been counted through the years.

The Census Bureau says it is the leading source of data about the nation’s people and economy, guided by “scientific objectivity,” with data presented as statistical observation. But as I worked in a dark carrel of the National Archives outside Boston, cranking through wheels of census microfilm, I squinted through page after fuzzy page and saw something different. From 1790 to present, the census has singled out, separated, and subdivided those who are black and brown. From its inception, the census has not just counted Americans, but has deliberately drawn a line between a monolithically labeled white category and the endlessly sliced-and-diced others, the not-white.

The possible races open to respondents to the questionnaire have included Chinese, Korean, Hindu — a religion, not a race — and “half-Hawaiian.” East Indians appear from 1900 through 1950, when they apparently became white (even if they were Hindu), while Mexicans, previously considered white, were separated out in 1930. Native Americans weren’t counted at all until 1960. But while Italian, Irish, and Jewish immigrants had difficulty assimilating into the United States, the census never had them declare a separate, other, heritage. Their whiteness won out, because they were European.

The term mulatto, meaning half-white, which would have described my own mixed-racial makeup, first appeared in the census questionnaire in 1850. In 1890, the terms quadroon (one-quarter black) and octoroon (one-eighth) were added. Mulatto, quadroon, and octoroon disappeared in 1900, but the mulattos reappeared in 1910 and ’20. By 1970, with the Supreme Court’s Loving decision, the option was gone, suggesting that the category mattered to the government only when slave holders and their sons needed a way to record children they fathered as chattel.

For the first time, the 2000 census offered an option for mixed race that gave the respondent the chance to self-declare the components of his or her own identity. Dozens of racial and ethnic categories were listed for those who wished to check all the boxes of their multicultural, multiracial, selves, including a box for white, allowing people like me to acknowledge, legally and honorably, both sides of their heritage. After more than 200 years, the census had stopped dictating who people had to be and asked me to define myself.

And I did. And again in 2010, when the number of racial and ethnic census choices expanded further, I felt as if my country could finally see me. My mother’s race was recognized, as was my father’s. For the first time, I found some humanity in the government’s census boxes. Apparently many others did too. Between the 2000 and 2010 counts, the census reported that 7 percent of Americans identified as multi-race, a group that grew three times as fast as single-race people. Pew Research’s Multiracial in America report projects that the multiracial population will triple by 2060. Further, in 2020, the census is considering how to clarify categories for Latinos. While this newer recognition of mixed race gives me hope, I must also remember my own family history with it.

In 1969 I traveled to Birmingham, Alabama, to meet my father’s Great-Aunt Willie. I had been hearing about her all my life. When my grandmother in Buffalo dictated me letters to write, it was Willie to whom I wrote: the relative who never migrated North when others left.

I had trouble convincing the cab driver that a whitish-looking woman like me wanted to go to Willie’s segregated black neighborhood, but he took me. Aunt Willie, a dark, African-featured woman, came out in a wrapped dress complementing her stately figure. As she fussed over me as only an ancient relative with Southern manners could, I caught the scent of her hair’s straightening pomade.

“Oooo-weee, look who come to see the old folk,” she said. After settling my things in the guest room, she and I began to get acquainted while we sipped sweet tea and rocked gently in her metal glider on the front porch of her bungalow. Neither the extended awning overhead nor the ice clinking in our sweating glasses could shield us from the shimmering heat as we began unraveling our murky family connection.

I offered news and photos of my father and Grandma Belia in Buffalo, but Willie kept interrupting to introduce passersby, from the postman to neighbors going to and fro. I made pleasantries with everyone, even the woman who came up on the porch, leaning in to get a good look at me. With that Southern cover-all that excuses everything, she said, “Bless your heart, honey. But is y’all really related? You don’t look nothing like Willie.”

I answered her sweetly, “She’s my daddy’s aunt.”

Later, Aunt Willie considered the photo of my grandmother I’d given her. “Ain’t you jes’ the spitting image of Belia? You both got that white side, see? Like Acie in New York, too.”

What white side? Not my grandma. Not Aunt Acie, her cousin, whom I met once, on my teenage trip to Harlem. We were light, but we were black — just part of the chalk-to-charcoal spectrum of black people’s coloring. Or so I thought.

“I don’t know about their white side,” I said.

“Ain’t they told you ’bout it?”

She said grandma and her cousin Acie were born to two sisters who had been raped repeatedly by two white brothers. The men’s family owned the Georgia farm where the sisters worked. They were teenage girls in 1890 when Grandma was born, on the same farm where her ancestors had been slaves. In fact, there had been three children fathered by these men: Grandma, Acie, and Jack, who was still in Georgia.

“That’s how it was back then,” she said nonchalantly, running her napkin around the outside of her glass.

My throat caught as the meaning sank in. Decades after emancipation, that old Massa privilege of white men raping black women at will had been forced on my great-grandmother? How had the child of that rape, the grandmother who helped raise me, lived with the pain and humiliation all these years and never talked about it? I didn’t know what to do with my outrage. But I tried to stuff it because my aunt sat by, not outraged in the least.

No wonder Grandma called leaving Georgia escaping. I’d never given that old lady — now crippled by arthritis — credit for getting her family out. I’d never known that Buffalo, a wintry steel town, had been my grandma’s promised land.

“I guess she didn’t tell me about that because she was ashamed,” I said.

“’Shamed? What she have to be ’shamed of? No, everybody knew white men did that whenever they got ready, and there wasn’t anything we could do about it. In your great-grandmaw’s time, there was no getting away from those men. She was ripe, you know, 16 or so, when she birthed your grandma Belia.”

Wasn’t that the same old nobodyness imposed on blacks during slavery? Was rape still the black woman’s story, living such degradation 30 years after emancipation just to subsist at the pleasure of whites? Aunt Willie’s flat recounting proved there was no getting away from it, even after blacks were free in the segregated South.

Sickened, I tried to imagine what my Great-Grandmother Frances and her sister Pearl had gone through, being raped on demand. Had her parents instructed her not to resist so they could continue to have the food and shelter that sharecropping the whites’ farm provided? Had the girls turned their faces away and their minds off in that devil’s bargain? Did the white men take what they wanted because they could, or was it justified in their minds as satisfying themselves in a way that preserved the purity of their own white women and Southern culture?

“Did my grandma know her father?” I asked Aunt Willie.

“It weren’t no secret,” she said. “Everybody knew what they done.” She could still picture that white man, coming around to their place every blue moon. He’d plop down on the porch chair with a bag of candy and set one of his kids on his knee for a little while. He was their father, but they all knew not to claim him beyond the bounds of their front yard.

So that’s what flowed in my veins: white “plantation” rape. It was one thing to read about this kind of history, but the subjugation of my own grandmother and her mother made my ulcer burn in the wall of my gut. Carrying that rapist’s blood in me certainly wasn’t the family connection I’d come to Alabama looking for. But it was a fact, a critical part of my Black Power education, to learn what violent race mixing meant only two generations before me.

The next time I went home to Buffalo, I asked my grandmother why she never told me about her white father. “Ain’t nothin’ to tell,” she said. “He wasn’t nothin’ to me.” She looked at me over her wire-rim glasses, her two gray plaits hanging on either side of a center part. “We weren’t the only kids like that. Where you think all these light-skinned Negros came from?”

I went back to the Georgia census to see how the official records showed grandma. Among the handwritten names, I found my grandmother in 1900 Lee County, named Bella, not Belia, as we knew her. Her race was marked Negro, not mulatto, and her father was marked as the black man who raised her, not the white man who raped her mother. Back then, no white men were fool enough to claim kinship with their illegitimate offspring. And apparently, that census worker wasn’t about to record their folly.

But today, instead of ignoring my heritage like Grandma and census takers did, I declare both my races, except to the hardcore obnoxious. I tell them I’m from Madagascar.

E. Dolores Johnson’s writing on race has appeared in the Buffalo News, the Writers of Color Anthology, and Lunch Ticket, with her memoir, Say I’m Dead, near completion.

This essay originally appeared on Narrative.ly.

More stories from Narrative.ly:

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.In 2011, when I was 24, I was hired as a White House speechwriter. My first thought (after “holy crap!”) was that someone must have made a mistake.

It’s not that I thought I had no talent whatsoever. It’s just that I knew there were more than 300 million people in America. Sure, some of them were babies. But a lot of them were adults. It seemed unlikely that I was the best We, the People, could do.

In some ways, I clearly wasn’t. (In my new book, Thanks, Obama, I describe getting discovered, in my underwear, changing clothes in the coat closet of Air Force One. It’s the kind of predicament I suspect a slightly more mature human would be able to avoid.)

But that’s one reason I’m so grateful I got the chance to work in the Obama White House. For several years I was forced — often against my will, almost always against my instincts — to act like an adult.

My years in Obamaworld taught me the value of perseverance. As a 21-year-old, newly smitten with a candidate and his inspiring campaign, I assumed that doing good always felt good. Otherwise, why bother?

I now know better. Today when I think about what I admire most about President Barack Obama, it’s not his rhetorical style or his charisma. It’s his refusal to give up, even when changing the country felt deeply, painfully not fun. I’ll never forget the day after the 2014 midterms, a shellacking to end all shellackings. According to the traditional Washington script, POTUS was expected to apologize profusely, beg forgiveness, and radically scale back his goals.

Here’s what he said instead: “The principles that we’re fighting for, the things that motivate me every single day and motivate my staff every day — those things aren’t going to change.”

There were days when we knew we were on the right side of history and lost anyway. But President Obama was willing to keep fighting through them. And because he did, millions more Americans have health insurance, thousands of troops are home from war, and LGBTQ Americans across the country can marry the person they love — even in the age of Trump.

The unglamorous work of decision-making

Eight years in Obamaworld taught me the value of patience. In the Obama White House, we enjoyed keeping track of what the press referred to as POTUS’s “Katrina moments,” catastrophes from which he would supposedly never recover. A surge of undocumented minors at the border; the Ebola epidemic; the disastrous launch of Healthcare.gov — time and again, reporters, Republicans, and often even our allies insisted the wheels were coming off the bus.

In those moments, it would have been easy for the president to do something, anything, as long as it was drastic. Impulsiveness can often pass for decisiveness, especially when the stakes are high. But President Obama remained calm and thoughtful. He made changes: After the Healthcare.gov launch, for instance, we began more often “red-teaming” initiatives, assigning a designated pessimist to figure out what could possibly go wrong. But he made those changes methodically, with an eye toward long-term outcomes rather than short-term perception. At a time when the news cycle has shrunk to mere minutes, that’s not easy to do.

It taught me the value of discipline. I came to believe that what President Obama did, better than anybody, was distill complicated issues to their essence. Whether he was reading a policy memo or a punchline, he could identify its most important element. And perhaps most crucially, he had the self-control to pay attention to that element while delegating other, less important pieces to staff. One secret to solving big problems, I discovered, is knowing which little problems to ignore.

The real meaning of “the adult in the room”

There are plenty of other things I learned while at the White House. For instance, that decisions are only as good as the decision-making process. That generosity is a habit and not a trait. That all human beings, even presidents, look goofy chewing gum.

But here, beyond a shadow of a doubt, is the single most valuable lesson I learned in my 20s: There are no grown-ups, at least not in the way we imagined as kids. There’s no room full of all-knowing elders in charge.

True, people often referred to POTUS as “the adult in the room.” But it took me years before I fully understood what that meant. As much as I admire and respect him, President Obama wasn’t perfect. Not every decision he made was correct. What made Obama the adult in the room was the way he defined his priorities. Children strive only for pleasure; adults strive for fulfillment. Children demand adoration; adults earn respect. Children find worth in what they acquire; adults find worth in the responsibilities they bear.

And while it turns out the world has no all-powerful grown-ups, it has an overwhelming number of children. They come in all ages, from every walk of life and every corner of the political map.

More than anything else, or perhaps at the root of everything else, this is what worries me about our current political moment. Yes, Donald Trump is the oldest person ever to become president. But he’s also our first child commander-in-chief.

In this scary political moment, when a 71-year-old kid is the most powerful person on Earth, we could be forgiven for dreaming of Obama’s return. Maybe he’ll come back and save us, the way our parents swooped in and picked us up when we were little, and lost, and afraid.

It’s a comforting fantasy. But if we want the sense of possibility and decency at the heart of the Obama movement to return, we will have to be our own grown-ups. We will have to save ourselves. That’s the idea at the heart of democracy. None of us is the best of We, the People. But we are all we’ve got — and if each of us does their part, we’re good enough.

I remain an optimist — in the long term, anyway — because of and not despite what I’ve learned about being an adult. If there are no perfect grown-ups, it means that generations before us had to figure things out too. Our heroes were human beings. In their own messy and imperfect way, they preserved government of, by, and for the people, and handed it down to us.

If we reject Trumpism not just as a political philosophy but as a way of life — if we define ourselves by our responsibilities instead of our possessions, if we seek fulfillment over fleeting pleasure, if we earn respect instead of demanding adoration — then I believe we too can protect the democracy we love.

David Litt is the author of the New York Times best-selling memoir Thanks, Obama, from which this essay is adapted. He is also the head writer for Funny or Die DC.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.In my mid-20s, I was an assistant editor toiling on the lower rungs of the New Republic, working late nights and long shifts. One evening, most of the staff went to a bar after work. The usual lines of banter were soon crossed; the teasing turned darkly sexual. As the night progressed, Leon Wieseltier, the magazine’s intellectual luminary and literary editor, cornered me, alone by the bathroom, and put his mouth on mine. I clapped my hand over my mouth in surprise. “I’ve always known you’d do that,” I recall he said.

A few days later, I told the story to the editor of the magazine, Peter Beinart. The mortification of the moment wasn’t just from the kiss, I explained. It was the intimacy of the touch and the dialogue that accompanied it. There was a clear invitation to continue an assignation elsewhere. Other women, he had intimated, had apparently accepted similar such offers. When I fled, I thought I heard him laugh.

In disclosing this incident to my superiors, the outcome was, in many ways, far worse than the act itself. It’s not exactly that I was disbelieved; it’s that in the end, I was dismissed. Over one wrenching week I learned why women, typically, don’t divulge such stories. Me — I regretted it immediately.

I can’t even quite explain why I came to Beinart, other than that after this event, I felt strangely unmoored. Anyway, as far as I knew, the New Republic had no system for reporting sexual impropriety, and, even if they had, I wasn’t seeking some sort of formal inquiry. (This is not, I know now, unusual.) I certainly wasn’t hoping to have Wieseltier punished. Some 15 years later, I’m still not.

I was hoping, I realize now, to be reassured that the magazine editors valued my input and work enough to be concerned about me. But in the days following my disclosure, I felt entirely alone. No one knocked on my door, though I know now that at least one other editor had some idea of what had happened. I told a couple of my fellow writers, but no one spoke to me much at all. Likely no one knew what to say. Wieseltier was not someone one crossed lightly.

Those lonely days stretched into years, 15 of them, until several women accused Wieseltier, a public intellectual, respected critic, and giant of the magazine, of sexual impropriety. Suddenly I had company.

Two weeks ago, a slew of those women came forward to speak about their Wieseltier experiences for a story written by Michelle Cottle for the Atlantic. I agreed, with tremendous trepidation, to relay part of this experience for her article as well. (Others spoke, mostly anonymously, to Clio Chang at Splinter.)

Cottle’s piece wove together her own decade-long, problematic relationship with Wieseltier and a series of allegations about his in-office conduct over the span of about 20 years, ranging from inappropriate touching and kissing to purposely creating sexually charged or compromising situations. Her article appeared soon after the abrupt dissolution of what was to have been Wieseltier’s new magazine in the wake of what remain undisclosed allegations, and his subsequent formal apology for past misdeeds.

“The women with whom I worked are smart and good people,” he wrote. “I am ashamed to know that I made any of them feel demeaned and disrespected.”

As Cottle and Chang both point out, that Wieseltier had behaved outside the bounds of normal office behavior was no surprise to the women of the magazine. What was at issue was whether, or what, the men at the magazine knew — and what they did with that knowledge.

Cue an onslaught of surprised tweets and comments from former writers and editors of the New Republic. Longtime former owner Marty Peretz was adamant he’d never heard of any such salacious activities.

The shock rings quite hollow.

After all, I did speak up. If no one was informed such things were taking place, I feel quite sure that mine was not the reputation being protected.

When I realize that 15 years passed between my experience and today, I can’t help but wonder: If, in 2002, my outreach had produced a different outcome, or at the very least started a conversation — could some of this have been prevented?

Last week, I reached out to Beinart, who now teaches journalism at the City University of New York and is a contributing editor at the Atlantic and a columnist for the Forward. He quickly confirmed that I'd come to him at the time.

"Fifteen years ago,” he texted me in a formal statement:

Sarah Wildman brought a deeply troubling incident regarding Leon Wieseltier to my attention. I was not Leon’s boss. We both served under Marty Peretz, the owner and editor in chief. Feeling I had a legal obligation to report the incident, I informed Marty and insisted that he come to Washington to tell Leon that such behavior was unacceptable. The three of us met but Marty did not take meaningful action. I am not saying this to exonerate myself. I should have done far more. I was complicit in an institutional culture that lacked professional procedures regarding sexual harassment, and which victimized women, including women I considered friends. I will always be ashamed of that, and will ensure that I am never similarly complicit again.

Peretz, reached by phone, insisted to a Vox editor, “Peter never, ever, ever reported this to me.”

The former owner, who sold the last of his shares in the magazine in 2012, declined to speculate on the wave of allegations against Wieseltier. “I don’t know what’s true and what’s not,” Peretz said.

I don’t remember Sarah Wildman

He added, “I don’t remember Sarah Wildman.”

Vox reached out to Wieseltier by email and text. He did not respond to repeated requests for comment.

The culture of the New Republic may have made the Wieseltier case inevitable

An organization’s culture is hard to truly see when one is living inside it. Institutionalized sexism doesn’t have clear markers. It’s like acknowledging the color of air. The New Republic, for decades, was a springboard for many careers — but mostly for men. The women knew we had a far shallower chance of rising up the masthead than our male counterparts; all of us hoped we’d be the exception. To do so, we entered into a game in which the rules were rigged against us, sometimes pushing us well past our point of comfort in order to remain in play.

That was particularly true when it came to Wieseltier. He is a renowned author, a charismatic speaker, and a celebrated once-in-a generation intellect whose reputation soared over the 30 years he spent as literary editor of the New Republic.

In my years at the magazine, Wieseltier seemed to command the space — the office, the halls, the conference room, the meetings. It was dazzling at times, infuriating at others, sometimes both. We were all, at times, in awe of him. He could be incredibly kind and encouraging to young writers, and act as a catalyst to their careers; he was also known to be capable of scathing criticism toward those less powerful than himself.

When I told Beinart my story, his response, it seemed to me, was perplexed at best, panicked at worst. He told me he felt compelled, legally, to launch some sort of investigation. But it all felt ad hoc.

At some point, someone — I believe it was Peter, though he no longer recalls this — advised me that I should tell Wieseltier I had said something, lest he be caught unaware. So I stopped by his office.

It proved an awful idea. Wieseltier was cold. He wanted to know why. As in: Why would I have said anything? In my recollection, he told me that I was acting like a child. In the moment, I felt like one. I had spoken, I said feebly, because I had felt uncomfortable.

If that sounds inarticulate, that’s because it — I — was.

Soon after that miserable conversation, a meeting was held in Wieseltier’s office — I was there, with him and Beinart.

(Beinart also described to me a different, earlier, meeting, between him, Peretz, and Wieseltier held explicitly to discuss this incident. Peretz, however, denies he was ever informed at all.)

In my presence, Wieseltier told the higher-ups that his marriage was a happy one, that he had no reason to be untoward. Of that night, he said we had merely “shared” a kiss. I remember that word. It was so breezy. It was so easy. It was so nothing. It was practically a lark.

I don’t remember speaking. I certainly don’t remember challenging it. I began to question myself, in that room, in that moment, a doubt that stayed with me for years. That was his version of events. At the time, and for a long time after, I wrestled with how I might have responded. What could I do? What was real, after all? Wasn’t this, too, a version of reality?

As far as I know, the entire incident was never spoken of again. I hadn’t yet heard the word “gaslighting,” but I think of it now. The very few people who learned of the incident from me were left with only one clear takeaway: Silence was infinitely preferable.

The narrative of shared complicity left me feeling deeply, deeply ashamed. I also felt frozen out. About two months after the incident, I ran into Wieseltier in the copy room. I remember I apologized.

I recall how I shaped it. I said I had wanted to come speak to him during the Yamim Noraim, the Days of Awe, when Jews come to wipe the slate for the coming year, asking for forgiveness from those they have harmed. He said if I had, he would have welcomed me with open arms.

Truthfully, though, I was fortunate.

A recent Equal Employment Opportunity Commission study found that 75 percent of women experience retaliation after reporting.

I wasn’t retaliated against. I was simply left to wither.

I left the magazine a few months later.

This is a story I never planned to tell

If you’d asked me last month, even last week, I’d have balked at the mere idea of writing an essay like this. I never planned to tell anyone this story. I had buried it, tucked it away marked under S for shame and cross-referenced into Y for youth.

In the weeks since the Harvey Weinstein scandal erupted, I, like many women, have thought back on any number of small and large incidents I’ve tolerated in my adult life. The famous writer who casually caressed my bum on a crowded balcony, because he could; perhaps he knew I wouldn’t say anything, so as not to make a scene. The man I had interviewed for a story who began to knead his fingers into the back of my neck and shoulders, leaving me to try to carefully extricate myself without, God forbid, being rude.

There are far more prurient stories I could share, and far larger, physical, violations, but these smaller anecdotes also keep swimming back up to the surface. That’s because, as a young woman, I learned to categorize. “Look,” I’ve said more times than I care to recall, “it could have been so much worse.”

As a young woman, I learned to categorize. “Look,” I’ve said more times than I care to recall, “it could have been so much worse.”

That in mind, I might still not have written anything, except that at the New Republic, as far as I know, I was the only one on staff who spoke up. And you know what? It felt like I’d ruined my life, or at least my career, for a time. The shame certainly never went away.

So when former (male) colleagues at the magazine began publicly saying that not only had they never known what was going on around them but no one had ever said anything, I felt compelled to finally outline what they’d missed.

In these past few harassment-story-saturated weeks, women have appeared in caches of 10 and 20, finally sheltered by the weight of their own numbers and the relative, if cold, comfort of corroboration, telling story after story of intimidation and predation. Many of these are horror stories of sexual assault and rape. That, thankfully, was not what happened to me, here. It’s in part why I hesitated to tell it, lest it in any way seem to diminish the enormity of what others have gone through.

But it’s important to remember that an individual woman, like I was, usually doesn’t realize she is, or may be, one of many. We all start out alone. And most often, we remain in that isolated bubble. That lonely space is a dangerous one — for careers, for mental health, and, most importantly, for systemic change.

My story was a lesson of sorts — just not the right kind of lesson

A half-dozen of my former colleagues contacted me after the Atlantic story ran. All express remorse. It’s a familiar refrain these days: We should have done more. We didn’t know what to say.

It’s been both mortifying and vaguely heartening to hear from everyone. But when I see my friends tweeting about how they had no idea what was happening in the office next door, I wonder: Why weren’t they told? Wouldn’t it have been better to have told the women on staff we were valued, if, indeed, we were? Whom did the silence protect?

The other day one of my former TNR colleagues, Sacha Zimmerman, who is now an editor at the Atlantic, told me that she had known my story at the time. It was instructive. When Wieseltier kissed her at a bar four years later, she said, she didn’t bother telling anyone.After failing to talk the US out of bombing targets in Syria, Russia responded to Friday’s strikes by saying they “threatened” Russia and warning of “consequences.”

“Our warnings have been left unheard,” Russia’s ambassador to the US, Anatoly Antonov, said in a tweet on Saturday morning. “We are being threatened. We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences.”

The US, UK, and France hit three targets in the Damascus suburbs around 9pm EDT on Friday using aircraft and cruise missiles launched from ships. All three targets were connected to Syria’s chemical weapons program, according to a DoD spokesperson Dana White.

Yet according to the US Defense Department, though Russian radar systems in Syria were on and detected US warplanes planes, Russia chose not to fire on them, instead only attempting to shoot down some of the cruise missiles. That suggests that despite Russia’s warnings of dire consequences, it appears Russian commanders are being extremely careful not to respond in a way that could escalate tensions with the US into a shooting war.

The strikes were a response to the Syrian regime’s use of chemical weapons on April 7 in Douma, Syria, which killed 42 civilians — many of them children — and wounded over 500 others. President Donald Trump immediately said that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad would pay a “big price” and blamed both Russia and Iran for supporting the Assad regime.

It’s the second time Trump has authorized bombing targets in Syria after a chemical attack. In April 2017, the US struck an airbase in Syria using cruise missiles. Human rights groups have reported a number of other chemical attacks, but until Saturday Trump hadn’t responded with military force again.

Iran also issued strong statements early Saturday condemning the strikes. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei tweeted that the leaders of the US, UK, and France “committed a major crime” with the strikes and proceeded to blame the US for helping to create ISIS and unleashing it on Iraq and Syria.

The U.S. played a major role in creating #ISIS, they entered where ISIS was trapped to save them. They raised the wicked creatures [ISIS] with Saudi money, turning them [ISIS] lose on Iraqi and Syrian nations; but, resistance against the US and their agents saved these countries. — Khamenei.ir (@khamenei_ir) April 14, 2018

Russian President Vladimir Putin also called for an immediate emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to discuss the “aggressive actions” of the US, UK, and France.

At the council meeting Saturday morning, Russia’s ambassador to the UN Vasily Nebenzya said that the bombing “makes an already catastrophic humanitarian situation in Syria even worse.”

US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley responded, saying she’d spoken with Trump hours earlier and he’d told her, “If the Syrian regime uses this poisonous gas again, the United States is locked and loaded.”

Russia defends Assad, but avoids direct confrontation with US

Experts and lawmakers warned before the strikes that although the chance is small, bombing Syria could increase the odds of a war between Russia and the US.

“The possibility of an open conflict with Russia is not zero, and any time it’s not zero we need to be careful,” Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM) told me on Thursday.

Russia continues to back Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, providing military equipment — including air-defense systems — and has sent Russian troops and paid Russian mercenaries to Syria. But Russian President Vladimir Putin issued a statement on Saturday accusing the US of making “the already catastrophic humanitarian situation in Syria even worse and bring[ing] suffering to civilians” with its strikes. Yet he made no mention of a possible Russian military response.

Putin also denied that the Assad regime used chemical weapons in Douma, saying that Russian military experts had tested the area and found nothing. US officials have said they have blood tests from civilians in Douma that prove the Assad regime used chemical weapons.

Alex Ward contributed reporting to this article.The United States, along with Britain and France, just bombed Syria. It’s the second time the US has waded into the country’s seven-year conflict in response to a chemical weapons attack.

The allies hit three targets — including the capital of Damascus — all related to Syria’s chemical program with 105 weapons: an important research center, a storage facility, and an equipment facility and command post. Damascus residents said they awoke to explosions. The strikes reportedly came from coalition cruise-missile-equipped ships and warplanes.

The strikes hit at the “very heart” of Syria’s chemical weapon program and dealt it a “serious blow,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, a top Pentagon spokesperson, told reporters on Saturday morning. But, McKenzie also noted that Syria could reconstitute its program and that the strikes didn’t take out all of Syria’s chemical weapons abilities. He added that the strikes were conducted to purposefully minimize the spread of chemical weapons that might’ve been stored at the facilities.

The map of Syria below shows the targets the US, Britain, and France hit on Friday.

The Trump administration has offered mixed messages about its commitment to attacking Syria after chemical attacks. “We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” President Donald Trump said from the White House on Friday night.

But soon after, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis gave a different assessment. “Right now, this is a one-time shot,” Mattis added, “designed to set back the Syrian war machine’s ability to produce chemical weapons.” Mattis did note the increased scale of the strikes compared to last year’s attack. “This time with our allies, we have struck harder,” Mattis said. “Together we have sent a clear message to Assad and his murderous lieutenants that they should not perpetrate another chemical weapons attack.”

Mattis and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph Dunford, said on Friday they tried not to hit Russian troops stationed in Syria, which might have ignited a larger conflict.

Russia has warned of “consequences” after the attacks, with Russian President Vladimir Putin calling the strikes “act of aggression” that could “have a destructive effect on the entire system of international relations.” Both Russia and Syria claimed on Saturday that “a significant number” of the missiles launched at Syria were shot down, although the Pentagon denies that account.

However, “Not a single one of the cruise missiles entered the zone of Russian air defense systems,” Russia’s Defense Ministry said in a Saturday statement. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khameini called the strikes a “crime.”

No American pilots were killed, according to the Pentagon, and as of now the US does not know if there were any civilian casualties.

The strikes came just six days after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces used chemical weapons against locals outside Damascus, killing at least 42 adults and children. Doctors and activists in Syria have circulated pictures showing men, women, and children with foam coming out of their mouths and noses, which doctors said meant they were exposed to a nerve agent.

The morning after the April 7 chemical attack, Trump said Assad and those that support him — especially Russia and Iran — would pay a “big price” for their actions. He spent the next few days discussing how to respond with his top advisers as well as foreign leaders like French President Emmanuel Macron and UK Prime Minister Theresa May. May has authorized strikes on Syria: “The fact of this attack should surprise no-one,” she said.

In a Monday Cabinet meeting, Trump called the chemical weapons attack “atrocious,” adding that “we cannot allow atrocities like that.” The Syrian government, for its part, denies having anything to do with the alleged chemical weapons assault.

And on Wednesday, Trump tweeted that an attack was imminent: “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” Trump wrote. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

This isn’t the first time Trump has responded to the use of chemical weapons in Syria. He ordered a similar strike almost exactly a year ago in response to a regime-ordered chemical weapons attack in rebel-held northern Syria. The United States shot 59 Tomahawk missiles at the al-Shayrat airbase, where Assad had launched the chemical attack on April 4, 2017, that killed more than 80 people.

Still, the timing for Trump’s Syria intervention is a little surprising. Just last week, the president said he wanted to remove the approximately 2,000 US troops currently in Syria to fight ISIS.

After pushback from his advisers, he eventually agreed to allow the troops to stay, but he told members of his national security team that they had about six months to bring American forces home.

But it seems Trump reacts viscerally to chemical attacks on innocent civilians and will respond forcefully to punish Assad for using them. But it’s unclear as of now if Trump will punish the Syrian government any further — or what impact it will have now.

“Assad retains 100 percent of his mass murder delivery systems,” Fred Hof, President Barack Obama’s special adviser for transition in Syria, told me. “If he concludes — as he did a year ago -- that all he needs to do is observe a time out on using the really strong chemical munitions, then the strikes will go down in history as empty gestures.”

How we got here

Assad is winning the war in Syria and has now turned his attention to retaking parts of the country he lost, especially the areas outside Damascus.

A central part of Assad’s strategy includes the deliberate punishment of civilian population centers in order to sap rebels and their civilian supporters of their will to fight. Jennifer Cafarella, an expert at the Institute for the Study of War, described the strategy in February to me as “siege, starve, and surrender.” Assad has repeatedly used chemical weapons, which are both lethal and a brutally effective way of inducing mass panic, as part of this campaign of terror.

Assad’s strategy played out once again in Douma, a Damascus suburb, on April 7. The Syrian Air Force dropped bombs reportedly carrying toxic gas, killing over 40 people and injuring scores more. One bystander said he smelled chlorine after the attack.

Doctors and activists on the ground sent reporters, including me, pictures of the devastation. They show men, women, and children lifeless on the ground or against walls, with white foam coming out of their mouths and noses. Some of them show doctors treating patients lucky enough to survive. Videos of the carnage circulated online.

The following morning, Trump issued a warning to Assad and the countries that support his regime, including rare denunciations of Putin and Russia.

Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria. Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

....to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

And on Sunday, Israel reportedly attacked a Syrian military base. Israel has bombed Syrian targets fairly frequently over the course of the war, usually because it’s worried about Iran’s activities in the country. The base that Israel hit, T4, had nothing do with the chemical attack in Douma — as far we know — but it is a known hub for Iranian activity.

The combination of Trump’s tweets and Israel’s forceful actions led to speculation that Trump might strike Syria again. The president’s chats with foreign leaders added to the suspicion. In a call between Trump and Macron on April 8, the two leaders both “agreed that the Assad regime must be held accountable for its continued human rights abuses.” And in a call with May on Tuesday, “The President and Prime Minister agreed not to allow the use of chemical weapons to continue,” according to a White House readout.

Trump also met with his top military officials and new National Security Adviser John Bolton throughout the week to discuss potential actions in Syria. The president promised a “major decision” over the next 24 to 48 hours and spoke passionately about the horrors of the attack. “It was atrocious. It was horrible,” Trump said. “This is about humanity, and it can’t be allowed to happen.”

But Trump became indecisive about when to strike. On Wednesday, Trump tweeted that Russia should “Get ready” because missiles “will be coming” toward Syria. That afternoon, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters that “all options are on the table” when it came to Syria, which suggested that Trump hadn’t actually decided to use force. And on Thursday morning, Trump tweeted he “Never said when an attack on Syria would take place.”

The new strikes are meant to persuade Assad not to order more attacks like Douma. The problem is that the Syrian dictator has every incentive to keep doing so until the war is won — and to bet Trump wouldn’t be willing to actually take on his regime directly.

These strikes are about stopping chemical attacks — not the war

Friday’s strikes are the second time Trump has bombed Syria in response to a chemical attack. The first time was almost exactly a year ago, on April 6, 2017, just two days after Assad’s forces killed more than 80 people — including 16 women and 23 children — in the city of Khan Sheikhoun.

This is now a trend for Trump. When a large-scale chemical attack happens and there is immense pressure for Trump to act, the president authorizes a military response to punish Assad. But there’s a problem: These punitive strikes don’t change the course of the Syrian civil war.

First, the chemical attacks almost certainly won’t stop. Assad’s forces launched more than 200 chemical attacks since the start of the war — and continued them even after the US attack last year.

And second, the US and Western powers don’t want to wade deeper into the Syrian conflict. Trump’s justification for authorizing the strike isn’t to end the fighting, or even to slow down Assad’s killing of his country’s civilians. It’s just meant as punishment for one specific crime — the use of chemical weapons — not a broader effort aimed at striking Assad until he stops bombing Syrians or leaves power.

That means the Syrian leader will likely continue to gain power until he fully controls the country, giving Russia and Iran a major boost. Washington’s main goal is to fight ISIS in Syria, which is near defeat. That’s why Trump has put pressure on his national security team to wrap up the fighting against the terrorist group and start withdrawing America’s troops.

So, sadly, expect more death and destruction in Syria even after Friday’s punitive attack.It was business as usual in Rana Plaza in Bangladesh’s Dhaka District on April 24, 2013. Hundreds of garment workers reported to work like always. But the day before, they’d noticed an unsettling sight: cracks in the walls of the multi-story building. Still, the laborers were told to return to work the next morning.

That decision proved catastrophic.

The plaza — home to clothing factories, apartments, stores, and a bank — crumbled with the workers inside. It now has the horrific distinction of being the site of the deadliest garment factory disaster ever. More than 1,100 people died during the Rana Plaza collapse, and thousands more were injured.

So, what does that catastrophe have to do with consumers in the US? A number of Western companies, from Nike to Ivanka Trump to H&M, source labor from Bangladesh. Specifically, Zara, Walmart, Benetton, and Mango had all produced apparel in Rana Plaza factories. And more than 120,000 pounds of clothing from The Children’s Place had been produced at the plaza during the eight months before the building fell.

After the disaster, murder charges were brought against 38 people connected, and more than 200 apparel companies from 20 countries signed the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh to prevent similar tragedies from happening. The signatories include American Eagle Outfitters, Abercrombie & Fitch, Zara, and H&M.

In 2018, Bangladeshi garment workers and their advocates have made inroads. A report released Tuesday by Mark Anner, director of the Center for Global Workers’ Rights at Penn State, says the accord has made more than 2.5 million laborers safer. On the same day, corporate and labor leaders met at the Ford Foundation in New York to review the predicament of Bangladesh’s garment workers today.

Challenges remain. Although working conditions have improved, wages are stagnant and overtime is the norm, due to fast fashion’s tight production deadlines. Now the International Labor Rights Forum (ILRF), which helped coordinate the Ford event, is urging apparel companies to show a deeper commitment to protecting workers’ rights.

As a result of the accord, 97,000 of 132,000 hazards at factories in Bangladesh have been eliminated, Anner found. An additional 12,000 hazards have reportedly been addressed. They just await review by the accord’s independent group of inspectors.

“To make this degree of progress in five years is really, really quite significant and important,” Anner says.

As a result of the accord, 97,000 of 132,000 hazards at factories in Bangladesh have been eliminated

Elizabeth L. Cline, author of Overdressed: The Shockingly High Cost of Cheap Fashion, agrees. She traveled to Bangladesh in 2011 while doing research for her book. When Rana Plaza collapsed, she wasn’t surprised.

“One thing that’s very unusual about the garment industry in Bangladesh — you have factories in tall office buildings that were not built for manufacturing,” she says. “You have factories in very obviously shoddily constructed buildings. I think for me, it was clear. You could just see it: These were buildings that were not built to code.”

From 2014 to 2018, the number of factories in multipurpose buildings has dropped by 49 percent, from 155 factories to 79 factories. The garment industry is moving out of urban Dhaka to the larger industrial zone of Gazipur, according to Anner’s report, “Binding Power: The Sourcing Squeeze, Workers’ Rights, and Building Safety in Bangladesh Since Rana Plaza.”

One reason the workers have seen improvements is that they’ve organized into unions. Anner found that unions in Bangladesh rose dramatically in the months after the building collapse. As time has passed, however, union activity has been suppressed. About 230 unions launched in Bangladesh from mid-2013 through the end of 2014. But by 2015, the Rana Plaza catastrophe was no longer the foremost issue in the public consciousness, and the government began to stop would-be unions from forming. Still, Anner says there is more organized labor today than there was before the disaster.

“You have factories in very obviously shoddily constructed buildings. You could just see it: These were buildings that were not built to code.”

“The rate of union growth has been dramatically reduced in recent years,” he says. “It’s an area where much more work needs to be done. Having a union in the workplace is such an important achievement. The union can leverage for higher wages, benefits, and more reasonable working shifts.”

Unions can also train members to identify workplace hazards and report them. If workers are retaliated against as a result, the union can intervene, Anner points out.

Since the fall of Rana Plaza, garment worker deaths haven’t been completely eliminated, according to the ILRF, but they have dropped precipitously. Roughly 40 Bangladeshi garment workers have died, mostly in fires, since the disaster. Compare this to the 2006-2010 period, when nearly 500 garment workers were killed in fires and similar circumstances in Bangladesh.

In the wake of the Rana Plaza collapse, wages rose only to hold steady. The minimum wage increased from $38 to $68 monthly, but it hasn’t risen in tandem with inflation. A 2016 report from the Global Living Wage Coalition suggested that the living wage in the country should be anywhere from $177 to $214 depending on the region. In Bangladesh and other developing nations, garment work is often described as a form of empowerment for young women, says Liana Foxvog, director of organizing and communications for the ILRF. But when these women are underpaid, it traps them and their families in a cycle of poverty, she says.

Companies often blame their refusal to pay workers higher wages on efforts to keep up with competitors, but Foxvog questions this claim.

“Wages are such a small part of the actual price of a product,” she says. “They could even double or triple the wages.”

In 2017, Bangladeshi workers for H&M, Gap, and Zara protested for a threefold salary increase. By this year, H&M had promised to pay workers a living wage, but the company has been unclear about its plans to make that happen, leading the Clean Clothes Campaign to call the retailer’s promise a “publicity stunt.”

The Bangladeshi government plays a role in setting wages too. Anner says the country’s competitor in the retail market, Vietnam, has accounted for inflation in its wages, while Bangladesh has not. The average monthly wage in Vietnam is about $168, more than double what Bangladesh pays.

Anner’s report also points the finger at fast fashion for lowering wages for Bangladeshi workers. From 2011 to 2015, the amount of time workers had to finish the production process fell by 8.1 percent. This led to a rise in forced overtime to meet deadlines. It has also led wages to drop since December 2013, when wages were raised.

The average monthly wage in Vietnam is about $168, more than double what Bangladesh pays

“Fast fashion is part of the trend that’s putting pressure toward the race-to-the-bottom working conditions,” Foxvog says. “There is a very quick turnaround on products. When the orders come in, they can be forced to work overtime without getting proper overtime pay.”

Cline says almost no garment workers in developing nations earn a living wage, or close to it. All too often, sewing clothes for Western brands continues to be a poverty-paying job, she contends.

“While fashion chains continue to get wealthier, people at the very bottom are not getting their fair share,” she says. “In some instances, real wages in the garment industry have actually gone down.”

With these concerns still in the air, the accord is set to sunset next month. Last year, however, most of the companies that signed it decided to expand the agreement and its scope to May 2021. About 55 percent of the current accord members have agreed to do so, but some companies have yet to make the commitment. Abercrombie & Fitch is one of them, Foxvog says.

“While fashion chains continue to get wealthier, people at the very bottom are not getting their fair share. ... In some instances, real wages in the garment industry have actually gone down.”

“We still need 60 more companies to sign to reach that original number [of signatories],” Foxvog says. “Abercrombie & Fitch is one of the most prominent that has not renewed its commitment. We’re asking them to stop dragging their feet and asking them to continue protecting the safety of Bangladeshi garment workers.”

During the week of April 18, activists will join in a Global Week of Action demanding apparel brands to sign the 2018 accord. In the United States, protesters will demonstrate at A&F stores nationally. While Abercrombie wasn’t directly sourcing labor from Rana Plaza, it was previously tied to a garment factory tragedy. In 2010, 29 Bangladeshi workers sewing clothes for A&F, Gap, JC Penney, and other companies died in a factory fire.

Foxvog would also like Ivanka Trump’s apparel company to sign the accord. It never had, but last year, the Washington Post called her company out for it. The paper argued that Trump’s business hasn’t contributed to efforts to make Bangladeshi garment workers safe. Yet it has reaped the benefits of new measures that do so. Trump’s company licenses some production to the clothing distributor G-III Apparel Group, the subsidiaries of which rely on Bangladeshi labor.

“Several months ago, ILRF contacted Ivanka Trump’s clothing line to urge them to join the accord, but they never responded,” Foxvog says. “We urge Ivanka to stop being a free rider on safety and actually sign the accord.”

After the Rana Plaza collapse, many Western retailers denied having a connection to the facility. That turned out to be untrue, but Cline doesn’t necessarily think these companies were lying.

“One of the reasons Rana Plaza was such a watershed moment is because it became clear that fashion brands didn’t know where their products were being made,” she says. “Their supply chains had gotten so large and out of their own control, they didn’t know. Now there is a genuine move toward transparency, so there are more brands now who share a public list of suppliers or make that information available on their website to their customers.”

“One of the reasons Rana Plaza was such a watershed moment is because it became clear that fashion brands didn’t know where their products were being made”

Asked what consumers can do to make a difference, Anner says that boycotts work only when there’s a specific goal in question. For example, if a company refused to pay wages to workers it had dismissed, a good boycott goal would be to stop patronizing the company until it did. He also encourages consumers to ask retailers about the labor rights of garment workers.

“Consumers have their favorite brands,” he says “They should be talking to the manager and asking really tough questions about what conditions the clothes are made in, and if it was made in Bangladesh, is the company committed to paying a living wage?”

Should consumers simply stop buying clothing made in Bangladesh to sidestep a system that violates workers’ rights? Not so fast, Foxvog says. Even in the US, wage theft is a problem in garment factories, and workers toil away in what are essentially sweatshops.

But Foxvog supports buying less clothing, or buying clothes from secondhand stores, small retailers, or artisan friends.

“Educating consumers is incredibly important,” she says. “Consumers just don’t have a lot of great choices.”The US military bombed Syria on Friday evening in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack last week that killed a number of innocent civilians, including children. American forces, together with British and French allies, bombed three different targets in Syria — each of which was related to Syria’s chemical weapons program. No American pilots were killed, according to the Pentagon; the number of Syrian and other casualties is not yet known.

The strikes, Defense Secretary James Mattis said in a late Friday press conference, were not the opening of a broader campaign. “Right now, this is a one-time shot...designed to set back the Syrian war machine’s ability to produce chemical weapons,” Mattis said.

But that doesn’t mean these strikes aren’t without risk — far from it.

The logic behind this attack is to show that the United States is committed to retaliatory strikes any time the Syrian regime uses chemical weapons. Tonight’s strikes are an announcement that US policy is open-ended bombing of Assad’s forces unless and until he stops using his chemical weapons.

And that creates a serious risk of escalation, and deeper US involvement in one of the world’s deadliest and most dangerous civil wars.

The US bombings in Syria: the real risk

Let’s be clear: These limited strikes almost certainly did not destroy the Syrian government’s entire chemical weapons stockpile, let alone seriously set back its ability to fight anti-government rebels.

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs James Dunford seemed to admit as much at the same Friday press conference, saying there were “other targets” they could have hit related to the chemical weapons program, but that they chose not to because of a high risk of civilian casualties.

In other words, this was symbolic strike, designed to signal loud and clear to the Syrian government that the use of chemical weapons would provoke American retaliation, thus hopefully deterring Assad from doing so again.

One can’t help but feel a little bit of déjà vu. Almost exactly one year ago, the Assad regime used chemical weapons on a civilian population center, killing over 80 people. This prompted Trump to launch limited airstrikes, that time on a Syrian airbase. Again, the idea was to show Assad that the US would not tolerate such actions and thus deter him from ever doing so again.

Clearly, that failed.

So what happens if these strikes fail to deter Assad yet again?

This is the fundamental risk inherent in the “limited strikes” strategy Trump appears to have settled on. True, each individual strike to date has been limited and low risk. But the escalation dynamic is entirely in Assad’s control: If he wants to use more chemical weapons, the US will either have to respond yet again or be seen as giving Assad (and other dictators) a green light to use chemical weapons on their own people.

The US policy is now to bomb Assad any time he launches a mass-casualty chemical attack.

And it’s not like chemical weapons are completely unheard of in Syria: Assad’s forces have used them over 200 times since the beginning of the civil war, according to a tally by chemical weapons expert Rebecca Hersman. They’re an effective weapon of terror, one that fits horrifically well with the Assad regime’s strategy of crushing the rebels and their civilian supporters’ will to fight.

And every time the US hits a Syrian target, there’s always a risk that something goes wrong: A US warplane is shot down, the US accidentally hits a civilian target, or accidentally kills a Russian or Iranian-backed fighter —prompting one or both of those countries to retaliate against the United States.

War is always unpredictable and dangerous; the war in Syria, which involves a number of regional powers and two nuclear-armed states, is exponentially more so. Indeed, Russia is already warning that Friday’s bombing raid “will not be met without consequences,” per a BBC report.

At the Friday night briefing, Secretary of Defense Mattis insisted that this attack — because it was bigger than last year’s — would be sufficient to deter Assad from further chemical use. “The Assad regime didn’t get the message last year. This year, we and our allies have struck harder,” he said.

But neither he, nor anyone else, knows this to be true. He admitted as much, saying that “should [Assad] decide to use more chemical weapons in the future,” the US would be willing to go back into Syria. And every time it does so, the risk of some kind of disaster grows.President Donald Trump has ordered strikes on Syria in retaliation for an April 7 chemical attack in a town outside Damascas.

“The evil and despicable attack left mothers and fathers, infants and children thrashing in pain and gasping for air,” Trump said in a brief televised statement on Friday night. “These are not the actions of a man. They are crimes of a monster instead.”

The chemical attack -- carried out by the Syrian regime — in Douma, in Eastern Ghouta killed more than 40 people, including children. Almost exactly a year ago, Trump launched 59 Tomahawk missiles at a Syrian airbase after a chemical attack left about 80 people dead.

Trump did not offer many details about the duration of the strike, though he said that the US, along with France and the United Kingdom, “are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.”

Read a transcript of Trump’s statement below:

My fellow Americans. A short time ago I ordered the United States armed forces to launch precision strikes on targets associated with the chemical weapons capabilities of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad. A combined operation with the armed forces of France and the United Kingdom is now underway. We thank them both.

Tonight, I want to speak with you about why we have taken this action. One year ago, Assad launched a savage chemical weapons attack against his own innocent people. The United States responded with 58 missile strikes that destroyed 20 percent of the Syrian air force.

Last Saturday the Assad regime again deployed chemical weapons to slaughter innocent civilians near the town of Douma near Syrian capitol of Damascus. It was a pattern of chemical weapons use by that very terrible regime. The evil and despicable attack left mothers and fathers, infants and children thrashing in pain and gasping for air. These are not the actions of a man. They are crimes of a monster instead.

Following the horrors of World War I a century ago, civilized nations joined together to ban chemical warfare. Chemical weapons are uniquely dangerous, not only because they inflict gruesome suffering, but because even small amounts can unleash widespread devastation.

The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread, and use of chemical weapons. Establishing this deterrent is a vital national security interest of the United States. The combined American, British, and French response to these atrocities will integrate all instruments of our national power: military, economic, and diplomatic. We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.

I also have a message tonight for the two governments most responsible for supporting, equipping, and financing the criminal Assad regime. To Iran and to Russia, I ask: What kind of a nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of innocent men, women and children? The nations of the world can be judged by the friends they keep. No nation can succeed in the long run by promoting rouge states, brutal tyrants, and murderous dictators.

In 2013 President Putin and his government promised the world that they would guarantee the elimination of Syria’s chemical weapons. Assad’s recent attack and today’s response are the direct result of Russia’s failure to keep that promise. Russia must decide if it will continue down this dark path, or if it will join with civilized nations as a force for stability and peace.

Hopefully some day we’ll get along with Russia, and maybe even Iran — but maybe not. I will say this, the United States has a lot to offer, with the greatest and most powerful economy in the history of the world.

In Syria, the United States, with but a small force being used to eliminate what is left of ISIS, is doing what is necessary to protect the American people. Over the last year, nearly 100 percent of the territory once controlled by the so-called ISIS caliphate in Syria and Iraq has been liberated and eliminated.

The United States has also rebuilt our friendships across the Middle East. We have asked our partners to take greater responsibility for securing their home region, including contributing large amounts of money for the resources, equipment, and all of the anti-ISIS effort. Increased engagement from our friends including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Egypt, and others can ensure that Iran does not profit from the eradication of ISIS.

America does not seek an indefinite presence in Syria, under no circumstances. As other nations step up their contributions, we look forward to the day when we can bring our warriors home, and great warriors they are. Looking around our very troubled world, Americans have no illusions. We cannot purge the world of evil or act everywhere there is tyranny. No amount of American blood or treasure can produce lasting peace, and security, in the Middle East.

It’s a troubled place. We will try to make it better, but it is a troubled place. The United States will be a partner and a friend, but the fate of the region lies in the hands of its own people. In the last century, we looked straight into the darkest places of the human soul. We saw the anguish that can be unleashed and the evil that can take hold. By the end of World War I, more than one million people had been killed or injured by chemical weapons. We never want to see that ghastly specter return. So today, the nations of Britain, France, and the United States of American have have marshalled their righteous power against barbarism and brutality.

Tonight I ask all Americans to say a prayer for our noble warriors and our allies as they carry out their missions. We pray that God will bring comfort to those suffering in Syria. We pray that God there guide the whole region of dignity and peace. We pray that God will continue to watch over and bless the United States of America. Thank you and good night. Thank you.Vox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world, curated by Ella Nilsen. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.

James Comey’s explosive new book is about to come out; that turtle with green hair that went viral this week is endangered.

Heeeere’s Comey!

James Comey is back, baby. And he has some tea to spill. [Vox / Jen Kirby]

The former FBI director’s new tell-all book about his tenure at the bureau and firing by President Donald Trump is out next week, but excerpts started leaking to the Washington Post last night. And from what we’ve read so far, it’s a doozy. [Washington Post / Philip Rucker]

First of all, there’s the revelation from Comey that Trump was seemingly obsessed with the possible existence of the infamous “pee tape” of Russian prostitutes urinating on a Moscow hotel bed that the Obamas had slept in, on Trump’s behest. [Washington Post / Philip Rucker]

Comey writes that Trump wanted him to try to make the scandalous, unverified dossier go away because the revelations about the prostitutes were too difficult for first lady Melania Trump to read about. [ABC / George Stephanopoulos]

Comey says Trump ran things at the White House like a mob boss runs the Mafia, on which everything was based on loyalty. [Reuters]

He said plenty of other things about Trump’s character as well, describing the president as “unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values.” [CNN / Chris Cillizza]

Trump, predictably, did not handle the news well. The president had several afternoon outbursts on Twitter, in one calling Comey a “slimeball” and in another lashing out at former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, saying, “McCabe was totally controlled by Comey — McCabe is Comey!!” [Donald Trump via Twitter]

As much as Comey is making himself out to be the hero in this, it’s worth noting he has a problematic past, including how he handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton’s emails while staying silent about the investigation of Trump during the 2016 campaign. [Vox / Alex Ward]

vox-mark Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

Meet a turtle with a green mohawk on the endangered species list

The internet was captivated Thursday by a turtle with green “hair” (it’s actually algae) and the uncanny ability to breathe through its genitals, which had this week been added to a list of “evolutionarily distinct” endangered species. [Reuters / Colin Packham]

The list of “weird reptiles” is defined by both their extinction risk and how unusual their features have become through evolution, according to Imperial College London. Like other endangered species lists, the goal is to highlight species that will need help from conservationists if they want to avoid going extinct. [Newsweek / Elana Glowatz]

As of now, Australia doesn’t have a plan for protecting the Mary River turtle. (Even when an animal is designated an endangered species, that does not mean it’s automatically protected.) [Guardian / Lisa Cox]

The list also comes a few days after the publication of a new study showing how marketing affects our perception of endangered species, the thought being that the more often we see an animal, the less at risk of extinction we believe it is. [Australian Broadcasting Corporation / Nick Kilvert]

Miscellaneous

Checkout lines are about to get (marginally) faster: Credit card signatures will soon be a thing of the past. [The Verge / Chaim Gartenberg]

A small Dutch village installed “musical rumble strips” to warn drivers who veered onto the shoulder. A few days later, annoyed residents demanded they be removed. [NYT / Palko Karasz and Yonette Joseph]

When it comes to the fresh hell that is glitter sunscreen, can we just ... not? [Racked / Cheryl Wischhover]

A moss specialist was accidentally hired for one of the most intense covert operations of World War II. Then he helped end the war. [Mental Floss / Jake Rossen]

Verbatim

“Our society is quite conservative, and for someone to come out and point a finger at someone who’s assaulted her is huge, I don’t know if we’re ready for it yet.” [Cindy Bishop, a Thai celebrity, on creating the hashtag #DontTellMeHowToDress after the Thai government told women to prevent sexual assault by dressing conservatively / Bloomberg]

Watch this: How border walls disrupt nature

The environmental impact of Trump’s wall, explained. [YouTube / Christophe Haubursin and Eliza Barclay]

Read more

A new law intended to curb sex trafficking threatens the future of the internet as we know it

Entrance fees at 117 National Parks will increase — but only by $5 to $10

Netflix vs. Cannes: why they’re fighting, what it means for cinema, and who really loses

These huge new wind turbines are a marvel. They’re also the future.

The Oklahoma teachers strike is over. But many teachers refuse to go back to class.Donald Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is under criminal investigation The FBI and Justice Department are looking into his finances.

Michael Cohen, Donald Trump’s personal lawyer and “fix-it” guy, is facing legal scrutiny — potentially for bank fraud and violation of campaign finance law.

The FBI raided Cohen’s home, hotel, and office looking for, among other things, information about payments to women to quiet damaging stories about the president. Cohen paid porn actress Stormy Daniels, who says she had an affair with Trump before he became president, $130,000 of his own money in exchange for a nondisclosure agreement. He also may be involved with a $150,000 payment from the National Enquirer to former Playboy model Karen McDougal, to bury another story about an alleged affair with Trump.

Investigators are reportedly also interested in whether Cohen made any behind-the-scenes efforts to prevent the infamous Access Hollywood tape from going public.

Cohen worked as a high-level executive in the Trump Organization for nearly a decade. During that time, he pursued business deals in the former Soviet Union and tried to get a Trump Tower Moscow built during the presidential campaign. Trump is outraged about the attention being aimed at his personal attorney, maintaining that the investigations are a “witch hunt.”The Justice Department is investigating President Donald Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen as part of a “criminal investigation,” according to a court filing Friday.

The FBI raided Cohen’s office and hotel room on Monday, and Cohen’s lawyers are trying to prevent the FBI from looking through the documents and electronic devices agents seized in their search.

Cohen is at the center of several stories involving payoffs to women who claim to have had relationships with Trump before he was president. Cohen reportedly paid one woman, Stormy Daniels, directly with his own money while allegedly helping to organize the payment for a second, Karen McDougal, from a tabloid publisher.

The FBI conducted the search because of concerns that the money may have violated campaign finance law, the Washington Post reported on Tuesday. The Justice Department is also looking at whether Cohen violated banking laws in how he got the money.

Reporters asked White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Friday if Cohen is still Trump’s personal lawyer. Sanders said she wasn’t sure.

Friday’s filing is the first time the Justice Department has confirmed that Cohen is being looked at for potential criminal activity. The Justice Department was responding to Cohen’s legal maneuvering, saying that the agency has the right to go through what evidence it collected on Monday.

“The searches were authorized by a federal magistrate judge, who had found probable cause to believe that the premises and devices searched contained evidence, fruits, and instrumentalities of conduct for which Cohen is under criminal investigation,” the Justice Department’s filing said.

The court document doesn’t say what Cohen is being investigated for or what FBI agents collected in their raid.

Trump responded to Monday’s raid by calling it a “disgrace,” and lashed out at special counsel Robert Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in comments to reporters before a meeting on the situation in Syria. He then tweeted about the two on Wednesday, saying they were going “crazy.”There’s been a lot of discussion lately about whether President Donald Trump will try to fire special counsel Robert Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, the two men who wield the most power in the Russia investigation.

A series of scandals, with the FBI raiding the office of Trump’s personal lawyer and a string of Trump associates cooperating with the Mueller probe, has increased pressure on Trump and led him to lash out at Mueller and Rosenstein.

On Wednesday, a bipartisan group of senators introduced legislation that would try to protect Mueller, who is leading the probe into whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia during the 2016 presidential election. Even Trump allies like Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) are warning the president not to fire the special counsel, calling such a move “suicide.”

Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-NM), is one of those concerned. When Heinrich and I spoke by phone on Thursday, he described the moment as an impending crisis for the country. He also expressed fears that the president could use a military strike on Syria to divert news coverage from a Justice Department purge.

Heinrich serves on the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is currently in the middle of its own investigation into Russian meddling in the election, and on the Senate Armed Services Committee, which oversees the military.

A transcript of our conversation, lightly edited for length and clarity, follows.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

You’ve expressed concern that Trump will interfere with special counsel Mueller’s Russia investigation. What do you think he might do?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

I’m broadly worried about this president not understanding how important prosecutorial independence is in a democracy. I worry that they [the Trump administration] have a view that they can dismiss special counsel Mueller, when that is not what the law states. I also worry that they may dismiss Rod Rosenstein in the coming days. We’re getting a lot of very concerning signals.

The only reason for a president to dismiss the deputy attorney general or the special counsel is to obstruct justice, to stymie this investigation. And I think that is deeply troubling.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

What are those concerning signals that you mentioned?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

Conversations that I’m having with my colleagues about the state of the White House right now, and about the willingness of the president to act unilaterally, in ways that are not necessarily bounded by the rule of law.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Those conversations have you worried that he might take immediate action?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

We’ve had a difficult dance in my caucus [among Democrats] in terms of confirming a number of the people who serve the administration. While you may not agree with various positions, a lot of the decisions had to be made based on just wanting some adults in the room. And the influence of the “adults in the room” crew seems to be waning at the White House.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

President Trump tweeted on Thursday that he agreed with White House lawyer Ty Cobb’s advice to cooperate with the special counsel. Does that give you any encouragement that Trump may not try to interfere with Mueller?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

I don’t think you can take a lot from the president’s tweets except that he is highly erratic, and that he will say one thing one day and say something else the next day. That’s part of the problem.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Do you think he’s going to fire Mueller?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

My gut tells me that is a very real possibility.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Do you think the bill introduced in the Senate yesterday to protect Mueller could pass, and do you think there’s anything else the Senate could do to try to protect the special counsel’s investigation?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

Oh, there’s a lot we could do. It will require partnership, and it will be up to our Republican colleagues to see how they step up at this moment in history. If the worst happens, they may have to make some very difficult decisions about whether their loyalty is to the president or whether their loyalty is to the republic.

I don’t envy them in that, but that will be required for there to be a solution that preserves prosecutorial independence. If we can’t preserve rule of law, then we’re a banana republic; we’re only as good as our last election.

We have survived for 240 years as a country because there are institutions that are more important than who the president is at any given moment, or who’s in the Senate or on the Supreme Court. We have to defend those institutions.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

What do you make of the president’s claim yesterday that the Mueller probe is the largest source of “bad blood” between the US and Russia right now?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

I don’t take the president as an expert on diplomacy with Russia.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Are you also concerned that the president might try to intervene in the ongoing Senate investigation into Russian meddling?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

At the moment, that has not been a concern. I think the president’s behavior likely stems from the fact that he views the Department of Justice as a whole as being his lawyers, instead of being the independent law enforcement and prosecutorial arm of the US government. When you view the Justice Department in that way, it sets you up for a lot of conflicts because that’s not how our system is designed.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

While President Trump is trying to manage pressure from the Russia investigation, he also seems to be on the verge of bombing Syria. The US military received blood samples showing that Syria’s Assad regime used chemical weapons in the city of Douma on April 7. Do you think striking Syria will deter the use of chemical weapons, either by Assad or another actor in the future?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

It can be an effective deterrent. It depends on how it is designed, communicated, and implemented. You know, my concern with Syria right now is the convergence of events. I think there’s a great deal of concern that a cruise missile strike on Syria could easily become a smokescreen for a White House that wants to flood the zone on media at a time when they move to remove someone at the Department of Justice.

Are we really talking about Syria here, or are we talking about Syria because the White House doesn’t want to talk about the Department of Justice?

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

That would be a remarkable move — to strike and potentially put US troops at risk just to distract from the Justice Department.

Sen. Martin Heinrich

It sure would.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

But you think that’s a real possibility?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

Yeah, I do.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

You’ve generally stuck to pretty measured criticisms about President Trump in the past, but you’re making some pretty dramatic statements today. What’s changed?

Sen. Martin Heinrich

I fear we are at a moment in history that we certainly haven’t experienced in decades that has the potential to influence the future path of this country for 100 years. And we need to get it right.A new report from the Rhodium Group on Puerto Rico’s ongoing blackout has found that Hurricane Maria has spawned the second-largest power outage in the world on record. The only blackout that has lasted longer was caused by Typhoon Haiyan, one of the largest tropical storms ever to make landfall and the deadliest storm ever to hit the Philippines:

And the blackout in Puerto Rico is still not over. More than 200 days since the Hurricane Maria’s 150 mph winds and 36 inches of rainfall knocked over 80 percent of the island’s power lines, thousands of Puerto Ricans are still in the dark.

The reconstruction of the power grid — bottlenecked by bureaucracy, outdated laws, and potentially corruption — has been unbearably slow. And just this week, we saw some of that progress frustratingly recede as a tree fell on a crucial power line, knocking out power to 840,000 people.

AEE Informa: La caída de este árbol sobre la línea 50900 a la altura de Cayey, causó la interrupción de servicio eléctrico desde Manatí hasta Yabucoa. Seguimos trabajando para restablecer el servicio a cerca de 840,000 clientes. CC1 pic.twitter.com/ncDyVsrV6q — AEE (@AEEONLINE) April 12, 2018

But even before this latest setback, there were still more than 60,000 customers who didn’t have power as of last week (“customer” generally refers to households, which often have several residents). So that means more than 100,000 people haven’t had electricity since last September.

The US Department of Energy had been issuing weekly reports on grid reconstruction progress but did not issue a report this week and did not respond to requests for comment. But Bruce Walker, an assistant secretary at the DOE, told Congress this week that the grid repair bill for Puerto Rico could top $17.6 billion.

Back in October, the Rhodium Group reported that Puerto Rico was already mired in the longest blackout in US history. The island has further extended its lead in this dubious distinction since then:

(The metric here is “customer-hours,” which is the number of customers without power multiplied by the duration of the outage.)

One of the big concerns about comparing Puerto Rico to other blackout events — as Rhodium did in the first chart — is that not every country tracks power data as well as others, and some countries are still electrifying (there are still 1.1 billion people around the world who don’t have electricity), explained Peter Marsters, a research analyst at Rhodium. To establish a proper baseline to make apples-to-apples comparisons, Marsters and his colleagues focused on infrastructure failure events and mass damage events like storms, gathering data from published literature and news reports.

The biggest blackouts occur in densely populated areas with vulnerable power lines and generators, Rhodium found. And while infrastructure failures like the power line damage we saw in Puerto Rico this week can shut off electricity to massive cities, they are often repaired quickly, so their overall impact can be contained.

Extreme weather, on the other hand, hits every part of the power grid, and its effects can compound. “Hurricanes and storms really impact, for the long term, large swaths of the population,” Marsters said.

Another common factor here is that many of the places that suffered long blackouts have remote populations or have cities strewn across islands, making it difficult and tedious to get the necessary repair supplies in place.

As blackouts drag on, the afflicted regions also face permanent changes as people decide not to rebuild and move away. We’ve already seen tens of thousands of Puerto Ricans leave the island for the mainland United States, and it’s uncertain how many will ever go back.

It’s now April. The US Army Corps of Engineers said that power may not be fully restored to parts of Puerto Rico until the end of May. And the next hurricane season starts in June, with above-average storm activity. Which means that when the lights finally turn on in remote parts of Puerto Rico, they may be quickly snuffed out.What do you think has more salt: a slice of bread or a pack of potato chips?

It depends, but in some cases, the answer may surprise you.

Bread, it turns out, is the top contributor of dietary sodium in the US and many other countries around the world. And a big new analysis from the World Action on Salt and Health, based at Queen Mary University of London, helps us understand why.

For the report, a global team of researchers analyzed the salt content in 2,000 breads sold in 32 countries and regions. More than a third of the loaves exceeded the maximum salt target for bread set out by the UK: 1.13g of salt per 100g, or the equivalent of half a teaspoon of salt for about two slices of bread.

The US has no official target, but voluntary draft Food and Drug Administration guidance suggests manufacturers should aim for about the same levels. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about nine in 10 kids and adults in the US exceed the daily limits for sodium consumption (2.3g, or one teaspoon’s worth).

Some of the products analyzed in the report — like the rosemary focaccia from Ace Bakery in Canada — were “saltier than seawater.” That loaf had more than a teaspoon’s worth of salt per 100g (or about two slices), exceeding the recommended daily sodium intake. A popular product from South Africa, Golden Crust’s toaster bread, had the most salt per serving among all white breads in the survey: 2.46g per 250g portion. That’s “more salt than four portions of McDonald’s fries,” the report stated.

Breads from the US didn’t fare much better. Among the saltiest: Pepperidge Farm’s Hearty Sliced white bread, which contained 1.4g salt per 100g or two slices. That means every slice, the Center for Science in the Public Interest has pointed out, carries as much sodium as a small bag of potato chips. Even Whole Food’s white sandwich bread rivaled a bag of potato chips, with 1.37g salt per 100g.

Overall, the researchers discovered flatbreads and whole-wheat breads tended to be saltier than other types, and mixed-grain breads had the lowest average salt content. (You can see more details about your favorite breads, and how they rank, here.) Bakers put sodium in packaged breads because it boosts the flavor and acts as a preservative.

“Bread is an essential staple food in many countries but is still a key source of salt in our diets due to the frequency with which we eat bread,” said Mhairi Brown, a nutritionist at World Action on Salt and Health, in a statement. “Globally we must do more to reduce salt intake, and a simple way to do this is to lower salt in our staple foods.”

How to start cutting your salt intake now

The major reason salt is concerning for health is that too much of it can increase blood pressure, which can in turn increase risk for a heart disease and stroke.

To be sure, salt isn’t the only risk factor for high blood pressure. Genetics, exercise, bodyweight, alcohol consumption, stress, age, and overall diet play a role as well. And some people may be more sensitive to salt and its health effects than others. But researchers generally agree most people should aim to eat no more than one teaspoon per day. (For more detail, read here).

If you’re trying to cut back, you definitely want to look beyond the salt shaker. About 80 percent of the sodium Americans eat comes from salt that’s added to some of our most popular foods during processing, like store-bought bread, frozen pizza, and cold cuts. Avoiding these kinds of prepackaged foods and restaurant meals wherever possible will help reduce your sodium intake.

When you eat foods that you prepare yourself, you shouldn’t have to worry about sodium. As Norman Kaplan, a blood pressure researcher at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, has told me, “If it’s fresh, you don’t have to worry about the sodium. The fact that nothing in nature is high in salt should tell people something.”

Of course, cooking fresh foods at home is not always possible at a time when many of us rely on quick, ready-made foods to get by. That’s why many public health officials continue to call on governments and industry to find ways of cutting salt during food processing.

The FDA is currently working to advance voluntary sodium reduction targets for the food industry, asking the food industry to commit to cutting sodium levels in packaged foods.

Until that happens, don’t forget to pay attention to the sodium in your bread. The new report is a reminder that not all breads are created equal, and the biggest salt contributor to the diet is probably lurking next to your butter knife.The most telling moment of Mike Pompeo’s secretary of state confirmation hearing on Thursday came at the very end.

Sen. Bob Menendez, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, decided to stop asking Pompeo questions and instead took some time to compare the answers Pompeo had given at the day’s hearing to what he has said in the past on the same issues.

Menendez ticked off contradiction after contradiction: Pompeo said during the hearing that he supports a diplomatic approach to Iran’s nuclear program, but in the past has said that regime change is “the only way” to deal with the problem. He said today that he opposes regime change in North Korea but had mused just last year about toppling the Kim regime. And it went on from there.

The pattern was clear: Pompeo has a long history of extreme rhetoric, on issues ranging from the use of military force to Islam to LGBTQ rights — but had spent the entire hearing presenting a much less extreme, and more palatable, version of his views. After about five hours of hearings, it was clear that Menendez had had enough.

“As we close here,” the senator said, “I am trying to think about which Mike Pompeo I will be asked to vote on.”

Menendez didn’t know the answer to that question — and the American people don’t either. But the answer matters, as he may very well soon be the country’s secretary of state.

The two Pompeos

Mike Pompeo is a smart guy. He spent the day answering questions from senators on a range of foreign issues, and sounded fluent and prepared to discuss each of them. When presented with tough questions, like whether he could ever support a ground invasion of North Korea, he toed a logically clever line — saying, “I suppose I could hypothesize such a situation,” without ever committing to a specific set of circumstances under which he could believe war was appropriate.

And in general, he did a good job balancing what every Trump appointee has had to confront in their confirmation hearings: sounding reasonable and intelligent without openly contradicting some of Trump’s more outlandish pronouncements. Pompeo even managed to dodge repeated Democratic attempts to pin down his position on the Mueller investigation, typically by saying it was outside the purview of his job as secretary of state.

But Mike Pompeo’s biggest problems didn’t come when he had to defend Trump’s views. It was when he had to defend his own.

During his six years in Congress, Pompeo made a number of controversial and in some cases offensive statements. He falsely asserted that the Obama administration intentionally covered up the truth about the Benghazi investigation. He seemingly endorsed the notion that homosexuality is a “perversion.” In a 2013 floor speech, he accused the American Muslim community of being “silent” about the Boston Marathon bombing (they weren’t) and then claimed that their so-called silence “casts doubt upon the commitment to peace among adherents of the Muslim faith.”

He also sought the support of some extremely radical anti-Muslim voices, most notably Frank Gaffney and Brigitte Gabriel. Gaffney, a conspiracy theorist who has accused most American Muslim civic organizations of being fronts for Islamist groups, regularly hosted then-Rep. Pompeo on his radio show. Gabriel, an anti-Islam activist who has described Islam as “a political movement cloaked in religion,” hosted a dinner in Pompeo’s honor in 2016 — where she gave him an award that he accepted.

These kinds of views and associations belie the moderate, reasonable facade Pompeo presented during today’s hearing. And indeed, the only times he seemed to be in real trouble were when senators called him to account for this.

The most dramatic moment of the entire day came when Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) tried to force Pompeo to explain his connections to Gabriel and Gaffney. Pompeo had nothing:

The end of that exchange, where Pompeo sputters while trying to explain himself, is the moment where the two Pompeos were most clearly brought into conflict — and there was no way to reconcile them.

Pompeo’s record as CIA director isn’t incredibly encouraging either

While he seemed to be a reasonably competent manager at the CIA, unlike former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was in his department, Pompeo did a number of things that suggest he hasn’t lost his taste for partisan warfare since moving into Trump’s Cabinet.

In October, he went on NBC News and falsely asserted that “the intelligence community’s assessment is that the Russian meddling that took place did not affect the outcome of the election.” Pompeo’s overall record, as my colleague Alex Ward puts it, has been one of “a Trump crony” who is “more loyal to Trump than to the people he leads.”

So the vital question for Pompeo today was whether this history was, in fact, representative of how he’d approach his job as secretary of state. Pompeo insisted that it wasn’t, often by reinterpreting what he’d said in the past or flatly contradicting himself, most notably when it came to regime change in Iran.

Very few of the questioners did a good job pointing out this disconnect; Booker and Menendez were exceptions rather than the rule. In that sense, then, much of the hearing felt like a waste of time.

Since Pompeo was working overtime to distance himself from his past views, it was hard to tell if any of the policy answers he gave actually reflect the approach he’d pursue if confirmed. While you could say that of any nominee, it felt especially important given the wide disconnect between Pompeos past and present.

But in the end, perhaps that was the most useful point of the entire exercise. Any senator who votes for Mike Pompeo needs to take into account that the man on display today might not be the one who ends up serving as secretary of state. Menendez was right; they can’t be sure whom they’re voting for.Sen. Cory Booker just excoriated Trump’s secretary of state nominee, Mike Pompeo, during his confirmation hearing over Pompeo’s past associations with prominent anti-Muslim ideologues.

For most of his hearing on Thursday morning, Pompeo (who’s currently the CIA director) seemed prepared and capable of handling every question the Senate Foreign Relations Committee threw at him. But the nominee stumbled — badly — under a cleverly prepared series of questions from the New Jersey Democrat.

First, Booker asked Pompeo about a 2013 speech in which Pompeo blasted American Islamic leaders for their “silence” in the wake of the Boston Marathon bombings and said that made them “potentially complicit” in terrorism. (American Muslim leaders in fact spoke out forcefully against terrorism and extremism in the wake of the attacks and organized efforts to help victims.)

Pompeo responded by saying that he wasn’t trying to cast aspersions on all Muslims but was simply pointing out that Muslims have more ability to discourage other Muslims from joining militant groups. “For certain forms of violence, there are certain people who are better positioned” to act, he said.

Pompeo added, “Each and every human, not just Americans, each human being has an obligation to push back against this extremist use of violence.”

This seemed like a decent evasion at first — but it soon became clear that Pompeo had walked into a dangerous trap.

Booker said he agreed with Pompeo that “silence in the face of injustice lends strength to that injustice.” Then he sprang the trap: He brought up Pompeo’s long history of association with two of America’s most prominent Islamophobes, Frank Gaffney and Brigitte Gabriel, and asked whether Pompeo had ever used his “position” to denounce their extremist views.

Gaffney, a conspiracy theorist who has accused most American Muslim civic organizations of being fronts for Islamist groups, had hosted Pompeo on his radio show. Gabriel, an anti-Islam activist who has described Islam as “a political movement cloaked in religion,” hosted a dinner in Pompeo’s honor in 2016 — where she gave him an award that he accepted. Did Pompeo ever condemn them in the way he expects all Muslims to condemn terrorists?

Pompeo had no good answer: “Senator, I couldn’t tell you,” he responded. “I don’t recall each statement I’ve made over 54 years.”

Here’s the exchange:

And a transcript, if you prefer reading:

BOOKER: I’m wondering, Sir — do you know Frank Gaffney? POMPEO: Yes, I do. BOOKER: And you’ve been on his show dozens of times? POMPEO: I was on his show some, yes. BOOKER: I have here over 20 times. And he has talked about [how] Muslims who abide by the adherence of the faith should be considered to be tried for acts of sedition and prosecuted. I have a lot of his statements. Did you remain silent — and, from my notes at least, you’re a friend of his — were you silent in your position of authority in these words that devalue the American constitution? POMPEO: Sir, my record on this is unambiguous ... BOOKER: If that’s your response, you did not say anything to call out his remarks. What about Brigitte Gabriel. Do you know her? POMPEO: I do. BOOKER: Someone who runs an organization that has been considered a hate group by the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center. Were you silent? Did you ever call her out on her remarks that are hateful or bigoted? POMPEO: Senator, I’ve spoken to a number of groups, and I believe my record with respect to tolerance and the equal treatment of people, I think it ... BOOKER: But, yes or no, did you ever call her out? POMPEO: Senator, I couldn’t tell you. I don’t recall each statement I’ve made over 54 years. BOOKER: Okay, well, I believe this special obligation that you talk about for Americans to condemn things that for attacking our Constitution or ideals would obligate you under your own definition to speak out.

Mike Pompeo isn’t the only person in the White House with ties to these kinds of groups in the Trump administration. Both National Security Adviser John Bolton and Attorney General Jeff Sessions have a long record of association with Gaffney in particular. Trump cited a “study” on Muslim public opinion conducted Gaffney’s organization, the Center for Security Policy, as a justification for his Muslim ban.

But this is the most aggressively, to my recollection, that any Trump administration official has ever been questioned about their association with Islamophobic individuals or groups. And it’s incredibly telling that Pompeo, who’s typically clever and quick on his feet, had no real answer for Booker’s very simple questions.White House lawyer Ty Cobb has one of the hardest jobs in Washington: persuading President Trump to continue cooperating with the Russia investigation even as Trump edges closer to going to war with — and potentially firing — special counsel Robert Mueller.

It’s a delicate line to walk, especially after the resignation last week of Trump’s personal lawyer John Dowd, who was frustrated that Trump wanted to sit down with Mueller despite Dowd’s explicit warnings that doing so would be dangerous. There are also persistent rumors that Trump wants to fire Cobb and replace him with someone willing to take a much harder line with Mueller.

When I spoke to Cobb Wednesday, he told me he expects to stay in his job and insisted that the White House had no plans to fire Mueller. Instead, he said the White House would continue to work with Mueller and his team — and laid out a detailed case for why that’s a smarter approach than trying to battle the special counsel.

A transcript of our conversation, lightly edited for length and clarity, follows.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

When you started in July 2017, you said that the White House was in “full cooperation mode” with the Mueller probe. Why should the White House cooperate with the Mueller team?

Ty Cobb

You don’t have much choice; otherwise, they subpoena. As people who pay attention have noticed, there have been no subpoenas, there have been no grand jury subpoenas. This has gone in a very smooth way. You haven’t heard any complaints from Mueller, and everything is negotiated heavily, so it’s not like we just opened up the file drawers and let them come in and pick out what they wanted.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Before Dowd resigned last week, he’d publicly urged the Justice Department to shut down the probe. Is the entire legal team still on board with fully cooperating with the investigation?

Ty Cobb

Dowd took multiple public stances. Jay Sekulow [the lawyer running Trump’s personal legal team] has always been a fan of cooperation. And the stuff that’s always said about [White House counsel Don] McGahn being opposed, that’s just not true. McGahn saw every document that was produced that was related to him and never peeped. And since he’s a significant participant in several of the key events, it wouldn’t have been proper for him to comment on it.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

There was a New York Times story written based on a conversation a reporter overheard between you and Dowd. The story said you and McGahn disagreed about whether to cooperate with the Mueller probe, with him being against it. Was the story right?

Ty Cobb

That was incorrect. The reporting of the conversation was largely inaccurate.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Stories about disagreements within the legal team have driven rumors that you might not stay in the White House. Do you think you’ll be leaving anytime soon?

Ty Cobb

I don’t. The reality is my job is to make sure that the White House interacts with the special counsel in an honorable, ethical, responsive way. That’s a relatively important task for the dignity of this White House and future White Houses, and it’s a serious task. I don’t represent the president personally, like Jay [Sekulow] and John [Dowd] did.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Are White House officials working with you or against you in giving Mueller what he wants?

Ty Cobb

I’ve gotten widespread cooperation throughout the administration with isolated exceptions, but I always got the materials that the independent counsel deserved. The reality is they didn’t get much of anything, if anything, that they wouldn’t have gotten had we forced them to get a subpoena. All that would have done is unnecessarily pissed people off and slowed things down by maybe 60 days. It’s not that they got a lot of stuff that they weren’t entitled to.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Is there anything to the reporting that Dowd left the legal team because Trump wasn’t listening to his advice about dealing with Mueller and not doing an interview?

Ty Cobb

I don’t know. I understand that he said that. I confess to being puzzled, but I wasn’t involved in the conversation when they broke up.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Are you involved with the decision on whether the president sits down for an interview with Mueller?

Ty Cobb

I have some role there, once they have a final agreement [on the scope of an interview]. If there are questions that unduly intrude into significant White House issues, Article II issues, executive privilege issues, classified issues, I have the ability to speak up at that stage in the game. So I’ll have some role, but I don’t have a role in framing the questions.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

But you haven’t been involved in deciding whether the president should do the interview?

Ty Cobb

I have not participated in any of the discussions.

“It got baked into the narrative that I was somehow trying to appease the president, and that’s just not true”

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

You’ve said a couple of times in the last year that you thought Mueller’s investigation would be over very soon, and yet the probe continues. Why do you think the investigation continues?

Ty Cobb

There were several things that slowed it down. The reality is that I never actually said that it would be over soon. I said it could be over soon. It got baked into the narrative that I was somehow trying to appease the president, and that’s just not true.

The reality is that I had hoped with some success we could have gotten the document production [sending documents to Mueller] done earlier, but I didn’t have the staff or the support internally in the White House initially to get that done. And Mueller fully understood that. He’s my audience, not anybody else, and I needed him to understand that I was working as hard as I could with whatever I had to meet his deadline, so, mission accomplished as far as I’m concerned.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Do you now have the staff you need to try to take care of documents and set up the interviews Mueller wants?

Ty Cobb

It took me until early to mid-September to get staffed up and get everything done.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

Are there a lot of outstanding requests from Mueller that you haven’t filled?

Ty Cobb

The initial omnibus request, I completed that in October working 20-hour days with a big group of people, and that facilitated the interviews. The interviews got dragged out because of the schedules of people I don’t control, including the special counsel. Then there was the book [Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury]. The book delayed things because then they had to go back and check boxes on people who really hadn’t been considered important witnesses. But given the salacious stuff in Wolff’s book, they brought in a new set of witnesses, and then the book forced them to revisit previous witnesses.

Every week, something new happens. At some point, the inspector general report is going to come out with regard to [former FBI Deputy Director Andrew] McCabe and [former FBI Director James] Comey, and that could slow things down. Comey’s book could slow things down. You can’t count on those things. But I don’t have any complaints about the way they’ve [Mueller’s team] responded, and they haven’t complained to me about anything I’ve done, and I view that as a victory.

Zachary Fryer-Biggs

One last thing: Do you think Trump is going to try to fire Mueller?

Ty Cobb

I have said repeatedly on the record that there is no intention of firing Mueller.President Donald Trump has tapped CIA Director Mike Pompeo, the former three-term Republican Congress member known for his hawkish stance on Iran and his aggressive grilling of Hillary Clinton over Benghazi, as the new secretary of state.

In his 14 months as CIA director, Pompeo — who will replace beleaguered Secretary of State Rex Tillerson — quickly developed a close relationship with the president. He gave Trump daily intelligence briefings as well as his thoughts on whatever political or national security issue might be prominent that week.

Trump spoke highly of Pompeo on Tuesday. “I’ve worked with Mike Pompeo now for quite some time,” the president told reporters outside the White House. “We’re always on the same wavelength. The relationship has been very good. That’s what I need as secretary of state.”

But Pompeo has faced criticism for letting his loyalty to the White House undermine his duties as head of the CIA. That means he’ll take the State Department job while the intelligence community remains under unprecedented assault. That escalated on Monday when House Intelligence Committee Republicans formally disagreed with the intelligence community’s January 2017 assessment that Russia favored Trump during the 2016 presidential election and took steps to help him win.

There’s reason to worry about Pompeo’s credibility and honesty. He repeatedly misrepresented the Russia assessment, stating that the intelligence community concluded Moscow had no effect on the vote’s final result when in reality it made no judgments on that.

If confirmed, Pompeo will bring his more hawkish worldview to the State Department. He’s supported keeping the US prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, open, defended the CIA’s use of torture in the past, and sees Iran and “radical Islamic terrorism” as top national security threats — all positions closely aligned with those of Trump.

That suggests Pompeo will hew closer to Trump’s worldview than Tillerson has, which has far-reaching implications for US foreign policy.

Pompeo shares much of Trump’s worldview

Beyond his Russia falsehoods, Pompeo is known for a hardline view of Iran — including “rolling back” the Iran nuclear deal — and his support for Guantanamo Bay and the brutal interrogation of terror suspects.

He has defended the CIA’s use of torture during the George W. Bush administration, declaring in November 2016, “These men and women are not torturers, they are patriots,” and, “the programs being used were within the law, within the Constitution.”

Trump’s designated pick as the new CIA director, Gina Haspel, has her own history with torture, including torturing two suspects and destroying videos of their secret interrogation in Thailand.

He’s also advocated for keeping the US prison at Guantanamo Bay open, describing the prison as “critical to national security” and saying that closing it would create the “potential for endless litigation and rights expanded well beyond those afforded to enemy combatants.”

Pompeo, like Trump, sees the threat from terrorist groups such as ISIS and al-Qaeda as a top national security threat, and criticized the Obama administration for its refusal to call it “radical Islamic terrorism” — a common GOP talking point that aims to frame the terrorist problem as a religious one.

Pompeo also wants to end the Iran nuclear deal, a 2015 agreement between the US, Iran, and European and Asian powers that lifted a series of punishing economic sanctions in exchange for Tehran accepting strict curbs on its nuclear-related activities. “I look forward to rolling back this disastrous deal with the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism,” he tweeted in November 2016 when he was being considered for the CIA job.

And Pompeo consistently defends the president’s forceful stance against North Korea, saying on Sunday that the US will make “no concessions” to Pyongyang even as potential talks between Trump and Kim Jong Un loom.

All of this puts Pompeo in line with Trump’s own thinking.

But Pompeo has also at times been hawkish on Russia, putting him much more in sync with most of the nation’s top military brass, who see Russia as America’s top national security threat, but potentially at odds with Trump.

Speaking at a foreign policy forum in Washington in October 2015, Pompeo said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is “heck bent on changing the geopolitical future,” and criticized the Obama administration for not being tougher on Russia.

Trump, on the other hand, wants to improve America’s relationship with Russia even at the expense of its aggression against allies and American democracy. The president has suggested it is better for the US to work with Russia to solve global problems like terrorism.

A secretary of state must speak for the president. If Trump and Pompeo disagree on Russia, it could set them up for a potential clash on a critical national security issue.

Yet Pompeo has shown time and time again how willing he is to defend the president.

Pompeo has Trump’s trust and his ear — that’s vital for a secretary of state to have

Pompeo has tried repeatedly to protect Trump from one of the most incendiary aspects of the ongoing investigation into possible collusion with Moscow: whether Russian meddling helped Trump win the White House.

On October 19, he took the stage at a prominent Washington think tank and said that the intelligence community concluded that Russia’s interference in the 2016 president election didn’t impact the final result.

The problem is that the January 6 intelligence assessment Pompeo referred to — which represented the collective judgment of the intelligence community— actually said something very different: “We did not make an assessment of the impact that Russian activities had on the outcome of the 2016 election.”

Not only was Pompeo’s statement a lie, but it also mirrored Trump’s public position. It suggests Pompeo has no issues parroting Trump’s own views.

Pompeo’s false claim about the assessment wasn’t the only time he put loyalty to Trump above his CIA responsibilities. Late last year, Trump told Pompeo to meet with a conspiracy theorist who believes Russia’s hack and release of Democratic National Committee emails last summer was instead an inside job — and Pompeo took the meeting.

All of this goes to show the burgeoning rapport between Pompeo and the president. In his former role, Pompeo counseled the president nearly every day. He personally delivered the Presidential Daily Brief — the highly classified intelligence report created specifically for the commander in chief.

That means Pompeo was one of the few people with whom Trump discussed important national security issues on a consistent basis. Tillerson, on the other hand, never had Trump’s ear like Pompeo does.

Pompeo is also a creature of Washington. He’s served in Congress for years and has a relationship with others on the Hill and around government. Should the Senate confirm Pompeo for the State Department role, he’ll have an easier time operating in Washington than Tillerson, who doesn’t have a political background and was perceived as an outsider, has.

All of this means that Pompeo could potentially be a far more effective secretary of state than Tillerson ever was. That’s good news on the face of it, but there’s an important catch: Pompeo may just feed and amplify Trump’s worst instincts rather than being a voice of reason.

Tillerson was bold enough push back on the president, especially Trump’s feelings on Iran and Russia. It’s unclear if Pompeo will do the same — and that’s potentially very dangerous.President Donald Trump is toying with firing special counsel Robert Mueller, openly attacking him on Wednesday morning by calling him biased. Now a bipartisan group of senators is trying to save Mueller’s job.

Lawmakers led by Republicans Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Democrats Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced a long-shot bill Wednesday that would give judges a chance to reinstate Mueller if Trump fires him without a good reason.

“In order to avert a constitutional crisis, Congress has to act to protect Mueller’s investigation,” Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) told me in an email.

Tough rhetoric aside, the bill has little chance of making it through the House and Senate with margins big enough to overcome a certain presidential veto. There are also legitimate questions about whether it would be constitutional because the legislative branch isn’t supposed to meddle in the everyday functioning of the executive branch

Still, the simple fact that Republicans are abruptly working to pass the bill illustrates the mounting concerns about Mueller’s job security in the wake Trump’s outbursts after the FBI raided his lawyer Michael Cohen’s office Monday.

“A nation of laws cannot exist if the people tasked with enforcing them are subjected to political interference or intimidation from the president,” Booker said in an emailed statement.

The problem for Booker and his allies is that they have little to no realistic chance of preventing Trump from axing Mueller.

How the Senate would protect Mueller

The new bill, called the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act, would give Mueller a chance to appeal to a special three-judge panel if Trump fires him.

Current law says that Trump can only fire Mueller “for good cause,” meaning if Mueller does something wrong like major misconduct. The new bill would give Mueller 10 days to challenge his termination in a specially convened court. A three-judge panel would then decide if Trump had a valid reason to fire Mueller, and they could reinstate him if Trump didn’t.

The bill would also require that the Justice Department save all the documents generated by the special counsel’s office while the judges review Mueller’s firing.

The legislation is a hybrid of two bipartisan bills introduced in August, one by Graham and Booker, and another by Coons and Tillis.

Those bills floundered for months as Graham and Tillis wavered in their support. It’s only when Trump’s new direct attacks against Mueller started on Monday, after the FBI raided Cohen’s office, that the senators hammered out a deal on a combined bill.

One of the reasons the earlier two Senate bills didn’t advance was lingering concern among some Republicans that changing the rules on firing Mueller might be unconstitutional.

The idea is that Mueller is working in the executive branch as part of the Justice Department, and Congress isn’t supposed to interfere in the functioning of another branch of government.

Sens. John Kennedy (R-LA) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) both told Vox’s Tara Golshan last month that they thought taking action might violate the Constitution.

Legal scholars who talked to Golshan said that a 1988 Supreme Court case, Morrison v. Olson, probably means that the law would be okay. Congress is typically allowed to shape the other branches of government; it just can’t directly interfere.

But getting to the point of a potential legal challenge is highly unlikely.

The bill is probably symbolic, as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell doesn’t appear interested in allowing a vote on a bill to protect Mueller.

“I haven’t seen a clear indication yet that we need to pass something to keep him from being removed,” McConnell said Tuesday.

The bill is unlikely to pass

The legislation would first have to go through the Senate Judiciary Committee. That committee’s chair, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), is pushing for the committee to review the bill on Wednesday.

But even if the Judiciary Committee approves it, and McConnell changes his mind and allows a vote, the bill would also have to pass the House, where the odds of a vote on it appear low.

“Given the current leadership in the House and their recent history of turning a blind eye to, or even enabling, this president’s actions, I find it highly unlikely that they would act to protect” the special counsel, Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) told me in an email.

House Democrats are trying to protect Mueller, and they’ve drafted several bills of their own. Those bills haven’t gone anywhere yet, although Democrats continue to push.

Even if the bill doesn’t have a shot at becoming law, the sudden resurrection of bipartisan support in the Senate shows just how scared lawmakers are that Trump’s recent attacks might be a prelude to firing Mueller. If Trump does so anyway, the question will be what, if anything, Republicans do.President Trump may think he can end all his growing legal problems by firing Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and special counsel Robert Mueller. He can’t.

A pair of federal prosecutors in New York are now working on cases tied to two of Trump’s closest confidants. The FBI raided Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen’s office on Monday for a case the prosecutor in Manhattan is handling. Last December, meanwhile, the US attorney in Brooklyn requested bank records tied to Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.

Those cases are separate from Mueller’s probe into Russian election meddling in 2016 and potential contact between the Trump campaign and Russian operatives.

That means that if Trump fires Rosenstein and Mueller, those other investigations won’t just go away. Trump would have to fire the other prosecutors and a host of other Justice Department officials.

A slew of other people have also signed off on parts of the investigations. Because Cohen is a lawyer, searching his office and hotel requires approval from not only the New York prosecutor but also officials from the criminal division of the Justice Department in Washington. A judge would also have to sign off on a warrant for the search. All those people could still push the investigation onward.

“Technically, either of these two US attorneys in New York could be fired as well,” Ric Simmons, a former federal prosecutor and a law professor at Ohio State University, told me. “But firing them in response to investigations into Trump’s lawyer and son-in-law would look almost as bad as firing the special counsel.”

That’s a lot of firing, and legal experts say any lawyers still left in those offices would probably continue the cases. Trump and his closest aides, in other words, would still be in federal crosshairs.

Mueller isn’t running the Cohen investigation

There are a variety of reasons Cohen appears to be in Justice Department crosshairs. The longtime Trump friend and fixer reportedly paid at least two women to not publicly discuss relationships they claim to have had with Trump. One of those women is Stormy Daniels, a porn actress who says she had a 2006 affair with Trump.

The president claimed last week that he didn’t know about the $130,000 Cohen paid Daniels shortly before the election to keep quiet about the alleged affair. The FBI reportedly is investigating whether that money broke campaign finance law, or if Cohen committed crimes getting the money from his bank.

If Cohen paid Daniels the money to help Trump win the election, it would be a campaign contribution well above the legal caps that he never reported.

Trump lashed out about the Cohen raid in a brief session with reporters Monday night.

“It’s an attack on our country in a true sense,” he said.

Trump also attacked Mueller’s investigation, dismissing the broader special counsel probe as a “witch hunt.” Mueller, though, wasn’t actually the one who ordered the raid.

Instead, it was carried out by FBI agents working for the US attorney for the Southern District of New York after Rosenstein sent the office the Cohen case. Rosenstein, another target of Trump’s ire, assigned the case after Mueller showed him evidence of potential crimes by Cohen.

That means that Mueller isn’t running the ongoing investigation into Cohen.

“I’m not even sure it is correct to say Mueller is ‘working with’ these offices,” Christopher Slobogin, a professor at Vanderbilt Law School, told me. “It may be more accurate to say he’s offloaded certain cases that are not directly related to the Russia probe to prosecutorial entities that are well-equipped to handle them.”

If Mueller isn’t involved with the case, Trump firing him wouldn’t eliminate the pressure on Cohen. Instead, the president would have to fire or pressure the prosecutor in charge.

The prosecutor in question, Geoffrey Berman, is a Trump appointee. But Berman recused himself from the decision to conduct the Cohen raid. That means Trump would probably have to fire Berman as well as other prosecutors in that office to make the probe stop.

The Kushner probe involves a third team of federal prosecutors. The investigation into Kushner relates to a $285 million bank loan Deutsche Bank gave to Kushner’s family business. The money helped the company refinance its debt and freed about $74 million in cash for it to spend.

The loan came about a month before the 2016 election, while Kushner was one of the leaders of the Trump campaign. That’s led to suspicions that the bank might have been trying to gain influence with Kushner, who continues to be one of Trump’s top advisers.

The investigation into whether that’s true — or if Kushner was involved in any wrongdoing — is being handled by the nearby US attorney for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn. Another Trump administration appointee, Richard Donoghue, runs that office.

So Trump could in theory get rid of Mueller as well as the prosecutors in New York leading the Kushner and Cohen probes. Trump would have to fire a handful of other Justice Department officials in the chain of command to make it happen, but he could probably do it. Still, legal experts don’t think even that would kill the cases.

“It seems highly doubtful, however, that either office would simply abandon its investigation on account of political or personal pressure,” Miriam Baer, a law professor at Brooklyn Law School and a former federal prosecutor, told me. Baer worked in the office that is investigating Cohen.

“The imperative to ‘do the right thing’ and see an investigation to its proper end has been woven into each office’s culture,” she added.

Trump is fixated on Mueller, but the former FBI chief isn’t the only one probing the president’s inner circle. And with the number of investigations continuing to grow, and to include more federal prosecutors, Trump can’t fire his way out of the legal woes facing his closest advisers.

Update: This story has been updated to clarify that Richard Donoghue was appointed by the Trump administration. Donoghue was selected by Trump’s Attorney General Jeff Sessions as interim head of the US Attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn.Reddit has banned close to 1,000 accounts linked to Russia’s Internet Research Agency, the troll farm that used social media to sow divisions in American politics during the 2016 elections.

The revelation comes as social media networks like Facebook and Twitter have come under fire for failing to crack down on propaganda efforts by the very same agency.

Reddit chief executive Steve Huffman said in a post on Tuesday that Reddit was closing 944 “suspicious accounts” that made a total of around 14,000 posts, but said “few” of them had a visible impact on the site.

Reddit, which calls itself “the front page of the internet,” allows users to post links and commentary in forums with anonymous accounts. Users can “upvote” one another’s posts, and the more upvotes a post gets, the more widely it’s seen by other users. Seventy-one of the IRA-linked accounts that Reddit has shuttered have more than 1,000 upvotes.

Russian influence on Reddit appears to come mainly in the form of content these troll accounts posted to the site, rather than paid advertising like they used on other sites such as Facebook.

“Our investigation did not find any election-related advertisements of the nature found on other platforms,” Huffman said. “We also did not detect any effective use of these accounts to engage in vote manipulation.”

Huffman said that IRA-linked accounts made 316 posts in the r/The_Donald subreddit, or forum, which is popular among Trump supporters.

One major IRA-linked account, known as “Rubinjer,” posted a pornographic video falsely claiming to feature Hillary Clinton. Rubinjer got more than 100,000 upvotes before it was shut down by Reddit and was influential in the r/The_Donald subreddit.

The Internet Research Agency has been all over US social media

The IRA is a shadowy operation based in St. Petersburg, Russia, that has been attempting to influence politics in foreign countries since at least 2013.

In February, special counsel Robert Mueller indicted more than a dozen people who worked at the IRA, accusing them of engaging in operations to interfere with US elections starting as early as 2014.

Most of what we know about the IRA’s influence in the 2016 election is tied to Facebook and Twitter.

Facebook told Congress that about 126 million Facebook users had seen Russian-linked content last fall. In December, the social media giant even rolled out a feature to help users figure out if they had interacted with content created by the IRA.

Twitter found more than 3,800 accounts linked to the IRA and alerted about 1.4 million US users that they may have interacted with Kremlin propaganda. Those accounts, now shut down, posted 176,000 tweets in the 10 weeks before the election.

Google has also found at least two accounts linked to the Internet Research Agency that spent $4,700 on an ad platform. The platform also detected 1,000 videos from Russian-linked accounts ahead of the election.

Jen Kirby contributed to this report.President Donald Trump attacked special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation again on Wednesday morning. But instead of just repeating his claim that he didn’t collude with Russia, Trump is now targeting the man leading the probe.

Trump has condemned Mueller’s investigation into whether his campaign colluded with Russia during the 2016 presidential election many times in the past, but he hadn’t specifically mentioned Mueller’s name until March. And on Wednesday, Trump tweeted a pointed ad hominem attack, saying that Mueller “is most conflicted of all,” and accused Mueller of going “crazy” because there’s “no collusion.”

Much of the bad blood with Russia is caused by the Fake & Corrupt Russia Investigation, headed up by the all Democrat loyalists, or people that worked for Obama. Mueller is most conflicted of all (except Rosenstein who signed FISA & Comey letter). No Collusion, so they go crazy! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Trump also criticized Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in his tweets. Both men were targets of the president’s fiery remarks on Monday after the FBI raided the office and hotel room of Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen.

The personal attacks coincide with reports that Trump is seriously considering firing Rosenstein or Mueller, or possibly even both, after Monday’s raid.

Lending credence to this theory, the White House defended Trump’s right to fire Mueller on Tuesday. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said that Trump had “been advised that the president certainly has the power” to fire Mueller.

Trump’s attacks on the Russia probe are getting personal

It’s important to note that Trump’s lawyers have repeatedly told him not to mention Mueller by name, and Trump held off for almost a year after Mueller started his investigation in early 2017. But on March 18, Trump mentioned Mueller by name in a tweet.

“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Trump wrote.

Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans? Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2018

He was less cautious in his previous comments about Rosenstein. In a July interview with the New York Times, Trump implied that Rosenstein is biased because he’s from Baltimore.

“There are very few Republicans in Baltimore, if any,” Trump said.

But Wednesday’s tweet is different since it’s not just an implication of bias — it’s a direct accusation of a conflict of interest.

The sudden surge in personal attacks against Rosenstein and Mueller seems like it’s coming in response to a Justice Department investigation into Cohen for payments he made to women who say they had affairs with Trump. Cohen paid them to keep quiet about their claims before the election, which may have broken campaign donation law or money transfer rules.

Mueller brought evidence of potential crimes to Rosenstein, who approved the search of Cohen’s documents, likely putting them both in Trump’s crosshairs.

In Monday’s tirade to reporters, Trump said that the investigation is an “attack on our country” and mused about firing Mueller.

“Why don’t I just fire Mueller,” Trump said, repeating a reporter’s question. “We’ll see what happens.”

Trump has aggressively criticized the Russia investigation since its inception, repeatedly calling it a “witch hunt” and saying that he was innocent of any crimes. But this new, personal twist implies that he might be gearing up to fire the men leading the investigation.President Trump just threatened to bomb “Gas Killing Animal” Bashar al-Assad’s government in Syria just a week after publicly musing about withdrawing US troops from the country. Trump taunted Russia and dared the Kremlin to try to shoot down American missiles — and then sent another tweet saying he wants to improve US-Russia relations.

This seeming incoherence when it comes to major foreign policy decisions is a hallmark of the Trump presidency so far.

Trump says he wants to buddy up to Russia and then expels 60 Russian diplomats; he swings from publicly dismissing the idea of negotiations with North Korea to agreeing to sit down with its supreme leader; he slaps huge new tariffs on China and then talks about how friendly he is with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

On issue after issue, the president’s statements contradict his aides’ comments, his administration’s actual policy, and even his own past statements. Contradiction itself feels less like an error and more like the only real Trump doctrine.

This is not a good thing for US foreign policy — or the world.

“Emotionally, it’s incredibly dispiriting to see matters of life and death tossed around so lightly,” says Paul Musgrave, a scholar of US foreign policy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. “Analytically, it’s horrifying to see a president whose policymaking agenda is set so trivially.”

The serious problem with Trump’s Syria-Russia tweets

Part of this is because the president doesn’t have many strong or fixed policy preferences and is often guided by his emotions or what he sees on TV.

He decided to bomb Assad’s government for the first time last year, according to White House insiders, because his daughter prepared a slideshow with images of children poisoned by Assad’s chemical weapons. This came after years of railing against the idea of US intervention against Assad — at one point during the campaign, he even suggested he might consider partnering with the Syrian regime to fight ISIS.

The ping-ponging of presidential feelings makes it extremely difficult for the administration to craft a consistent message or policy. What’s more, Trump’s unfiltered use of Twitter — on display Wednesday morning — makes it easy for him to change things on a dime.

The problem with this is that functioning foreign policy depends on being able to send messages about what you’re planning to do. When the US threatens to use military force against an adversary, that’s a commitment about what the country will do in the future. The policy only works if people think you mean what you say.

Imagine all the ways this could go wrong when it comes to Syria, for example. What if the seemingly inevitable US strike hits Russian or Iranian troops who are on the ground fighting for Assad? What if an American warplane gets shot down by Syrian air defenses?

In the event of such a crisis, the signals sent from Washington will be critical to prevent the situation from escalating dangerously. But which words will foreign leaders take seriously? How will they know what the United States will actually do next, and what they need to do to avoid provoking another response from the US military?

“If we’re having trouble [interpreting Trump] in the US, imagine what it’s like being in a foreign capital,” says Dan Nexon, a professor at Georgetown University. “Especially if you’re somewhere that already has trouble understanding US foreign policy and political processes.”

The fact that this happens so frequently, on so many different foreign policy issues, means that American foreign policy in general is less likely to function as desired. Trump has regularly questioned the value of NATO, for example, but also said he’s willing to defend NATO allies in the event of an attack. How seriously should Russia take the latter pledge in light of the former comments?

The honest answer is we aren’t sure. And this policy of incoherence, especially incoherence set off by tweet, could lead to a very serious mess — in Syria or elsewhere.

“By sending out such a high volume of cheap talk, he’s increasing the chances of terrible miscalculation,” Musgrave says. “What if the tweet about smart bombs had been directed at North Korea?”President Donald Trump just tweeted a warning that an attack on Syria is imminent — breaking his own policy of not signaling upcoming military moves.

The tweet comes as Trump weighs how to punish Damascus after President Bashar al-Assad’s forces carried out an April 7 chemical attack on civilians, killing at least 40 people. Trump promised a big response and has consulted with his national security team and foreign leaders for days about whether, and how hard, to strike Assad.

It seems Trump has made up his mind. “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” Trump tweeted on Wednesday morning. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

According to a New York Times report on Tuesday evening, the administration may strike multiple targets over multiple days. Russia’s ambassador to Lebanon, Alexander Zasypkin, on Tuesday said any missiles the US launches at Syria could be shot down, perhaps by the Russia military.

That, in part, may be the reason Trump sent his threatening tweet early on Wednesday.

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Let’s step back for one moment and realize the gravity of what happened. This is the leader of a global superpower speaking nonchalantly about launching a military strike that could kill soldiers from Syria and Russia, another nuclear-armed country and staunch Syrian ally. It’s unsettling that Trump made this kind of statement at all — and it’s even more jarring that he tweeted it.

But there’s more going on here. For one, Trump said the missiles headed toward Syria include some that are “smart.” That’s likely a reference to US smart bombs that, typically, can evade missile-defense systems and then precisely hit a target. The problem is that it’s likely Russia and Syria know what kind of smart bombs America has — and can now plan for their imminent use.

“Smart missiles should fly toward terrorists, not legal government,” a spokesperson for the Russian Foreign Ministry said after Trump’s tweet.

Trump has also promised time and time again that he doesn’t telegraph US military moves because doing so gives the enemy an unnecessary advantage. Yet Trump broke his own rule with this tweet, letting Russia, Syria, and the rest of the world know that a missile strike is on the way.

That still didn’t stop him from making an overture to Russia in his very next tweet, though, in hopes of improving relations.

Our relationship with Russia is worse now than it has ever been, and that includes the Cold War. There is no reason for this. Russia needs us to help with their economy, something that would be very easy to do, and we need all nations to work together. Stop the arms race? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Trump has made no secret of his desire for better ties with Moscow, a desire Russian President Vladimir Putin doesn’t share. Still, it’s odd to try and make friends with Russia right after you threaten its key ally and its troops with death and destruction.

So to recap: Trump threatened Russia, signaled an attack on its allies in Syria, and then tried to improve relations with the Kremlin. That’s quite a lot for one morning and two tweets.The FBI raided the office and hotel room of President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer on Monday as part of a fraud and campaign finance investigation. Hours later, Trump called the raid an “attack on our country” and speculated that “we’ll see what happens” when asked if he planned to fire special counsel Robert Mueller.

Significantly, Mueller’s probe has also turned its sights on a $150,000 donation from a Ukrainian billionaire made to Trump’s charity, which previously admitted it violated tax law and helped Trump personally, during the campaign.

All of a sudden, Mueller’s Russia investigation is red-hot, and it’s getting much closer to the president. Here’s what you need to know about the past 24 hours of news in Mueller’s investigation into the Trump-Russia scandal.

Mueller’s investigation has been looking into Trump’s longtime lawyer Michael Cohen, although the US attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York carried out the raid. Bloomberg reported that Mueller uncovered potential crimes by Cohen during his Russia investigation, and brought the findings to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Rosenstein decided to send the case to the New York office, which led the search of Cohen’s office and hotel (his home is undergoing renovation).

Under the law, Mueller has to tell Rosenstein about any crimes he uncovers that aren’t directly under the mandate of his investigation. It is then up to Rosenstein decide whether another prosecutor should go after the charges.

The raid brings the case closer to Trump’s door than any to date, touching a close Trump confidant — and potentially a speech made by Trump himself. Trump wasn’t pleased and made aggressive comments to the press on Monday evening, right as news broke that Mueller’s team is looking at a donation to Trump’s charity tied to a speech Trump gave during the campaign.

The past 24 hours in the Mueller investigation, explained

Cohen is the man in the middle of the controversy over Stormy Daniels. Daniels, a porn actress, says she had an affair with Trump in 2006. Cohen paid her $130,000 days before the 2016 presidential election in exchange for her keeping quiet about the relationship.

The investigation into Cohen is tied to that payment, with legal experts saying he may have violated campaign finance law. If Cohen used the money to keep the affair secret and help Trump win the election, the payoff could be considered a donation — one that violates campaign finance law. Cohen could have been trying to help by keeping an embarrassing story from the press. If that’s the case, the donation was never properly reported to the federal government, and it would substantially exceed the legal cap on donations.

The FBI is also looking at whether Cohen violated any banking or wire transfer laws by using a personal bank loan to pay off Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford.

Cohen’s lawyer, Stephen Ryan, said that the raid was “completely inappropriate and unnecessary” and pointed out that attorney-client privilege may shield many of Cohen’s files from investigators, a legal concept that protects communication between lawyers and their clients.

But the privilege doesn’t apply if the lawyer is committing a crime.

Although it isn’t Mueller’s team that led the search, Trump is directly blaming Mueller, according to the New York Times. The president responded to the raids with some of his most heated criticism of Mueller and his investigation to date.

Trump explodes at Mueller

Trump was about to hold a meeting with military leaders at the White House Monday to discuss the situation in Syria when he fielded a string of questions from reporters about the probe and attacked Mueller.

“It’s a real disgrace. It’s an attack on our country in a true sense,” Trump said. “It’s an attack on what we all stand for, so when I saw this and when I heard it, I heard it like you did, I said that is really now in a whole new level of unfairness.”

Trump repeated his claim that the investigation is a “witch hunt” and declined to answer whether he would now fire Mueller.

“We’ll see what happens,” Trump said. “I think it’s disgraceful, and so do a lot of other people.”

Trump has toyed with firing Mueller before, but several factors make that a difficult choice, including that Mueller’s investigation could go on without him, and it would likely be politically disastrous.

But Mueller just helped build a case against Cohen, and he’s digging into Trump’s personal activities, including a speech paid for by a Ukrainian billionaire.

Mueller is investigating the payment for a speech Trump gave during the campaign

One critical question that the Mueller probe has been looking at is whether foreign money flowed into Trump’s campaign during the 2016 election.

That has led Mueller’s team to a speech Trump delivered in September 2016 to a conference in Kiev, Ukraine. Trump filmed a speech and sent a video to the conference, and in exchange, a Ukrainian steel magnate donated $150,000 to Trump’s personal charity, the New York Times reported.

Cohen reportedly solicited the donation for Trump, although it is not related to Monday’s raids.

Trump’s charity, the Donald J. Trump Foundation, faced intense scrutiny during the election for spending money on items like a $20,000 portrait of Trump. After the election, the charity admitted that it violated tax law by helping Trump personally.

The focus on the speech and the donation is part of Mueller’s growing interest in overseas money and the Trump campaign. Much of Mueller’s case against Paul Manafort is tied to Manafort’s work in Ukraine, and Mueller’s team subpoenaed Trump’s businesses in March looking at Trump’s overseas deals.

The payment for a Trump speech brings the investigation to Trump personally. And the focus on Trump’s businesses and business colleagues may have violated Trump’s previous assertions that Mueller shouldn’t look into his companies. Trump’s non-answer as to Mueller’s future on Monday might be a sign that Mueller has to work quickly if he wants to finish his investigation before losing his job.Yulia Skripal, the daughter of an ex-Soviet spy likely poisoned by Russia, was discharged from the hospital after a month of treatment.

It’s a remarkable recovery for Yulia, as she and her father, Sergei Skripal, were both in critical condition last month. At that point, it seemed both of them might die. The 33-year-old is now in an undisclosed secure location — likely to keep her safe after the murder attempt — but she is still not completely healthy.

“This is not the end of her treatment but marks a significant milestone,” Christine Blanshard, the medical director of the Salisbury, England, hospital, said on Tuesday. Shortly after she heard about Yulia’s discharge, UK Prime Minister Theresa May said, “I wish her the best for her continuing recovery.”

Sergei, meanwhile, still requires medical treatment, but doctors hope he can leave the hospital soon.

This moment was a month in the making. The saga began on March 4, when Sergei and Yulia were found unconscious on a Salisbury bench. According to May, they were poisoned with a chemical weapon known as Novichok — one of the world’s most lethal nerve agents — in Salisbury, where Sergei lived.

British authorities immediately accused Russia of carrying out the attack and moved fast to punish Russian President Vladimir Putin for crossing what officials across Europe described as a red line. The UK expelled 23 Russian diplomats just days after the attack, the UK’s largest removal of foreign officials in more than 30 years. Then in a joint statement on March 15, the leaders of the US, UK, France, and Germany said it was “highly likely that Russia was responsible for the attack.”

All of that set the stage for March 26, when the US and other British allies around the globe took the unprecedented step of jointly ordering the expulsion of at least 100 Russian spies from their countries. President Donald Trump expelled 60 Russian intelligence officers and closed a Russian consulate in Seattle on March 26. Nearly a dozen European countries also affirmed they would kick out Russian officials, but they all fell far short of America’s large purge. Even New Zealand tried to kick out Russian spies but couldn’t find any.

Moscow denies it had anything to do with the murders, and Russia’s embassy in London offered an ominous congratulations to Yulia on Twitter:

We congratulate Yulia Skripal on her recovery. Yet we need urgent proof that what is being done to her is done on her own free will. — Russian Embassy, UK (@RussianEmbassy) April 10, 2018

But experts told me they had no doubt Russia was at fault for the brazen assassination attempt in the heart of Europe. “This is a classic Kremlin playbook [move],” Rachel Rizzo, a European security expert at the Center for a New American Security think tank, told me on March 14.

That makes sense: Russia has a history of targeting people in the UK that Moscow believes are enemies of the state. The Skripals, unfortunately, are now the most recent high-profile victims.

“We’ve seen this happen before, and we’ll see it happen again”

The attack on the Skripals wasn’t an isolated incident. Russia has a longstanding campaign to identify and kill Russian dissidents living in the UK.

US intelligence links at least 14 deaths in the UK to Russia, including outspoken oligarchs and journalists. “We know the Russians have an active program of killing people in the UK that they don’t like,” a British intelligence officer told Steven Hall, a former CIA official focused on Russia, according to BuzzFeed News.

The Skripals’ case has drawn comparisons to one of those murders: that of Alexander Litvinenko, a former Russian spy and defector to the UK. In 2006, two Russian agents put polonium-210 — a highly radioactive chemical — in Litvinenko’s tea at a London hotel bar. It took weeks for Litvinenko to die, and he blamed Putin for orchestrating the attack.

“You may succeed in silencing one man,” Litvinenko said from his hospital bed, “but the howl of protest from around the world will reverberate, Mr. Putin, in your ears for the rest of your life.” Russia continues to deny any involvement in Litvinenko’s death.

There are other cases as well. In 2013, Boris Berezovsky, then a Russian oligarch, died on a bathroom floor in his home outside London. Berezovsky was a Putin critic — at one point, he called for a coup against Putin — who blamed the Kremlin for Litvinenko’s death. Berezovsky eventually tried to go back to Russia, but he died before Putin granted his request to return.

That, in part, is why analysts suspected Russia from the start. “We’ve seen this happen before, and we’ll see it happen again,” Rizzo told me. That means the Skripals may not be Russia’s last victims, regardless of the Western pushback.Trump Organization lawyers wrote a letter to Panamanian President Juan Carlos Varela requesting his “influence” in a private business dispute in Panama and implied that his government could pay consequences if he didn’t intervene.

The February letter serves as a vivid reminder of how President Trump’s global business holdings are a natural breeding ground for potential corruption — and of how Trump could theoretically work to enrich himself or his family by exploiting his power as president.

According to the Associated Press, lawyers at the firm Britton & Iglesias, which represents the Trump Organization in Panama, asked Varela to help them out in a bitter legal dispute over a hotel management contract between Trump’s company and a wealthy Cypriot businessman.

In February, Orestes Fintiklis, the majority owner of a luxury waterfront hotel in Panama City, attempted to fire a Trump Organization management team that was running his hotel. The Trump Organization pushed back against the move as a violation of its contract, but Panamanian courts ruled in favor of Fintiklis on March 5, and the Trump Organization staff was then kicked out, according to the AP.

Trump Organization lawyers then sent an aggressively worded letter to Varela on March 22, writing that they “URGENTLY request your influence in relation to a commercial dispute involving Trump Hotel aired before Panama’s judiciary.” The letter was copied to, among others, Varela’s cabinet officials and the heads of the supreme court and the National Assembly.

But the letter appears to be more than just a request — it also seems to be a thinly veiled threat. The lawyers wrote that the Panamanian court’s ruling violates a bilateral investment treaty between the US and Panama and hinted that Varela’s response could affect US-Panamanian relations more broadly.

“We appreciate your influence in order to avoid that these damages are attributed not to the other party, but to the Panamanian government,” the letter said, according to the AP, which suggests that Varela’s government would take the hit if he didn’t get involved in resolving the dispute.

The Trump organization letter reeks of potential corruption

The AP says it’s unclear if Trump himself knows about all this, but in a way, that doesn’t even matter. This is a clear example of how easily corruption can potentially arise when the most powerful head of state in the world owns businesses across the globe, regardless of whether he’s personally and actively trying to use the office of the presidency to enrich himself.

It seems likely that the Trump Organization lawyers are trying to leverage their relationship with the president himself to get Panama’s president to do something he has no business doing: interfering in a separate branch of government. “It is a letter that urges Panama’s executive branch to interfere in an issue clearly of the judicial branch,” Panama’s foreign minister Isabel de Saint Malo said, according to the AP. “I don’t believe the executive branch has a position to take while the issue is in the judicial process.”

Even if Varela decides to do nothing about this specific dispute, he could now feel obligated to curry favor with Trump in other ways to make up for the issue and keep US-Panamanian relations stable. That could lead to his government approving specific policies to placate Trump or perhaps covertly acting to ensure that the Trump Organization secures favorable business deals in Panama in the future.

Even if the Trump Organization’s pressure tactics fail to affect Varela, there’s still an optics issue. Going forward, it will be hard for the US and Panamanian governments to avoid accusations that they might have something besides the public’s best interest at heart when making policies.Congressional Republicans have spent months accusing the FBI of withholding key details about how the bureau handled its investigations into Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign. Now the Justice Department appears to be waving the white flag — at least in part.

The specific fight has to do with Republican demands that the FBI turn over 1.2 million documents covering much of the 2016 presidential election season. That’s when the bureau decided not to prosecute Clinton for setting up a personal email system and when it opened an investigation into the Trump campaign’s possible collusion with Russia.

The FBI and Justice Department have been responding to the requests slowly, ignoring a congressional subpoena while arguing that department needs time for FBI agents to redact classified or sensitive information. Now Attorney General Jeff Sessions is giving a bit of ground to his GOP critics, appointing federal prosecutor John Lausch to oversee the delivery of the documents.

The fight is about much more than just the documents. Congressional Republicans are trying to build a case that the Justice Department and FBI are riddled with officials and agents who are biased against President Trump. Anything they can turn up that appears like deliberate mishandling of the Clinton or Trump-Russia investigations could help them accomplish their real goal: discrediting special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Trump-Russia collusion.

Republicans are pursuing two areas of attack: the way the agency handled the investigation into Clinton’s emails and how the agency got permission to spy on Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.

The Republicans have been trying since December to get the documents, with the FBI assigning 54 agents to review them to protect classified or sensitive information. Republicans say they’ve received only 3,000 documents thus far.

Sessions picked Lausch to supervise the FBI agents and get documents to Congress more quickly. Lausch is a Trump appointee who has been in his current job as the US attorney from the Northern District of Illinois since November.

His appointment comes just two days after President Donald Trump sent a weekend tweet suggesting that the Justice Department was deliberately delaying the documents.

“What does the Department of Justice and FBI have to hide?” Trump tweeted.

What does the Department of Justice and FBI have to hide? Why aren’t they giving the strongly requested documents (unredacted) to the HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE? Stalling, but for what reason? Not looking good! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 7, 2018

Now Trump’s most embattled Cabinet member, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, appears to be responding.

Republicans want documents tied to Clinton’s emails

The latest escalation comes from a deadline imposed by House Republicans, with two committee chairs issuing a subpoena in March that expired on Thursday. Representatives Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Trey Gowdy (R-SC) asked the Justice Department for 1.2 million internal documents tied to a range of agency decisions in 2016, including the conclusion not to prosecute Hillary Clinton for using a private email server for State Department business.

The subpoena followed a December letter requesting the documents.

“Four months have passed since Chairman Gowdy and I ... wrote you seeking documents related to our ongoing investigation regarding charging decisions in the investigation surrounding former Secretary Clinton’s private email server in 2016,” Goodlatte wrote to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on March 22.

The Clinton email server has long been an obsession for Gowdy, who spent two years leading an investigation into the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, that caused the deaths of four Americans. During that investigation, triggered by Republican claims that Clinton had in some way covered up or failed to respond to the attack, Gowdy’s team found out that Clinton used a private email server for her official emails.

Every major probe cleared Clinton of wrongdoing related to the attacks, including Gowdy’s, but the email server became a major campaign theme for the Trump and even spawned the “but her emails” meme.

Clinton set up the server at her home in New York, telling the FBI she did it because of a suggestion from former Secretary of State Colin Powell who had lamented the buggy email system at the agency.

Goodlatte and Gowdy want internal documents from the Justice Department on how the agency made the decision not to charge Clinton with any kind of crime. They’re also trying to get documents tied to the agency’s surveillance of Trump aide Carter Page, a topic that has become a primary concern for Republicans.

The deadline for their March subpoena was April 5, and when the Justice Department didn’t turn over more documents, conservative lawmakers publicly attacked the decision.

“This is unacceptable — it’s time to stop the games,” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) tweeted.

The deadline for the subpoena issued by Chairman Goodlatte was today at noon. We got no documents from the Department of Justice. Just a phone call.



This is unacceptable--it's time to stop the games. Turn over the documents to Congress and allow us to conduct oversight. — Mark Meadows (@RepMarkMeadows) April 5, 2018

Sessions is not giving House Republicans everything they want

Beyond the documents, Republicans have also been calling for Sessions to appoint a second special counsel in addition to Robert Mueller’s Russia probe. While Mueller investigates any ties between the Trump campaign and Russian operatives, a second special counsel would look at the handing of Clinton’s emails and the Page warrant issue.

Sessions told the Justice Department’s internal watchdog in February to investigate the Page warrant and other 2016 issues. On March 29 he added an outside lawyer to help with the investigation.

Sessions named federal prosecutor John Huber to help the internal investigation but expressly rejected the idea of another special counsel in a letter to Congress.

“In high profile circumstances involving other politically sensitive matter, it has been more common to make special arrangements within the department to ensure that actual or apparent conflicts can be avoided,” he wrote.

Monday’s decision to help expedite the documents Goodlatte and Gowdy have requested is unlikely to suddenly change their criticisms of the Justice Department, but it could buy Sessions a little bit of breathing room. He continues to face rumors that Trump is preparing to fire him, although leading Republicans in Congress have warned the White House to leave him alone.

By giving in and appointing a lawyer to help House Republicans get the documents they want from the Justice Department Sessions may be buying himself some good will, and potentially some time.Syria used chemical weapons against its own citizens, killing at least 42 adults and children. President Donald Trump threatened a military response in a tweet, vowing that Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad would pay a “big price.” Israeli jets bombed a Syrian government base in northern Homs province for reasons that still are not yet fully clear.

And all of that took place over just 48 hours. And an American strike — Trump’s “big price” — could still be forthcoming.

New National Security Adviser John Bolton, a well-known uberhawk, started his job on Monday morning just before an 11:30 am Cabinet meeting. President Trump has vowed to make a decision on whether to use force in the next 24 to 48 hours, even calling out Russian President Vladimir Putin by name for his support of Assad. Bolton could be a strong and powerful voice advocating for a US strike.

So there is a lot going on, even by the standards of the exceptionally complicated Syrian conflict. What follows is a guide to what happened this weekend, why the events are so important, and, most importantly, the scary things that could happen next.

Why Saturday’s chemical weapons attack is so important

The Syrian civil war has been raging since 2011, and with a truly dazzling number of local and international players involved in the fighting. But the central conflict has always been between Bashar al-Assad’s government and a ragtag coalition of anti-Assad rebels — and for the past two and a half years, it’s clear that Assad has been winning.

Recent Russian air support, paired with longstanding on-the-ground interventions by Iranian and proxy militia forces, are the main reasons why. Since the beginning of the Russian intervention in September 2015, Assad has steadily retaken territory; major rebel strongholds, like the city of Aleppo, have fallen to regime forces. “Assad won his war to stay in power,” Mara Karlin, a scholar at the Brookings Institution, concluded in February congressional testimony.

A central part of the Assad-Russia-Iran strategy has been deliberate punishment of civilian population centers in order to sap rebels and their civilian supporters of their will to fight. Jennifer Cafarella, an expert at the Institute for the Study of War, described the strategy as “siege, starve, and surrender” in a February interview with Vox. Assad has deployed chemical weapons, which are an especially spectacular and cruel way of killing people, as part of this campaign of terror.

What makes this weekend’s strike on Douma, a suburb of the Syrian capital of Damascus, different is its scale of the attack. Assad has used various kinds of chemical weapons dozens of times; most attacks are met with a collective shrug by the international community. But large-scale deployment of such weapons against civilian-populated areas have twice provoked threats of war from the United States; once in 2013 and again last April.

In 2013, President Barack Obama threatened to intervene in the conflict after Syria crossed his “red line” of chemical weapons use. He backed down from his threats after Syria agreed to a Russian-brokered effort to eliminate its chemical weapons stockpile — an agreement whose implementation has clearly been less than complete.

In April 2017, President Trump launched cruise missiles at a Syrian airbase after a chemical weapons attack in the town of Khan Sheikhoun killed more than 80 people. The goal was both to punish Assad and to send a signal that any future chemical attacks would be met with force from the US. Clearly, that didn’t work as planned either.

So now we’re in a situation where the United States either launches another round of strikes or risks looking like a paper tiger when it comes to Assad’s continued use of chemical weapons.

A grim irony is that provoking this crisis probably wasn’t very smart on Assad’s part. He almost certainly would have retaken Douma without using chemical weapons, and could likely have killed the same number of civilians with standard bombs without any kind of international uproar. Now, one of the very few things that could pose a serious threat to Assad at this point — American intervention — is back on the table.

“The Russians and Iranians are probably pissed at Assad for using chemical weapons again,” says Ilan Goldenberg, director of the Middle East Security Program at the Center for a New American Security.

Israel’s strike muddies the water

The Sunday airstrike on T4, a Syrian military base in the western Homs province, initially seemed like the promised US response. That morning, President Trump had threatened Syria with retaliation, and them a major airbase was hit. Syrian government news said it was “American aggression”:

Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria. Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

....to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

But it turned out that this wasn’t correct. The Department of Defense denied responsibility; both Russian and American sources said the jets bombing T4 were Israeli, not American. The Israeli government has not explained the rationale for its attack, or even confirmed on the record that it was responsible, but at this point, it’s fair to say they did it.

At first blush, it might seem that Israel was doing America’s dirty work, bombing Assad so the US didn’t have to. But experts on Israel and the Syrian conflict widely dismissed the theory, suggesting that Israel likely had its own motives to attack at this time.

Israel has bombed Syrian targets fairly frequently over the course of the war. The reason for such strikes is pretty much always Israeli national security concerns; Iran and its proxy Hezbollah, a Lebanese militant group currently fighting on Assad’s behalf in Syria, are major threats to Israeli security. When Israel bombs targets in Syria, the target is typically something like an Iranian weapons shipment bound for Hezbollah.

The base that was hit, T4, strengthens this interpretation. We have no reason to believe the base had anything do with the chemical attack in Douma, but it is a known hub for Iranian activity. In February, an Iranian drone controlled by personnel based at T4 crossed over from southern Syria into Israeli airspace, prompting an Israeli bombing raid on the base. There are any number of plausible reasons Israel might have attacked the base again.

“There’s no way of knowing what’s going on at T4. There could have been weapons there,” says Michael Koplow, policy director of the Israel Policy Forum.

The bottom line, then, is that Israel likely attacked Syria for its own reasons. Which means the question of how Trump will respond to the chemical weapons attack — with force or otherwise — is very much on the table.

The million-dollar question: What does Trump do now?

In comments to the press around midday on Monday, Trump condemned the Syrian chemical weapons attack and at least hinted at a likely military response in the next two days.

“It was atrocious. It was horrible,” he said of the attack. “This is about humanity, and it can’t be allowed to happen.”

This kind of thinking reportedly prompted the strike on Syria last year. Accounts from inside the White House suggest that a photo slideshow showing children who had been poisoned by the attack, put together by Ivanka Trump and then-White House aide Dina Powell, got the president to be emotionally invested in the issue — leading him to order an attack on a Syrian government airfield.

Similar images have been coming out of Douma this time around. And Trump’s foreign policy advisory team, very much including Bolton, is notably hawkish. So it’s very possible — not inevitable, just possible — that there will be some kind of American military response in the coming days.

The question, though, is whether such an attack would make any kind of difference on the ground.

The president has repeatedly stated in recent weeks that he wants to end American involvement in the Syrian civil war. A major escalation — a concerted campaign to do serious harm to Assad’s military capabilities — would be time-consuming and risky. For that reason, experts are skeptical that Trump’s response would all that different from the extremely limited attack on a Syrian airfield he launched last year.

“We may launch some symbolic strikes to try to deter future chemical weapons use,” says Goldenberg. “I really doubt it [will go beyond that]. We still have the Russians, and any major escalation risks escalating with them.”

It’s possible that this time around, such an attack might deter Assad from future large-scale chemical weapons use. Maybe Assad wouldn’t want to risk another, bigger American intervention. But clearly, last year’s strike wasn’t enough to deter Assad. It’s possible that another limited strike would only confirm that the United States will never really punish Assad for using chemical weapons.

What it wouldn’t do, for sure, is change the course of the Syrian civil war. Assad would still likely hold on to power, even if the war drags on for years — killing untold numbers of Syrians in the process.On Saturday, dozens of people were killed in Syria in a suspected chemical attack. Aid groups are blaming President Bashar al-Assad’s government for the assault; United States President Donald Trump is threatening that the regime will face a “big price” for its actions if it attacked its own citizens.

The Syrian Civil Defense and the Syrian American Medical Society said in a joint statement on Sunday that hundreds of people had gone to medical centers in and around the city of Douma, East Ghouta, on Saturday “with symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent.” Dozens of people died: Reports of the death toll ranged from the 40s to 150 or more.

Antigovernment activists circulated videos of lifeless men, women, and children purported to be victims of the chemical attack. “Douma city, April 7 … there is a strong smell here,” a voice can be heard saying on one of the videos, as reported by Reuters.

Syrian state news media denied that government forces had been involved and accused the Islamist rebel group that controls Douma, the Army of Islam, of fabricating the videos. Russia, an ally of the Assad regime, is also denying claims that chemical weapons had been used, and the foreign ministry of Iran, also an Assad ally, said reports of the gas attack were not based on facts but instead “an excuse” by the United States and Western countries to take military action.

In a statement, the US State Department said that the reports of the attack, if confirmed, “are horrifying and demand an immediate response by the international community.” The UK’s foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, said the reports were “deeply disturbing” and warned Russia not to try to block an international investigation.

The United Nations Security Council will meet on Monday regarding the attack. Nikki Haley, United States ambassador to the UN, said in a tweet of a statement on the meeting that “strong action is needed” on Syria.

We along with 8 other members have called for an emergency Security Council mtg tomorrow in reference to the horrible chemical weapons attack on innocent civilians in Syria. This is becoming all too common. Strong action is needed. pic.twitter.com/Vt3L5fjVla — Nikki Haley (@nikkihaley) April 8, 2018

Assad has won back control of almost all of the eastern Ghouta region in Syria since February. It has been one of the deadliest offensives in the country’s seven-year war, killing more than 1,600 civilians.

President Trump attacked “animal Assad” and threatened a “big price” on Twitter

On Sunday, President Trump reacted to the reports of the chemical attack in Syria in a series of tweets. He targeted the Syrian government and its allies, threatening a “big price” to pay over the assault, which he characterized as “SICK!”

Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria. Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

....to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

In April 2017 Trump ordered military strikes on a Syrian air base after a chemical attack there killed more than 80 civilians. More recently, however, he has said he wants to withdraw US military troops from Syria; this month he instructed his military commanders to wrap up operations there and bring American troops home.

White House Homeland Security and Counterterrorism adviser Tom Bossert said in an interview on ABC’s This Week with Martha Raddatz that chemical attacks are an “unacceptable practice” and wouldn’t rule out any possible actions from the United States. “I wouldn’t take anything off of the table,” he said. “These are horrible photos, we’re looking into the attack at this point.”

In a separate interview on This Week, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) said Trump’s response to the attack in Syria would be a “defining moment” in his presidency. “They see us, our resolve, breaking. They see our determination to stay in Syria waning. And it’s no accident they used chemical weapons,” Graham said.

Trump on Sunday blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russia, and Iran for the reported chemical attack in Syria — and also former US President Barack Obama. Trump said if not for Obama’s military inaction, “the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago.”

If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been history! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 8, 2018

Obama declared the use of chemical weapons a “red line” in 2012, but after such an attack in 2013, he declined to respond using military force. As CNN’s Jake Tapper pointed out on Twitter, Trump in 2013 publicly urged Obama not to intervene in Syria.

Obama has called Syria “one of the hardest issues” of his presidency.

And regardless of Obama’s choices, what to do is now in Trump’s hands. Of Trump’s Twitter threat, Graham, a military hawk, said on Sunday that what matters is action behind the tweets. “If it becomes a tweet without meaning then he has hurt himself in North Korea. If he doesn’t follow through and live up to that tweet, he’s going to look weak in the eyes of Russia and Iran,” Graham said. “So this is a defining moment, Mr. President. You need to follow through with that tweet.”A van crashed into a crowd in the western German city of Muenster on Saturday, killing at least two people and injuring multiple others. A police spokesperson said that about 20 people were injured, six in critical condition, and that the driver of the vehicle shot and killed himself immediately after crashing into the crowd.

Police say they have “no clues” as to the driver’s motivations.

What we know

German police reported several people were killed and approximately 20 wounded when a man drove a vehicle into a group of people in Muenster, Germany, on Saturday. Three people, including the driver, have been confirmed dead. The victims were identified as a 51-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man.

Images of the area showed a small delivery van that appears to have jumped over the sidewalk and plowed through the outside area of an outdoor cafe.

The driver, who has not been identified, shot and killed himself immediately after crashing into the crowd.

The incident took place near the Kiepenkerl pub, a popular bar in the city’s historic downtown area.

Authorities are treating the crash as a deliberate attack. Police say they have “no clues” pointing to a possible motive.

A German security official said there is no indication of an Islamist extremist motive in the crash, but officials are investigating all possibilities. The driver was a 48-year-old German citizen, but police have not confirmed his identity.

“We cannot speculate about the motive at this stage but it is clear that the man who committed suicide drove a light truck into a larger group of people today,” a Muenster police spokesperson said.

The incident invoked comparisons to a 2016 incident in which a vehicle barreled into a crowded Christmas market in Berlin, which killed 12 people and injured 48 others.

Police are asking residents to avoid the area.

A spokesperson for German Chancellor Angela Merkel said “our thoughts are with the victims and their families” who were killed and injured.

The White House in a statement said that President Donald Trump was briefed on the incident and that the administration’s “thoughts and prayers go out to the families of those killed and we wish a full recovery to those injured. While the German authorities have not yet announced a motive for this cowardly attack on innocent people, we condemn it regardless, and pledge any support from the United States Government that Germany may need.”

What we don’t knowFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook’s systems detected and stopped violent messages from being sent on the social network in Myanmar. Civil society groups working in the country are pushing back and saying that isn’t the case.

Close to 700,000 Rohingya, a minority Muslim group, have fled Myanmar in the wake of a coordinated campaign of ethnic cleansing. Facebook has helped fuel the violence, becoming a platform for hate and violent speech against the minority group. The popularity and accessibility of the social network has exploded in recent years and become a vital source of information — something bad actors are trying to exploit.

Zuckerberg, in an interview with Vox’s Ezra Klein this week, addressed this dilemma. He said Facebook is taking these issues “really seriously.”

He pointed to one specific case where he said Facebook interceded to block hateful messages sent out on its Messenger tool last September:

I remember, one Saturday morning, I got a phone call and we detected that people were trying to spread sensational messages through — it was Facebook Messenger in this case — to each side of the conflict, basically telling the Muslims, “Hey, there’s about to be an uprising of the Buddhists, so make sure that you are armed and go to this place.” And then the same thing on the other side. So that’s the kind of thing where I think it is clear that people were trying to use our tools in order to incite real harm. Now, in that case, our systems detect that that’s going on. We stop those messages from going through. But this is certainly something that we’re paying a lot of attention to.

But in an open letter published Thursday, civil society groups criticized Facebook’s response to the crisis. “The risk of Facebook content sparking open violence is arguably nowhere higher right now than in Myanmar,” the letter read. The groups wrote that the “we” who detected the sensational messages wasn’t Facebook but the activists and organizations themselves.

“In your interview, you refer to your detection ‘systems’. We believe your system, in this case, was us — and we were far from systematic,” the letter read. “We identified the messages and escalated them to your team via email on Saturday the 9th September, Myanmar time. By then, the messages had already been circulating widely for three days.”

The letter explains that this particular Facebook Messenger incident wasn’t an isolated one, and “epitomizes the kind of issues that have been rife on Facebook in Myanmar for more than four years now and the inadequate response of the Facebook team.”

The groups also homed in on a few key problems that they say prevent Facebook from effectively tackling violent speech and propaganda in Myanmar. They slammed Facebook’s reliance on groups like theirs to alert its employees to hateful messages, and outlined the company’s lack of an emergency escalation system. In other words, if organizations and activists have to be the watchdogs, they need a streamlined and speedy process to get hateful or violent speech removed within hours or minutes — not days.

The groups also criticized Facebook’s lack of transparency and what they perceive as the company’s reluctant to engage with stakeholders in Myanmar. They suggest the more opportunities local groups have to talk to Facebook engineers and data teams, the more likely Facebook can find a systematic defense to hate speech rather than the whack-a-mole approach every time a violent or fake news post pops up.

“If you are serious about making Facebook better ... we urge you to invest more into moderation — particularly in countries, such as Myanmar, where Facebook has rapidly come to play a dominant role in how information is accessed and communicated,” the letter said.

A Facebook spokesperson in a statement to Vox thanked the civil society groups for their efforts in tracking down the hateful messages, and said the company is “sorry that Mark did not make clearer that it was the civil society groups in Myanmar who first reported these messages. We took their reports very seriously and immediately investigated ways to help prevent the spread of this content.”

The statement also said Facebook “is working hard to improve our technology and tools” to detect abuse, including adding a reporting function in Facebook Messenger and more Myanmarese-language reviewers to handle reports. “There is more we need to do and we will continue to work with civil society groups in Myanmar and around the world to do better.”

Why Facebook has come under fire in Myanmar

Close to 700,000 Rohingya refugees have fled to neighboring Bangladesh since last August in the wake of a government crackdown against the minority group. Then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson officially labeled the crisis an “ethnic cleansing” in November, but the international community has been slow to act on the escalating humanitarian disaster.

The violence in Myanmar highlights the duality of social media in general, and Facebook in particular, as a force for both good and ill.

Activists and reporters use phones and social media to document atrocities, helping evade government censors. But anti-Muslim and anti-Rohingya memes and propaganda spread virulently through Facebook too, inciting violence and eroding support for the Rohingya’s plight. Public-facing accounts of verified government and military leaders — as well as the extremely influential accounts of nationalistic Buddhist monks — included false and inflammatory posts about the Rohingya, the New York Times reported in October.

In a recent report on the Rohingya crisis, Marzuki Darusman, head of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, said Facebook “substantively contributed to the level of acrimony and dissension and conflict” in Myanmar. “Hate speech is certainly of course a part of that,” Darusman said. “As far as the Myanmar situation is concerned, social media is Facebook, and Facebook is social media.”

Facebook has taken down some posts, including temporarily shutting down the account of an ultranationalist Buddhist monk who posted incendiary content. But the company has also been accused of removing posts that document violence against the Rohingya, which underscores how challenging and complicated it is to even attempt to police the social network.

Zuckerberg told Klein in his interview these problems are “certainly something that we’re paying a lot of attention to.”

“It’s a real issue, and we want to make sure that all of the tools that we’re bringing to bear on eliminating hate speech, inciting violence, and basically protecting the integrity of civil discussions that we’re doing in places like Myanmar, as well as places like the US that do get a disproportionate amount of the attention,” Zuckerberg said.

Klein also pointed out that while Facebook is a vital tool for information in Myanmar, the country might not get the attention of other markets given its size. Indeed, Facebook’s popularity as a news source in the region has exacerbated Myanmar’s fake news problem. According to CBS News, the number of Facebook users in Myanmar increased from 2 million in 2014 to more than 30 million currently — partly a result of the military junta easing censorship, and partly because of the increasing affordability of smartphones.

“Facebook has become sort of the de facto internet for Myanmar,” Jes Kaliebe Petersen, chief executive of Phandeeyar — a technology company that signed on to the open letter and helped Facebook create its Myanmarese-language community standards page — told the Times in October. “When people buy their first smartphone, it just comes preinstalled.”

Zuckerberg conceded that Facebook needs to improve as its global reach expands. “Just based on the fact that our headquarters is here in California,” he told Klein, “and the vast majority of our community is not even in the US, I think does make this just a constant challenge for us to make sure that we’re putting due attention on all of the people in different parts of the community around the world.”

Listen to Zuckerberg’s full interview with Klein here, and read the full letter from Myanmar civil society organizations below:Israeli forces shot and killed eight Palestinians and wounded at least 200 in the second week of mass protests at the Gaza-Israel border. A local Palestinian journalist covering the protest was also reportedly shot in the stomach, despite having been wearing a vest clearly identifying himself as a member of the press.

Last Friday, 18 Palestinians were killed and over 700 wounded at a rally — largely organized by the Islamist extremist group Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip — meant to kick off weeks of demonstrations calling for the “right of return” for the hundreds of thousands of Palestinians and their descendants who fled or were displaced from their homes after the creation of the state of Israel.

The tens of thousands of Palestinians who have taken part in the demonstrations are also protesting the crippling land, sea, and air blockade that Israel and Egypt have imposed on Gaza since 2007, when Hamas took power and kicked out the US-backed Palestinian Authority government.

The blockade, along with Hamas’s mismanagement, has turned Gaza into an open-air prison: Residents have access to only four hours of electricity per day, only 10 percent have access to clean drinking water, and the unemployment rate is a whopping 46 percent.

The vast majority of protesters are demonstrating peacefully in a tent city set up hundreds of meters from the heavily fortified border, but smaller groups of predominantly young men have rolled burning tires and thrown stones and Molotov cocktails at nearby Israeli troops.

Israeli forces — including 100 military snipers who were deployed to the border in advance of the protests — have responded with tear gas, rubber bullets, and live ammunition. No Israeli soldiers have so far been injured.

Israeli sniper shoots journalist on #Gaza border and now he is in the operation room in hospital. pic.twitter.com/m3Pw21SWRK — Ahmad Samaan (@ahmadsaman7) April 6, 2018

Lt. Gen. Gadi Eizenkot, the chief of staff of the Israel Defense Forces, had publicly stated before the demonstration that the military would not allow “mass infiltration” of Israel over the border with Gaza or tolerate damage to the border fence during the protests. “If lives are in jeopardy, there is permission to open fire,” he added.

But human rights groups say Israeli security forces are illegally using deadly force against protesters who don’t pose an imminent threat.

“This was an incident where soldiers were firing from behind the fence, separated by buffer zones and other objects, firing on individuals well behind the fence, in some cases retreating, not moving forward, or advancing without posing imminent threat,” Omar Shakir of the international group Human Rights Watch told the Washington Post after last Friday’s protest.

The bloodshed — the worst since the two sides fought a full-blown war in 2014 — has triggered calls from the United Nations and the European Union for international investigations into the incident. But a UN Security Council draft proposal calling for an independent inquiry into last Friday’s violence was blocked on Saturday by the United States.

The question now is whether these protests — and the Israeli response — will spark a broader conflict and send the death toll even higher.

Israelis and Palestinians have vastly different explanations of why these people were shot dead

Beyond the actual violence, there’s now a social media war going on, with each side releasing videos to bolster their explanations of what happened.

The Israeli military has rejected accusations of excessive use of force and said that it is acting “against violent protests and terrorists activities which included live fire towards its soldiers [and] attempts to infiltrate Israel.”

“The forces acted according to open-fire protocols and in a reasonable manner as they avoided harming civilians posted there by Hamas, who wish to embarrass Israel while risking those civilians,” an IDF spokesperson said in a statement after last Friday’s protest. “[A]nyone who partakes in violent protests puts themselves at risk.”

The IDF maintains that each of the protesters killed last week was engaged in violence and that at least 10 were members of Hamas or other militant groups. It also disputes the high number of injured, saying claims by the Gaza health ministry are exaggerated.

To try to reinforce its version of events, the IDF has also released video footage purporting to show two Palestinian men with assault rifles trying to break through the Israeli border fence last Friday night. Both men were killed by fire from Israeli tanks.

Palestinian media, for its part, aired a video that appears to show Israeli troops shooting an 18-year-old Palestinian in the back as he was running away from the border. Another video posted on social media shows a Palestinian protester being shot in the head as he was waving his arms in the air dozens of meters away from the border fence.

Hamas identified five of those killed last week as members of its military wing, but said they were merely taking part “in popular events side-by-side with their people.”

Protests have also reportedly broken out now in the West Bank near the cities of Nablus, Al-Bireh, Ramallah and Hebron. “The Health Ministry in Ramallah said two Palestinians have been wounded from rubber-tipped bullets fired by Israeli forces. One of those wounded was shot in the head, while the second sustained a gunshot wound to the leg,” Ha’aretz reports.

And the violence may not be over. On May 15, after six weeks of planned protests, Palestinian organizers say they will hold a mass march toward the Gaza border fence. Israeli officials fear that march could turn into an attempt to breach the fence itself — something Hamas leaders themselves have hinted at.

If that happens, it could very well escalate into a more prolonged conflict or even all-out war — which would be the fourth between Israel and Gaza in just a decade.The Trump administration just announced an aggressive package of sanctions against Russian politicians, oligarchs, and companies on Friday, citing Moscow’s “malign activity around the globe.”

The sweeping language justifying the sanctions, and the fact that the penalties squarely target key members of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s inner circle, is likely to further widen a growing rift between Trump and Moscow.

The new sanctions target seven of the richest men in Russia, 12 companies they own or control, and 17 Russian government officials. They also hit a state-owned Russian weapons trading company and its subsidiary, a Russian bank.

The sanctions freeze any US assets that belong to the people and organizations that are being targeted, and bans Americans from doing any business with them. The Treasury Department’s announcement also threatens to penalize people outside the US for “knowingly facilitating significant transactions for on behalf of them” — a move intended to discourage banks or companies around the world from doing business with them.

A number of the oligarchs hit by the sanctions are major players in Russia’s hugely important energy sector and are known to have ties to Putin, like Igor Rotenberg and Kirill Shamalov.

Experts say that pressuring Russian oligarchs financially could lead to policy change in the Kremlin. They might start to say to Putin that his aggressive foreign policy isn’t worth the financial pain that they and the Russian economy more broadly are having to endure because of it.

These sanctions show that Trump and Russia are moving further apart

What’s striking about the Trump administration’s announcement is that it doesn’t frame these sanctions as a response to any specific recent Russian misdeed, such as its suspected role in the poisoning of Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal on British soil in March.

Instead, it paints them as a broad response to basically everything the US dislikes about Russia’s conduct in the global arena, including its involvement in Ukraine and Syria, its meddling in the political process in Western democracies, and its hacking operations more generally.

It then argues that the beneficiaries of Russian corruption need to be punished for it.

“The Russian government operates for the disproportionate benefit of oligarchs and government elites,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement. “Russian oligarchs and elites who profit from this corrupt system will no longer be insulated from the consequences of their government’s destabilizing activities.”

The fact that the sanctions aren’t being presented as a very specific response to one Russian activity signals a broad disconnect between Washington and Moscow. It’s not an instance of Trump feeling obligated to slap Putin on the wrist for doing a particular thing that hurts US interests or Trump catering to allies asking for US solidarity against Russian meddling.

Instead, this is the US acting on its own and stating that it and Russia have fundamentally clashing worldviews. And it means that Trump’s long-desired goal of improving ties with Russia is receding ever further into the distance.

The new sanctions come atop other hard-hitting actions against Russia in recent months. On March 26, Trump announced he would expel 60 Russian intelligence officers from the United States and close the Russian Consulate in Seattle in response to the poisoning of Skripal.

While that action was coordinated with European allies, it was another instance of Trump taking a notably tough stance against Moscow, since the administration kicked out a much larger number of Russian diplomats than allies did.

In other words, Trump went above and beyond what he needed to do to send a message to Russia.This week, the crown prince of an absolute monarchy — a country where dissent and homosexuality alike are punishable by death — came to visit the United States. But Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was received less like a human rights abuser and more like a visionary civil rights hero, or a celebrity cross between Abraham Lincoln and Elon Musk.

60 Minutes hailed him as a “revolutionary” who is “emancipating women” in Saudi Arabia. CNBC ran a piece with the headline “Mohammed bin Salman is bringing Silicon Valley-style disruption to Saudi Arabia.” On Wednesday, the prince had dinner with Morgan Freeman, director James Cameron, and The Rock, who wrote an Instagram post lavishing praise on the autocrat.

“A pleasure to have a private dinner with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman,” The Rock wrote. “Fascinating experience to hear his deep rooted, yet modern views on the world and certainly the positive growth he desires for his country.”

It’s true that MBS, as he’s commonly called, is, by Saudi standards, relatively progressive on certain issues. He’s allowed women to attend soccer matches, for example. But calling this “emancipation” is more than a little absurd: Saudi women are still not allowed to get married or travel internationally, among other things, without the permission of a male guardian. And Saudi Arabia is still the seventh most gender-unequal country in the world, according to one World Bank metric.

Focusing on these modest reforms ignores the fact that MBS is the architect of Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, where Saudi forces have bombed hospitals and deliberately restricted the flow of vital goods (like food and medicine) into territory held by Houthi rebels.

Well over 10,000 people have died since Saudi Arabia’s intervention in Yemen in 2015; we can only roughly estimate deaths because the situation is too dangerous for anyone to conduct an authoritative casualty count. The Saudi blockade has choked off access to food so thoroughly that 17 million Yemenis — two-thirds of the population — don’t know where their next meal will come from. The damage to Yemen’s health and water services is so extensive that sewage has contaminated the water supply, causing the worst cholera outbreak — more than 1 million documented cases — in modern history.

The war in Yemen was MBS’s idea: It’s widely seen as his signature foreign policy initiative. Yet despite his responsibility for what Amnesty International has labeled “possible war crimes,” American media and society is treating him like a hero.

“[It’s] appalling,” Marc Lynch, a Middle East expert at George Washington University, says of the crown prince’s reception in the US — appalling in a way that speaks to fundamental problems with the US-Saudi relationship.

Why MBS got a hero’s welcome in America

The United States is no stranger to celebrating friendly Middle East autocrats. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, whose military once killed more than 800 peaceful protesters in a single day, was praised as “Islam’s Improbable Reformer” in the Wall Street Journal due to his opposition to Islamism. When Sisi won “reelection” this Monday, by a subtle 97-3 margin, President Trump called to congratulate him.

But the sycophancy we’ve seen on display during the MBS visit to America has reached a new level. The sheer volume of pro-MBS rhetoric in the press, and his meetings with politicians and pop culture figures alike, dwarfs what we typically see with pro-American dictators. He got a friendly reception from all sorts of powerful American figures, from Trump on down.

Experts say this isn’t an accident.

“His domestic reforms and rhetoric have been carefully crafted to resonate here,” Lynch explains.

Another part of the story is that the Saudis, along with other Gulf monarchies like the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, have spent huge amounts of money in Washington. They have armies of PR staff and lobbyists and provide ample support to prominent think tanks. As a result, many influential Americans see the Saudis through the lens of their pro-US foreign policy rather than their awful human rights record.

“Money talks,” Ben Rhodes, one of President Obama’s top foreign policy aides, told me when I asked him about the MBS coverage.

One can debate whether maintaining a close relationship with Saudi Arabia is in the best interests of the United States. That’s a complex and difficult question, one that reasonable and well-meaning people can disagree about.

But what can’t be disputed, what cannot be argued in good faith, is that Mohammed bin Salman deserves to be treated like a rock star in American society.

It may be the case that the US needs MBS as a matter of geopolitics, but America’s media and cultural elite have no role in forming policy. They’re entirely free to call out MBS for his country’s execution of gay people and his human rights abuse in Yemen without consequences for American strategic interests.

Not every media outlet fell down on the job. The Atlantic’s Jeffrey Goldberg, for example, did a tough interview — asking him if he believed men and women are equal (yes) and then following up by asking whether he’ll repeal the guardianship system that prevents women from traveling without male permission (no).

But Goldberg was the exception to the overall rule. MBS’s tour of the United States was a triumph for his PR team — and a tragedy for the country.On Wednesday, Donald Trump tweeted, “When you’re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can’t lose!” That claim about trade is about to be severely tested, as the White House looks to impose $100 billion more in tariffs on China, on top of the $50 billion in tariffs the administration is already seeking.

Trump said in a statement that he’s asking the US trade representative to consider an additional $100 billion in tariffs “in light of China’s unfair retaliation.” China said Tuesday it would impose $50 billion in tariffs against US products, including soybeans and cars, in response to the Trump administration’s initial decision to slap tariffs on Chinese-made goods to punish the country for intellectual property theft.

All of which sounds very much like the escalation of a potential trade war between the world’s economic superpowers.

“Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers,” Trump said in the statement, and he added that he’s instructing the secretary of agriculture to take measures to protect farmers and other agricultural interests who might be ensnared by the Chinese tariffs.

Trump also said the US “is still prepared to have discussions” with China about free and reciprocal trade and about protecting America’s intellectual property. But the president’s drastic and swift proposal to increase proposed tariffs against China doesn’t bode well for negotiations.

China also brought a challenge against Trump’s tariffs at the World Trade Organization on Thursday, which Vox’s Zeeshan Aleem notes could “set off a lengthy legal process.”

Trump tweeted Wednesday that “we are not in a trade war with China,” but the president’s latest actions are certainly following the playbook of a trade war, though the initial round of tariffs haven’t even gone into effect yet.

We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 4, 2018

The administration is holding a public comment period, with US industries weighing in, that will last well into May. China is also likely sitting on tariffs until the US makes a final decision.

So it’s possible the two countries will walk back from the edge. But US farmers are extremely worried, and could be hit the hardest if China continues with taxes on products such as pork and soybeans. That could do some damage to the president, and the Republican Party, before the midterm elections in states that turned out for Trump in 2016.

The stock market has also reacted skittishly to Trump’s trade policies. Dow futures plunged more than 400 points Thursday evening on the news of Trump’s extra tariffs. Wall Street seems to know what Trump might not: Trade wars are not easy to win.