Over the past week, prominent political figures from both sides of the aisle have suggested that the prohibition of marijuana is to blame for mass incarceration.

Former House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio, claimed, “When you look at the number of people in our state and federal penitentiaries, who are there for possession of small amounts of cannabis, you begin to really scratch your head. We have literally filled up our jails with people who are nonviolent and frankly do not belong there.” Sen. Brian Schatz, a Democrat from Hawaii, tweeted, “More than 2 million in jail, mostly black and brown, many for holding a small amount of marijuana.”

The suggestion, however, is wrong.

It is true that a lot of people are arrested each year for marijuana. In 2016, nearly 600,000 people were arrested for simple marijuana possession. These arrests on their own can create huge problems — leading to criminal records that can make it harder to get a job, housing, or financial aid for college.

But these arrests are only a small part of America’s mass incarceration problem.

First, most people in jail or prison are not in for drug charges at all. According to the Prison Policy Initiative, around 21 percent of people in jail or prison are in there for a drug crime, including marijuana possession. So the great majority of people are not incarcerated due to drugs. And, contrary to Boehner’s claim about nonviolent offenders, about 42 percent of people in jail or prison are in there for violent crimes — making violent offenses the single biggest driver of incarceration out of all offense categories.

How many of the 21 percent of drug offenders are in for marijuana possession?

Unfortunately, we don’t have good data for jails, where people are held before they’re convicted of a crime and for shorter sentences.

We also don’t have good data for state prisons, where more than 87 percent of US prison inmates are held, based on federal data. But we do know that a minority of state prisoners are in for drugs: In 2015, 3.4 percent of all state prisoners were in for drug possession and 11.7 percent were in for other drug-related crimes. So only a fraction of prisoners are locked up due to drug prohibition in general, much less marijuana prohibition in particular.

We do have some good data for the federal system. According to the US Sentencing Commission, 92 of nearly 20,000 people — fewer than half a percent — sentenced for drug offenses during fiscal year 2017 were locked up due to simple possession of marijuana. And drug cases made up less than a third of cases reported by the Sentencing Commission that year. Not all of these people were sentenced to prison; some got probation instead.

Since the federal system is focused much more on drug trafficking than the state system, it’s not really possible to extrapolate the federal numbers to state prisons.

Based on the data we do have, though, it’s fair to say that marijuana prohibition — and even the war on drugs more broadly — is not the major driver of mass incarceration.

For more on these topics, read Vox’s explainers on mass incarceration and marijuana legalization.Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin (R) is facing a backlash for comments he made Friday blaming a widespread teachers strike for child abuse and rape.

More than 30 school districts were closed Friday because thousands of teachers had gone to rally at the state Capitol in Frankfurt. The teachers were urging state lawmakers to override Bevin’s veto of a two-year budget that would boost school funding by $480 million through various tax hikes.

Facing pressure from thousands of chanting teachers, Republican lawmakers voted to override the governor. Bevin was not happy.

“You know how many hundreds of thousands of children were left home alone today? I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them,” Bevin told reporters on Friday. “I guarantee you somewhere today, a child was physically harmed or ingested poison because they were left alone because a single parent didn’t have any money to take care of them.”

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin on the teacher rallies today. “I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them.” pic.twitter.com/Q4PpzFsTt2 — Marcus Green (@MarcusGreenWDRB) April 13, 2018

Bevin’s comments sparked a fierce backlash from teachers and lawmakers from both parties.

State Sen. Max Wise (R) tweeted in response:

The disgusting comments by Gov. Bevin insinuating that a peaceful protest by teachers would lead to sexual assault are reprehensible.



I don’t agree with these comments & I find them repulsive. I disagreed with his radio comments about teachers before & I disagree with these. — Max Wise (@maxwellwise) April 14, 2018

Teachers cheered as Senate Minority Leader Ray Jones (D) said Bevins “had crossed the line.”

Educators cheer as Senate Minority Leader Ray Jones, D-Pikeville, speaks out against recent comments made by Gov. Matt Bevin in senate chambers. @heraldleader @pbaniak @lbblackford pic.twitter.com/WcRyI0fYfh — Alex Slitz (@AlexSlitzPhoto) April 14, 2018

The state’s attorney general chimed in too:

1/3 “Gov. Bevin’s comments last night saying teachers rallying in Frankfort led to children being sexually abused are morally reprehensible and must be condemned by all Kentuckians. — KY Attorney General (@kyoag) April 14, 2018

Republicans and Democrats in the House went as far as to pass their own resolutions Friday publicly denouncing Bevin’s comments.

On Sunday, Bevin issued an apology. Sort of.

“On Friday evening I made some comments about the unintended consequences of schools being closed, some with only a matter of hours of notice,” Bevin said in a recorded video message. “For those of you who understood what I was saying, thank you, I appreciate that you do, but clearly a tremendous number of people did not fully appreciate what I was communicating or what I was trying to say and I hurt a lot of people. ... I apologize to those who have been hurt by the things that I said. That was not my intent whatsoever.”

Kentucky schools reopened Monday, and teachers went back to work after passage of the school funding budget bill. Their protests are part of a widespread grassroots battle over teacher pay and school funding that is sweeping through red states — including Oklahoma and West Virginia — that have slashed taxes and education budgets in recent years.There is a proposal Republicans often make during presidential campaigns or tax debates, and it goes something like this: Taxes are confusing, so we should reduce the number of tax brackets.

And if you’re enraged by how confusing it is to do your taxes, this can sound like a good idea.

It’s the exact argument House Speaker Paul Ryan made during the tax reform debate, while also saying we should be able to do our taxes on a postcard. It’s a proposal that Donald Trump made during the campaign, as did his competitors Marco Rubio, Ben Carson, and Jeb Bush, among others.

But this interactive chart explains why that’s a red herring:

In short, tax brackets are among the easiest parts of the tax code, thanks to modern software and, well, math. (The other rationale for fewer brackets — argued by Carson during the campaign — is that having different tax rates based on income is socialism, which is why he supports a flat tax.)

But as the graphic above shows, the US has historically taxed the very wealthy more than the somewhat wealthy — and way more than the middle class. In the 1960s, the tax brackets on the high end started to disappear, and during Ronald Reagan’s presidency we went down to just two brackets. That meant that many middle-class citizens were in the same tax bracket as millionaires.

Since the beginning of Reagan’s term, wealth inequality has been on the rise — with the gap between the top 0.1 percent and everyone else, including many quite affluent families, growing.

Now, this isn’t to say that more tax brackets is a good thing. In fact, if we wanted to do a little more math, we could get rid of brackets entirely and create some kind of formula that would tax an incrementally higher rate for every additional dollar you earn. But to think tax brackets are the reason taxes are so complicated completely misses the point.President Donald Trump’s decision to bomb Syria on Friday night has (once again) raised an important question: Does the American president have the legal right to order a military strike on another country without the consent of Congress?

The simple answer is no, as Congress is charged with officially declaring war under the US Constitution. But it’s not that simple. For the past several decades, and especially after the 9/11 attacks, Congress has consistently failed to check executive power when it comes to authorizing the use of military force. As a result, the perception of what’s permissible and what isn’t has drifted.

To find out what the law actually says, I reached out to Stephen Vladeck, a constitutional lawyer at the University of Texas. The recent strikes in Syria, he told me, are almost certainly unconstitutional, but there’s now a precedent for them, which means the institution responsible for this crisis — Congress — is the only one that can remedy it.

Our full conversation, lightly edited for clarity, follows.

Sean Illing

As a matter of US law, was the latest American military strike on Syria legal?

Stephen Vladeck

Almost certainly not. To be legal, the strike would have to authorized either by some act of Congress or by the president’s own powers under Article II of the Constitution. And neither of those conditions appear to have been met here.

Sean Illing

What does Article II say and why doesn’t it apply here?

Stephen Vladeck

Article II doesn’t say that much; it’s actually quite cryptic in the powers it grants to the president. But two of the powers are important here. The first is what’s called “executive power” (and there’s legitimate debate about whether executive power includes the ability to make war) and the second is the power that makes the president commander in chief of the armed forces.

Since World War II, presidents of both parties have pointed to one or both of those provisions as giving them unilateral power to use military force even when Congress has not authorized it.

Sean Illing

Okay, but under what conditions does a plausible reading of Article II give the president such power?

Stephen Vladeck

Well, that’s the million dollar question. The only condition the Supreme Court has ever expressly endorsed is to “repel sudden attacks,” which basically means the president doesn’t have to wait for congressional authorization to respond militarily to an attack against us. And I think there’s widespread agreement that, at minimum, the Constitution gives the president that kind of defensive war power.

Sean Illing

That seems reasonable enough, but I don’t see any way to argue that the latest strike on Syria was “self-defense,” since there was no immediate threat to American security.

Stephen Vladeck

Exactly. And indeed we haven’t heard the term “self-defense” from the Trump administration. The term they’ve used instead is that the use of force here was “in our national interest.”

Sean Illing

I think most people accept that the president should have the power to respond to an attack, but in this case the president is using military force to defend international norms against the use of chemical weapons. Is there any reading of Article II that suggests that this constitutes “self-defense”?

Stephen Vladeck

It’s an interesting question whether that “ought” to constitute self-defense, but I can tell you that it certainly never has. And if we expanded Article II to allow the president to use force without Congress any time it furthered some international norm, that would open up a whole host of problems down the road.

Sean Illing

The Trump administration might also claim that the 2001 “Authorization for use of Military Force” (AUMF), which was passed by Congress after 9/11 and allowed the president to use military force against virtually anyone associated with 9/11, gives the president the power to do what he did in Syria. This is certainly something the Obama administration often invoked in its strikes against suspected terrorists around the world.

Stephen Vladeck

The 2001 AUMF is very specific about who it authorizes the use of force against, and it authorizes uses of force against terrorist organizations responsible for or connected to the 9/11 attacks.

The uses of force we’ve engaged in Syria have largely been against ISIS on the theory that ISIS that is sufficiently connected to al-Qaeda that it falls within the purview of that 2001 statute, but there’s no real argument that Assad was in any way connected to the 9/11 attacks, so I see no reason to believe that the AUMF applies.

Sean Illing

So we’re now in a situation in which consecutive presidents are unconstitutionally engaging in acts of war without congressional approval and it continues because Congress lacks the institutional will to do its job — is that right?

Stephen Vladeck

That’s perfectly said. It may be that, for each of these uses of force, Congress is acquiescing because they’re satisfied with the practical results. But from a separation of powers perspective, that’s very dangerous. Congress has a vital role to play in the operation of our government, and it’s not playing it.

Sean Illing

We seem to be in something like a constitutional crisis in terms of how we’ve allowed executive power to expand on this front.

Stephen Vladek

“Crisis” is a strong word. A true crisis would be if Congress actually tried to assert itself and was unable to do so. I think we’re witnessing the effects of a long-term drift in how we understand the war powers of the executive. We’ve come to accept the general unilateral authority of the president to use military force, and that is definitely problematic.

Sean Illing

So where does this leave us? Congress has allowed this precedent to take root, and now it seems the only remedy is for the very institution responsible for this to finally assert itself and exercise its constitutional authority.

Stephen Vladeck

The short answer is that we really need a Congress that cares more about its institutional relationship to the president than it does about the partisan politics of the moment. And I think both parties have been guilty of losing sight of that when they’ve been in power. But I hope we can all agree that we’re better served when every branch of the government plays its role in making these sorts of life and death decisions.When rookie screenwriters Taylor Allen and Andrew Logan decided to write a movie about Ted Kennedy and the 1969 car crash at Chappaquiddick that killed Mary Jo Kopechne and sidelined Kennedy’s presidential hopes, they had no idea what they were getting into.

For Americans of a certain age, Chappaquiddick is a lightning rod of controversy, with people’s opinions about who was at fault often falling along largely political lines. But the story seems to have faded into legend for many people — particularly liberals — who weren’t adults in 1969.

By writing a movie that waded into the story, though, Allen and Logan, both self-proclaimed “dyed in the wool” liberals, managed to resurrect the controversy and have been hearing from people on all sides of the issue since the movie’s theatrical release on April 6. I talked to the screenwriting pair about how they approached material they originally knew nothing about, what they’ve been hearing from people on Twitter since, and what they learned from tackling the stories of Ted Kennedy, Mary Jo Kopechne, and Chappaquiddick.

Alissa Wilkinson

So how did you approach this material?

Taylor Allen

It started as a series of phone calls between me and Andrew, with nobody asking for the script at all — no outside interest, no outside money. Just two guys with a lot of passion for the Kennedy family, and specifically Ted Kennedy, because he was the youngest, and always the most relatable Kennedy for that reason. (I’m the youngest.)

In the runup to the 2008 election, Bill Maher did a segment in which Ted Kennedy endorsed Barack Obama. Maher was like, “You know, that’s crazy — Ted Kennedy is changing presidential history for a second time. He would have been president had it not been for Chappaquiddick.”

Me and Andrew were roommates at the time. We looked at each other, and I said, “What’s a Chappaquiddick?”

We hopped on the Google machine and misspelled it and were led to a Wikipedia page that did not have nearly the accuracy and facts that, ultimately, we were able to find.

Alissa Wilkinson

So you really hadn’t heard this story before that? Had you heard rumors at all? Did you have any impression at all before then?

Andrew Logan

No, we really didn’t. When we heard that on Real Time, we were really shocked about it. Going through the process of writing it, our innocence was one of our greatest assets because we didn’t know what questions not to ask.

When we started the project, we very clearly defined to ourselves that we didn’t want this to be a conspiracy movie. We wanted to write a character study of Ted Kennedy, but we wanted the truth to be our North Star. I think that was partly influenced by the fact that I’m the son of a lawyer.

With that pursuit of the truth, we ended up discovering that there had been an inquest into the death of Mary Jo Kopechne about six months after the incident happened. All the people who were involved reconvened at Martha’s Vineyard and went under oath. So Ted Kennedy, Joe Gargan, Paul Markham, and all the “Boiler Room Girls” went under oath to tell their version of what happened that night.

Those court transcripts were about 1,000 pages long, and Taylor and I pored through them. I think we’ve read them at least three times each. On the third reading of 1,000 pages, you really start to understand the nuance of what’s being said.

That was our primary resource. That’s what we used to make sure we had our facts correct when we were writing the scripts.

Alissa Wilkinson

Obviously there’s been a lot of speculation over the years about whose version of the facts are the real ones, and, as you say, also lots of conspiracy theories. Did you read up on those as well?

Taylor Allen

Well, when you tell people at a dinner party that you’re writing a movie about Chappaquiddick, you find that people are really excited to tell you their favorite conspiracy theories. But that was the great thing about being very naive about the story, not realizing this was somewhat of a third rail in Democratic American politics for a while.

We had never been to Martha’s Vineyard until the movie was actually getting made. What we found when we went there was that it was impolite to bring Chappaquiddick up in conversation casually. That was how verboten it was to talk about it.

Andrew Logan

Even to this day!

Taylor Allen

I think that’s the reason why we were able to start with, as Andrew said, primary source court transcripts where people are under oath. The great thing is we would go to a party and people would be like, “I heard that Mary Jo was asleep in the back seat.” Because we read these court transcripts, I can tell you the reason people think that is because the officer who saw the vehicle said that he saw “two or three people” in the car — and that “third person” was a purse.

Andrew Logan

He even says in his testimony that the object could have possibly been a handbag.

Taylor Allen

Yeah, and then that purse didn’t belong to Mary Jo, so everybody wants to assume that that person who had the purse was in the car. Then you find out that under oath [the owner of the purse] said, “Oh yeah, I went back to Edgartown around 8 pm to get a radio for the party so that we had some music. And I must have left the purse in there on that trip.”

It’s just like, oh, well that kind of clears it up, doesn’t it?

Alissa Wilkinson

A lot of the things various people say about Chappaquiddick seem to stem from people getting pieces of the story thirdhand and fourth-hand, and because it’s an older story, it’s had time to grow and change depending on who you’re talking to.

Taylor Allen

You said grow and change; I also think these things just sort of metastasize. The story sort of snowballed in a way where, because nobody was willing to talk again after this inquest, the rumor became the truth that was printed, and that was very unfortunate for everyone involved — Mary Jo especially.

Andrew Logan

When we went out and we started researching, I talked to my grandparents, because they were adults at the time this had happened. I casually asked them, “What do you know about the Chappaquiddick incident?”

Their response was, “We know Mary Jo. She was this floozy. She was cheating with this married senator, and she shouldn’t have been there.”

I was kind of taken aback, like, Why are they blaming Mary Jo? That’s very interesting.

One of the things we really discovered in our research — and something that became very important for us to tell in the movie — was who Mary Jo was as a person. She was this incredibly bright young woman who had this really promising future ahead of her as somebody who was working in politics. She was a tireless worker on the Bobby Kennedy campaign. She helped him write speeches. For us, it was really important to make sure that her legacy was honored in this. We felt like her name had been dragged through the mud for almost 50 years.

Alissa Wilkinson

Were you able to talk to people who knew some of the others who turn up as characters in the film?

Taylor Allen

As first-time screenwriters, writing about an extraordinary family — American royalty, the Kennedys — until we had a first draft, we didn’t have the guts to pick up a phone and try to reach out to any of these people. But as soon as we had that draft, we did start to reach out to people that had really important pieces of the puzzle. Like John Farrar, the diver, who is actually the only person who saw Mary Jo in the vehicle. He is the one who suggested that she might have lived for an hour, or up to two hours, breathing air from an air pocket. So we talked to him.

We also got a phone call from Esther Newberg, who’s one of the Boiler Room Girls. And we asked if she would like to talk to us on the record a little bit about her experiences, and she declined.

But for all the Boiler Room Girls, this was obviously a very traumatic experience and probably one of the greatest sadnesses in their life — that one of their friends was killed. They don’t like to relive it.

I hope, now that the movie is out, that they can see that we tried to show them in the best light possible, and show that their reputation deserves more credit than it got in 1969.

Alissa Wilkinson

So as you wrote the movie, you obviously were coming to understand how controversial the story was. At what point did you start to understand how political it is, and how much many people’s opinions about the story had to do with their own politics?

Taylor Allen

I had never really searched Twitter for the word “Chappaquiddick” until the movie was actually being advertised. Even before that, it was clear to me that Chappaquiddick is the original source of whataboutism.

The story had been a hobbyhorse on the right for a long time, but Andrew and I and our director, John Curran, are all dyed-in-the-wool liberals. So we were trying to examine the story as an investigation into tribal culture. Once a person gets put up on a pedestal, how did they get there? Is it right for them to remain there? We continue to have questions about that even now, but certainly I think that we never expected, as liberals, to make a movie that would be so wildly embraced on the right.

When my aunt calls me and tells me that Rush Limbaugh won’t stop talking about the movie, I have very mixed feelings.

Alissa Wilkinson

Were you thinking about that while you were working on it? That it might bolster or cut into your own political side?

Andrew Logan

As I said, we had had very early discussions about not wanting to be a conspiracy movie. But we also didn’t want it to be a politically partisan movie either. We think there’s real value in facts and real value in the truth. So writing this was our pursuit of the truth — to figure out what had happened, and why.

Taylor Allen

We looked at it as an opportunity to be self-reflective, as members of this party. The truth would set us free. So for us, we hoped it would be clear that truth has no political party. That was true in 1969, and that should very well be true even today, on either side of the aisle.

Alissa Wilkinson

As you were researching and writing, did it feel like anything had shifted in the political landscape since then?

Taylor Allen

The movie went into production in September 2016, and at that point, Donald Trump was the Republican nominee for president. It was already clear that he was known to tell a tall tale or two. The Access Hollywood tape didn’t come out until right as we were finishing production.

But we were always wanting to write about how powerful men are able to have a different justice system or have different standards, based on tribal politics. That was inherent in what we were interested in talking about.

Initially, though, we thought that the movie would just be relevant, but cathartic, after Hillary Clinton was elected. Then Trump was elected. Andrew and I were queasy for political reasons about that, but it was an odd fit for us, writing this in the Obama years and then releasing it in the Trump era.

Alissa Wilkinson

I’m the same age as you, and the number of people I’ve talked to my age and younger who thought Chappaquiddick was more like a Pizzagate-style story was pretty astonishing. My family is from Massachusetts, so I knew about it. They had lots of opinions about the Kennedys.

Andrew Logan

That makes a lot of sense, but it’s crazy that it gets related to something as wildly conspiratorial as Pizzagate.

Taylor Allen

Yeah, that’s a real bummer. You can quote me on that.

Alissa Wilkinson

So what have the responses been like since the movie came out? Have you been surprised?

Taylor Allen

There’s two ends of the spectrum here. What I have heard a lot of on Twitter — in my mentions but also in my unfortunate decision to open my direct messages — is a lot of people criticizing us for advertising in places that we chose to advertise that I thought were very logical, such as CNN’s The Kennedys miniseries.

I feel like that’s a prime audience that might be interested in another Kennedy story! And yet people thought we were trying to own CNN and troll the libs.

I honestly had never even considered that. If somebody had been like, “Should we do this cautiously?” I’d be like, “Nah, it’s a great idea! Kennedys miniseries!” So that’s been interesting.

Then there was a woman who went on quite the Twitter rant mentioning Andrew and I. As you might imagine, she was a proud conservative — not that there’s anything wrong with that, to quote Seinfeld. But she was convinced that Chappaquiddick was being put out to distract from the “crimes of Bubba and Hillary Clinton,” that the movie was a liberal subterfuge to avoid addressing more modern problems.

Obviously, I’m not that capable. Even if I was that dastardly, I am not capable of doing that.

Andrew Logan

We’re really lucky that Byron Allen is our fearless distributor because he’s been on the record as saying he’s been getting calls from “very powerful people” to stop this movie from being played. His response when he heard that was, “Well, I’m just gonna increase the ad budget.”

Alissa Wilkinson

Yet the movie doesn’t feel hot or overblown in any way. It feels just kind of like a sad story about how justice doesn’t treat everyone the same way.

Taylor Allen

We wrote the movie as a character study. It’s also a thriller; it’s also entertaining. But we were just very interested in Ted Kennedy the man, the human being — someone who had had tragedy overwhelmingly laid on his shoulders. What interested me and Andrew about Ted was that it wasn’t like he was ever expected to carry the torch of the Kennedy legacy into the next century. ... Tragedy after tragedy ended up with Ted having this burden, and afraid for his life as well. And that was a great setup for someone making a lot of sometimes difficult-to-understand decisions.

Andrew Logan

And also, as two people who really admired who Ted Kennedy was and what he stood for in the Senate, we think the seven days that we show in the movie helped define who he became. He wouldn’t have necessarily become the “lion of the Senate” had this not happened. He would have always carried those presidential aspirations, and then maybe not have taken on third-rail issues like health care and immigration, because that would have affected his goals for achieving higher office.

I think that was one of the things I learned through the research process and writing this movie — that this was a defining moment for him, in a way that he was able to become the senator that he was.

But I’ve now read a lot of articles on Ted Kennedy’s legacy, and the thing that I find interesting is that the thing I remembered Ted Kennedy for as a senator is something that I have not actually seen people bring up a lot: that he was such a dogged fighter for the Supreme Court justices, especially in the hearings about [Robert] Bork. I thought that perhaps because he wasn’t running for president, he could engage in a way that other senators looking toward the Oval Office might not be able to.

Alissa Wilkinson

What’s the most important thing you learned from this whole project?

Andrew Logan

I knew 80 or 90 percent of what I know about Mary Jo Kopechne the day we finished the first draft. But there are even more details now that the movie has come out. It was a great honor to get to show her family the movie. It was the most nervous I felt before a screening, because I wasn’t sure how Mary Jo’s family would react. But I saw them do press later, in which they said that Ethel Kennedy offered Mary Jo the opportunity to be the governess to Bobby’s children after the assassination.

That’s what is so hard for people to realize about Mary Jo: Everybody’s got a lot of co-workers, and anybody might work for a boss that they admire, but this was much closer than that. The bond was almost like family. And that’s why, I think, this is such a huge tragedy too — it’s some very close friends, with very close relationships.

Taylor Allen

I couldn’t have said that better myself.For the past few months, Democrats have been riding high on a generic ballot advantage that shows them about 7 or 8 percentage points ahead of the Republicans in the 2018 midterms — an edge that signifies a potentially historic wave election.

But Democrats just got their first sign of trouble.

A new ABC News/Washington Post poll released Monday shows that Democrats have just a 4-point advantage over their GOP counterparts; 47 percent of registered voters polled said they prefer the Democratic candidate in their individual district, while 43 percent of those polled favor the Republican candidate.

However, when ABC and the Washington Post posed the same question to a wider group of adults of voting age (not just registered voters), the Democratic spread was better — a 10-point margin, with 50 percent of adults saying they preferred the Democratic candidate and 40 percent preferring the Republican.

The larger picture is that the very wide advantage Democrats had this winter is shrinking. In December, Democrats had a 13-point lead on the generic ballot, and that has decreased significantly.

Of course, the ballot has fluctuated all year and will continue to do so. The generic ballot spread still has Democrats up about 6 points, according to RealClearPolitics.

Part of the reason Republican numbers are gradually improving is that President Donald Trump’s approval numbers are also improving. The Post/ABC poll found 40 percent of registered voters approve of Trump, a slight uptick from 36 percent in January. That 40 percent approval rating is Trump’s highest level of support since last April, but the president continues to have a record disapproval rating.

There’s also good news for the GOP in making gains among white voters, who said they prefer Republicans by a 14-point margin over Democrats, up from 5 points in January, according to the poll. Among white voters without college degrees, Republicans lead by 60 percent to 31 percent, slightly larger than their margin three months ago.

Bolstered by special election wins over the past few months, a Democratic wave has gone from a hope to the conventional wisdom. But there are still a number of speed bumps between now and November that Vox’s Dylan Scott outlined recently. The economy is good; Democrats could have something go wrong with some candidates in individual districts; and (especially with Trump as president) there could be a chaotic variable that changes the midterms — think a terrorist attack, natural disaster, or war.

As Scott wrote:

The conventional wisdom is solidifying that Democrats — buoyed by an unpopular President Donald Trump, an energized Democratic base, ample opportunities for pickups, and the historical rule that voters punish the party in the White House — will win the 20 or so seats they need to flip the House and maybe even get the Senate. Of course, it’s not in the bag: A lot can happen between now and November, never mind that Senate Democrats are at an extreme disadvantage, that gerrymandering can curb the generic ballot by a lot, meaning there are plenty of R+whatever districts.

In other words, it’s far from over.The morass of ethical questions around Scott Pruitt’s conduct as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is now stunningly thick.

But the Government Accountability Office has just answered one key question amid the allegations: The EPA broke the law when it built Pruitt’s secret phone booth last year.

In an opinion published Monday, the GAO reported that the agency violated Section 710 of the 2017 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act. The rule states that agencies can’t spend more than $5,000 to improve the office of a presidential appointee, whether that’s new furniture, paintings, or hardware. At least, not without approval from Congress.

Pruitt’s soundproof privacy booth, which was first reported by the Washington Post in September, cost $43,238.68. And it’s illegal for another reason too, says GAO: It violates the Antideficiency Act, which states that agencies aren’t allowed to rack up bills beyond what Congress has appropriated for them.

The GAO reported that the breakdown for the bill included “$24,570 for ‘Privacy booth purchase, delivery, and assembly,’ $3,470 for ‘Concrete Floor Leveling,’ $3,360.97 for ‘Drop Ceiling Installation,’ $3,350 for ‘Prep and Wall Painting,’ $7,978 for ‘Removal of CCTV Equipment,’ and $509.71 for ‘Infrastructure Cabling and Wiring.’”

“Because EPA used its appropriations in a manner specifically prohibited by law, EPA violated the Antideficiency Act,” according to the GAO opinion.

Related Why the head of the EPA built himself a secret phone booth

The EPA has said that the phone booth was necessary for Pruitt to make and receive classified telephone calls. The agency does have authority to create and handle classified national security information, but a 2013 audit found that the agency wasn’t doing a good job of it.

The issue here, however, is that the phone booth was built without a go-ahead from the appropriators in Congress. And the EPA already has a sensitive compartmented information facility to handle classified information on a different floor of its headquarters.

The booth is part of a pattern of paranoia for Pruitt, who had his office swept for listening devices, continues to hide his schedule from the public, doesn’t allow employees into his office without an escort, and has prohibited note-taking at meetings.

The GAO opinion also represents the first clear case of Pruitt’s EPA violating the law, an uncomfortable turn for an administrator who claims to be a stickler for the law. And it probably won’t end here. There are at least half a dozen other investigations into the EPA underway, from the GAO as well as from Congress and from the EPA’s inspector general, looking into things ranging from Pruitt’s condo deal with a lobbyist to his luxury travel arrangements.

The EPA’s Office of General Counsel previously argued that Section 710 didn’t apply to the booth because it was necessary to “conduct agency business in a private space” and that it was paid for out of the agency’s environmental programs and management budget previously approved by Congress.

And in an email, EPA spokesperson Liz Bowman responded to the GAO report with this statement: “EPA is addressing GAO’s concern, with regard to Congressional notification about this expense, and will be sending Congress the necessary information this week.”The New York Times editorial board’s opposition to President Donald Trump is well known. But on Monday, the paper devoted its entire editorial page to an unusually lengthy argument that “the president is not above the law,” calling on Congress to prepare for the possibility of Trump shutting down special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.

“Make no mistake: If Mr. Trump takes such drastic action, it will be striking at the foundation of the American government, attempting to set a precedent that a president, alone among American citizens, is above the law,” the editorial board wrote. “What can seem now like a political sideshow will instantly become a constitutional crisis, and history will come calling.”

Speculation that Trump might fire Mueller, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, or Attorney General Jeff Sessions, or make some other attempt to shutter the Russia investigation, has built in recent weeks. The president is reportedly raging over the matter in private and, increasingly, in public, especially after the FBI raided his personal attorney Michael Cohen’s home and office last week.

Former FBI Director James Comey’s upcoming book and anti-Trump media blitz have further irked the president. He lashed out at Comey over the weekend on Twitter and has persistently attacked the Justice Department and the FBI. “Much of the bad blood with Russia is caused by the Fake & Corrupt Russia Investigation, headed up by the all Democrat loyalists, or people that worked for Obama,” Trump tweeted last week. “Mueller is most conflicted of all (except Rosenstein who signed FISA & Comey letter). No Collusion, so they go crazy!”

Much of the bad blood with Russia is caused by the Fake & Corrupt Russia Investigation, headed up by the all Democrat loyalists, or people that worked for Obama. Mueller is most conflicted of all (except Rosenstein who signed FISA & Comey letter). No Collusion, so they go crazy! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

The Times editorial on Monday warned that if Trump does indeed fire Mueller — which he has reportedly considered at least twice — the onus will be on Congress to step in. “Lawmakers need to be preparing now for that possibility because if and when it comes to pass, they will suddenly find themselves on the edge of an abyss, with the Constitution in their hands,” the editorial board wrote.

Editorials are written by a newspaper’s board and represent the official institutional position of the paper. It’s unusual for one to be this long and pointed. Editorials are different from op-eds, which are opinion pieces written by contributors and reflect the opinions of the individual author.

The editorial board takes aim at Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), the former Judiciary Committee chair and current Finance Committee chair, who is now serving his seventh term in the Senate. It quotes Hatch discussing President Bill Clinton’s impeachment in 1999. “This great nation can tolerate a president who makes mistakes,” he said at the time. “But it cannot tolerate one who makes a mistake and then breaks the law to cover it up.”

The Times writes:

At that time, the American system — and the flawed yet sometimes heroic people their fellow Americans choose to lead them — underwent, and passed, a hard test: The president, his financial dealings and his personal relationships were painstakingly investigated for years. Prosecutors ultimately accused Mr. Clinton of lying under oath, to cover up a sexual affair. The House of Representatives impeached him, but the Senate declined to convict, and Mr. Clinton stayed in office. The public, which learned in detail about everything investigators believed Mr. Clinton had done wrong, overwhelmingly agreed with the judgment of the Senate. It was a sad and sordid and at times distracting business, but the system worked. Now Mr. Hatch and his fellow lawmakers may be approaching a harsher and more consequential test. We quote his words not to level some sort of accusation of hypocrisy, but to remind us all of what is at stake.

Last week, a bipartisan group of four Judiciary Committee senators — Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Cory Booker (D-NJ) — introduced a bill to protect Mueller from interference by Trump. The legislation would allow for Mueller or another special counsel to be fired only for “good cause” and allow special counsels to challenge their firing after the fact.

Tillis, in an interview with Politico published on Monday, pushed back against conservative critics of his decision to sponsor such a bill. “The same people who would criticize me for filing this bill would be absolutely angry if I wasn’t pounding the table for this bill if we were dealing with Hillary Clinton,” he argued. “So spare me your righteous indignation.”

Monday’s Times editorial presses Congress to get ready in the event Trump does decide to act on Mueller:As the Democratic Party struggles to regain its once-solid national majority, journalists, academics, commentators, and politicos keep reverting to an irresistible narrative: that the party’s commitment to racial equality has alienated it from the white working and middle classes — perhaps irreversibly. As a result of this misstep, Democrats now seem to be the “party of minorities, the marginalized, and their young and elite liberal patrons.”

Those are the words of the journalist James Traub, which appear in a provocative piece in the Atlantic. Traub is only the latest in a long line to make this claim.

But where most commentators trace the Democrats’ downfall to the late 1960s, when the party broke with the allegedly “colorblind” universalism of Martin Luther King Jr. and embraced something these critics call “identity politics,” Traub makes the case that the Democrats’ decline can be traced all the way back to 1948, when Hubert Humphrey persuaded the Democratic National Convention to endorse a platform in favor of civil rights, over the objection of Southern conservatives and risk-averse Northerners.

By morally committing the Democrats to racial equality, Humphrey set the party and the country on the path that led to desegregation, LBJ, the Great Society, mandatory busing — and, finally, white “backlash.”

“Did the commitment of 1948 lead inevitably to the electoral calamity of 1968 and beyond?” Traub asks. “That is, did the Democrats doom themselves to lose much of the white middle class simply by demanding equal rights for black people?”

The defection of white Southerners, the loss of support among white working- and middle-class voters in the North, the rise of George Wallace, Ronald Reagan, and now Donald Trump — each might have been avoided but for this commitment to racial equality. In Traub’s words: “Thanks to Humphrey and the ADA [Americans for Democratic Action], the Democrats had done something even more dangerous than they understood: They had exchanged a politics of self-interest for a politics of moral commitment.”

It has now become common to argue that the downfall of the New Deal can be attributed to the belated addition of “identity-based” claims — namely, claims to racial equality — to what had been a broad-based coalition rooted in the economic interests of workers, albeit one focused at first mainly on whites. The universal — or at least, seemingly universal — appeal of the New Deal was lost as the particular interests of African Americans and other minorities came to the fore. Mark Lilla, author of The Once and Future Liberal: After Identity Politics, is another prominent exponent of this view.

In the 1930s and ’40s, “liberalism” came to mean support for both economic and racial justice

But this argument misses something New Deal liberals recognized early on: By the late 1930s, without racial justice, there would be no program of economic equality. It is New Deal liberalism itself that upended the supposed distinction between identity politics and class politics.

Rejecting the choice between “self-interest” and “moral commitment,” liberal New Dealers drew on a moral vision that linked fighting the gross injustices facing African Americans and other minorities to the shared interest of all workers. By the late 1930s and early 1940s, the core constituencies backing the New Deal were groups that supported civil rights: industrial labor unions, African Americans, and urban liberals.

Conversely, it was Southern white Democrats who not only opposed civil rights but also adopted a virulently anti-union stance. Leading Southern white Democrats worked with Republicans to attack the same labor unions that were essential to electing New Deal Democrats in the North. These same Southerners increasingly worked with Republicans to block a range of New Deal initiatives, not just those relating directly to race.

Long before civil rights rose to the top of the national agenda, in sum, it was evident to labor leaders, African Americans, and other liberal New Dealers that they had to act together to defeat the Southern Democrats who stood in the way of both civil and labor rights.

Debating the “universalism” of the New Deal programs, and coalition

Traub’s point of departure is that the strength of Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal coalition derived primarily from white voters. That helps explain why the introduction of racial issues to the Party by Humphrey and others was so destabilizing, in his view. “FDR had created the modern Democratic Party by deploying the state on behalf of ordinary citizens — ordinary white citizens,” he writes.

There is an element of truth to that: To hold on to Southern white Democrats, the New Dealers enacted numerous policies that excluded African Americans, particularly from 1933 to 1938. Most black Southerners were initially barred from receiving Social Security, for example, because farmworkers and domestics were not included.

But Traub misses the extent to which, from an early moment, the New Deal set in motion changes on the ground that linked racial and economic concerns. The Democrats’ ultimate, if incomplete, embrace of racial liberalism was not the top-down creation of Humphrey in 1948 or Lyndon Johnson in 1964.

Instead, the core groups behind the New Deal — industrial unions, African Americans, and urban liberals — transformed the party from below. Claims for racial justice were a key part of the liberal program, as understood by New Dealers themselves in the late 1930s and early 1940s.

While parts of Roosevelt’s program perpetuated discrimination, New Deal labor and jobs programs also offered real benefits to many African Americans in the North and even in the South. In response, black Northerners voted overwhelmingly for Roosevelt in 1936 and stuck with the president for the rest of his time in office. This new voting bloc motivated many Democratic politicians to back civil rights.

The Congress of Industrial Organizations argued that only a cross-racial coalition could defeat labor’s enemies

At the same time, the New Deal helped propel the rapid rise of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO), which became a key ally for African Americans within the Democratic Party. Before the formation of the CIO in 1935, the labor movement was dominated by American Federation of Labor (AFL) unions that typically excluded African Americans.

But the CIO stood out among white-led organizations in its support for civil rights. Even as rank-and-file union workers often shared in the racial prejudice that was prevalent in their communities, the union’s leaders and organizers made civil rights a priority.

They did this for both practical and ideological reasons. The CIO’s leaders and organizers believed that African-American support was crucial in industrial workplaces where replacement workers were a recurrent threat. As long as black workers were not welcome in the union, and treated unfairly by it, they would be a potential source of strikebreakers. Many of these same union officials had roots in left-wing political movements committed to the idea that racial divisions undermined class consciousness.

The CIO pioneered a fusion of class and race, arguing that economic justice required the labor movement and the state to tackle the mutually reinforcing problems of economic and racial inequality. CIO president John L. Lewis emphasized that “no group in the population feels more heavily the burden of unemployment and insecurity than the Negro citizens. … The denial of civil liberties lie[s] with heavy discrimination upon Negroes. Only when these economic and political evils are wiped out will the Negro people be free of them.”

The CIO’s John Brophy declared, “behind every lynching is the figure of the labor exploiter, the man or the corporation who would deny labor its fundamental rights.”

Lewis and Brophy looked to African Americans as critical allies for the labor movement, both in workplace struggles and in a larger political battle to drive Southern conservatives from power.

The push for racial justice was a bottom-up movement, not a misstep by elites

African Americans, the CIO, and other urban liberals fostered a new understanding of “liberalism” in which support for civil rights was a key marker of one’s identity as a liberal. Ordinary voters, too, came to link racial and economic liberalism: By the early ’40s, Northern Democratic voters were substantially more likely to back key civil rights initiatives than were Republicans.

Grassroots African-American activists played a critical role in tightening these connections. Capitalizing on the mobilization for World War II, they pushed Fair Employment Practices legislation — to prevent racial discrimination in employment — onto the political agenda. The Fair Employment Practices Committee soon became a core element of the “liberal program.”

The energy and activism that propelled the Democratic Party in the 1940s and beyond came from this new coalition, which gradually captured the formal party organization, despite the reluctance of most top party leaders. The Democrats’ endorsement of civil rights in 1948, and beyond, was not a matter of elites steering the people the wrong way. It was the product of a long-term, cross-racial movement that viewed civil rights as integral to the liberal program — and the labor program.

The “identity politics” argument assumes that racial justice ultimately brought down the liberal project. But this gets the history almost backward. Indeed, much of the moral fervor that fed the liberal project in the 1940s came precisely from its linkage to the cause of racial justice.

The bitter response to this program forged a clear division in which Southern conservatives were identified on one side and African Americans, unions, Jews, and other urban liberals on the other. Where Traub and others think this division was the product of liberals’ shift in focus from white workers to African Americans, racial backlash was sown into the attack on the New Deal almost from the beginning (just as cross-racial solidary was assumed by many of its supporters).

Lessons for today’s Democrats

Contemporary liberals are once again confronted with the challenge of forging a politics in which reformers seeking progress for particular groups do not see themselves as isolated advocates but instead as part of a broader ideological coalition with common aims and shared enemies.

The biggest obstacle to such a coalition today is the decline of organized labor, which played a critical role in forging the expansive New Deal liberalism that took hold in the 1930s. But this decline is rooted not in a post-1965 reaction against civil rights; instead, it can be traced to the alliance between Southern Democrats and Republicans nationally that made crushing unions a top priority from the late 1930s onward.

What the cross-racial liberal vision put forward by the CIO and its African-American allies suggests is that movements for economic justice can derive vitality from attending to the identities and interests of marginalized groups.

New Deal liberalism was, in part, identity politics. Appeals to identity — whether by farmers, veterans, workers, or immigration opponents — have always been a potent political force. The main difference is that, unlike previous versions of identity politics in the US, the identity politics of the New Deal era was not limited to white Americans.

The lesson of the New Deal coalition for liberals today is not that they should turn away from appeals to the identities of particular groups. Instead, liberalism is at its strongest when its advocates understand that justice for each group is essential to achieving justice for all.

Eric Schickler is the Jeffrey and Ashley McDermott professor of political science at the University of California Berkeley and the author of Racial Realignment: The Transformation of American Liberalism, 1932-1965.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.An influential Republican leader, Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC), the chair of the House Oversight Committee, had sharp words on Sunday for Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt and his stupefying pattern of unethical behavior.

Asked by Fox News’s Chris Wallace whether he was troubled by Pruitt’s profligate spending on furniture, flights, and security detail, and other “serious ethical questions,” Gowdy said yes, he’s concerned about both the expenses and the justifications for them. Pruitt’s explanation for needing to fly first class, for instance — for his security and to avoid unpleasant travelers — is unconvincing, Gowdy said.

“If you sit first class, you’re guaranteed to come in contact with everybody else on the plane,” Gowdy said. “If you really want to avoid the people on the plane, sit in the last seat, not the first seat.”

.@TGowdySC on reports of Scott Pruitt's spending: "The notion that I’ve got to fly first class because I don’t want people to be mean to me, you need to go into another line of work if you don’t want people to be mean to you. Like maybe a Monk," pic.twitter.com/txcMxHEvtH — FoxNewsSunday (@FoxNewsSunday) April 15, 2018

The comments came just two days after the House committee Gowdy leads ramped up its investigation into Pruitt’s potential misconduct as new details of improprieties, according to former EPA Deputy Chief of Staff Kevin Chmielewski, emerged in two letters last week.

The House Oversight investigation led by Gowdy has now expanded beyond Pruitt’s first-class and charter flights and into his security detail and his use of hiring authority under the Safe Drinking Water Act to secure raises for two close aides after the White House declined to approve their pay bumps.

The committee’s inquiry adds to a growing list of audits into Pruitt’s actions in office. The EPA’s inspector general and the Government Accountability Office are also looking into Pruitt’s travels, housing arrangements, and other potential ethics violations.

In letter to @EPAScottPruitt, @TGowdySC with @GOPoversight asking for more @EPA documents — travel records on Italy and Morocco trips and transcribed interviews with top aides, like Chief of Staff Ryan Jackson pic.twitter.com/g2oGWon5LB — Kevin Bogardus (@KevinBogardus) April 13, 2018

In the letter, Chmielewski also reported being threatened by the head of Pruitt’s security detail, Pasquale “Nino” Perrotta, after Chmielewski objected to some of the administrator’s travel requests, including an option to lease a private jet for $100,000.

The oversight committee also reported last week that the EPA had failed to turn over all the requested documents regarding Pruitt’s first- and business-class travel arrangements. The committee added that it was also looking into Pruitt’s housing arrangements with prominent fossil energy lobbyist J. Steven Hart and his wife Vicki Hart.

Breaking: Today, Chairman Gowdy sent a follow-up letter to EPA Administrator Pruitt regarding Pruitt's official travel and lease agreement.



Read the pic.twitter.com/QvpqriErUb — Oversight Committee (@GOPoversight) April 11, 2018

Most Republicans in Congress have ignored Pruitt’s transgressions because they approve of his advancement of the conservative deregulatory agenda at the EPA.

But the fact that a few of them — including Gowdy and three other House Republicans who have openly called on him to resign — have soured on Pruitt may signal that the tide could turn against him.

On Fox News Sunday, Gowdy also threw a jab at Pruitt for his attempts to use his position at the EPA to beef up his résumé for a widely expected run for higher office.

“I’d be shocked if that many people knew who Scott Pruitt was, so the notion that ‘I’ve got to fly first class because I don’t want people to be mean to me,’ you need to go into another line of work, like maybe a monk, where you don’t come into contact with anyone,” Gowdy said.The corruption and shady financial dealings that landed much of Trumpworld in legal hot water are so vast and all-encompassing that virtually no aspect of Donald Trump’s presidency can escape untouched — and American policy toward Syria is no exception.

The Syrian civil war has become a maelstrom of competing factions, each with its own regional backers pursuing their own agendas both inside Syria itself and in the Middle East more generally. These countries compete for influence on the ground but also inside Washington.

In the Trump era, several of them play a more personal game with the president — they host real estate businesses that the president is involved with, have the ability to directly funnel cash into the president’s wallet through his US businesses, or both.

For example:

The sheer number of financial conflicts of interests is so large that it’s unclear which direction, exactly, personal business interests would push Trump. But it’s certainly clear that he has interests in the region that are separate from the national interest.

And while to an extent the military strikes tend to distract attention from Trump’s mounting troubles at home — nothing blows an FBI raid of your longtime personal attorney and all-around fixer off the front pages quite like a few cruise missiles — fundamentally, the questions about his ethics only grow more pressing when considered in a foreign policy context.

The Syrian civil war is a tangle of regional interests

The Syrian civil war began as a fairly straightforward clash between regime military forces. They’d begun firing on peaceful demonstrators and armed rebels, whose original cores were defectors from the Syrian military itself.

But over the years, the war has become a multifaceted conflict marked by multiple foreign interventions. Not only are Russian and Iranian forces on the ground in support of the regime, but a massive influx of Hezbollah troops from neighboring Lebanon came to fight on the regime side. They’ve given that group de facto control over a swath of Syrian territory.

Meanwhile, descendants of the original armed opposition are still in the field and backed by Sunni powers in the region, with Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates all having their own favored rebel groups. Kurdish groups who are fighting not to change the regime in Damascus but to secure their own autonomy control a large amount of territory. They emerged as America’s favorite partners for fighting ISIS.

Turkey not only borders Syria but harbors its own Kurdish minority; therefore, it strongly opposes Kurdish national aspirations in Syria and Iraq as well. It has its own military operations inside Syria aimed at checking the Kurds and the regime in Damascus.

It is possible to categorize all these various groups as broadly pro- or anti-Assad. But doing that substantially flattens a conflict in which groups that are broadly “on the same side” may nonetheless compete for influence, have improperly aligned incentives, or have major objectives that are not primarily focused on Syria at all.

“Some strategic games are too complex to be readily modeled,” writes economist Tyler Cowen of the extraordinary mishmash of groups and objectives fighting in Syria. “And when we see such games in the real world that’s exactly when we should be the most worried.”

It’s a situation that would challenge even the best group of decision-makers, and instead we have the Trump administration.

The president faces many relevant conflicts of interest

Earlier this month, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. were in the UAE for promotional work related to the family’s golf resort in Dubai.

These days, the UAE’s role in Syria mainly involves supporting the Syrian Democratic Forces, the umbrella organization led by Syria’s Kurdish separatists. We also know that George Nader, who once served as a key influence peddler on behalf of the UAE, is now a cooperating witness working with special counsel Mueller’s investigation. Nader also has close ties with Russia — and the UAE seems to have been involved with a mysterious meeting between Russians and Erik Prince in Seychelles.

The SDF itself, of course, is opposed to the Assad regime but in a more proximate sense is clashing with Turkish-backed opposition groups and increasingly with Turkey itself, which has gotten more directly involved in Syria over the past year.

Trump, naturally, has a major real estate venture in Turkey.

Trump Tower Istanbul. After seeing Trump's congrats to Erdogan for winning his RIGGED election I'm worried our FP is directed by property pic.twitter.com/Y5xnvzbPBp — Dustin (@DustinGiebel) April 18, 2017

Turkey has also cultivated ongoing ties with Trump, ensuring, for example, that the American-Turkish Council held its annual Conference on US-Turkey Relations at the Trump Hotel in Washington last year.

The small Persian Gulf states of Bahrain and Kuwait both held their National Day celebrations at the Trump Hotel, and MSLGroup Americas, a public affairs shop that does extensive work for the Saudi government, has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars at the Trump hotel. Saudi Arabia — a leading financier of what’s left of the original Syrian rebel groups — and Bahrain are both loudly supporting the military action against Assad, while Kuwait seems more cautious.

None of this is to say that Trump’s decision-making on Syria is being driven by narrow financial considerations — indeed, one could make the case that’s impossible since Trump is on the take from so many different directions — but it underscores that essentially nothing the administration does in the region is entirely on the level.

We don’t know who’s paying Trump — or whom he listens to

As America heads deeper into conflict with Assad, we have no official secretary of state to run American foreign policy. There is also no Senate-confirmed assistant secretary of state for the region. We also have no ambassador to Jordan, the Arab state on Syria’s southern border through which much support for the opposition flows, since Jordan’s king got Trump to fire career foreign service office Alice Wells last summer. There’s no ambassador to Turkey or Saudi Arabia either.

On the other hand, actually filling these positions wouldn’t necessarily accomplish anything since we know Trump has no intention of listening to professional diplomats about anything anyway.

What he has instead is first son-in-law Jared Kushner, whose mysterious portfolio includes extensive diplomatic work in the region. And Kushner, as a family loyalist rather than a professional diplomat, is in a position to know what American diplomats and the public at large do not — who, exactly, is paying the Trump family and how much.

There is a powerful impulse in the press to want to believe that the aberrant behavior of the Trump administration somehow does not extend to the life-and-death aspects of national security policy. Mike Allen proclaimed in his morning newsletter that “amid distraction and dysfunction, Trump looked and acted like a traditional commander-in-chief last night.” But superficial appearances are misleading in this regard. A normal commander in chief would not operate ongoing businesses in two countries that are backing rival factions in an ongoing civil war while pivoting US policy toward that war. A normal commander in chief would not be pocketing checks from foreign governments and their lobbyists in Washington.

Most of all, a normal commander in chief would not collect large, entirely secret financial flows on an ongoing basis — flows that make him an easy mark for foreign states seeking to influence American policy. The reality is that nothing Trump does can or ever will be normal — regardless of how it looks — as long as he’s this deeply enmeshed in a web of corruption. And all indications are that he always will be.Sometimes things don’t work out as planned. According to a new study, this is one of the key lessons of the opioid crisis.

By now, the story of the opioid epidemic is well-known: In the 1990s, drug manufacturers marketed opioids aggressively — particularly Purdue Pharma with the newly released OxyContin, which the company suggested was safer and less prone to misuse than other opioids.

This contributed to an explosion in opioid prescriptions, which led to more misuse of the drug — and by getting people addicted to opioids, led to greater use of other opioids like heroin and illicit fentanyl. Today, the country is mired in its deadliest drug overdose crisis ever, with tens of thousands dying as a result of drug misuse and addiction every year.

One of the key reasons Purdue was able to market its product as safer was based on a seeming miscalculation in how people would use its drug. OxyContin was characterized as an “extended-release” product — the opioids were supposed to be released into a person’s system over the course of 12 hours after the pill was taken. This, in theory, was supposed to make OxyContin less prone to misuse, since the opioid dose in the pill would take effect slowly.

But people found a way around this. By crushing the pill to snort it or liquefying it to inject it, they could take the entire opioid dose in an OxyContin pill practically instantly. The drug became lucrative for people addicted to opioids, offering a legal avenue to getting high.

Related How to stop the deadliest drug overdose crisis in American history

In 2010, Purdue tried to put an end to this by replacing the old OxyContin with an “abuse-deterrent” formula. When this new pill is crushed, it turns into a gummy-like substance, making it more difficult to snort or inject. This did not eliminate the possibility of misuse — the pill can still be used to get high by ingesting it orally, and there are ways around the reformulation to keep ingesting it by other means. But it did make the process of misusing it a bit harder.

A new working paper, from researchers William Evans, Ethan Lieber, and Patrick Power, suggests that this really might have made OxyContin less prone to misuse — but with a deadly side-effect: As people decided OxyContin was too much of a hassle, some former OxyContin users moved on to heroin. The subsequent rise in heroin overdose deaths may have been enough, the researchers argued, to match or even outweigh any good that the reformulation of OxyContin did in terms of preventing painkiller overdose deaths — at least in the short term.

A drug policy expert not involved with the study cautioned that the findings do not mean that the reformulation of OxyContin (or other extended-release opioids) was a bad idea — it did, after all, appear to make an addictive drug less prone to misuse. But the new research suggests that when it comes to tackling the opioid crisis, simply cutting back on the misuse of opioid painkillers is not enough.

What the study found

The study, which has not been peer reviewed yet, used economic models to measure trends in opioid overdose deaths — breaking them down to focus on heroin — to see what happened after the OxyContin reformulation was introduced in 2010.

The paper concluded that there was a break in the trends starting on August 2010, when the reformulation was introduced. Most importantly, heroin overdose deaths began to rise more quickly after that month.

“The hope was reformulation would make it harder to abuse, so at the very least we would stop the growth of deaths from opioids,” Lieber, one of the study authors, told me. “But instead of really seeing that happen, it looks like a lot of people have switched over to heroin and other drugs. And because heroin is particularly dangerous, the actual opioid death rate — if you include heroin in there — hasn’t really been affected by the reformulation.”

There were other signs that the reformulation had made an impact, according to the paper: “A number of national time series including shipments of oxycodone (a proxy for consumption), prescriptions for oxycodone, the fraction of people that use pain medicine recreationally, and health care encounters for heroin poisonings all show a trend break in August, 2010 or immediately thereafter.”

The paper also looked at what the effects were in different states, looking at this based on the size of states’ OxyContin and heroin markets. It found that the states with large OxyContin and heroin markets saw the biggest rise in heroin deaths. In contrast, states with the small OxyContin and heroin markets saw the smallest increases. So when heroin was widely available, people were generally quicker to shift from OxyContin to the illicit opioid.

The researchers looked at other potential explanations for these breaks in previous trends: if there was a sudden drop in the heroin price that may have led to more heroin use, whether new prescription drug monitoring databases may have cut off access to OxyContin and pushed people to heroin more so than the reformulation, and if the crackdown on Florida pill mills — which unscrupulously gave out opioid prescriptions — pushed people to heroin more than the reformulation.

The researchers concluded, however, that none of these could be the primary explanations for the paper’s findings. They estimated, for example, that the Florida pill mill crackdown explained at most 25 percent of the increase in heroin death rates in states that were most exposed to Florida’s pill mill supply.

“We can’t completely reject that Florida was playing a role,” Lieber said. “But we can reject that it was playing the major role.”

What about fentanyl? This category of drugs has recently appeared in the black market, where fentanyl and its analogs are often laced into other drugs or misleadingly sold as heroin. Since fentanyl is more potent than heroin, this creates a higher risk of overdose, which could explain an increase in deaths. But fentanyl is believed to have taken off in the black market around 2013 — three years after the OxyContin reformulation, so long after the time period that the study looked at.

One caveat is a lot of the people that did shift to heroin from OxyContin likely would have done so anyway. Keith Humphreys, a drug policy expert at Stanford, told me that the “natural evolution” of addiction is that people will over time grow tolerant to the opioids that they’re using and seek out a stronger high. That could have led people to abandon OxyContin for heroin regardless of the reformulation. “A lot of them would have ended up as heroin users,” Humphreys said.

This is also just one study; future research could produce different findings. But for now, the paper suggests that the reformulation of OxyContin may have at least sped up the increase in heroin overdose deaths — perhaps enough to, in the short term, outweigh the lives saved by preventing more OxyContin overdoses.

This does not mean that making OxyContin harder to misuse was a bad idea

Humphreys does not doubt that some people really did move on to heroin because of the OxyContin reformulation. He said he personally knows people who did this.

But he cautioned that this does not mean the reformulation of OxyContin was a bad idea.

Taking the argument to an extreme, someone could argue that we shouldn’t do anything to pull dangerous opioids from the market because doing that might lead people to use heroin instead, Humphreys said. “So then we will just keep doing this forever? Keep writing 200 million scrips a year without any protections whatsoever? … No. At some point you have to think about the future.”

To Humphreys, the key point in favor of the reformulation — and other interventions that make opioid painkillers harder to misuse — is that they prevent more people from getting addicted to the drugs. After all, if the problem was that painkillers were so accessible that they made it easy for people to start on a path that ends with misusing and overdosing on heroin, then the inverse is true as well: Making opioid painkillers hard to obtain and misuse will stop people from going down a path of addiction. By Humphreys’s estimate, this could prevent hundreds of thousands of overdose deaths over a decade.

One way to think about this is what Humphreys describes as the “stock” and “flow” of the opioid crisis.

On one hand, you have the current stock of opioid users who are addicted; the people in this population need treatment or they will simply find other, potentially deadlier opioids to use if they lose access to painkillers or the ability to misuse painkillers. On the other hand, you have to stop new generations of people from accessing and misusing opioids — or they will get addicted to the drugs and potentially overdose and die.

Interventions for these different groups don’t have to be in conflict. Consider the example given in the study: A person got addicted to opioids by misusing OxyContin, but when the formula for the pill changed, he lost his ability to misuse the drug, so he began using heroin instead.

Part of this example shows the reformulation working as intended: The person was so burdened by the change that he felt the need to shift to heroin. For others who aren’t yet addicted to heroin, this burden could stop them from ever misusing OxyContin — and, as a result, reduce the flow of people who would otherwise get addicted to opioids.

For the person already in the stock of people addicted to opioids, however, it didn’t seem to do any good, and in fact may have pushed him to heroin.

But what if addiction treatment was made very accessible? So when this person hit the roadblock to misusing opioids posed by the reformulation, he could have decided that it was time to get into an addiction treatment program, instead of going to heroin. Apply that thousands of times over, and the findings of the paper could have been very different.

The reality of the US today, though, is that treatment is not accessible enough for this to be realistic. According to a 2016 report by the US surgeon general, only 10 percent of people with a substance use disorder get specialty treatment, largely because there aren’t enough adequate, affordable options to get into care quickly. In some states, for instance, waiting periods for treatment can span weeks or even months.

This creates a situation where it’s much easier to get high than it is to get help. So when people face hurdles to getting high because the drug they’ve misused now can’t be so easily accessed or misused, they’re more able — and therefore more likely — to seek out another source of a high than a source of treatment.

Viewed through this lens, the failure of the reformulation of OxyContin was not that it was inherently a bad idea — given that it might have slowed the flow of would-be opioid users — but that it wasn’t paired with other interventions that could have helped the existing stock of opioid users to avert negative side effects within that population.

Lieber agreed that this is plausible. But he argued that the findings of the paper still provide a lesson on the limitations — and dangerous side effects — of well-meaning interventions.

To this end, Lieber emphasized that the paper’s findings only apply in the short term. It’s possible that over time the OxyContin reformulation will slow the flow of people getting addicted to opioids to the point that it will allow the overall stock of opioid users to shrink or at least stop growing — and that will lead to fewer overdose deaths than there otherwise would have been.This should have been Sen. Lamar Alexander’s moment.

The Tennessee Republican was the right person in the right place at the right time. Obamacare repeal was dead. But the more practical Republicans, none more so than Alexander, knew they needed to do something to help the law. Otherwise, they would reap the whirlwind.

On the same July night when John McCain killed repeal with a thumbs down, the health committee chair approached Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) on the Senate floor and asked her if she would work with him on a narrowly focused plan to stabilize the Affordable Care Act’s insurance marketplaces.

“For eight years and four elections, all we were doing was screaming at each in inchoate rage. To have this first small shoot of green grass in the nuclear fallout area is pretty remarkable,” an aide to Alexander told me a few months ago. “His view is, ‘I’m here, I’m going to make a difference.’”

Alexander and Murray did, for a brief moment, agree to what would have been the first significant bipartisan compromise to shore up the divisive health care law.

But Washington, particularly in the Donald Trump era, doesn’t seem to reward the kind of pragmatism that Lamar Alexander and others in the old guard specialize in.

Trump officials (if not the president himself) worked clandestinely to undermine any plan that would help a law that the administration was working elsewhere to unravel. Republican leaders would waver. Democrats saw the shifting reality on the ground and found the anti-abortion demands made by House Republicans and the White House untenable.

During a February interview in his office, Alexander described trying to find a middle ground on the most polarizing issue of the past decade like this: “It’s wandering in a lot of gunfire is what it is.”

He was right — and his plan didn’t make it out alive.

Yet Alexander is already eyeing the next opportunities for compromise. Even in this polarized age, with moderates retiring and ideologues taking their places, Alexander will carry on in his characteristically Tennessean way.

“I was thinking of the image of two drivers of an old wagon heading west sitting in the front seat with the horses out there. If all they do is argue, they never start moving,” he told me. “If they can agree on something, they start heading somewhere.”

There is no doubt in my mind, after talking with the senator himself and with a dozen people who have known him for decades or who have worked closely with him, that Lamar Alexander believes that. The question is whether it’s still true.

Lamar Alexander in a changing Washington

The people who know him well are keenly aware of how ill-fitted Alexander — a former governor and Cabinet secretary who carries with him the political wisdom of his mentor, former Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker, a renowned pragmatist — might be to these times.

“We are functioning in a time of populist extremism, which is inherently nihilistic,” says Judd Gregg, the former New Hampshire senator who was close to Alexander while they served together. “Lamar is the opposite. He is a governing person. He’s in a difficult position.”

It’s a reality to which Alexander has tried to reconcile himself. He stepped down from his role as the No. 3 in Republican leadership in 2012 in a move his friends say was driven by a desire to step out of the political fray and into a policymaking role as the top Republican on the health and education committee. Elected to the US Senate in 2003, after Fred Thompson retired, he saw the Senate change.

Under President Obama — and a Republican leader in Mitch McConnell who had made opposition to the president his top priority — the demands of leadership clearly grated on Alexander.

“I left the leadership because, with all respect, I felt leadership in a legislative body is more like making sure you’re at the head of a parade that’s already formed. You can’t get too far out in front,” said Alexander, renowned for his metaphors among friends and aides. “Or you’re like John Boehner. You’re just a guy in the woods taking a walk by himself.”

Alexander says he has no regrets about his decision to leave leadership. But he seems clear-eyed about the ways Congress is changing, at the expense of the chair post that he sought. On health care, on taxes, and on immigration and spending bills, party leaders — not the policy wonks — are setting the agenda.

“In the Senate, too much has become centralized in the leadership. Part of that is a function of the media and the world you live in because you have to respond four, five times a day, unlike 50 years ago,” Alexander said. “Fifty-two Republican senators can’t do that as a unit, so to be effective in your political activity, you need a highly centralized leader. That does tend to diminish the influence of the committees, and that’s not healthy for the Senate.”

After spending the better part of six months following Alexander’s efforts to push the health care bill, it’s clear that even if he acutely understands how social media and a 24-hour news cycle are remaking politics, he still holds on to a very old-fashioned idea about how Congress can and should work.

“You can lead just as much and sometimes more not being a part of the elected leadership,” he told me. “I mean, there are three office buildings here, and two of them are named for people who are not part of the elected leadership, Hart and Russell. They never were elected to anything. But they were real leaders in the Senate.”

To understand the incongruity, you have to know how Alexander got into politics.

The education of Lamar Alexander

Born in 1940, Alexander was part of a family with deep East Tennessee roots. His mother was “tough as nails,” and his father — a “brilliant man, smart as could be,” says Lew Conner, a Tennessee lawyer who is old friends of the Alexander family — helped shape the even and unflappable disposition that is the source of admiration and gentle mocking from Alexander’s close friends and colleagues.

Alexander set out for a public life from an early age. He attended Boys State, the American Legion’s student government program for high schoolers, and ended up as the program’s governor. After graduating from Vanderbilt University and New York University law school, he clerked for John Minor Wisdom, a progressive federal appeals judge in the civil rights era. Alexander also editorialized against segregation while he was a student at Vanderbilt.

He got his PhD in politics, as he puts it, under Baker, who represented Tennessee in the Senate for nearly 20 years and eventually became majority leader. Alexander served as Baker’s first legislative assistant. The senator was a fount of folk wisdom. One of Baker’s aphorisms, handed down from his father to Baker and then to Alexander, sticks out the most: “I have one piece of advice for you, Howard. You should always listen to the other fella. He might just be right.”

Alexander ran for governor in 1974 and ultimately failed. “I don’t think it’d be overstating it: He was a bit of a geek and a wonk,” Tom Ingram, a former newspaper reporter who has known Alexander since the 1970s and eventually became his Senate chief of staff, told me. “He was more comfortable with policy than rough-and-tumble politics.”

It was an unlucky time for a Republican’s first campaign — Watergate forced President Richard Nixon to resign that year. When Alexander learned from Trent Lott, the future Senate majority leader who had been his roommate in Washington, that President Gerald Ford was pardoning the disgraced Nixon, he stepped out of the phone booth and turned to Ingram: “Well, we’re done.”

Alexander lost that campaign, 44 percent of the vote to Democrat Ray Blanton’s 55 percent.

In 1978, he wanted to try again. By then it was Blanton who was embroiled in an ethics scandal, his administration accused of exchanging cash payments for clemency.

Alexander decided to walk across the state to gin up his retail politics cred, departing from the porch of the house where his mother had taught kindergarten. He was so meticulous that he brought a piece of railroad chalk to mark his progress each day, stopping at high schools along the way to play music with his makeshift band.

“It took him out of being the textbook candidate, with policy papers, to being the candidate who really found himself engaged with people in their natural places of work and play,” Ingram said. “It was a transformative experience for Lamar.”

It worked too. Just shy of 40 years old, Alexander was elected governor of Tennessee.

The Blanton scandal had gotten so bad that the Democratic-controlled state legislature decided to intervene and swear in Alexander three days early in order to stop the flood of pardons. Faith in the state government was cratering.

Alexander says he still remembers what the Democratic speaker of the state house at the time, Ned McWherter, said when asked what he would do with the new governor. It’s another piece of political wisdom that stuck with him all these years.

“I’m going to help him. Because if he succeeds, the state succeeds,” McWherter said, as Alexander recalls.

“I feel that way about President Obama, with whom I disagreed with philosophically, and President Trump, with whom I disagree stylistically,” he told me in our interview. “You know, if they succeed, the country succeeds. And I want to succeed wherever I can do that.”

Alexander became the top Republican trying to make Obamacare work

In a divided government, when compromise was a necessity, Alexander thrived. But now, under a unified Republican government, he seems paradoxically hamstrung.

His friends caution against going overboard with the “pragmatist” label. There is no love for Obamacare in Alexander’s office.

“We still believe that Obamacare is horrible, terrible, awful, almost evil policy,” one of his top aides told me. Alexander voted for almost every repeal plan put on the Senate floor but one — repeal without replace — even as the Congressional Budget Office projected upward of 20 million fewer people would have health insurance under the various bills.

But when the repeal dream died, he was the top Republican who wanted to fix the law. It goes back, like a lot of things, to Howard Baker.

“What’s the right thing to do first? Then we’ll figure out the politics. That’s religion for him,” Ingram said. “I think he learned it from Howard. In his office, that was the mantra. You didn’t start with the politics.”

In the Obama years, Alexander had teamed up with Murray to successfully negotiate a new federal education framework to replace No Child Left Behind, which had been embarrassingly left unauthorized for years. Then a year later, he helped shepherd through the 21st Century Cures Act, the most significant overhaul of federal policy on prescription drugs in more than a decade.

“I have always been appreciative of his efforts to reach across the aisle. He is a tough partner to spar with,” Murray told me.

But stabilizing Obamacare was their steepest climb yet. The Alexander-Murray plan was supposed to address a crucial problem with Obamacare: Premiums keep rising — in no small part because Trump had cut off crucial Obamacare payments to health insurers for low-income patients. Health insurers were hiking their rates dramatically and might pull out of the market altogether if the uncertainty fostered by Trump continued.

The health committee held hearings, and Alexander — keenly aware of how Washington works these days — lobbied Trump directly. The plan hit its first hurdle in September, as a compromise was coming together, when Republican leaders decided to pursue one last chance at Obamacare repeal (with Alexander’s support) rather than rescue the law.

Alexander-Murray would have been, for all its policy modesty, a rather remarkable political achievement after eight years of partisan gridlock over Obamacare that culminated in last year’s dramatic debate. If it had happened.

But the senator did know what he was up against, even as he held on dearly to projections from outside groups that the proposal to pump billions of dollars into the insurance markets would lower premiums by up to 40 percent in 2019.

“I’ll be very disappointed if it didn’t get done. It should get done. But this is a hard thing to do. You’re asking the president to support something he said he wouldn’t,” Alexander told me, before the plan finally died in late March. “You’re asking House Republicans to support something they said they wouldn’t. You’re asking Sen. [Chuck] Schumer to support something he said he would and then he said he wouldn’t.”

The death of Alexander-Murray

There was a lot of finger-pointing once the bottom fell out of the health care negotiations and the Obamacare fix didn’t make it into the omnibus spending bill that passed on March 23, the last best chance for passing the health care plan. Alexander himself said that if it didn’t get attached to the spending bill, there was a “zero” percent chance it would ever get done.

Democrats pin the blame on Republican leaders and the White House, who they say undermined the deal and never wanted one anyway; thus the anti-abortion demands that they knew Democrats couldn’t accept. Republicans say Democrats should have known that a Republican Congress would need anti-abortion protections to shore up Obamacare, of all things, and whisper that the party’s leaders actually didn’t want to stabilize the law because it would play to their electoral advantage if another round of premium hikes was announced right before the 2018 elections.

The truth is probably some concoction of all of the above. If you press Alexander’s staff, they’ll acknowledge that House leaders had proved difficult throughout the fall, though they insist Speaker Paul Ryan would have accepted the Obamacare fix if Democrats had agreed to it.

Alexander seemed to even successfully win Trump to his side. The president held a phone call in March with Alexander, his Republican co-sponsors, and Trump’s health secretary, Alex Azar, refereeing a debate about the relative merits and downsides of the proposal, and came out on the side of stabilizing Obamacare. But the idea seemed to be simultaneously undermined by staffers within the White House and the health department who opposed a bipartisan compromise. Just as talks were nearing a climax, the White House’s demands for anti-abortion riders and other poison pills were leaked to the press.

At the same time, the reality on the ground had changed. Restoring the subsidies could actually lead to many Obamacare customers getting a worse deal than they had in 2018, which concerned Democrats and prompted their demands for increased subsidies, a non-starter on the GOP side.

It was, as Alexander vividly put it, like trying to navigate a battlefield. He said as the hopes for an Obamacare fix officially died with a Democratic objection on the Senate floor, that the health care negotiations had been “the most frustrating and disappointing time in my 16 years in the Senate.”

“Building consensus that lasts is really hard work,” the Alexander aide said. “That’s what makes it rewarding, but it can be really frustrating.”

The future for Lamar Alexander — and those like him — in the age of Trump

Around the same time the health care compromise fell apart, Trump announced that he would impose tariffs on steel and aluminum, against the wishes of most of the Republican establishment, including Alexander. He said Trump was well-intentioned but that this was a bad policy.

Alexander had used trade during our interview to explain how he approached his relationship with a president who, in so many ways, is his polar opposite. He had said he wouldn’t go on television and criticize the president if he disagreed with him on an issue; instead, he would grab a few of his colleagues and drive down to the White House for a more personal — and private — intervention.

“It takes a little humility. Part of the humility is recognizing that, you know, I offered myself to be president of the United States, and the people didn’t accept my offer,” he says, referring to his 1996 and 2000 presidential runs. “They took Trump and they didn’t take me.”

“I could either give a running commentary every day on how I disagree with him or I could say, ‘Well, the people elected him. What can we work on together?’” he said.

That is Alexander’s modus operandi.

“The Senate is basically just a laboratory of human nature,” he says. “Success in the Senate is based entirely to begin with on relationships. The place operates by unanimous consent, so relationships are the basic structure of the Senate.”

Alexander has hosted McConnell and Schumer at his cabin in the Smoky Mountains several times over the years. More recently, he invited Murray and two other Democratic senators: Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire, the most junior member of his committee.

“You have to get 60 votes. I say to my colleagues, it’s very hard to get here. It’s very hard to stay here. So while you’re here, you might as well get something done,” he says. “And to get anything done, that takes 60 votes. And to take 60 votes you have to get people from the other party to agree with you.”

The Alexanderian theory of politics has taken some hits in the past few weeks, with the failure of the Obamacare fix and the tariffs announcement. But the senator is still betting, despite evidence to the contrary, that his view of history can win out. When we spoke, his eyes lit up when recalling that McConnell had said nothing would pass the Senate in 2018 unless it was bipartisan.

He elaborated as only Lamar Alexander would.

“An old-fashioned view of the Senate might suddenly be back in vogue. Johnny Cash was big in the 1970s, but toward the end of the career he suddenly became very big again,” he told me. “If 2018 is the year of bipartisanship, then maybe the kind of things that I work on will be back.”Back in October 2016, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) called then-FBI Director James Comey’s decision to look into new Hillary Clinton emails just days before the election “appalling.” Her comment reflected the general sentiment among Democrats at the time.

But in May 2017, President Donald Trump fired Comey because the FBI wouldn’t end an investigation into a former top Trump aide’s Russia ties. Democrats, almost in unison, openly warned that dismissing Comey meant Trump may have tried to obstruct justice. And after reports surfaced that Trump had called Comey a “nut job,” Feinstein herself defended the former FBI director, saying that “Comey is no way, shape, or form a nut job.”

As Comey now sits down for high-profile interview after high-profile interview — like he did on ABC on April 15 — to promote his new book, expect the good feelings from Democrats and the media alike to keep coming.

Comey’s new memoir, A Higher Loyalty, is due to come out on Tuesday. In it, highly critical of Trump, and the tome will assuredly inspire more Comey fandom on television, radio, and print. It may lead to even more arguments, like Damon Linker’s in the Week last June, “that the former FBI director is a bona fide American hero.”

But painting Comey that way misses a lot. He led the FBI when the bureau possibly mishandled its investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of state, perhaps costing Hillary Clinton the election. He was also the FBI director when he oversaw increased surveillance of Muslim communities and a culture of suspicion against Muslims and used suspect methods to stop terrorists.

Put together, as the Washington Post’s Margaret Sullivan noted on March 31, Comey is undeserving of the veneration and softball questions he will surely field in the coming days in response to his much-hyped new book. That, in part, is because he did a successful job at cultivating his holier-than-thou persona, says Matthew Miller, a top Justice Department spokesperson in the Obama administration.

“He wanted to position himself as the hero,” Miller told me, “the man of integrity who was going to tell the American people how it is — the last virgin in town.”

The problem, though, is that the media fell for it.

How Comey handled the Clinton probe

At around 11 am on July 5, 2016, then-FBI Director Comey gave a surprise televised address — thrusting him into the national spotlight.

“This will be an unusual statement in at least a couple ways,” he admitted from the FBI’s lectern. “I am going to include more detail about our process than I ordinarily would, because I think the American people deserve those details in a case of intense public interest.”

The “case” in question was the FBI’s probe into Clinton’s use of a personal email server to conduct State Department business. Investigators wanted to know if Clinton had handled classified information on an insecure network, which could make it easier for foreign adversaries to steal top secrets.

But Comey recommended no criminal charges to the Justice Department, instead reprimanding her as “extremely careless” after finding 110 emails containing classified information among the 30,000 reviewed messages.

The following day, then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch accepted Comey’s choice not to charge Clinton. (Lynch had just days before that decision met with Bill Clinton on an Arizona tarmac, leading to calls for her recusal from the case.) Comey, in effect, closed the case.

According to an April 2017 New York Times report about Comey’s actions during the election, he chose this approach for a few reasons. First, to let those people within the FBI who were upset with Clinton’s conduct know that Comey heard and understood their concerns. But second, and most importantly, he aimed to shield the bureau from GOP-led attacks that the FBI took it easy on Clinton.

Those attacks came anyway. “This announcement defies explanation. No one should be above the law,” House Speaker Paul Ryan tweeted after Comey’s remarks. “It appears damage is being done to the rule of law.”

But the more controversial moment came three months later. As part of a probe into former Rep. Anthony Weiner’s (D-NY) sexually explicit conversations with a minor, the FBI found some of Clinton’s emails on his laptop. That was no coincidence: Huma Abedin, Weiner’s wife and a close Clinton aide at the State Department, backed up thousands of emails on her husband’s computer. Some agents believed Clinton had hid emails from them, adding to suspicions that the messages on Weiner’s laptop might just be the missing emails.

And then on October 28, Comey informed Congress of what happened in a letter: “In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation.”

It was the “October surprise” many feared — the reopening of an investigation into Clinton just 11 days before the election. According to polling expert Nate Silver, Comey changed the vote’s outcome by making the probe’s restart public:

Clinton’s standing in the polls fell sharply. She’d led Trump by 5.9 percentage points in FiveThirtyEight’s popular vote projection at 12:01 a.m. on Oct. 28. A week later — after polls had time to fully reflect the letter — her lead had declined to 2.9 percentage points. That is to say, there was a shift of about 3 percentage points against Clinton. ... In the average swing state, Clinton’s lead declined from 4.5 percentage points at the start of Oct. 28 to just 1.7 percentage points on Nov. 4. If the polls were off even slightly, Trump could be headed to the White House.

Silver’s chart dramatically shows the effect the letter seemed to have on the election.

To be clear, the problem here is not that Comey’s actions helped Trump beat Clinton. It’s that his actions likely had an impact on the election. The FBI is chiefly an apolitical institution, carrying out investigations regardless of the political moment. So for Comey to act the way he did — especially at the time that he did — made it seem like he overstepped his mandate.

“The way he handled the Clinton investigation was seriously flawed and arguably a firing offense,” Miller, the former top DOJ spokesperson, told me.

Comey wrestles with his decision in the new book. “It is entirely possible that, because I was making decisions in an environment where Hillary Clinton was sure to be the next president, my concern about making her an illegitimate president by concealing the restarted investigation bore greater weight than it would have if the election appeared closer or if Donald Trump were ahead in all polls,” he writes. “But I don’t know.”

Let’s be clear about what he’s saying: Comey admits Clinton’s lead in late October may have influenced his decision to reopen the probe and let the public know about it. That means he possibly allowed politics to dictate his actions — which looks really bad for the FBI director.

But Miller thinks Comey’s view of himself also played a part. “He’s a man of integrity, but he very much believes he’s a man of integrity and often thinks he’s the only honest man in the room,” he told me. “At some point, that self-confidence crosses a line into self-righteousness.”

Comey’s imprint on the election results is bad enough. The Justice Department’s inspector general will look into, and soon adjudicate on, how the FBI handled the Clinton probe. But you also just need to look at Comey’s time running the FBI to know he’s not Mr. Perfect.

Comey wasn’t a stellar FBI director

Comey led the FBI for four years — and has faced a fair amount of criticism for his time there.

For one, Muslims working at the FBI felt their fellow agents put them under a microscope. Most notably, these employees felt the FBI would overly scrutinize them because of their heritage.

Former FBI employee Said “Sam” Barodi, according to the Guardian, detailed how some white FBI officials were openly Islamophobic, said Islam was to blame for acts of terrorism, and that some colleagues didn’t abide by the Constitution.

“I would not advise anyone to work for the FBI under these circumstances. Fuck, stay away. It is not worth it. It is cancer,” Barodi told the Guardian. “Muslim employees in federal law enforcement,” he continued, “are the target.”

But that’s not all. Comey also expanded the use of sting operations to catch would-be terrorists before they struck, and some of the practices were suspect. Last May, the Intercept reported that agents “busted” a mentally ill homeless man for claiming he had connections to ISIS. In a similar case, an informant also gave a homeless man $40 so he could buy the weapons — machetes, knives — he said he needed to carry out the attack.

Meanwhile, those stings didn’t stop actual terrorists. As the Intercept notes, the FBI looked at least twice at the man who eventually killed nearly 50 people and wounded another 50 at an Orlando nightclub in June 2016. The FBI, apparently, didn’t consider the man a threat during its investigations.

And when the FBI charged the creator of the child porn dark website Playpen last year, the bureau didn’t shut down the service. That reversed the practice Robert Mueller — Comey’s predecessor and now the special counsel looking into possible Trump-Russia ties — started. Still, the FBI made hundreds of arrests in the US and around the world throughout the case, while also identifying or rescuing nearly 300 sexually abused children.

In short, Comey wasn’t exactly an exemplary leader when he was in charge of the FBI. Yet the “Comey is a hero” myth persists — though perhaps that says more about us than him.

Why we see Comey as a hero — but shouldn’t

The impulse to lionize Comey comes from the fact that he stood up to Trump.

When Trump demanded Comey pledge his loyalty to him, the FBI director declined. After Trump fired Comey last May, Comey revealed that he kept contemporaneous notes about his interactions with the president and made parts of them public. He also testified under oath during a high-profile Senate hearing last June, in which he shockingly called the president a liar.

Put together, this makes Comey stands out as a seemingly noble figure in the middle of the whole Trump-Russia mess, where Mueller’s probe has already found that high-level Trump campaign officials committed crimes.

But if you take a second look, that’s a pretty low bar. Comey may seem like the closest thing this drama has to a hero — except for maybe Mueller himself — but that doesn’t mean the media should forget his complicated past, and treat him like one.When Republican Rep. Trent Franks resigned amid reports that he had offered a female staffer $5 million to be his baby surrogate, no one thought his deeply red Arizona district could be swept in the blue wave.

Then a Democrat, Conor Lamb, won a Trump +20 district in Pennsylvania, and the Republican Party began to panic.

On April 24, Republican Debbie Lesko and Democrat Hiral Tipirneni will face off in the special election for Frank’s House seat. By every measure, Arizona’s Eighth Congressional District is considered to be safe Republican territory. It encompasses the suburbs north and west of Phoenix in Maricopa County — the stomping grounds of infamous former Sheriff Joe Arpaio and home to the reliably conservative Sun City retirement community. Trump won the district by 21 points.

Even so, the National Republican Congressional Committee launched a $170,000 TV ad buy for Lesko’s campaign, Politico recently reported. The Congressional Leadership Fund has also spent $100,000 on a digital campaign to turn out conservative voters. The Republican National Committee has invested more than $300,000 in Lesko’s run and House Speaker Paul Ryan is expected to headline an April 18 fundraising event for Lesko going for $2,500 a seat.

The question most election observers are zeroing in on isn’t necessarily if Lesko is going to lose — she has a comfortable double-digit lead in the few polls and has some structural advantages — but whether Democrats can narrow the margin by which Trump and Franks won. And that alone is worrying the GOP.

“The question isn’t if the GOP will retain the seat, but how much does Lesko win by?” Mike Noble, a Republican pollster in the state, told the Guardian.

Republicans have a big advantage in this district

Arizona’s Eighth District is as red as they come.

It’s Trump country; he carried the district by 20 points in 2016. And while Democrats recently saw success in a Trump +20 district, clinching the special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th last month, it’s difficult to see how they could replicate that success in Arizona’s Eighth. It’s also a district that has “no Democratic heritage,” as Dave Wasserman of the Cook Political Report told Vox — like labor unions.

Republicans have strong roots in the region and make up 41 percent of registered voters — a clear advantage over Democrats, who only make up 24 percent of registered voters. It’s home to Maricopa County and Arpaio, who as sheriff was known for infringing on the constitutional rights of residents by assuming immigration status.

Despite Arizona’s fast-growing Latino population statewide, this district is nearly 90 percent white. Almost half the population is 55 or older. It includes the Sun City retirement community, a massive chunk of the district that consistently votes Republican.

Another way this election spells trouble for Democrats is that about three-quarters of the voters will submit their ballots by mail. The county the district is in has a permanent early voting list, which many in Sun City residents are on. In other words, there isn’t as much potential for a drop-off of Republican voters.

Franks, who represented the vast majority of these constituents in the House of Representatives since 2003, was a clear reflection of these deeply red roots. He was considered to be one of the “most conservative” members of the House of Representatives — a House Freedom Caucus member, ardent Trump defender, and staunchly anti-abortion (he once tried to pass a 20-week abortion ban in the District of Columbia, even though he does not represent it). It was these positions on reproductive rights and “pro-life” surrogacy that eventually led to his resignation, after reports that he had asked female staffers to carry a child for him and his wife, possibly through natural conception.

Put together, this race is much less about the possibility of an upset Democratic win than a test of the strength of a Republican base in a scandal-plagued year.

Debbie Lesko, the Republican candidate, explained

The GOP dodged one bullet when Lesko won the Republican primary.

Lesko’s main primary challenger was state Sen. Steve Montenegro, who himself was embroiled in an inappropriate relationship with an entry-level staffer, conduct that made having him as the nominee seem like too big a risk.

On its face, Lesko’s political profile seems like an easy fit for a Trump district. A former state House and Senate lawmaker, whose district overlaps with Arizona’s Eighth, Lesko is anti-abortion and has run on a “tough on immigration” platform, saying she will work with Trump to bring the border wall to Arizona. She supports Trump but says she doesn’t approve of all his antics, celebrated the Republican tax cuts, and is quick to paint her Democratic opponent, Tipirneni as a “Bernie Sanders, Medicare-for-all” liberal (Tipirneni supports a public option). Lesko has already won the support of the conservative House Freedom Caucus.

Among notable moments in her career, she was among the 36 Republican lawmakers in Arizona who signed on to the unsuccessful lawsuit against then-Gov. Jan Brewer (R) for supporting Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act. And in the district, she’s known for something much more close to home for an aging retirement population: She pushed for state legislation to make it legal for people to drive golf carts alongside the road.

But Lesko is currently facing campaign finance violation complaints, which surfaced during the Republican primary, having transferred $50,000 from her state Senate campaign to a Super PAC supporting her. She has denied any wrongdoing.

“All I can say is we did everything legally,” she said. “I have one of the best, if not the best, election lawyer firms on my campaign team. And I’m very thankful the voters didn’t fall for the last-minute false allegations against me.”

The alleged campaign finance violations haven’t had much impact in the polls. Nevertheless, the national Republican Party has seemingly sensed some vulnerability. Pro-Lesko groups have funneled more than $600,000 into the race.

Democrat Dr. Hiral Tipirneni is making this race about health care

A former emergency room doctor and cancer research advocate, Tipirneni is zeroing in on what Democrats think will be a winning message in 2018: health care.

Trent Franks “has walked away from us on his responsibility on health care and in so many other ways,” Tipirneni said in her campaign ad, saying she has experienced both sides of the health care system as a physician and through her mother’s cancer diagnosis.

Her campaign has focused on deriding Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut Medicaid, and their voiced interest in slashing Medicare and Social Security. She supports Medicare expansion and instituting a public option, which would run alongside the private sector.

“I’m a physician; I understand health care policy very well,” Tipirneni said in a debate against Lesko. “Basically, my plan focuses on expanding Medicare so it turns into that public option. We enhance competition. We encourage free market competition.”

For a candidate in a conservative district, she’s notably pro-abortion rights and anti-border wall. She supports a pathway to citizenship for DREAMers who “qualify and have earned it,” and says “money for ‘the wall’ would be better spent on other border security measures,” according to her campaign website. She’s an Indian immigrant (her family came to the United States when she was 3 years old), and Democrats hail her as having lived the “American dream.” She’s already won the support of Emily’s List and the Giffords gun safety group.

The national Republican Party has tried to paint Tipirneni as out of touch with the “values” of the district. More conservative groups have said she would be a vote toward impeaching Trump.

“If Tipirneni wins, she will be a vote for Nancy Pelosi and a vote to impeach the president if the Democrats take over the House,” the House Freedom Fund wrote on its website, calling for donations for Lesko.

Tipirneni’s health care-focused campaign may not be enough to overcome the district’s deeply red roots, but it could weaken Republicans’ stronghold on the district, which would be yet another sign of Democratic enthusiasm across the nation.President Trump said on Thursday that he’d rejoin the 11-country free trade agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership if he can negotiate a better deal for the US than President Obama did.

But experts say Trump already squandered the best chance he had to extract concessions from other countries when he brashly pulled out of negotiations for the deal just days after taking office.

Back then, he could’ve threatened to walk out if things weren’t going his way, much the way he has with negotiations over NAFTA, the free trade agreement the US has with Canada and Mexico. Since the US was by far the largest player in the TPP, he might have been able to win some concessions with those threats.

But things are different today. After Trump pulled out of TPP talks in January 2017, the other countries’ trade negotiators carried on without the US, and in March they signed an agreement between themselves. Currently, the TPP countries, which include Canada, Mexico, Japan, and Australia, are in the process of officially ratifying the agreement.

Analysts say that while other countries want America back in the deal — the US has a huge market for their exports — they’re going to be reluctant to make major changes to accommodate Trump. They’ve already wrapped up grueling negotiations, and Trump has established a reputation for being highly unpredictable during trade talks.

Even though they want the US in the TPP, they have to weigh that against the risk of the whole agreement falling apart if Trump tries to force them to concede to radical proposals.

“There are going to be political costs domestically for every nation that reopens the agreement — and Trump is a wild card,” Edward Alden, a trade scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations, told me.

Powerful TPP countries are already signaling their hesitation about renegotiating. “We’ve got a deal ... I can’t see that all being thrown open to appease the United States,” Australian trade minister Steven Ciobo said on Friday. Yoshihide Suga, Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, compared the agreement to “a glasswork,” and said “it is extremely difficult to take out one part and renegotiate.”

Analysts say that Trump might be interested in any number of proposals, like forcing Japan to import more US cars or agreements on patent laws that benefit US pharmaceutical companies. But he might have sabotaged his best chances to secure those policies in his first week in office.

Trump wants to join the TPP because he’s worried about China

Trump stunned Washington when he notified lawmakers and governors on Thursday morning that he had instructed his advisers to look into rejoining the deal. On the campaign trail, he had slammed the TPP as the “rape of our country,” framing the agreement as a US job killer. And on January 23, 2017, he signed an executive order withdrawing from negotiations for TPP, heralding the move as a “great thing for the American worker.”

But Trump’s concerns about the costs of a trade war with China have inspired him to reconsider the agreement. Beijing has threatened to impose 25 percent tariffs on US agricultural exports, and Trump told lawmakers that he saw the TPP as a way to help American farmers deal with the blow by opening up new markets for their crops.

But Trump hasn’t just said that he’s looking to rejoin the TPP — he’s signaled that he wants to reshape it to make it a better deal for the US. “Would only join TPP if the deal were substantially better than the deal offered to Pres. Obama,” he tweeted Thursday night.

Japan, Australia, and New Zealand have all cautiously welcomed the idea of the US possibly returning to the TPP, and there are a couple of reasons for it.

Todd Tucker, a trade scholar at the Roosevelt Institute, told me that the other countries in the TPP have a very real interest in having the US rejoin the agreement since it has such a big economy. Back when the US was in talks, it represented 60 percent of the TPP countries’ combined GDP, Tucker said. The US provides a bigger market for selling goods and services than any of the other countries in the agreement.

There’s another big reason the TPP countries would want the US back in: fighting China. The TPP serves as a counterweight to Beijing’s increasing economic influence in the Pacific. Eliminating trade barriers and encouraging trade among a bunch of Pacific Rim countries gives those countries alternatives to selling goods in the Chinese market and reduces China’s economic leverage over them. And that counterweight to China is much stronger if the US is part of the pack.

But analysts say that as much as the TPP countries want the US back in, there are limits on how much they’ll compromise in the process. They’re going to fight to minimize the changes the US can make to the agreement, and they know they have more leverage since the US is already outside the deal at this point.

Should Trump enter negotiations to rejoin the TPP, there are a number of possible proposals he might be interested in. He could, for example, look to get Japan to drop some of the environmental and safety standards it has that limit the import of American cars into Japan.

He might call for strengthening “rules of origin” standards that mandate that a certain percentage of specific finished products must be made in a TPP country in order to be considered eligible for the TPP free trade treatment (a policy that encourages domestic manufacturing).

He might also push for robust intellectual property protections that allow American pharmaceutical companies to hold patents on their products for a longer period of time and edge out foreign competition.

But Trump will have a lot more difficulty negotiating for those policies than he would have before he pulled out. The democratic countries in the agreement know they could face domestic criticism if they make big concessions to the US at this stage in the process.

The sheer number of countries involved in talks could be an issue — there are more possibilities for potential disagreement. The Trump administration has already struggled for months to get Canada and Mexico to agree to the proposals it has rolled out during NAFTA renegotiations. “If they’re having difficulty dealing with two countries, it’s unclear they have the chops to deal with a bigger set of countries,” Tucker told me.

TPP countries are also not going to be sure if Trump can convince Congress to ratify an agreement. In all likelihood Congress wouldn’t be voting to approve any agreement until after the midterm elections in November, after which Democrats might control the House of Representatives. If Trump can’t get his own government to sign off on the deal, then all the negotiations will have been for naught.It didn’t make it onto the air, but according to a fuller transcript provided to journalists, former FBI Director James Comey made some remarkable comments about former CIA Director David Petraeus in an exclusive interview with ABC News chief anchor George Stephanopoulos.

Petraeus, you’ll recall, emerged from the Iraq War with a sky-high reputation as a military leader, got tapped to lead the CIA by Barack Obama, and had a stunning fall from grace related to mishandling of classified information. But he never really lost his stature as a member of America’s governing elite. He’s a frequent op-ed author and a sought-after speaker, and was considered for a Cabinet job in the Trump administration. But according to Comey, he should have been treated considerably more harshly than he was:

Well, the David Petraeus case was, to my mind, not a close case at all. He was the director of the C.I.A. He was having a romantic relationship with a woman who was also an author, going to write a book about him. He had taken home and stored in a backpack notebooks full of notes about some of the government’s most sensitive secrets. Classified at the top level in the government, including conversations with President Obama about special access programs, some of our — our most closely guarded secrets. And he had given these notebooks to this person who had neither a need to know, nor the appropriate clearance. And he’d actually allowed her to photograph pages containing top secret information. And then, when the F.B.I. interviewed him about it, he lied about it. And so you had clearly intentional misconduct by a guy who’s in charge of the country’s secrets as the director of the C.I.A., involving huge trove of our top level classified information. And then obstruction of justice. It was not a close call. In fact, I thought David Petraeus should’ve been prosecuted not just for the mishandling of the classified information, but also for lying to the F.B.I. because lying is — strikes at the heart of our rule of law in this country. And in the end, the attorney general at the time, Eric Holder, decided he would be charged only with the misdemeanor mishandling of classified information.

Stephanopoulos does not follow up on this since it’s so far afield from the main issues in the news today, but it’s a fairly remarkable charge against both Petraeus and Attorney General Eric Holder — and a noteworthy one, since both men continue to be involved in public affairs.

In terms of the main issues in recent politics, Comey’s point here is that what Petraeus was charged with doing was of a very different order of magnitude than anything that was ever alleged regarding Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. The severity of Petraeus’s conduct — which involved both willful, deliberate disclosures of classified information and lying to federal investigators about it — was somewhat obscured by ending with a misdemeanor plea.President Donald Trump’s limited strike on Syria in April is an established tactic among presidents — his predecessors from Obama through Reagan all used similar actions, with varying results.

But limited strikes that accomplish all their goals are exceedingly rare — only about 6 percent can make that claim, according to research by expert Micah Zenko. Most strikes have mixed success, at best.

For example, Trump’s justification for attacking Syria was to send a message about Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s use of chemical weapons. That’s the same justification he used when authorizing a limited strike on Syria one year earlier. And since then, Assad’s forces have continued to launch chemical attacks.

Why do presidents even use limited strikes if they’re rarely effective? There is some logic to it. For one, they’re not very costly. But more importantly, these strikes generally don’t put US troops in harm’s way. And, well, politically, presidents have very little to lose by exercising the option.

In fact, authorizing a limited strike can give the appearance of strength and decisiveness and can sometimes have a positive effect on approval, whether or not the strike actually achieves its intended goals.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more!On Friday night, the US, France, and the UK bombed Syria in response to the regime’s chemical weapons attack that killed more than 40 people. But in the aftermath of the US-led strikes, it’s clear that the drama surrounding the civil war is far from over.

Syrians loyal to the president, Bashar al-Assad, openly celebrated in the capital of Damascus on Saturday because the Western powers didn’t try to overthrow Assad. On Sunday, Assad’s forces continued to bomb civilians — but with conventional weapons.

French President Emmanuel Macron told French media outlets on Sunday that he convinced US President Donald Trump to keep US troops in Syria, even though the president previously said he wanted to bring them home. And finally, Turkey, a NATO ally, said on Monday that it doesn’t side with the US — or any other country, for that matter — on Syria.

So even though Trump tweeted “Mission Accomplished!” after attacking Syria, the aftermath shows there is much work left to do. What follows is a quick guide to the biggest developments following Friday night’s strikes.

Assad still walks to work

The Friday attack on Syria targeted three of Assad’s key chemical weapons facilities, including one near Damascus. But crucially, the strikes didn’t threaten the survival of the Assad regime — and that made the government’s supporters happy.

According to the Washington Post, locals celebrated in the capital after realizing there would be no more US-led strikes. Assad supporters reportedly danced to nationalist songs while waving the Syrian, Russian, and Iranian flags in unison. Recall that Moscow and Tehran are Assad’s biggest backers in the Syrian civil war.

The Assad regime even joined in on the defiance. “The honorable cannot be humiliated,” Assad’s office tweeted after Friday’s strikes. And on April 14, the same account tweeted a short video of Assad walking to work with a briefcase to emphasize how little the strikes had truly changed.

صباح الصمود..



رئاسة الجمهورية العربية السورية pic.twitter.com/hhIZT6cOTe — Syrian Presidency (@Presidency_Sy) April 14, 2018

As Trump has repeatedly said, the US won’t get meaningfully involved in the Syrian civil war, a conflict Assad has all but won. But the US and its allies seem to be willing to punish the regime for using chemical weapons on civilians, without actually threatening Assad’s position.

In other words, the US won’t stop the regime’s loyalists from cheering for now and won’t stop Assad from walking to his office unharmed.

The war in Syria continues

The US and its allies may have destroyed important chemical facilities, but Assad still has regular bombs and attack helicopters, and his forces used them soon after the US-led strike.

The Wall Street Journal reported that Assad’s forces bombed civilian areas on Sunday, conducting at least 28 airstrikes near Homs and Hama. Regime troops also launched artillery, according to the White Helmets rescue group.

Sadly, that’s not new or substantially different in the Syria conflict. Assad uses conventional means to kill most of his own people. As the Journal notes, only around 2,000 of the roughly 400,000 killed in Syria since 2011 died from chemical weapons. That means the vast majority, about 398,000, died because Assad’s forces hit them with airstrikes, bullets, or something else.

This is all part of Assad’s “siege, starve, and surrender” strategy, in which he uses brutal military force to both kill civilians and make it hard for them to receive food and medical attention. That way, anti-government rebels will eventually put down their arms, allowing Assad’s forces to reclaim lost territory.

This goes to the heart of Trump’s Syria policy: The US seems to tolerate Assad murdering his own people as long as he doesn’t use chemical weapons. Fox News Sunday’s Chris Wallace pushed UN Ambassador Nikki Haley on this:

WALLACE: Why are we drawing a distinction and saying to Assad, it’s okay to do it with conventional weapons but we’re going to object if you do it with chemical weapons? HALEY: I don’t think we’ve ever said it’s okay, period. There is no way that any American or the president would ever say it’s okay to kill women and children. I think that we have a lot of issues in the world, and I think we’re trying to put out as many fires as we can. We can’t control what a country does to its people. We can condemn it, we can acknowledge it. We can try to do everything at the United Nations.

There you have it: Chemical weapons? Limited strikes as punishment. Regular bombs and artillery? “We can condemn it, we can acknowledge it.”

Still, we don’t really know why the Trump administration feels more compelled to act when Assad’s forces use chemical weapons over when it uses conventional ones.

Will Trump keep troops in Syria?

In the aftermath of the strikes, Trump may be reconsidering the US’s commitment in Syria — again.

On April 3, Trump told reporters during a White House press conference that he wanted to remove US troops from Syria: “I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back home.” But Macron, the French leader, said on Sunday that he changed the president’s mind.

“Ten days ago, President Trump said the USA’s will is to disengage from Syria. We convinced him that it was necessary to stay,” Macron told French news outlets on Sunday.

That’s a big claim. Not only had Trump already said America’s roughly 2,000 troops in Syria should leave, but keeping US troops there would go against Trump’s own “America First” instincts. One of the core tenets of “America First” is not to spend excess blood and treasure in foreign wars, letting regional countries solve their own problems.

That said, Trump did agree on April 4 to keep US service members in Syria over the next six months to defeat ISIS, which is the only stated reason for why the US has a military presence in Syria at all.

The White House says Macron didn’t misrepresent his conversation with Trump but added that nothing has changed. “The US mission has not changed — the president has been clear that he wants US forces to come home as quickly as possible,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement to reporters. “We are determined to completely crush ISIS and create the conditions that will prevent its return.”

It’s now an open question as to how long US troops will stay in Syria after ISIS’s ouster.

A NATO ally isn’t on America’s side in Syria

Turkey is one of America’s NATO allies, but the US can’t count on Ankara’s support in Syria. Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag just made that clear.

“Turkey’s Syria policy isn’t to stand with or against any country,” he told reporters in Qatar on Monday. “There is no change to the policy Turkey has been carrying out.”

Here’s what he means: Turkey’s goal is to establish an approximately 19-mile “safe zone” between Kurdish-controlled territory and the Turkish border. Turkey now fights Syrian Kurds in the country’s north to do so. Ankara has been fighting a decades-long insurgency against Kurdish separatists inside its own country, and thus considers the powerful Kurdish forces near its Syrian border to be a looming terrorist threat to the country.

This complicates another of America’s most important alliances in the Middle East. The US is also close to the Syrian Kurds, who have emerged as one of Washington’s vital battlefield partners in the anti-ISIS fight. Last October, Syrian Kurdish fighters helped the US take Raqqa, the Syrian city that ISIS considered the capital of its so-called caliphate.

Turkey, then, is fighting one of America’s key allies countering ISIS. It’s no wonder that Bozdag feels Turkey and the US aren’t on the same page.

But what is jarring is that a top Turkish official would say this just days after the US attacked the Syrian regime. Further, by effectively staying neutral, Ankara is allowing Russia and Iran to actively back Assad while he uses chemical weapons on innocent civilians.

Perhaps that shouldn’t come as a great surprise. On April 4, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan met with two other leaders — Russian President Vladimir Putin and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani — in Turkey for talks about Syria’s future. Notably, the US didn’t attend the summit.

It’s hard to believe two NATO allies are this far apart on a crucial national security issue. But here we are.Many of President Donald Trump’s biggest supporters in the media world are slamming his decision to bomb Syria on Friday, describing the move as a betrayal of his campaign promises to avoid entangling the US in more foreign conflicts as president.

A number of them are skeptical of reports that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime used chemical weapons against civilians, which is what prompted Trump to carry out airstrikes on his chemical weapons program in the first place. And some appear to believe the attacks are “false flag” operations designed to lure the president into war.

“I just feel like I just had my best girlfriend break up with me,” Alex Jones, the host of Infowars and a prominent right-wing conspiracy theorist, said on Friday during a live stream after the strikes were announced. “The left will make jokes but this ain’t funny, man.”

In the runup to Trump’s decision to carry out the strikes, Jones argued that the chemical attacks that happened earlier in April were staged by Syrian rebels to bait the US to intervene. He also claims that Trump consults with him over the phone from time to time — but felt that the Syria strike crossed a line. “If you ever call me again I’m going to tell you I’m ashamed of you,” Jones said.

Other conservatives who oppose interventions largely agreed with the sentiment. Mike Savage, a prominent radio show host, saw Trump’s attack as an undeniable sign that he had given into the establishment. “We lost. War machine bombs Syria. No evidence Assad did it. Sad warmongers hijacking our nation,” he tweeted Friday.

Michael Cernovich, an alt-right media personality and Trump booster, has demanded more evidence of the chemical attacks. “Magic gas that only kills women and children. And also disables all cell networks so that no one is able to post any videos from the ground,” he tweeted Saturday.

Fox News hosts Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham have both criticized Trump’s Syria strike as risky, saying they’re at odds with his earlier pledges to refrain from interventions. “I guess it feels good because there are horrible things happening there,” Ingraham said on Friday. “But what do we really accomplish here tonight in Syria? This is not why Donald Trump got elected.”

“This is clearly not something he ran on, and and it’s inconsistent with a lot of things that he’s said over the years,” Carlson said on his show before the attacks were officially announced.

Right-wing personality and author Ann Coulter retweeted people who floated the possibility that the chemical attacks were entirely fabricated or staged by people wanting to frame Assad and encourage the US to strike Syria.

And in the comment sections at Breitbart News, the far-right news site formerly headed by once-White House strategist Steve Bannon, people expressed rage over Trump’s decision to strike Syria.

Trump has angered his America First base in the past

This isn’t the first time many of Trump’s anti-interventionist supporters have felt betrayed by his foreign policy actions.

In August, when Trump announced he was sending more troops to Afghanistan, he received tons of pushback from his America First devotees. “Who’s going to pay for it? What is our measure of success? We didn’t win with 100K troops. How will we win with 4,000 more?” tweeted Ingraham at the time. Breitbart blasted the decision as a “flip-flop” that would lead to “endless war.” The site blamed “globalists” in the administration for pushing “more war abroad,” arguing that “Washington doesn’t know” what victory even means in Afghanistan.

And when Trump carried out a strike against Syria almost exactly a year ago, he elicited a similar wave of anger and disillusionment among many of his most hardcore media allies and online followers. “This is unbelievable. This is not what we voted for. This is definitely not what we voted for,” Cernovich told his followers at the time.When the Trump administration debated how hard to bomb Syria, John Bolton, the president’s hawkish new national security adviser, suffered a surprising defeat.

This may seem like a strange thing to say, given that Trump did just bomb three Syrian government regime installations. But it’s not: Bolton was advocating a far more expansive intervention, one designed to do “ruinous” damage to the Assad regime’s military capabilities (per the Wall Street Journal).

That isn’t what happened; the strikes reportedly didn’t even destroy Assad’s chemical weapons stockpile, let alone do major damage to the conventional arsenal he’s been using to slowly grind down anti-government rebels.

The principal administration advocate for a more limited option was Defense Secretary James Mattis, with support from Joint Chiefs Chair Gen. Joseph Dunford. Mattis has long been seen as one of the most cautious and sober of Trump’s military advisers; experts on US foreign policy see the eventual outcome as a testament to his influence over the president.

“It’s ... a victory for Mattis,” says Paul Musgrave, a professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.

When Bolton’s appointment as national security adviser was announced last month, one fear was that he would swamp Mattis’s restraining influence. Many in Washington felt that Bolton — together with CIA Director Mike Pompeo, the hawk Trump has nominated to run the State Department — would push the president to adopt a far more aggressive approach to global crises ranging from North Korea to the future of the Iran nuclear deal.

Syria was the first big test of the influence of this so-called “war cabinet.” And they came up empty.

Why the “limited strikes” are such a defeat for Bolton

To understand how an airstrike could be a defeat for hawks, it’s really important to understand how John Bolton thinks about US intervention in the Syrian civil war.

Almost since the war broke out, Bolton has seen the conflict through the lens of geopolitics rather than a humanitarian crisis. His view is that Bashar al-Assad is an Iranian and Russian ally, and America’s primary interest in the conflict is limiting the influence of Washington’s geopolitical rivals.

“[Syria] is increasingly an Iranian satellite under Tehran’s growing regional influence,” Bolton wrote in a 2012 National Review article, near the beginning of the civil war. “Accordingly, regime change in Syria is prima facie in America’s interest.”

In 2013, when Assad first used chemical weapons on a large scale, the Obama administration threatened to launch a limited military strike — like the one that Trump just launched — in retaliation. Bolton vocally opposed the idea, specifically on the grounds that it wouldn’t be aggressive enough to have a strategic effect.

“If I were a member of Congress, I would vote against an authorization to use force here,” Bolton said in a 2013 Fox & Friends appearance. “I think the notion that a limited strike, which is what the president seems to be pursuing, will not create a deterrent effect with respect to either to Syria’s use of chemical weapons or, more seriously, Iran’s nuclear weapons program.”

Bolton, a longtime Republican, was far more supportive of Trump striking Syria after a chemical attack than Obama doing the same. Last April, when Trump launched his first strike on Syria to punish chemical use, Bolton praised the president even though the US only bombed a single Syrian airbase.

That being said, it’s clear that Bolton wanted more from the president. At the time, he called on Trump to “eliminate Syria’s Air Force,” as well as to “tell the Russians to clear out ... so they don’t become Assad’s Air Force.”

Now Bolton is in power and so should theoretically have the ability to turn these policy preferences into reality. Yet the outcome was the precise opposite of what Bolton has been clamoring for. The strikes hit three facilities linked to chemical weapons production, targets that were specifically chosen because of the limited risk of escalation and civilian casualties. The rationale was not rolling back Iranian or Russian influence, but rather narrowly tailored to deter chemical weapons use.

“The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread and use of chemical weapons,” Trump said in an address to the nation on Friday explaining his decision. “We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.”

The best explanation for why Bolton didn’t get his way is that Mattis beat him.

According to defense officials who spoke with the Wall Street Journal, Mattis opposed a bigger strike on Syria for the very reason that Bolton supported one: the possibility that it would spark a broader fight with Assad’s foreign patrons. Mattis, the Journal reports, favored a “show strike”: something that would demonstrate that mass chemical weapons use would draw a response without the risk of a broader escalation.

His fears were reportedly shared by the US’s top military officer, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chair Gen. Dunford. And the two of them appear to have triumphed over Bolton.

It’s difficult to say why Trump sided with the generals over Bolton, especially since some reports (and the president’s own tweets) suggest he favored a more aggressive response. The best inside reporting suggests that Bolton may have been hesitant to go to the mat against Mattis, who is well entrenched in the Trump administration, during his first week on the job. So it’s possible that this won’t last and that Bolton’s influence will grow over time.

But it’s nonetheless suggestive. Mattis is the longest-serving member of Trump’s national security Cabinet, by far. By this point, he knows how the president thinks and how to appeal to his instincts. This limited strike seems well-calibrated to doing just that, while simultaneously limiting the risk of escalation as much as possible. It’s possible that Mattis will consistently outmaneuver Bolton on issues like this, appealing to Trump’s more cautious instincts.

“I think that Trump places a high premium on appearances, so, thus, enforcing a red line. It’s mostly symbolic,” says Christopher Preble, a foreign policy expert at the libertarian Cato Institute. “There are clearly competing impulses within Trump’s foreign policy between wanting to appear tough, which he defines as the use of force, but not seeming to repeat the errors of his predecessors.”

These competing impulses of Trump are personified by two of his top foreign policy advisers, the aggressive John Bolton and the cautious Jim Mattis. And on the first big fight, Mattis won decisively — suggesting Bolton may not prove as influential as some hoped or as others feared.President Donald Trump’s plea that former FBI Director James Comey drop his investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn is “evidence” that Trump tried to obstruct justice, according to Comey.

Comey made his claim in a much-hyped interview with ABC that aired Sunday night.

Special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating whether Trump tried to obstruct justice as part of his intensifying Russia probe, and the exchange with Comey could be a key part of his case.

The conversation between Trump and Comey took place during a February 2017 Oval Office meeting, first reported by the New York Times in May 2017. During the meeting, Trump asked Comey to “let this go,” referring to the investigation into Flynn. The report was based on notes that Comey kept about his tenure at the FBI after Trump had taken office.

Trump fired Flynn from his post at the White House in February 2017 for allegedly lying to Vice President Mike Pence about the contents of phone calls Flynn made in December 2016 to Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Flynn discussed US sanctions against Russia with Kislyak and then lied to federal investigators about the contents of the call.

During Sunday’s interview, Comey said he took Trump’s comment about letting Flynn go as a “direction.” “It’s certainly some evidence of obstruction of justice,” Comey told ABC’s George Stephanopoulos.

Comey went on to say the judgment as to whether Trump was trying to interfere with the investigation would come down to “his intent.”

Trump has denied telling Comey to back off the investigation, while his son Donald Trump Jr. went on television to argue that the president’s words weren’t meant as an order but instead as a “Hey, hope this happens” statement.

What Trump knew about Flynn

One of the big questions is whether Trump knew Flynn had lied to investigators when he allegedly asked Comey to drop the case.

Trump tweeted in December that he “had to fire” Flynn because he’d lied to the FBI, seemingly confirming that he knew Flynn had committed a crime when he got rid of him. Trump’s lawyer John Dowd, who recently left the president’s legal team, later claimed he’d written the tweet and that it was incorrect.

Comey’s account has remained consistent in describing Trump’s push to get the Flynn investigation dropped. In addition to his memos, Comey repeated the claim in June when he testified before Congress.

But as Comey noted Sunday, the big question that remains is whether Trump intended to try to interfere with an investigation. Comey said there’s “evidence,” but he has not concluded that Trump definitely did obstruct justice. That would be one reason that investigators want to question Trump directly as part of Mueller’s Russia probe.Looking at the poster for Avengers: Infinity War, it’s immediately apparent that the Marvel Cinematic Universe has become a very crowded place.

First came Iron Man, then came Hulk, and Thor and Captain America followed. Now, some 18 movies later, we’ve arrived at Infinity War, a knock-down, drag-out fight between Thanos and those Avengers, joined by all the friends they’ve made along the way, including Black Widow, the Guardians of the Galaxy, Black Panther and his Wakandan warriors, Doctor Strange, Spider-Man, Scarlet Witch, Vision, and the underloved Hawkeye.

Because the Avengers stable has gotten so crowded, and because this movie promises to feature the baddest villain the MCU has to offer, it’s fair to wonder whether Marvel will use Infinity War to thin the ranks by killing off some of its beloved heroes. This happens all the time in comic books, but actors have contracts, and these movies make gigantic piles of money, so dispatching onscreen superheroes comes at a (literal) higher cost, which means Marvel hasn’t killed off any of its marquee heroes — yet. Infinity War is a big movie that’s banking on big moments, and it doesn’t get much bigger than a shocking, unprecedented death.

While we can’t say for sure which Marvel heroes may bite the bullet in Infinity War, you can sort of read the tea leaves based on few signs: the number of movies a hero has been in (Marvel probably won’t kill someone who was just introduced), how important they are to the Avengers (Cap is more important than Star-Lord), and what their death may do for a storyline (Iron Man dying would change the complexion of the continuous Marvel cinematic narrative in a completely different way than Drax biting the dust would).

With that in mind, here’s my best guess as to who’s safe, who isn’t, and whom we might not see when the Avengers team up again for their fourth movie in 2019.

These heroes definitely won’t die

Black Panther

This year’s Black Panther has made more than $1 billion worldwide and more than $650 million domestically — its stateside haul is bigger than The Avengers’ US box office of $623 million. There is absolutely no way Marvel is going to kill off its most successful hero in recent memory and the newly crowned king of the MCU.

Hawkeye

Is Hawkeye even in this movie? Can you kill a ghost?

Seriously, though, Hawkeye hasn’t been in any of the trailers or promotional material, which has made him feel inconsequential. While this could mean Marvel is ready to be rid of him (should he even appear in this movie), killing the Avengers’ sixth fiddle wouldn’t be the sort of big moment Marvel is after — and the film’s directors, the Russo brothers, have indicated they still have plans for Clint Barton down the line.

Scarlet Witch, Black Widow, Gamora, and Shuri

In Marvel Studios’ 10-year history (beginning with Iron Man), none of its 18 films have given a female superhero a movie all to herself. That changes next year with Captain Marvel, but the fact that it’s taken so long is kind of embarrassing, especially when you consider how long Black Widow has been in the cinematic universe (since 2010’s Iron Man 2), how many rich female characters there are in Marvel’s comic book universe, and the fact that Wonder Woman made all kinds of money for Warner Bros.

This is changing slowly, with movies like Ant-Man and the Wasp, in which Evangeline Lilly’s Wasp is getting equal billing, and with characters like Black Panther’s Shuri and Okoye, who were integral to both the film’s narrative and its promotion. But the unavoidable result of all these man-centric movies is a lot of male superheroes and a lack of female superheroes. Because of that discrepancy, and the criticism it’s drawn, it’s hard to see Marvel killing off any of its main female Avengers, or honorary members like Gamora or the well-loved Shuri.

Groot

Here’s a twist: According to Guardians director James Gunn, Groot is already dead. The Groot we see in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 is actually the son of the Groot who died at the end of the first Guardians.

First Groot is dead. Baby Groot is his son. — James Gunn (@JamesGunn) February 27, 2018

Prior to Gunn’s tweet, I belonged to the school of thought that the new Groot was a reborn or reincarnated Groot but the same Groot nonetheless. But in the spirit of Guardians, I will honor the cinematic rules of Gunn’s Groot mythology. That said, it’s hard to imagine the new Groot getting killed so soon after the old Groot was.

Drax and Rocket Raccoon

Drax and Rocket are the third and fourth options of the Guardians franchise, ones who seem like they don’t necessarily have the most important roles or storylines. But they do have very distinct (some critics may say one-note) characterizations and senses of humor that are crucial to the franchise. Considering how little their backstories have been developed — and especially taking into account how much Drax’s storyline in the first movie is about Thanos, something the second movie largely dropped — killing them off would feel abrupt and pointless. Not to mention killing one or the other would completely change the charm dynamic of the Guardians movies.

Ant-Man and the Wasp

They have a movie out together three months after Infinity War premieres. I don’t necessarily understand the timeline of that movie (specifically whether it’s set after, and if so, how far after, Infinity War), but Marvel won’t let Thanos kill these two before their feature film debuts — if they even appear at all. The Russos have obliquely said that Ant-Man and the Wasp will tie into the events of Infinity War but haven’t said whether the characters themselves, who are not featured on the film’s poster (or are they?), will appear in the movie. And if you don’t appear in the movie, you don’t die.

These heroes probably won’t die

Peter Parker

Peter Parker just went to homecoming — there’s no way he can die. While Parker has died in the comic books, he’s brand new to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, having been separated by Sony’s film rights for many years. Not to mention that we finally have in Tom Holland a portrayal of Parker that feels true to the character. There’s no way they’re killing Peter Parker after one movie — especially when there’s so much opportunity for him and Shuri to nerd out.

Doctor Strange

Though Doctor Strange looks like he’s in a pretty grim situation in the trailers — a villain known as Ebony Maw has captured the Sorcerer Supreme — Stephen Strange isn’t dying. As with Parker and Black Panther, Marvel isn’t going to kill an Avenger after one movie (well, two if you count his brief appearance in Thor: Ragnarok).

Bucky Barnes

The biggest reason Bucky can’t die is that we need people to be very sad in the event that Captain America dies. Cap fought Iron Man and essentially quit the Avengers for his best friend, and now that Bucky is no longer brainwashed, he’s in a place where he can appreciate that and be grateful for Cap’s friendship and sacrifice. He will truly epitomize the pain we’ll all feel if and when Cap dies.

Star-Lord

Star-Lord has almost died in both Guardians movies: In the first film, he touches the Infinity Stone; in the second, Ego almost kills him. If Marvel were going to kill him, they would have done it in one of those movies to get the maximum impact out of killing the Guardians’ leader. Star-Lord dying in Infinity War would have less of an impact, since he’s taking a back seat to heroes like Iron Man, Cap, and Thor. Chris Pratt also went on the record last year stating that he’s looking to continue working with Marvel, and hinted that his contract wasn’t up.

The Hulk

The Hulk has functioned as a special guest star in the MCU rather than the main star. He went on an unexplained hiatus for a few films after Age of Ultron before triumphantly returning in Thor: Ragnarok. Considering how Marvel has already exiled him in the past, and just brought him back, killing off the Avengers’ not-so-jolly green giant — in what would be a tragic death considering all he’s been through — at this point feels like a step too far.

These heroes might actually die

Okoye

As we’ve seen in the trailers promoting Infinity War, Wakanda is the site of a humongous alien invasion. (I’m guessing vibranium has a connection to an Infinity Stone.) While Wakanda is blessed with technology and adept warriors to protect it, the Avengers and Wakandans going up against the baddest villain in the universe without suffering any casualties seems unlikely. Unfortunately, I could see Okoye, the leader of the Dora Milaje, going out in a blaze of glory, paying the ultimate sacrifice to her king and country. It would embody everything — loyalty, bravery, selflessness — the Dora Milaje and Okoye stand for.

Loki

Loki is the ultimate “wait 30 minutes” character. Thirty minutes from now, he could be evil. Thirty more minutes and he’s good again. That said, Thor: Ragnarok ended with Loki growing up and actually being a good guy, and Thanos killing a Loki who just decided to be good is a lot more powerful than if Loki were still evil. Also, it’s worth remembering that Thanos is still pretty peeved at Loki’s inability to secure Earth and the Tesseract in the first Avengers film.

These heroes are in danger

Nebula

It would make perfect sense to kill Nebula, the secondary villain the first Guardians film who had a change of heart and an epiphany about her relationship with Gamora in the sequel. She’s an antihero with a heart now and is ready to stand beside Gamora as they take on their adoptive father Thanos. The bad news is that this character arc seems to be leading right toward Nebula’s noble death.

Vision

It’s quite simple: Vision has an Infinity Stone in his head. Thanos wants the Infinity Stones. This movie hinges on Thanos obtaining the Infinity Stones. Thanos will eventually obtain all the Infinity Stones — he has to if we’re to believe Earth is truly in peril — and therefore, Vision has to “die.” It wouldn’t be out of the realm of possibility that when Vision loses the Infinity Stone, he reverts back to his previous incarnation as Jarvis, Tony Stark’s semi-sentient and extremely helpful computer program.

Thor

Thor has the distinction of being the first Avenger to meet Thanos, who intercepts his ship of Asgardians in one of Thor: Ragnarok’s post-credits scenes. That isn’t good, since Thanos is ostensibly this movie’s bringer of death. The other ominous clue is that Infinity War directors the Russo brothers have described the movie as being about Thanos and Thor. Being connected to Thanos isn’t a good thing if you’re a character that wants to survive.

Iron Man

There’s a divide in the ever-growing Avengers roster between the originals (Thor, Iron Man, and Cap) and the newbies (Black Panther, Spider-Man, and Doctor Strange). We’ve seen the originals featured in multiple solo movies, while the newbies are just getting started. In Civil War, it felt like Marvel was setting down the idea that the Avengers can’t continue the way they are with Cap and Tony Stark at odds. In Spider-Man: Homecoming it felt like Tony was passing the torch and teaching Peter Parker to be a better hero and leader than he was. It wouldn’t surprise me one bit if Infinity War marks the end of Iron Man’s long tenure in the MCU and officially ignites a new era of leadership for the Avengers.

Captain America

If you want to rip out the heart and soul of the Avengers, and the heart and soul of any Marvel fan, you kill Steve Rogers. Rogers’s death would be one way to put an exclamation point on the end of Marvel’s third phase of movies. His death makes sense story-wise too, as his solo movies have shown us his genesis as a hero (The First Avenger), his struggle to reconcile being a hero with the world around him (The Winter Soldier), and then end up questioning everything, including the country he so deeply believes in (Civil War). Rogers dying in Infinity War would complete his arc, and would serve to unite the divided Avengers.

The nagging counterpoint to Rogers’s death is that Chris Evans, who plays Rogers, reportedly renewed his Marvel contract in 2017 for at least one more movie post-Infinity War. That could end up being something as simple as a flashback or a throwaway post-credits appearance (like the one he made in Spider-Man: Homecoming), but I could also see an Infinity Stone-aided resurrection come into play — which, of course, could apply to any of the above characters as well.

Avengers: Infinity War will be released in theaters on April 27.How many women is enough?

That’s one of the biggest questions looming as Bill Cosby stands trial for sexual assault a second time, after a mistrial in June 2017.

Cosby has been accused of sexual misconduct by around 60 women, some of whom began speaking publicly as far back as 2005. He did not face serious career repercussions until 2014 and has yet to serve any prison time. The prosecution is calling five additional women in the retrial to bolster the claims of Andrea Constand, who says Cosby assaulted her in 2004.

One of the early goals of the #MeToo movement was to draw attention to the ubiquity of sexual harassment and assault. As waves of stories appeared in the news and on social media, numerous women often came forward with reports against each powerful man. From a collective perspective, it was a victory — the first women to speak out helped others feel safe doing so. But while the movement has forced the public to pay attention to choruses of women speaking up together, it hasn’t yet done the same for women who speak on their own.

Whether or not Cosby is convicted this time around, the fact that the prosecution feels the need to call five women in addition to Constand is a sign that one woman’s voice does not equal one man’s. Even with a heightened awareness around sexual harassment and assault, one thing hasn’t changed: The American public is willing to ignore the words of one or even several women when they speak out against a high-profile man.

Even in today’s #MeToo era, reports by one or two women are often brushed aside

Rumors about producer Harvey Weinstein’s behavior with women swirled for years, but he faced few repercussions until Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey published a story in the New York Times documenting reports of sexual misconduct by Weinstein against at least eight women, including actress Ashley Judd. A few days later, Weinstein was fired from the production company he co-founded — and the initial reports helped paved the way for other women to come forward about their experiences with Weinstein and other powerful men.

Former Sen. Al Franken, meanwhile, didn’t face widespread calls to resign from his fellow senators until the number of women accusing him of inappropriate touching or other misconduct reached seven. Many Americans, including some in Congress, opposed his resignation — for some, even seven accusers wasn’t enough.

Perhaps the best example of how easy it is for the public to ignore a single accuser, though, is Ryan Seacrest. Suzie Hardy, a former stylist for Seacrest at E! News, says that he subjected her to sexual misconduct for years, including pressing his penis against her and grabbing her genitals. Hardy has not wavered in her account, filing a police report and writing in the Hollywood Reporter in March, “I’m not going away.”

But Seacrest is still hosting two shows and appears to have faced little career damage. In part, as Vox’s Caroline Framke writes, that’s because an investigation commissioned by NBCUniversal, E!’s parent company, found “insufficient evidence” to support Hardy’s claims (though Hardy says investigators failed to interview several potential witnesses). But it doesn’t help that Hardy is on her own.

As Framke writes, she is “one woman without any name recognition alleging that one of Hollywood’s most well-connected men abused her for years. Even with Variety reporting her story in more depth, and Hollywood being more on guard about sexual misconduct stories than ever since the Harvey Weinstein allegations broke in October, she was always fighting an uphill battle.”

Sometimes, even multiple accusers don’t seem to have an effect. Singer R. Kelly has been accused of abusing multiple women and girls, including one who says she met him when she was 15, outside his child pornography trial. He is currently on a major national tour.

And, of course, there’s President Trump, who has been accused of sexual misconduct by 19 women and has yet to face consequences, although a lawsuit by one of the women, Summer Zervos, could change that. Some men, it seems, are so powerful that even the testimony of many women can’t bring them down.

Women have been speaking out about Bill Cosby for years. It took a man to make the allegations stick.

For a long time, Bill Cosby was one of those untouchable powerful men. Cosby is on trial this week in connection with a report by former Temple University employee Andrea Constand that he drugged and sexually assaulted her in 2004. Soon after that, other women began to come forward with their own reports about sexual misconduct by Cosby. But it took a decade, and a routine from a male comedian, to make the accusations stick.

Constand first reported the incident to police in 2005, but authorities declined to prosecute. When she sued, 13 women with similar allegations against Cosby agreed to appear as witnesses; some also reported publicly that Cosby had subjected them to sexual misconduct. Cosby denied some of the allegations publicly, and for years, the women received little media or public attention.

Then in 2014, a man spoke out: A routine by comedian Hannibal Buress, calling out Cosby over women’s reports against him, went viral. Soon after, artist Barbara Bowman wrote in an op-ed for the Washington Post that Cosby had drugged and raped her in the 1980s. “Only after a man, Hannibal Buress, called Bill Cosby a rapist in a comedy act last month did the public outcry begin in earnest,” Bowman wrote.

Other women soon began to come forward. In late 2014, TV networks began pulling projects associated with Cosby, and the Navy revoked his title of honorary chief petty officer; he resigned from Temple University’s board of trustees. In July 2015, 35 women with reports against Cosby appeared on the cover of New York magazine. In December of that year, prosecutors charged Cosby with aggravated indecent assault in the Constand case.

At the trial, in 2017, one of Cosby’s attorneys tried to cast doubt on Constand by painting aspects of her encounter with Cosby as romantic. “You were sitting by the fire. The room was dark. There was a nice mood,” she said at one point. The prosecution was allowed to call only one other Cosby accuser, Kelly Johnson, who said Cosby had drugged and sexually assaulted her in 1996. The jury deliberated for six days and was unable to reach a verdict.

This time, the prosecution is calling five more accusers. The first, Heidi Thomas, began her testimony on Tuesday, saying that Cosby offered to mentor her and then tried to force her into oral sex. As Vox’s Jen Kirby points out, Thomas and the other women who testify “will speak against the backdrop of a national conversation about the prevalence of sexual harassment and assault.” In this context, maybe the second trial will have a different outcome from the first. But even if it does, the increased visibility of #MeToo hasn’t changed the fundamental truth that it can take dozens of women to bring down consequences on one man.

What’s the impact of five women’s voices? We’re about to find out.

Practically speaking, additional reports of similar crimes can be helpful for prosecutors — as Kirby points out, evidence of a pattern of behavior by the defendant is admissible in court under Pennsylvania law.

It’s also true that allegations of sexual misconduct sometimes involve no more concrete evidence than one person’s word against another’s, and where that’s the case, it’s not surprising that multiple accusers matter. Outside of the courtroom, it’s helpful for future employers and the public to know if someone has a pattern of sexual misconduct or harassment, particularly if the individual incidents aren’t prosecuted.

But looking for corroboration before taking legal or employment action is different from refusing, as a society, to countenance the possibility that a powerful man might be a predator until we hear it from dozens of women. It’s different from ignoring the reports of young female athletes until they’re forced to form a veritable “army of survivors.” It’s different from letting allegations by women slide until they’re repeated by a man.

Where we are as a society is far, far from the scenario imagined by #MeToo critics who fear the directive to “believe women” will lead us to accept allegations uncritically. We are still in a place where women who speak out against powerful men are guilty until proven innocent — guilty of craving fame, money, or attention, until two or 10 or 59 other women stand up to help exonerate them.

Beginning last week, Andrea Constand was joined in court, for the first time, by multiple other women telling versions of the same story. We’re about to find out if it’s enough.On Saturday night, the reigning queen of American music, Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter, became the first black woman to headline Coachella.

Beyoncé was originally scheduled to headline the festival last year but had to pull out because she was pregnant with twins at the time. (Lady Gaga replaced her set.) This year, she triumphantly ascended the stage for a two-hour set that was, as the New York Times put it, most likely the most “meaningful, absorbing, forceful and radical performance” any American musician will produce this year.

In a set built around the theme of historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), Beyoncé performed with an HBCU marching band (the college marching band scene is on the case and has determined that it was most likely a collection of HBCU band alumni and maybe current members as well as professional performers), covered Nina Simone’s “Lilac Wine,” and sang the black national anthem, “Lift Every Voice and Sing.” And, because Queen Bey is nothing if she is not on theme, on Monday she announced that her BeyGOOD Initiative would be funding four $25,000 scholarships at HBCUs, known as the Homecoming Scholars Award Program.

She also had a dance-off with her sister Solange, duetted with her husband Jay-Z, and reunited with her old band, Destiny’s Child.

So, how can you get a glimpse of this historic and goosebump-inducing majesty? That’s the tough part.

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 15, 2018 at 9:31am PDT

Coachella live-streamed the whole thing on its YouTube channel, but as of yet, it hasn’t made any of the videos available to watch on demand. And while Beyoncé will be performing again next weekend, that performance is not scheduled to be live-streamed.

Right now, you can only really experience the set in bits and pieces via videos posted by fans, plus several short clips Beyoncé herself posted to her Instagram. (You can find a decent collection of clips at Pitchfork.com.)

It’s possible that more complete videos of the performance will eventually make their way to the legit parts of the internet. (They might be on the illegitimate parts of the internet already, but Vox.com is a law-abiding site; we will not be pointing you there.)

But it’s worth remembering that historically, Beyoncé has kept her best work exclusive. Lemonade has been out for two years, but to this day, only a few excerpts have made their way to YouTube. To see the whole thing, you either have to buy the download or have a subscription to Tidal, which has the streaming rights to Lemonade “in perpetuity.”

So we can’t say for sure that any of Beyoncé’s Coachella set will be available for you to watch on demand. But we’ll keep this space updated as we learn more.

Update: This article has been updated to include information about the Homecoming Scholars Award Program.In a set from 2013, a masked Kanye West appears onstage and stands before a veiled podium. With a slow, theatrical tug, he pulls away the veil to reveal an AKAI Music Production Center, or MPC — a small, unassuming drum machine barely bigger than an Etch-a-Sketch. He presses a single button, triggering the lone opening piano note to “Runaway.” Several years later, a diligent ear could listen to Frank Ocean’s Blonde and hear his producer, Om’Mas Keith, tapping out a beat on the same electric drum machine.

Skilled as these two are on their MPCs, this device isn’t a Keith or Kanye house specialty; it’s been at the heart of some of the most seminal musical works since its introduction by AKAI in 1988 and is still widely used today. It created a generation of hybrid producer-musicians, like West, J Dilla — whose MPC is in the Smithsonian — and Dr. Dre, who kept several in his studio at all times.

The MPC appeared everywhere. Outkast’s Big Boi engineered many of the group’s iconic beats on the MPC. Mark Ronson is so attached to his MPC that it got a custom paint job, and many of Kanye West’s most famous songs, and much of his breakout album College Dropout, have sprung from the MPC.

So how did this small, portable electric box, which looks more like a Super Nintendo than a musical instrument, became the tool of the trade for pop, hip-hop, and electronic musicians and producers? By condensing all elements of studio production into a desktop instrument that was more playable, more intuitive, and unlike anything ever put before the musical world.

The MPC made music production intuitive in a way it had never been before

In the late 1980s, producers and musicians began turning more and more to drum machines in order to create beats and loops without using a full band. More importantly, however, these machines served the needs of a changing musical style where the beats themselves — no longer the thankless work of a drummer sitting at the back of a stage — would begin to work more intimately alongside the vocals, and even shine on their own.

At the same time, hip-hop musicians also began making wider use of sampler machines, which allowed them to take pieces of music from an external source and incorporate it into their own tracks. Machines that combined these two functions (often called grooveboxes) were often difficult to use and required a more nuanced technical knowledge in music production.

These expensive machines, such as the popular ones from E-mu Systems, which in the mid-’80s could cost as much as $15,000, were among a young producer’s only options — until Roger Linn, the designer of the original MPC, created the MPC60.

Retailing around $5,000, the MPC60 was a drum machine and sampler that also integrated editing functions. Gone were the switches and small, hard industry-standard buttons of 1980s grooveboxes and studio mixing boards. Instead, the MPC featured 16 large rubber pads that could be pressed and hit to make musical sounds, as though the machine itself were an instrument with keys. It could be used to compose full tracks. It came with floppy disks preloaded with a variety of sounds and instruments; and unlike many other available products, the pads were pressure-sensitive and could produce different sounds based on how hard they were pressed.

All of this offered near-orchestral versatility and total creative control to its user. But most importantly, it wasn’t an enormous, stationary mixing panel with as many buttons as an airplane cockpit. The MPC didn’t need a studio to be operated, but instead could be plugged into a sound system in a basement. Its only real match was the E-mu SP1200, which had neither the pads nor the approachability of the MPC.

The MPC’s appearance is so straightforward that it feels almost like a trap. Roughly the dimensions of two MacBooks stacked atop each other, the MPC has a cream white/off-gray body and, in addition to its 16 pads, a small LCD screen to make editing a lot easier, another innovation introduced with the MPC. The body includes two knobs for fine-tuning samples or selecting functions, and red “record” and “over dub” buttons for saving or looping beats. Its dozen or so other buttons control functions that don’t feel markedly different from those of a VHS machine or other technology of the day. And finally, in the top right corner is a convenient “Help” button, should the user find that this newfangled technology was all too much for them.

To show just how easy it is to use, Kanye once appeared on 60 Minutes and demonstrated to Bob Simon, his interviewer, how the MPC allows you to go “from this simple kick drum all the way to what you hear on the radio.” (He also explains to Simon what a “dope-ass beat” is.) West goes on to produce a beat in a matter of seconds. “I don’t think anyone would believe you’re doing that all from this one rhythm machine,” says Simon.

Linn’s invention could be played straight out of the box by working musical professionals. What these professionals would need, he figured, was not a convoluted panel but something intuitive and easy to use that offered real-time editing, essentially eliminating the step-by-step process that makes music production so time-consuming.

“I dislike reading manuals,” Linn told me in an email, “and I dislike having my creative process interrupted by an unintuitive operating system or reading a manual written by an engineer. With the MPC60 and MPC3000, you could take them out of the box, plug in a disk and turn them on, then immediately hear a variety of good beats with good human feel.”

The pads and the layout of the MPC made it easier for someone like Om’Mas Keith, only 16 years old when he first got his hands on an MPC, to feel at ease behind it almost immediately.

“It’s the friendliest interface,” says Coby Ashpis, a musician and producer in Los Angeles. “You have those 16 big, cushy pads. The simplicity allows you to focus on the music itself.”

In the 30 years since the MPC’s release, these big, cushy pads have been adopted by countless imitators and have even appeared on the machines of competitors whose rigidly functional earlier models were precisely what the MPC originally sought to replace. They are now standard issue for DJ technology.

“The 4x4 drum grid exists across all instruments, everyone making controllers uses it. The interface is timeless,” Ashpis says.

Also part of this timeless charm — what drew people like Dr. Dre to the MPC and what keeps them coming back today — is that many believe its stock sounds have more character and more presence straight out of the box than other machines or digital software.

The MPC also made it possible for users to chop and tweak their samples in new ways. Keith recalls plugging in his turntable, zoning on in a single drumbeat from a track on a record, and assigning that single sampled drumbeat to one of the 16 pads. That way, he could use this sampled drum note while composing his own beats instead of relying on the MPC’s stock drum sounds.

“The ability to chop so finely lets you take very minute samples,” Ashpis explains. “Then you have this whole toolbox of sounds decontextualized from their original source and you can get creative and do something new.”

While once musicians were sampling wholesale, sampling itself became something of a new art form.

The MPC’s one-stop functionality means music can begin and end on the same machine

The combination of functions and simple workflow helped musicians pioneer entirely new styles of music.

“You can play one sample like a full instrument; you can change it. It opened up all recorded music to be played with in a really freeing way — a way that still used beats and samples but is more similar to playing a traditional acoustic instrument like keyboards or drums,” says Ashpis.

Prince Charles Alexander, a producer and professor of music production and engineering/commercial record production at Berklee College of Music, explains that the MPC also offered orchestral resources to lone-wolf producers. “A drum machine only has built-in drum sounds,” he says. “But now with the MPC you could make your rhythm come not just from drums but from horn hits, synth screeches. Now you were working percussively and with a far wider tambour of instrumentation.”

The MPC’s editing function made it a one-stop device where music could begin and end on the MPC alone. Making music had never been easier. “With the MPC, you could do everything in one house,” Alexander says.

Keith used the MPC for nearly everything: “I was doing beats; I would sample hooks and fly them in and create songs. All we needed to do was take the MPC and the synth beat, and cut the lead vocal.”

The overall effect was also democratizing. “It was the first real reduction in price point in a device that gave people the ability to make records without the need of a huge studio,” Keith says.

Not only was 1993’s wildly popular MPC3000 cheaper than other samplers, and orders of magnitude cheaper than six-figure studio soundboards, but it helped push forward budding musical minds that didn’t necessarily have the means to study it in school, and offered working musicians the ability to use refined technical tools without requiring years of studio experience or access to the latest studio technology.

“The MPC was less intimidating to people that wanted to make music because it didn’t have things like piano keys,” says Alexander “But the data behind those pads, it was the same thing as hitting a piano key. If you never studied music, you’d look at a piano and think, ‘Now I need to learn music.’ Looking at the MPC, all you see is a bunch of gray pads.”

This is not to say that the MPC can turn any patient user into a virtuoso, or that it is necessarily exceedingly easy to use. The constraints of the MPC — such as a limited memory bank and a time limit for samples on early models — required great parsimony and creativity to work around. Keith, for example, instead of loading a note directly from his turntable into the MPC, learned that he could play records at higher speeds when loading them into the MPC and then slow them down back down to their original speed as digital files on the MPC, allowing him to take longer samples than the device was theoretically capable of doing.

Once these skills were mastered, users found that the MPC made production easier and more efficient. Offering real-time recording and editing with a high sound quality effectively allows the user to produce music live, as it’s being created. The MPC simplified or eliminated a lot of the busywork and time-consuming tasks associated with the music production, leaving musicians ample time to create and focus on their work instead of sweating over a massive soundboard to achieve the same result. “With the MPC, there’s nothing else you need to do but get to work,” Keith says.

Moreover, this ability to produce live gave made it easier to use the MPC performatively, such as in the case of West or Lady Gaga, who played an MPC upright on stage as if it were an acoustic instrument.

The MPC helped change the notion of what a musician is

There are so few pieces of technology that exist and continue to be used almost in the exact same way and for the exact same reason 30 years after its introduction. In the late 1980s, Apple was releasing its large beige cube desktop computers, which today seem so primitive as to be almost entirely unusable; even using desktop computers from just seven years ago can feel like an exercise in frustration. And yet Linn’s original MPCs continue to fetch a premium secondhand, not for nostalgia but for their actual functions.

The MPC occupies this rarest space in the world of technology: Its legacy and its effect exist alongside its significance today. It is a historical piece of musical technology that fundamentally changed music but has not outlived its functions. Nobody would balk at seeing one in a studio in 2018.

“Producers over 35 all probably made heavy use of the MPC,” Alexander explains. “I would be shocked if people like Bruno Mars and Pharrell didn’t have one somewhere in the chain.” Even the software that the younger producers are using (which have given the Macbook a similarly iconic stage presence) still emulates the MPC, and has essentially transposed the tools of the MPC box itself into a program.

And yet for many, this type of computer-based software isn’t necessarily any easier to use than the original interface of the MPC. In fact, it was in reaction to tedious mechanization that Linn developed the MPC to begin with: “It dumbfounds me how many computer software applications force the musician to learn engineering in order to play music,” he told me in an email. “In my view, the purpose of the designer is to understand the engineering but to design a musical instrument.”

There is so much the world of music simply wouldn’t have if it weren’t for the MPC. This is perhaps because Linn was able to see exactly how the world of music was changing, and that it would continue to rely more and more on digital tools. He built a box that allowed the musician and the producer to lean into the future of music without ever being alienated from their craft and needing to become engineers. As Keith puts it: “Roger Linn had his finger on the pulse of where we were headed.”

And as musicians themselves began making beats and choosing samples, the MPC helped dissolve the stubborn delineations that once existed between the two sides of the studio window. The producer and the musician now had the ability to become one. “Any human being who uses that machine is a musician, is a drummer, a beatmaker,” Keith says. Like J Dilla or Kanye West or Mark Ronson, you could have two equally influential careers as a musician and as a producer.

This freedom to create while working in conjunction with the technical demands of modern music brought forth a new kind of virtuoso — part performer, part producer, part beatmaker, part orchestra conductor, who had a sense for rhythm and percussion, who knew which samples would bring a track to life, who could chop and shrink and stretch as needed. Who could eventually, like Keith, learn to play the MPC with their eyes closed.

The explosion of electronic music and hip-hop could not have happened without a machine as intimately connected to the creative process as the MPC. It challenged the notion of what a band can look like, or what it takes to be a successful musician. No longer does one need five capable musicians and instruments. And the fact that an MPC can sample music, chop it up, change the pitch, slow it down, and put it on loop, allowed lone musicians and producers to put together symphonic, experimental music relying only on the box, a few buttons, and 16 gray pads. No manual required.You may have heard that last year’s allergy season was the worst ever. And so was the year before. Allergy season has become so predictably terrible that late-night comedians have taken to venting about warnings of the “pollen tsunami” ad “pollen vortex” or a “perfect storm for allergies.”

But it turns out there’s truth behind the bombast. The number of people with allergies is increasing, for a variety of reasons. But one key factor is global warming, which is linked to higher concentrations of pollen in the air and longer allergy seasons.

For instance, changes in average temperatures are leading to a longer ragweed pollen season, as you can see here:

And people in places further north, like Alaska, where the climate is changing faster than other regions, are now becoming increasingly vulnerable to allergies.

Taken together, seasonal allergies present one of the most robust examples of how global warming is increasing risks to health.

“It’s very strong. In fact, I think there’s irrefutable data,” said Jeffrey Demain, director of the Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology Center of Alaska. “It’s become the model of health impacts of climate change.”

And since so many are afflicted — some estimates say up to 50 million Americans have nasal allergies — scientists and health officials are now trying to tease out the climate factors driving these risks in the hopes of bringing some relief in the wake of growing pollen avalanches.

Here’s what scientists have figured out so far about the relationship between climate change and seasonal allergies.

Pollen is becoming impossible to avoid

Allergies occur when the body’s internal radar system locks on to the wrong target, causing the immune system to overreact to an otherwise harmless substance.

This can cause mild annoyances like hives or itchy eyes, or life-threatening issues like anaphylaxis, where blood pressure plummets and airways start swelling shut.

About 8 percent of US adults suffer from hay fever, also known as allergic rhinitis, brought on by pollen allergies. Most cases can be treated with antihistamines, but they cost the United States between $3.4 billion and $11.2 billion each year just in direct medical expenses, with a substantially higher toll from lost productivity. Complications like asthma attacks induced by pollen have also proven fatal in some instances and lead to more than 20,000 emergency room visits each year in the US.

Pollen is a fine powder produced as part of the sexual reproductive cycle of many varieties of plants, including elm trees, ryegrass, and ragweed.

It’s released in response to environmental signals like temperature, precipitation, and sunlight. Grains of pollen range in size from 9 microns to 200 microns, so some types of pollen can travel deep into the lungs and cause irritation, even for people who don’t have allergies. High concentrations of pollen in the air trigger allergic reactions and can spread for miles, even indoors if structures are not sealed.

There are three big peaks in pollen production throughout the year. Trees like oak, ash, birch, and maple see pollen surges in the spring. Pollen from timothy grass, bluegrass, and orchard grass peaks over the summer, and ragweed pollen spikes in the fall. For people who are sensitive to multiple varieties of pollen, it means there will be less relief during warmer weather as these seasons overlap.

We’re already seeing a strong climate signal in pollen-spewing plants

In general, pollen is emerging earlier in the year and the season is stretching out longer and longer, especially pollen from ragweed.

Ragweed is handy for studying the impacts of climate on pollen and allergies because it’s an annual plant, unlike trees or perennials. This allows scientists to separate out how variables like winter temperatures and rainfall in the preceding season influence ragweed pollen.

Lewis Ziska, a research plant physiologist at the US Department of Agriculture, told me that the change in carbon dioxide concentrations from a preindustrial level of 280 parts per million to today’s concentrations of more than 400 ppm has led to a corresponding doubling in pollen production per plant of ragweed.

How does this happen? If you’ve looked at a bag or bottle of plant fertilizer, you may have noticed three numbers that represent the ratio of phosphorus, nitrogen, and potassium inside. Different ratios encourage different aspects of a plant’s growth, like flowering or making seeds. Carbon dioxide is also an important nutrient for plants, though it’s not included in fertilizer (because it’s a gas). It turns out that higher carbon dioxide concentrations encourage plants to produce more pollen.

For ragweed, you can see a direct pollen response to increases in carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere:

More pollen usually means more seeds, which means more ragweed in the next season. And warmer average temperatures mean that spring starts earlier and winter arrives later, giving pollen producers more time to spew their sneeze-inducing particles.

We can see the effects of CO2 on smaller scales as well. Researchers have found that grasses and ragweed plants increase their pollen production in response to localized surges in carbon dioxide, like from the exhaust of cars along a highway.

However, for other allergen sources like trees, the groundwork for severe pollen year can be laid more than a year before the current season.

“What happens is if the tree during the previous year has had a ‘good season,’ it tends to load up on carbs so that in the spring, it has a lot of carbs to put out for flower production,” Ziska said. “When that happens, you can get a large bloom, and the consequences of that are inherent in the amount of pollen that’s being produced.”

The far north is getting hit the hardest

Alaska is warming so fast that computer models have had a hard time believing the results. That’s having huge consequences for allergy sufferers in the state, and not just from pollen.

Demain from the Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology Center of Alaska explained that rising temperatures are melting permafrost beneath Alaskan towns, causing moisture to seep into homes. This dampness then allows mold to grow, causing more people to seek treatment for mold allergies.

Stinging insects are also a mounting concern. Warmer winters mean that more yellow jackets and wasps are surviving the cold months, increasing the likelihood of Alaskans getting stung. In 2006, Anchorage saw a spike in the numbers of these insects and suffered its first two deaths ever due to insect sting allergies.

“It was so bad they were canceling community outdoor events,” Demain said.

Looking at patterns of people seeking medical treatment from insect stings, Demain found that the increases grew starker going northward in Alaska, with the northernmost part of the state experiencing a 626 percent increase in insect bites and stings between 2004 and 2006 compared to the period between 1999 and 2001.

Nonetheless, pollen remains a huge concern in Alaska as well, though the main source is birch trees, not ragweed. Birch pollen around Anchorage can get so bad that even people without allergies get bogged down.

“For a ‘high’ pollen count, you need greater than 175 grains per cubic meter,” Demain said. “In Alaska, we get highs between 2,000 and 4,000 grains per cubic meter.”

In addition to the quantity of pollen, Demain noted that rising carbon dioxide concentrations increase the amount of allergenic peptides on pollen. The peptides are the molecular signal that triggers the body’s immune system, so more peptides on a given pollen grain increases the severity of the allergy.

So it’s not just more pollen; the pollen itself is becoming more potent in causing an immune response.

Allergies are going to get way, way worse

Researchers estimate that pollen counts of all varieties will double by 2040 in some parts of the country, depending on what pathway the world takes on greenhouse gas emissions. Here’s what scientists project allergy risks from tree pollen will change in the eastern United States under a “high” greenhouse gas emissions scenario:

Here’s the trajectory for ragweed:

And here’s what to expect for grass pollen:

This means that regardless of your pollen of choice, the future holds more misery for allergy sufferers.

It’s hard to tell what’s in store for this year in particular, though. Pollen is already hitting Texas “like a punch in the face,” but spring hasn’t yet blossomed in New England as the region hunkers down for its third nor’easter this year, following a relatively warm winter and a year with some of the highest temperatures ever. So scientists aren’t sure whether the cold snaps will dampen the brewing surge in pollen along the Eastern Seaboard.

“From our standpoint, it’s been a very confusing season,” Ziska said.

For now, keep the Benadryl close by.We all have a preferred time for sleeping — a body clock. There are “morning people,” “evening people,” and those in between. Our preferences for when to sleep are called chronotypes. And, increasingly, researchers have been investigating what happens to people whose body clocks are out of sync with the rest of society.

That is: What happens if you’re a late riser living in an early riser’s world?

Scientists have been circling around one answer that’s very concerning: that there are real, and negative, health consequences of being a later chronotype (going to sleep well after midnight and rising later). It may even put you at higher risk of early death.

This past week, researchers at Northwestern and the University of Surrey published a huge study in the journal Chronobiology International of more than 433,000 adults in the UK, who had been tracked for an average of 6.5 years. It found a correlation: Those who reported having a later chronotype (people who are night owls) had a 10 percent increased likelihood of dying compared to people who had an earlier chronotype. And this was true for people of all ages in the study, and for both men and women.

It’s always important to note with studies like these on mortality risk that the 10 percent indicates a relative increase in the risk of death. An individual’s actual risk of dying in any given year is small. Of the 430,000-plus subjects in this study, just a fraction — 10,500, or about 2 percent — died within the study period. These results don’t mean an early death is imminent for late risers.

But it’s still concerning. As the authors note, “any increase” in risk of death “warrants attention.” The analysis also revealed greater rates of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, respiratory disease, gastrointestinal problems, and psychological distress among evening-type people.

It’s hard to know how all these risks interplay with one another, and there’s no clear answer as to why there may be health risks to being a late sleeper.

But here’s a compelling hypothesis: When our biological clock is out of sync with society’s, our whole biology gets thrown off, and many aspects of our lives grow more stressful. Having a very late chronotype is like living in a constant state of jet lag, which takes a toll on the body.

Understanding the science of chronobiology may help us live healthier lives. Or, at the very least, it helps us recognize that some people just like to sleep later than others. And it’s really okay to be this way — we should accommodate and respect it.

Chronotypes are our preferred times to be asleep

Just like it’s pretty rare for a person to be 7 feet tall, it’s pretty rare for some people to not be able to go to bed before 3 am.

Most people — around 50 percent — fall right in the middle of the chronotype bell curve. Average sleep is between the hours of 11 pm and 7 am, give or take an hour.

Below, see the results of the chronotypes of 53,689 Americans charted in a 2017 study in PLOS One. The term “mid sleep” on the x-axis simply means the time people are halfway through their sleep for the night. A mid-sleep of 0 is midnight, a mid-sleep of 4:00 is 4 am, and so on.

Men tend to vary more on chronotype than women. That just means women are slightly more likely to have an “average” chronotype than men, as you can see in tallest line in the middle of the chart above.

But there are men and women at the extremes on either end. Only around 0.2 percent of adults — one in 500 — have a condition known as delayed sleep phase, which is the chronic inability to go to bed early. People with this condition often have trouble falling asleep before 3 am or even later. The condition is much more common among teens, whose clocks gradually shift earlier as they age.

Some adults are on the other end of the spectrum. About 1 percent of the population has what’s known as advanced sleep phase syndrome. These people prefer to go to sleep around 8 pm.

You can find out chronotype by taking the Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire (find an online version of it here). Basically, it asks: If you could plan your day however you’d like, what time would you go to sleep and what time would you prefer to wake up? (The researchers in the recent UK used a simplified, one-question version of this test.)

Furthermore, the research finds our internal clocks are influenced by genes and are incredibly difficult to change. If you’re just not a morning person, it’s likely you’ll never be, at least until the effects of aging kick in. As we get older, our clocks nudge us to wake up earlier and earlier.

People in all chronotypes need around seven or more hours of sleep per night. People with a later chronotype don’t necessarily sleep more hours than those with an earlier one. They just prefer to do it at different times.

To understand why some people naturally sleep later than others, we need to understand the circadian system

The body is an orchestra of organs, each providing an essential function. In this metaphor, the circadian rhythm is the conductor.

The most important thing to know about the circadian system is that it doesn’t just control when we’re sleepy. “Every neurotransmitter, hormone, and chemical in the body cycles with the daily rhythm,” Philip Gehrman, a sleep researcher and clinician at the University of Pennsylvania, said in a 2016 interview. “It’s not just humans; even single-cell organisms follow a circadian rhythm. It really seems to be a fundamental property of life.”

Our bodies run this tight schedule to try to keep up with our actions. Since we usually eat a meal after waking up, we produce the most insulin in the morning. We’re primed to metabolize breakfast before even taking a bite. It’s more efficient that way. For people who are either more morning-oriented or evening-oriented, everything the circadian system controls is delayed and out of sync.

While our bodies keep good time, they’re not perfect. “Our clocks don’t run on exactly a 24-hour cycle,” Gehrman explained. They’re closer to 24.3 hours. So every day, our body clocks need to wind backward by just a little bit to stay on schedule.

For the most part, the sun takes care of this. Exposure to bright light stimulates the brain’s master clock — the suprachiasmatic nucleus — to wind back those three-tenths of an hour.

With night owls, a few things get in the way of this resetting process.

1) Genes: The suprachiasmatic nucleus is the body’s master clock, but it isn’t the only one. Every single cell of the body has clock genes, bits of DNA that flip on and off throughout the day. Like the body as a whole, the cell’s metabolism is scheduled for efficiency. Clock genes regulate the expression of between 5 and 20 percent of all the other genes in the cell.

The action of these genes is believed to feed back into the body’s master clock and help set its time. Scientists have found that small variations in these genes lead to earlier or later rhythms in animals, and are beginning to identify the genes that cause the same effects in humans.

2) It’s also possible that evening-type people have a body clock that runs longer than average. A longer clock means the suprachiasmatic nucleus has to work harder to make an adjustment. When it fails to readjust, sleep times drift later and later into the evening.

3) Later types may be more sensitive to light exposure at night. Bright light at any time of the day tells our bodies it’s time to be awake. This wasn’t a problem back in olden times, when the setting of the sun ended light exposure for the day. In modern times, light from our computers and televisions pushes some evening-type people to stay awake longer.

And, of course, the true answer may be some combination of all three of those reasons — and perhaps some yet to be discovered.

Sleeping less from being out of sync can harm our health

Scientists have a term for when our body clocks are out of sync with society: social jet lag. Think about how you feel on a Monday morning. After a weekend of sleeping late, you have to wake up hours earlier; it’s like jumping to a new time zone. If you experience that daily, it can put a stress on the body that undermines health.

In a tightly controlled lab study, 24 healthy participants who had their sleep shifted by one hour each day (simulating jet lag) started to look prediabetic after a three-week trial. Their resting metabolic rates dropped 8 percent. “Assuming no changes in activity or food intake,” that “would translate into ~12.5 pounds increase in weight over a single year,” the study, published in Science Translational Medicine in 2012, concluded.

When people experience social jet lag, they’ll often try to make up for the sleep debt on the weekends. But this too is jarring for the body and makes waking up on Monday all the more difficult.

In 2012, researchers in Europe analyzed a self-reported data set of 65,000 Europeans and found “social jet lag significantly increased the probability of belonging to the group of overweight participants.” There’s also correlational research indicating that late chronotypes may be at a greater risk for depression, and that they’re more likely to engage in risky behaviors like smoking.

The hypothesis here isn’t that chronotype inherently causes these negative outcomes, but rather that a mismatched chronotype and daily schedule do.

A 2015 study tracking the sleep of 447 middle-aged adults for a week also picked up on this worrisome pattern. It found social jet lag correlated with insulin resistance — a precursor to diabetes — lower HDL cholesterol (the good kind), higher levels of triglycerides, higher waist circumference, and higher body mass index. These correlations remained even after adjusting for behaviors like exercise, smoking, and alcohol use.

“What I think we’re showing here is that there’s some sort of importance about us ideally being able to work, wake, and match up our schedule as best as we can to what we are biologically suited for,” Patricia Wong, the lab researcher on the 2015 paper, said in a 2015 interview.

If late sleepers want to wake up early, they’re often hit with a double whammy. They’ll be out of sync with society, which stresses the body, but also will have underslept. The research is a bit clearer on this: Short sleep appears to be a significant risk factor for heart disease, metabolic disorders, diabetes, and obesity.

Late sleepers are tired of being discriminated against

In 2016, when I first reported on the science of chronobiology, I spoke to several people with delayed sleep phase, a condition that puts people on the extreme end of the night-owl chronotype. These people have a hard time falling asleep before 2 or 3 am and prefer to sleep until around noon. There’s nothing wrong with their sleep other than that their schedules for it are shifted.

These late sleepers are tired of being judged for a behavior they cannot easily control. If they can’t change their sleep patterns, maybe society should become more accepting of them. We tend to assume that late wakers are the partiers, the deadbeats, the ones who are so irresponsible they can’t keep a basic schedule. The people I spoke to found these assumptions to be personally damaging.

We should follow common sense for a solution. People should be able to sleep when their bodies demand it. Considering the potential health impacts of ignoring our biological clocks, it seems harmless enough to try.