Former first lady Barbara Bush, 92, died Tuesday evening, according to the office of former President George H.W. Bush.

Statement by the Office of @GeorgeHWBush on the passing of Barbara Pierce Bush this evening at the age of 92. pic.twitter.com/c6JU0xy6Vc — Jim McGrath (@jgm41) April 17, 2018

Bush had reportedly been in failing health, and her husband’s office released a statement this weekend indicating that the former first lady had “decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will focus on comfort care” following a series of recent hospitalizations.

“It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others,” the statement read. “She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving.”

Bush was the widely admired matriarch of one of America’s most famous political families. Barbara and George H.W. Bush had been married for 73 years and are the parents of former President George W. Bush and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.

Bush was a passionate literacy advocate, a cause she championed in the White House and throughout her life. “I had the best job in America,” she wrote in a 1994 memoir about her time as first lady. “Every single day was interesting, rewarding, and sometimes just plain fun.”

In a statement, former president George W. Bush said, “Mom kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end. I’m a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother.”

Statement by President George W. Bush on the passing of Mrs. Barbara Bush: https://t.co/PwYs9SHwo3 pic.twitter.com/FZMcRwv0Ve — George W. Bush Presidential Center (@TheBushCenter) April 18, 2018

Jeb Bush said in a statement that he was “exceptionally privileged to be the son of George Bush and the exceptionally gracious, gregarious, fun, funny, loving, tough, smart, graceful woman who was the force of nature known as Barbara Bush.”

The news of Bush’s passing was met with an outpouring of remembrances and support for her family.

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania offered their condolences in a statement. The former first lady, the statement read, will be “long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well.”

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4NzyjxqAFM — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama said Bush represented “the humility and decency that reflects the American spirit.”

Our statement on the passing of Former First Lady Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/MhTVYCL9Nj — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) April 18, 2018

Former president Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton described the former first lady as “fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes.”

Former President Clinton and Secretary Clinton on passing of Barbara Bush: "Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit and grace, brains and beauty. She was fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes." https://t.co/qQ4Yl4TlRr pic.twitter.com/9NMxmhf4PT — NBC News (@NBCNews) April 18, 2018

Other politicians and prominent figures, in the US and across the world, celebrated the former first lady’s life and accomplishments.

When I first met Barbara Bush in 1988 as she entertained spouses of congressional candidates at the @VP Residence, her sage advice and words of encouragement touched my life in a profound way. Since becoming Second Lady, she has become a trusted friend. I will miss her. pic.twitter.com/xmJzUQHVhI — Karen Pence (@SecondLady) April 18, 2018

First Lady Barbara Bush was a remarkable, passionate public servant who represented our country with the utmost grace and dignity. Sending my condolences and prayers to the entire Bush family. — Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) April 18, 2018

Barbara Bush holds a revered place in the hearts of generations of Americans. She so loved her family and our country. She led both with clarity and character. To Mrs. Bush’s family, I extend the deepest condolences of the whole House. May she rest in eternal peace. pic.twitter.com/Jy7zifU7gK — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 18, 2018

Always a friend to Canada, Barbara Bush leaves a legacy of dignity, grace, service and devotion to family. Sophie and I send our deepest condolences to Presidents George H.W. and George W. Bush, their family, and to all Americans. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) April 18, 2018

Rest In Peace Mrs. Barbara Bush.

You were a beautiful light in this world and I am forever thankful for your friendship. pic.twitter.com/yuZvQ7o8aH — JJ Watt (@JJWatt) April 17, 2018

Bush’s funeral will be held at St. Martin’s Church in Houston, Texas, where the former first lady and her husband were parishioners, according to ABC News 13. A public visitation will be held on Friday in Houston, followed by a private service on Saturday.Mike Pompeo, CIA director and nominee for secretary of state, met with Kim Jong Un in North Korea over Easter weekend — a major sign that Washington and Pyongyang are setting the stage for historic talks between President Donald Trump and Kim later this year.

The Washington Post’s Shane Harris, Carol D. Leonnig, Greg Jaffe, and David Nakamura broke the news about the top-secret meeting late Tuesday night. Trump had hinted at Pompeo’s milestone visit earlier on Tuesday, saying at Mar-a-Lago — where he’s hosting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe — that the US was engaging with North Korea at “directly” at “extremely high levels.” Trump added: “I really believe there’s a lot of goodwill. A lot of good things are happening.”

Trump’s statement was big news, though it was tough to pin down what exactly the president was referring to in his remarks. As Vox’s Alex Ward wrote, “direct talks at an ‘extremely high level,’ as Trump says are now happening, are rare. That’s why it’s hard to know if the US and North Korea are actually speaking at a higher level than normal, or through an already established channel.”

But it turns out it was different. A visit by Pompeo — one of Trump’s most trusted advisers — is a sign that there’s legitimate progress toward a historic meeting between Kim and Trump. According to the Post, Pompeo is the highest level official to meet with a North Korean leader since Madeline Albright met with Kim Jong Il, the current leader’s father, as secretary state in 2000.

Trump is expected to sit down with Kim in late May or June, and a lot of details still have to get worked out before that happens. Having the current CIA director and nominee to be next secretary of state meet with directly with the North Korean leader himself is a pretty good way to start working those details out.The White House’s infighting over Russia policy devolved into a very public feud, after a Trump official accused UN Ambassador Nikki Haley of “momentary confusion” for announcing sanctions against the Kremlin this weekend that the administration later walked back.

But Haley isn’t going to take the fall. “With all due respect, I don’t get confused,” she said in a statement, according to CNN.

Her firm response came after National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow blamed Haley for the snafu. Haley said Sunday the US would punish Russia with sanctions for its role in supporting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons program. But the White House reversed itself Monday, reportedly because Trump wasn’t okay with the sanctions.

“She got ahead of the curve. She’s done a great job, she’s a very effective ambassador,” Kudlow said of Haley. “There might have been some momentary confusion about that.” He added that additional sanctions were “under consideration” but not implemented.

Haley, however, made it clear it that she wasn’t about to scapegoated. Kudlow later said he apologized to Haley for the demeaning comments, telling the New York Times that he was “totally wrong” to call her confused. “As it turns out, she was basically following what she thought was policy,” Kudlow said. “The policy was changed, and she wasn’t told about it, so she was in a box.”

The back-and-forth over the sanctions did, however, make the entire Trump administration look confused and disorganized on the world stage, just days after the US, joined by the United Kingdom and France, bombed three Syrian regime targets in retaliation for an April 7 chemical attack attributed to Assad that killed more than 40 people, including children.

It’s still unclear how the substantial mix-up happened, but as Vox’s Zeeshan Aleem wrote, two things, at least are obvious: “The administration is once again botching the rollout of a fairly straightforward policy, and Trump is personally taking steps to ensure that he doesn’t anger Russian President Vladimir Putin.”The IRS’s e-file system is overtaxed.

Just a few hours before the 2018 tax filing deadline (on April 17) the IRS.gov e-filing system went offline.

Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin told the Associated Press on Tuesday that once the system was back up, “We’ll make sure taxpayers have extensions once the system comes up to make sure they can use it and it in no way impacts people paying their taxes.”

But he wasn’t clear on when that might be.

The site’s error message indicates that the e-file system is down for a “planned outage.” However, the error message also says that the site will be back up either in September 2016 or in December 9999 —meaning the error message indicating a “planned outage” is, itself, an error and something else has gone wrong.

The tax deadline is April 17 at midnight in a filer’s local time zone, so the outage, as of this writing, leaves last-minute filers on the East Coast with less than 12 hours for the problem to be fixed.

It’s not clear what exactly caused the IRS system outage. But the IRS ought to be prepared for a last-minute rush of web traffic. In past years, the IRS site has often been the most visited government website in the week before taxes were due. In 2017, according to weekly IRS data, 13.6 million people filed their taxes online from April 15 to April 21, and 18.2 million people visited IRS.gov during that time. (The 2017 deadline was April 18.)

In 2017, congressional Republicans promised to use tax reform to simplify the tax code, with House Speaker Paul Ryan and others advocating for taxes so simple they could be filed on a postcard. The tax reform they actually passed in December 2017 did not live up to that standard (even though they are pretending it does).

Meanwhile, the system outage may cause some Americans to use TurboTax rather than filing their taxes themselves — especially because TurboTax allows some taxpayers to file their federal returns for free — thus driving more business to a company that has also lobbied to keep the tax code complicated.President Donald Trump announced on Tuesday that the United States and North Korea have begun direct talks with each other at “extremely high levels.” What’s more, it seems US officials are speaking to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un directly.

That’s big news: Trump and Kim are planning to meet for a historic summit in late May or early June — the first time sitting leaders of both countries would meet face to face. These new high-level talks are likely part of the planning effort ahead of that summit.

Trump, for one, seemed positive about the prospects of a meeting with Kim: “I really believe there’s a lot of goodwill. A lot of good things are happening,” he said alongside Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who is at Mar-a-Lago for a two-day summit with the president.

It’s unclear which officials from the US and North Korea are speaking with one another in these high-level talks. But Troy Stangarone, an expert at the Korea Economic Institute, suspects it might be senior intelligence officials.

“I assume he means on the intelligence side with the Reconnaissance General Bureau [a North Korean intelligence agency] involved in the planning,” he told me. “I would have to believe a senior official there is speaking to a senior CIA official. It’s believable with the two leaders set to meet.”

BREAKING: President Trump says direct, high-level talks with North Korea have begun ahead of Trump-Kim summit. pic.twitter.com/dyBEo8hWVI — NBC News (@NBCNews) April 17, 2018

Washington and Pyongyang already communicate with each other at times through the “New York Channel,” where US officials speak with North Korean officials posted at the United Nations. Both countries have used it to hash out important issues like the release of American prisoners from North Korea.

But direct talks at an “extremely high level,” as Trump says are now happening, are rare. That’s why it’s hard to know if the US and North Korea are actually speaking at a higher level than normal, or through an already established channel.

It’s also still possible a Trump-Kim summit doesn’t pan out. There’s a lot of time for things to go wrong, ranging from North Korea testing another missile to both sides disagreeing on where the summit should take place. Per Trump, the US and North Korea are considering five potential meetings sites, none of which are in the US.

Still, it’s encouraging if the two sides are chatting at the highest levels, especially since they spent all of 2017 seemingly headed for war.The Senate is on the verge of getting rid of a consumer protection measure meant to stop car dealers from charging more for car loans based on race. And the vote is just the start of lawmakers’ attempts to target years of federal agencies’ decisions through the Congressional Review Act, the GOP’s new favorite deregulatory toy.

Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning, the Senate is expected to vote on a resolution introduced by Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS) that would undo the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s auto lending guidance meant to cut down on discrimination. The guidance targets “dealer markups,” where car dealers charge additional interest on top of what third-party lenders charge.

Research shows high dealer markups often disproportionately affect nonwhite people — in other words, car dealers charge black and Latino buyers higher interest markups than they do white buyers. The CFPB tried to curtail this by introducing the guidance, a sort of notice of how to apply and interpret a law, in 2013.

Congressional Republicans are using the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to scrap the guidance. Dating back to 1996, the law allows Congress to review federal regulations and, by joint resolution, overrule those regulations within 60 legislative days of their enactment. And once rules are scrapped via the CRA, agencies are prohibited from issuing “substantially similar” rules to be enacted — ever.

Prior to President Donald Trump’s election, the Congressional Review Act had been used successfully only once, under President George W. Bush in 2001 to roll back a Clinton-era rule to combat repetitive stress injuries at work. But since Trump has been in office, the GOP has used the CRA more than a dozen times to roll back Obama-era rules and regulations, including one to protect broadband consumer privacy, one to curb bribery and corruption in the energy industry, and one to stop coal companies from dumping waste into streams and waterways.

This latest effort to roll back the auto lending discrimination guidance is different. Republicans seem to have found a workaround to the CRA’s timeline that gives them just 60 days to review regulations and have potentially opened up years of agency decisions for review.

The CFPB’s guidance was meant to curb racial discrimination by auto dealerships, which remains a prevalent problem in the US

The CFPB in March 2013 released guidance holding lenders responsible for “unlawful, discriminatory pricing” in auto loans, outlining how to comply with a 1970s law that makes it illegal for creditors to discriminate against applications.

Then the bureau went after multiple auto lenders it caught discriminating. In December 2013, the CFPB and the Justice Department ordered Ally Financial to pay $80 million in damages and $18 million in penalties after finding more than 235,000 nonwhite buyers paid higher interest rates for auto loans between April 2011 and December 2013. The CFPB and the Justice Department also penalized Honda, Toyota, and Fifth Third Bank over car lending discrimination.

Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA) last year asked the Government Accountability Office whether the CFPB’s auto lending guidance might qualify as a rule for the purposes of the Congressional Review Act and, if so, be possible to roll back. The GAO in December said it did, and so the clock began. The explanation is the CFPB never technically submitted the guidance to Congress as a formal rule under the Administrative Procedure Act for its review, and so lawmakers still have the right to take a look.

“It’s a hugely important precedent,” Toomey told Politico. “It’s potentially a big, big opening.”

Moran introduced the resolution to roll back the auto lending guidance in the Senate, and Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) introduced the same one in the House. “Republicans are chopping away at the tangled mess of regulations the last administration left behind,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on Tuesday. “Our whole economy is getting a tune-up. And now it’s time for the front end of the auto industry to come along for the ride.”

Consumer advocates and anti-discrimination groups have come out in fierce opposition to the loan discrimination guidance rollback. A group of 64 organizations, including the Consumer Federation of America, the NAACP, and United Steelworkers, signed on to a letter opposing the resolution, warning that it could set a “dangerous precedent” and that it “sends a message to the public that Congress is more interested in giving narrow handouts to special interests” than helping American workers and families.

“This is an attempt by auto lenders and auto dealers to prevent the CFPB from monitoring fair lending issues and enforcing them, and to tie the hands of future CFPBs on discrimination issues,” Debbie Goldstein, who heads the federal policy team at the Center for Responsible Lending, told me.

A January report from the National Fair Housing Alliance found that racial discrimination by auto dealerships has hardly gone away. It sent buyers to eight dealerships in eastern Virginia and found that white borrowers with weaker credit profiles got less expensive financing options and more favorable treatment than their nonwhite counterparts who were more financially qualified.

Expanding the Congressional Review Act’s application could be a huge deal

Beyond the urgency of the discrimination guidance at hand, there is also a greater issue in play in that Republicans seem to have found a way to apply the Congressional Review Act to agency decisions dating back years. That could allow them to strike down or roll back decades of work.

“The Congressional Review Act is a pretense for the majority party in Congress to wipe rules off the books without ever talking about the merits the agency had in mind when it made the rule final,” Rena Steinzor, a law professor at the University of Maryland, said in an email. “I bet that the Republicans follow the short-term tradition of forgoing debate and simply voting to disapprove the rule, dumping years of work down the drain because an industry lobbyist asked them to.”

The CRA requires just a simple majority in the Senate, meaning 51 votes are needed to pass resolutions, not the normal 60. Given Congress’s broad inability to work on bipartisan legislation — well, beyond banking deregulation — Republicans might see the expanded CRA as a way to get something done, even if the result is destructive.

“It basically gives them this legislative gimmick to pass laws relatively easily,” James Goodwin, a senior policy analyst at the Center for Progressive Reform, told me. He said expanding the universe of laws possibly eligible for repeal under the Congressional Review Act could have “really dangerous consequences” and erode safeguards and guidelines that have been in place for decades. “Going forward, people aren’t going to know what to do with agency guidance because you have this cloud of uncertainty surrounding everything.”

As Politico notes, Republicans already appear to be looking at other applications. The GAO in November told Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) that a 2016 plan from the Bureau of Land Management could be reviewed under the Congressional Review Act.

The auto lending discrimination rollback is a trial balloon, and if it flies, the GOP has plenty more ideas in the making.Starbucks says it will close all its US coffee shops on May 29 to provide racial bias training to nearly 175,000 employees. The training — aimed at preventing discrimination at Starbucks shops — comes in response to swift public outcry over the arrest of two black men at a Starbucks in Philadelphia.

The two men were waiting for a business associate to arrive at the coffee shop April 12 and asked to use the bathroom. They hadn’t ordered anything, and staff asked them to leave. They refused. A manager reportedly called 911 because Starbucks does “not allow nonpaying people from the public to come in and use the restroom,” Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross told the Philadelphia Inquirer. The employees said the men were trespassing because they refused to leave.

A video of the arrest went viral on Twitter, showing the two men complying with the six police officers who came to the store. It also showed customers protesting as police removed the men’s chairs to escort them out. “This is ridiculous,” one customer says.

@Starbucks The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing. pic.twitter.com/0U4Pzs55Ci — Melissa DePino (@missydepino) April 12, 2018

On Tuesday, the Philadelphia Police Department released recordings of the 911 call.

“Hi, I have two gentlemen at my cafe who are refusing to make a purchase and leave,” a woman told a police dispatcher over the phone.

“All right, police will be there as soon as possible,” the dispatcher responded.

The dispatcher talked to officers who responded to the scene, and in one call, a police officer asked for backup to handle “the disturbance.” He didn’t give any details about what the disturbance was about.

The incident has opened up a discussion about race in public spaces, and led to calls to boycott Starbucks as well as protests at the Philadelphia store where the men were arrested.

Starbucks has moved to reduce the fallout from the incident, with CEO Kevin Johnson traveling to Philadelphia to apologize to the men in person. Johnson also met with Philadelphia officials to discuss the incident. The Philadelphia employee who called the police has been fired from the company.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we need to take to fix it,” Johnson said in a statement Tuesday announcing the bias training.

The training will take place at all company-owned stores and will involve some 175,000 employees.

The training, which will be made available to other companies, will be developed with the assistance of a number of national civil rights groups and experts, including the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, Demos, the Anti-Defamation League, the Equal Justice Initiative, and former US Attorney General Eric Holder. The experts will also help review “the effectiveness of the measures” taken by the company, according to a Tuesday statement.

The May closing isn’t the first time that Starbucks has closed its locations for a training. In 2008, the company closed 7,100 stores for three hours to educate employees in the “art of espresso.”The Supreme Court just made it a little bit harder to deport some so-called “bad hombres” — with an assist from Trump appointee Neil Gorsuch.

In the case Sessions v. Dimaya, the Court struck down a provision of federal law that allows the federal government to deport legal immigrants — including green card holders — for committing a crime that isn’t specifically named in law but that the government considers a “crime of violence.”

Legal immigrants can be deported for committing “aggravated felonies” — a category that was limited to the most serious crimes when it was first introduced but which, since 1996, has expanded to include things that aren’t felonies at all. Federal statutes list a bunch of crimes as “aggravated felonies,” including some drug and immigration offenses.

But it also includes a provision saying that other crimes can be considered “aggravated felonies” if the government considers them a “crime of violence” — that is, if it contains a use or substantial risk of physical force. That provision is the one the Supreme Court just struck down.

The Trump administration attacked the ruling — but it doesn’t appear to have completely understood it. A Department of Homeland Security statement claimed that the decision would make it harder to deport immigrants for “sexual assault, kidnapping, and burglary.” But burglary is already listed as a specific “aggravated felony” — separately from the part of the law that got struck down — and since seeking a ransom is also a separate “aggravated felony,” most kidnapping offenses are likely still covered as well.

If the administration is mad, it has its own nominee to blame. Sort of.

The decision went 5-4, with Justice Neil Gorsuch, nominated last year by President Donald Trump, joining the Court’s liberal wing. But Gorsuch’s vote in the case (which he explained in a concurring opinion, rather than signing on to the main opinion written by Justice Elena Kagan in full) shouldn’t be seen as an indication that he’s going to side with liberals in immigration cases generally, because the rulings were only kind of about immigration.

They were really about the awkward fact that Supreme Court jurisprudence often holds the federal government to a higher standard in criminal court proceedings than civil ones — which means that people facing deportation have fewer rights than those facing even short prison terms.

Gorsuch sided with the Court’s liberals because he thinks the federal government has too much power

One of the reasons the terms “legal immigration” and “illegal immigration” are unhelpful is that they imply that the punishment for violating immigration laws — deportation — is a criminal punishment. It’s not. It’s a civil punishment that can only be ordered by special immigration courts.

And while immigrants without papers can be deported (whether they’ve committed a crime or not) simply because they don’t have papers, legal immigrants can also be deported for violating the terms of their legal status. One of the ways to violate that legal status is to commit an “aggravated felony.”

That matters to this case because the Supreme Court has already ruled 8-1, in the 2015 case Johnson v. US, that a catchall “crime of violence” provision in a criminal law was unconstitutionally vague. But the phrasing isn’t identical in the aggravated felony law — and more importantly, the government’s lawyers argued in this case, there’s Supreme Court precedent that the federal government should get more of the benefit of the doubt over due process questions in civil law than in criminal law, presumably because civil law doesn’t pose as serious a threat to an individual’s life and liberty. So it wasn’t clear whether the Court’s earlier decision applied.

The liberals on the Court, led by Kagan, decided that it did. They acknowledged the government’s argument that the standard is generally lower for civil cases, but they pointed to a different Supreme Court precedent to say that deportation cases aren’t like most civil cases. “That approach was demanded, we explained,” wrote Justice Kagan, “‘in view of the grave nature of deportation’ — a ‘drastic measure,’ often amounting to lifelong ‘banishment or exile’” (cleaned up for readability).

Chief Justice John Roberts, meanwhile, got two other justices (including Anthony Kennedy, typically a swing vote) to argue that the “crime of violence” provision in the aggravated felony law was more specifically written than the provision that got struck down a few years ago, so even if the criminal standard did apply, the law would still be kosher. And Clarence Thomas wrote a separate dissent questioning whether the Supreme Court even has the right to strike down federal laws for being too vague at all.

Justice Gorsuch was the lone conservative to vote to strike down the “crime of violence” provision. But he did not sign on to Justice Kagan’s opinion. And the concurrence he wrote instead makes it clear that Gorsuch’s reasons had very little to do with what he thinks about immigration law.

Gorsuch’s concurrence is largely a rebuttal to Thomas and a defense of the Supreme Court’s ability to strike down laws for vagueness. Not only can the Supreme Court do this, Gorsuch writes, but it has every bit as much right to do it when it thinks a civil law is too vague as when it thinks a criminal law is.

So Gorsuch actually disagrees that the seriousness of deportation is an important factor. In fact, he implies that deportation isn’t actually all that uniquely harsh — because civil penalties are often harsher than criminal ones:

Today’s “civil” penalties include confiscatory rather than compensatory fines, forfeiture provisions that allow homes to be taken, remedies that strip persons of their professional licenses and livelihoods, and the power to commit persons against their will indefinitely. Some of these penalties are routinely imposed and are routinely graver than those associated with misdemeanor crimes — and often harsher than the punishment for felonies. And not only are “punitive civil sanctions … rapidly expanding,” they are “sometimes more severely punitive than the parallel criminal sanctions for the same conduct.”

This perspective is more often associated with conservative judges than liberal ones. Conservatives tend to be skeptical of the government’s power to use civil penalties to enforce regulations and call for higher standards for the government to punish people for violating those laws.

Gorsuch isn’t saying, or even implying, that a company being fined is the same as an immigrant being deported. But his concurrence shows that he’s coming at the case from a different angle than the liberals are — one that isn’t really about immigration or deportation at all.

It is deeply weird that people fighting deportation don’t get the protections of criminal defendants

What’s noteworthy is that despite the Court’s disagreement on this case, no justice endorsed the government’s argument that the “crime of violence” phrase was constitutional because deportation was a civil proceeding. The dissents didn’t hinge on the criminal/civil distinction at all, Gorsuch argued it shouldn’t really exist, and the liberals argued that it exists but deportation is an exception that deserves special scrutiny.

None of them argued, straightforwardly, that an immigrant in deportation proceedings does not deserve the due process guarantees of a criminal defendant facing prison time. But that’s the implication of the idea that civil constitutional standards are different from criminal ones — something that is also true for other constitutional rights, like the right to an attorney, that are guaranteed in criminal court but not in immigration court.

When deportation wasn’t all that common, or when it was mostly for people convicted of crimes after they’d served their prison terms, that may not have seemed as important. But in the 21st century, tens (and sometimes hundreds) of thousands of immigrants are deported each year without being convicted of any crime. In that case, the only judge they’ve faced is an immigration judge, and their only day in court has been a civil court.

If the Supreme Court’s liberals — and even Gorsuch — think that civil laws don’t necessarily give the government more leeway to prosecute and punish defendants, it shows a deep discomfort with the way a lot of immigrants are being treated right now. The Court may never act on that discomfort. But it’s worth noting.Washington Post columnist Richard Cohen wants you to know that he believes in better treatment for women, African Americans, and Latinos in the workplace, but he’s also tired of too much diversity and privilege talk.

“Diversity in the workplace is an overdue goal,” he writes, “but it can amount to a quota by another name. Choose a woman because she’s a woman and you’ve eliminated a man because he’s a man.”

The problem with overreach here is then further explicated through this chilling example:

Once I was passed over for a newsroom position I very much wanted. “We needed a woman,” an editor told me. I said nothing, although I seethed. In short order, I was made a columnist, so I didn’t even get a chance to cry. But the instant rush of utter unfairness lingers. The woman chosen was qualified, but her qualification had nothing to do with her sex. I was told she was just a needed statistic.

Here, of course, one thing that jumps out at me is that even with decades to think it over, Cohen doesn’t consider the possibility that he was simply being let down easy, and the woman was actually chosen because her work was better (he also complained about this back in 1995). He also doesn’t consider the possibility that diversity can be a bona fide organizational need. It’s not just that you want to hit certain statistics; you actually want the breadth and depth of perspectives in your overall organization that can only come from having an appropriate range of diversity.

At any rate, the utter rush of unfairness lingers, even though he’s had a pretty sweet columnist gig for more than 40 years. And as he writes, he’s not the only one who feels this way.

Some of the resentment in the white, male electorate is based on the conviction that the deck is suddenly stacked against them. That’s Trump’s constituency, right there. (He got about 63 percent of the white male vote.) Someone has to tell those guys how deceived they are, how they have benefited all these years from being male and white. Forgive them if they do not understand.

The downpour of social media outrage that Cohen is in for now will, no doubt, only further convince him of his persecution. But Cohen’s whole career in media is in fact a case study in white male privilege.

Some Richard Cohen backstory

Cohen has become extremely well known over the years, for example, for his not-so-woke views on race:

Back in 1986, he wrote a column for the Post defending the right of shopkeepers to refuse to let young black men into their stores.

He followed up on the same theme decades later, writing in the wake of Trayvon Martin’s death at the hands of George Zimmerman that racial profiling is good: “If young black males are your shooters, then it ought to be young black males whom the police stop and frisk.”

Later that year, he discovered that being enslaved was bad after watching 12 Years a Slave but counterbalanced that with a column observing that “people with conventional views must repress a gag reflex when considering the mayor-elect of New York — a white man married to a black woman and with two biracial children.”

There was also the time back in 1998 when he allegedly sexually harassed Devon Spurgeon, at the time a 23-year-old editorial aide. He has obviously continued to write his column for the past 20 years, and he and his powerful friends in journalism cast him as the victim in this situation.

Warren St. John wrote then in the New York Observer:

Post management recently concluded that Ms. Spurgeon suffered a “hostile working environment” but not sexual harassment, and later changed the finding to conclude that Mr. Cohen had committed “inappropriate behavior.” Mr. Cohen was moved from the New York bureau’s 12th-floor office at 251 West 57th Street to Newsweek’s offices 10 floors higher. Sources close to Mr. Cohen and Ms. Spurgeon said neither is particularly pleased with the outcome. Mr. Cohen feels he has been the victim of a witch-hunt atmosphere. “It’s not like he groped someone,” said [New Yorker writer Ken] Auletta. “He’s being accused of saying things that are insensitive. Well, grow up.… This is Dick Cohen being Dick Cohen, and politically correct people being wusses.” Mr. Auletta expressed concern that recent press reports about the dispute might taint his friend’s reputation. “If you accuse someone of being a sexual harasser or a racist or an anti-Semite, the reporting never catches up with the story,” he said. “The charges are always so damaging.” Colleagues said both Mr. Cohen and Ms. Spurgeon feel the Post management’s public silence on the matter has prolonged the ordeal and only damaged them further.

With the courage of his convictions, Cohen wrote a 2010 column about Clarence Thomas that managed to be both sexist and racist, unfairly maligning Thomas’s intelligence vis-a-vis the other conservative justices by saying he “stands nearly alone on the court in his shallowness of his scholarship” while defending him from harassment charges by arguing that “when it comes to his alleged sexual boorishness, he stands condemned of being a man.” He also blamed Miley Cyrus for the Steubenville rapes.

Richard Cohen epitomizes privilege

There’s a phrase I learned a few years back that goes, “When you are accustomed to privilege, equality can feel like oppression.”

Cohen’s career, I think, exemplifies the wisdom contained in that aphorism. He’s a guy who’s enjoyed a well-compensated, high-status, easy-to-do job for decades who nonetheless quite sincerely feels put upon by the fact that he lost a job to a woman sometime in the 1970s and sometimes get called a racist because he thinks young black men should be subject to discriminatory treatment.

He feels, on these grounds, a profound affinity for Trump voters. And because the demographic of put-upon older white men does, in fact, exert disproportionate influence over American social and economic institutions, there continues to be a well-compensated and not very taxing job for him into his late 70s.Two weeks ago, President Donald Trump was talking about withdrawing US troops from Syria, telling reporters at an April 3 press conference that “it’s time to come back home.” Yet this Friday, he ordered one of the biggest single US military strikes on Syrian targets — a bombing raid that hit three of Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons facilities — and vowed to “sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.”

These proposals are coming from completely different places. It’s literally possible to remove the US ground troops who are in Syria to fight ISIS while continuing to bomb Assad-related targets from the air, but the two approaches reflect contradictory impulses to somehow end US military involvement in Syria while simultaneously threatening to bomb the country into the indefinite future. Trump’s first comments suggest the US will be heading for the exits; the second that the US is always a single chemical attack away from getting pulled in deeper.

This isn’t the only major foreign policy issue on which Trump has sent contradictory messages — in the past week alone.

On Sunday, Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley publicly announced that the US would impose new sanctions on Russia, only to be overruled by the president; the sanctions are still in limbo. On Monday, Trump sent a tweet blasting China for keeping its currency artificially cheap to boost exports — contradicting his own announcement just a few months ago that China was not a currency manipulator.

One thing foreign policy watchers love to do, especially with new presidents, is identify a capital-d Doctrine — a coherent set of ideas that defines this president’s approach to the world. The Trump administration, as the past week laid bare, has defied any such analysis — and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

While the president has some fairly consistent ideas — Russia should be our friend, global trade rules are unfair to the US — the process of translating those ideas into actual policy is broken. What ends up coming out isn’t a consistent “America First” foreign policy; it’s a mishmash of approaches that differ based not on an overall worldview but rather on a combination of bureaucratic politicking and the president’s own moods.

That means the Trump Doctrine, such as it is, can be summed up in a single phrase: contradiction.

Why Trump’s foreign policy is different from all other foreign policies

In a perceptive essay for the academic blog LGM, Georgetown political scientist Dan Nexon argues against something he calls “analytical normalization” of the current White House. He defines this as “the act of explaining and assessing Trump’s presidency as if we were dealing with a typical president and a typical administration.”

Trump, Nexon argues, approaches the world in a way that’s fundamentally different than past presidents. He “acts impulsively, shifts his positions on a whim, lies about seemingly anything and everything, and sometimes deploys rhetoric radically detached from his policies.”

As a result, the normal signs we look to to understand a president’s foreign policy — reading White House strategy documents and parsing presidential statements with an eye toward figuring out an underlying coherent set of ideas — tend not to be a good guide to figuring out what Trump will actually try to do.

“Many of our post-war presidents suffered from deep dysfunctions of one kind or another,” Nexon writes. “[But] evaluating Trump foreign policy requires different guidelines than those that Beltway pundits, foreign-policy analysts, and reporters reflexively turn to.”

That means it’s a mistake to try to find a coherent ideological explanation for Trump’s Syria policies. The better approach is to examine the president’s own contradictory instincts and the strange relationship he has with his advisers.

It’s not that Trump has absolutely no ideas about foreign policy. He does. He has a strong sense that, for example, foreign civil wars aren’t America’s problems. But some of his other impulses, like his visceral emotional reaction to photographs of gassed Syrian children, push him in opposite directions on the exact same policy issue. The result is the kind of public ping-ponging that you saw in the past two weeks of Syria debates.

“There are clearly competing impulses within Trump’s foreign policy, between wanting to appear tough, which he defines as the use of force, but not seeming to repeat the errors of his predecessors, [meaning] foreign intervention that threatens to draw the US into still more open-ended conflicts,” says Christopher Preble, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute.

The second big reason for the administration’s policy incoherence is the fact that his top advisers have wildly varying beliefs and policy preferences and come from vastly different backgrounds.

The last time Trump was debating how to punish Syria for a chemical attack, in April 2017, the main players were senior White House strategist Steve Bannon, who opposed any strike, and National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster, who favored one.

This time around, there was a different divide — in terms of both the people involved, as Bannon and McMaster are both gone, and the valence of the options under discussion. One camp, led by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, wanted a bombing that remained limited but was somewhat more aggressive than the last one (essentially, what ended up happening). New National Security Adviser John Bolton favored a much more hawkish option: a “ruinous” strike on Assad’s entire military infrastructure.

The high level of staff turnover, as well as the sharply divergent worldviews among the foreign policy principals, pushes the president in all sorts of different directions. This is especially true given his demonstrably limited interest in wonky, detail-oriented policy thinking, as this leaves a lot of the specific policy development to Cabinet members and their staff. So Mattis, a Russia hawk, can send several hundred US troops to Poland on a NATO mission specifically designed to challenge Russia even as the president is talking about how he wants to improve US-Russia relations.

The Contradiction Doctrine reigns.

Trump’s foreign policy has a Twitter problem

Never said when an attack on Syria would take place. Could be very soon or not so soon at all! In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS. Where is our “Thank you America?” — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018

All this dysfunction would be bad enough on its own. But to make matters more confusing, it all plays out in public.

US government statements are, in and of themselves, an important foreign policy tool. They’re a vital means of signaling the intent behind a policy to foreign governments, which is really important if the policy is designed to get the foreign government to change its behavior. If Washington wants to use force to deter the Syrian government from using chemical weapons, for example, a presidential administration of either party needs to send a crystal-clear message about the conditions under which Syria could trigger a US attack.

For this reason, past administrations have tried really hard to send a consistent and clear message about their approach.

“The [US government] used to go to great lengths to craft messages that persuaded and informed,” says Paul Musgrave, a scholar of American foreign policy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. “Even Nixon and Kissinger wrote the ‘State of the World’ volumes that explained (much of) their ideas in great length.”

But this president just doesn’t work like that. Trump will, during public appearances, often say whatever comes to his mind — heedless of whether this contradicts something his aides said. He seems to get a lot of information from Fox & Friends and isn’t shy about repeating what he hears there.

And then there’s the fact that no one seems capable of cutting off his Twitter account, which he seems to air largely unfiltered thoughts. “The Trump administration’s statements of doctrines inhabit a different plane of existence than the president’s account,” as Musgrave puts it.

This isn’t just a matter of bad PR. It actively serves to create a contradictory foreign policy, because so much of foreign policy is sending a clear signal to foreign governments about your intentions. When Trump says something that contradicts his own policy, or something his aides say, that American foreign policy can be concretely said to be contradicting itself. The country isn’t speaking with one voice.

And this happens quite a lot, largely owing to Trump’s own management style.

Some presidents, like Barack Obama, insist on disciplined and centralized public messaging from his deputies, which occasionally sparks controversy if there prove to be inaccuracies or exaggerations in that PR onslaught. Trump is kind of the opposite extreme, doing little to corral his top deputies. So Cabinet members end up saying things in public that don’t reflect the president’s considered judgment, leading to an even greater level of incoherence.

That’s what happened with Russia sanctions this weekend. Ambassador Haley appeared on a Sunday news program and announced a raft of new sanctions Trump apparently hadn’t fully approved. The president got mad, leading to an embarrassing and confusing walkback that spanned several days; on Tuesday, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow blamed the whole thing on Haley’s “momentary confusion.”

This is particularly notable because Haley has a reputation for being one of the more careful members of the Trump administration, someone who frequently checks in with the president to make sure she doesn’t get out in front of him. If it can happen to Haley, it can happen to anyone.

We don’t yet know what the consequences of this Contradiction Doctrine will be; we’ve never seen anything like it in a modern White House. But one can’t escape the feeling that it will lead nowhere good.“I know you said you’re not politically conservative, but with your doctorate in religious studies and your look, you could get a lot of work as a talking head or host for a conservative outlet. They love blonde, girl-next-door types.”

I heard some version of this from half a dozen agents when I was looking for TV work. I wasn’t surprised. It was not the first time I was asked to lie about my identity for the sake of making “good” television. As a former reality TV star, I understood the game well.

The first time I realized I was a brand, not a person, was in 1998. I had just starred on the MTV reality show Road Rules: Down Under. Like many young people in the late ’90s, I had loved the new wave of reality TV shows like Real World, and I found the unscripted and seemingly “real” nature of the cast members refreshing and authentic.

I decided to audition (via VHS tape!) to be a part of one of these social experiments. I was thrilled when I was chosen for the “ride of my life” as a cast member on Road Rules. I filmed my first season of reality TV at 18 years old.

It wasn’t until after we wrapped up filming and the show began airing that I began to see that through editing, I had been distilled down to a particular trope.

I was quickly asked to appear in promotional ads for one of the show’s sponsors, a pager that would alert users of news and pop culture happenings.

I was asked to read a script in which I said I was from a “small town in Pennsylvania.” It wasn’t true — I’m from Pittsburgh. When I mentioned that this description was inaccurate, they told me it didn’t matter as long as people thought I was from a small town. They wanted me to be more “relatable.”

The blonde, naive, virginal Christian character they had cast couldn’t be from a city like Pittsburgh, and MTV wasn’t about to let facts get in the way of a stereotype. So I held my nose and read the script.

Before I appeared on the reality television show, I believed it was about real, if highly edited, people. Over time, I became increasingly aware of my role as a character and a commodity. Follow the proverbial script and you can make money. And I did for a while as I continued to appear on the Real World/Road Rules spinoff The Challenge, as a means of financing my education.

After I finished my doctorate in religious studies, I wanted to combine my love of television with my academic experience, and met with several agents who were willing to take me on as a client. I was interested in hosting shows, anchoring news programs, and appearing in on-air panel discussions.

There was only one catch: Apparently, my particular look (blonde, slim, white), my religion-focused education, and my “bubbly” personality were the right combination for a specific audience. I heard again and again from my agents that to succeed, I needed to portray a political conservative.

My look and background made me the right fit for conservative news

We hear a lot of rhetoric about how the mainstream media is liberal, but when it came to “my type,” the demand seemed to come from conservative outlets. I’d have to proclaim a “war on Christmas” or conduct sympathetic interviews with bakers refusing to make cakes for gay couples. I didn’t have to believe it; I just had to say I believed it. If I did, there could potentially be a huge payday, I was told.

People have long claimed the Ann Coulters and Tomi Lahrens of the world don’t actually believe what they promote. The cartoon The Boondocks even devoted an entire episode to this theme, showing Coulter working in cahoots with a liberal foe. According to this theory, their provocative content is meant to be hyperbolic entertainment. When conspiracy-touting right-wing commentator Alex Jones was fighting for custody of his kids, his attorney claimed in court that Jones’s political persona was merely “performance art.”

I can’t say whether Coulter or Lahren believe what they say. I can testify that there’s a market for their type — and that producers don’t really care if people who look like them believe their rhetoric. And because my small-town, naive “Susie” brand wasn’t going anywhere, going stridently conservative was my best hope.

Reality TV has exploded in popularity since Road Rules, and 24-hour cable news has adopted the he-who-screams-the-loudest-wins style that reality TV perfected. Its on-air talent has embraced the genre’s character-driven branding. Pundits have molded their personas to stoke outrage and grow their fan base.

I can’t say going the Tomi Lahren route wasn’t tempting. Getting in the door in Hollywood is difficult, especially when you’re a reality star has-been/never-was. In a small way, the persona people were encouraging me to adopt would have fit — I was once a conservative who even worked on George W. Bush’s presidential campaign. And there were some like Megyn Kelly, who worked for Fox News and seemed to embrace a conservative ideology, who were able to maintain enough journalistic neutrality to move beyond the right-wing bubble. But in the end, I couldn’t bring myself to do it.

Ironically, it was the socially conservative moral code I grew up with that kept me from compromising my conscience. Prosperity gospel misreadings of theology aside, Christianity reminds believers that there are many things money can’t buy. I was hustling in the creative market just like everyone else, but I wasn’t about to sell my soul for a conservative-slanted shortcut.

The same churchy roots that got me cast as a reality show trope were the ones preventing me from selling out to Fox News and Breitbart. I wasn’t necessarily serving God — at least not in the way my family had hoped — but I wasn’t about to toss my integrity aside for Republican cash, either.

To many people, it doesn’t matter if all the coiffed Fox News anchors believe the talking points they shout. In the age of fake news and reality TV, we have made peace with the human-as-brands model. And all my years watching producers get rich spinning footage to craft characters out of complex people made me realize I was ready to write my own story. My story right now reflects who I am, even if it’s not the shiniest product on the shelf.

While I might never really hit the big time, I’m fine with being that girl from a ’90s reality TV show who isn’t really from a small town in Pennsylvania.

This essay was originally published on Medium.

Susie Meister has a PhD in religious studies and hosts the Brain Candy podcast. Follow her on Twitter @susie_meister.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.President Donald Trump is perpetually simmering over the Russia investigation. But speculation that he might finally move to shut down the special counsel probe has intensified in recent days.

The White House has said Trump has the power to fire special counsel Robert Mueller outright, but the more likely scenario is that he instead fires Mueller’s boss, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

Rosenstein’s job security has, at many times, been tenuous. Rosenstein — whom Trump nominated for the job — took over the Trump-Russia investigation after Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself because of his meetings with Russians as a surrogate of the 2016 Trump campaign.

Rosenstein appointed Mueller shortly after the firing of FBI Director James Comey, and now oversees him. Rosenstein also reportedly signed off on the recent raid of Trump’s longtime personal lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen, a blow to Trump’s inner circle.

What’s followed are renewed rumors, amplified by Trump supporters, that Rosenstein’s days at the Justice Department are numbered.

If Rosenstein were fired, or if he quit, the spotlight would turn to Solicitor General Noel Francisco. Francisco is the next Senate-confirmed DOJ official in line, which means the Mueller investigation would drop to him. (The No. 3 in the department, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand, resigned in February.)

Francisco has two options as Mueller’s new boss: He could keep the status quo and allow Mueller to continue the investigation. Or he could divert from Rosenstein’s course, potentially curtailing Mueller’s mandate or even shutting down the investigation.

Francisco, a prominent Republican lawyer, has some impressive conservative credentials. He clerked for Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and worked in the Justice Department during the George W. Bush administration.

He’s also defended a broad interpretation of executive power — and he’s currently arguing a case before the Supreme Court that defends the president’s expansive power to fire executive branch officials. That case is unrelated to the Mueller probe. But Francisco’s argument, and his legal interpretations, offers some insight to the man who might be asked to fire Mueller.

Who is Noel Francisco?

The Senate confirmed Francisco as solicitor general, the lawyer who represents the government’s agenda before the Supreme Court, in September on a 50-47 party-line vote.

Francisco’s résumé also includes working on George W. Bush’s legal team in the 2000 Florida recount and, as a partner at Jones Day, representing former Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell in his successful case before the Supreme Court that led to McDonnell’s corruption conviction being overturned.

Francisco has a sterling reputation as a conservative lawyer. He apparently wasn’t Trump’s first choice for the job; Chuck Cooper, a well-known litigator, withdrew from consideration. He did, however, serve as acting solicitor general as Trump conducted his search. Eventually, the president nominated Francisco, who then stepped aside until his Senate confirmation.

Francisco’s confirmation hearing was held the day after Trump fired FBI Director Comey, and the issue of “loyalty to the administration” was on the minds of some Democratic senators.

In a response to a written question on how he would maintain his independence from the White House, Francisco gave an anodyne answer: “If confirmed, I will provide the President, the White House, and any other entity that I am called upon to advise with candid and independent legal advice.”

Francisco also said he played no role in Comey’s firing, and reiterated that if confirmed, he would “provide candid, honest, and independent legal advice.”

Decoding Francisco’s views on executive power

Francisco’s past legal stances indicate he takes a pretty broad view of executive powers — and has expressed skepticism about the need for special counsels.

In 2007, he testified about his views on presidential power during a congressional inquiry into Bush’s politically motivated firing of nine US attorneys. The administration had been reluctant to turn over documents or let officials testify under oath on issues related to mass dismissal of US attorneys. Bush invoked executive privilege to defend his decision.

Francisco, who by then was in private practice, appeared before a House committee to defend the administration. As Mother Jones reports, he criticized the idea of appointing a special counsel to investigate the Bush administration over this scandal:

“I don’t think it would be appropriate for the Department of Justice to appoint” a special counsel, he testified, explaining that “my own personal belief is that when you hand these issues off to the career prosecutors in the public integrity sections in the US attorneys’ offices in the Department of Justice, those attorneys are generally better able to assess whether a case should be pursued.”

Francisco also argued for the expansiveness of executive power, saying that conversations between administration officials, even if Bush wasn’t actively involved, could be protected by executive privilege. He didn’t say executive privilege was absolute — but he basically said it was up to the court to decide: “What the courts have said is that in the context of a criminal investigation, if there is a sufficient showing of need, it can obviate the privilege.”

Francisco’s early tenure in the Trump administration indicates his positions haven’t shifted all that much. He is currently arguing a case before the Supreme Court that could have implications for the Mueller investigation. It involves a narrow issue of how the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) administrative law judges are hired. But as the Los Angeles Times reported last weekend, Francisco has stepped in and asked the Court to decide on a much larger question of the president’s constitutional authority to not just hire officials but fire them too:

Francisco points to two provisions of the Constitution as giving the president very broad authority. One says the president shall appoint ambassadors, judges and “all other officers of United States.” The other says the president “shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.” ”The president’s constitutional responsibility to faithfully execute the laws requires adequate authority to remove subordinate officers,” Francisco told the court in February. “The framers understood the close connection between the president’s ability to discharge his responsibilities as head of the executive branch and his control over its personnel. … The president’s ability to execute the law is thus inextricably linked to his authority to hold his subordinates accountable for their conduct.”

Francisco is basically saying the Constitution gives the president the ability to dismiss all officials who have power under the executive branch. That could, most conspicuously, give Trump a legal way to oust Mueller.

The Supreme Court will likely judge the case very narrowly on the question raised about the status of SEC administrative law judges. But it’s telling that the administration is taking this stance and that Francisco, as the solicitor general, is making these arguments before the Court.

Francisco’s approach to executive power doesn’t mean he’ll take over and fire Mueller if Rosenstein is ousted, or even rein in Mueller’s mandate — but it does hint that he might be more sympathetic to the Trump administration’s stance.

Still, he did dine with Rosenstein and Attorney General Sessions in March shortly after Trump antagonized Sessions for, in his view, not doing enough about the FBI’s handling of the surveillance of former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page. (Recall the claims in the Nunes memo.)

The dinner, coming as it did on the heels of the president viciously and publicly attacking his attorney general, seemed symbolic of a united front against the onslaught. Then again, all three, Francisco included, could be fired by Trump at any time.Donald Trump, our most relatable president, has filed for an extension on his 2018 taxes.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced the news on Tuesday, Tax Day, at her daily press conference.

Trump hasn’t filed his 2017 taxes yet.



He “filed an extension ... as do many Americans with complex returns. He will file his tax return by the extension deadline of October 15, 2018,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders says. — Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) April 17, 2018

It’s true, many Americans do procrastinate on their taxes and file for an extension: FiveThirtyEight reported that about 13 million Americans asked for an extra six months to complete their tax forms in 2015. However, for what it’s worth, it appears President Obama was pretty good about filing his taxes by the April deadline.

Of course, there might be a few reasons Trump is late like so many of us. His business — which he has not fully divested from and which is the subject of an ongoing lawsuit from the state of Maryland and Washington, DC — is complicated, after all.

Maybe this will be the year that Trump finally releases his tax returns for the American people to see, as he neglected to do during the 2016 presidential campaign, and he wants to make sure they’re right.

Or, my favorite theory: This is a covert way to draw more attention to the Republican tax bill. The New York Times reported this week that “no one’s talking about the new tax law,” given the way news coverage has fallen off since the bill passed and Republicans have struggled to turn it into an effective campaign message.

Trump didn’t seem to like the suggestion that his signature legislative achievement had already been forgotten.Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens’s political and legal problems are getting worse.

A week after a report from state lawmakers alleging that Greitens, a Republican, had coerced his hairdresser into nonconsensual sexual acts, took photos of her without her consent, and attempted to blackmail her, Missouri’s Republican Attorney General Josh Hawley has announced the findings of a separate investigation into the governor’s veterans charity.

Hawley said his office has discovered evidence that Greitens may have committed a felony offense by using a donor list of his veterans charity, the Mission Continues, to ask for donations leading up to his 2016 campaign for governor. Hawley’s office has not yet filed formal charges.

Using a charity list for political fundraising is a felony under Missouri law. The statute of limitations is approaching, so Hawley decided to disclose the information to both the St. Louis circuit attorney and the Missouri House committee investigating Greitens, according to St. Louis Post-Dispatch editor Christopher Ave.

BREAKING: Hawley: "We have uncovered evidence of wrongdoing... potential criminal violations" by Greitens. — Christopher Ave (@ChristopherAve) April 17, 2018

Though charges have yet to be filed, Hawley was unusually blunt, calling Greitens’s conduct in the matter “serious misconduct” and adding he thinks it constitutes an “impeachable offense.”

“In the course of this investigation, we have uncovered evidence of wrongdoing that goes beyond Missouri’s charity laws,” Hawley told reporters on Tuesday. “To be specific, within the past several days, we have obtained evidence of potential criminal violations.”

The St. Louis circuit attorney’s office has been considerably more tight-lipped about the investigation, saying in a tweet that it has met with the attorney general’s office and is reviewing the evidence.

“We can’t discuss any specifics at this time, as the investigation is ongoing,” the statement added.

The attorney general’s announcement may not be enough to compel Greitens to resign; the governor sounded defiant after Hawley’s press conference. In a statement released Tuesday, the governor shot back, addressing Hawley by his first name only.

“Fortunately for Josh, he’s better at press conferences than the law,” Greitens said. “Anyone who has set foot in a Missouri courtroom knows these allegations are ridiculous.”

STATEMENT: Gov. @EricGreitens on @AGJoshHawley’s news conference regarding potential criminal acts regarding Greitens and his charity pic.twitter.com/tMmfnhp65w — Andrew Havranek KY3 (@AndrewHavKY3) April 17, 2018

Hawley has been investigating Greitens over the past several weeks. He told reporters he had subpoenaed 15 current or former staffers of the Mission Continues on March 23. Greitens founded the charity in 2007 but departed in 2014. Hawley also recently announced that his office subpoenaed the governor through another company called the Greitens Group that Greitens runs for his book sales (he’s published books on his time as a Navy SEAL).

It’s the latest in a stream of bad news for Greitens, which started in February when he was indicted on a felony charge of invasion of privacy and led away by the St. Louis sheriff’s office. This charge was in relation to his extramarital relationship with the woman who says Greitens coerced her into sexual acts (Greitens has maintained the relationship was consensual). That indictment could carry up to seven years of prison time, and Greitens’s trial is supposed to start early next month.

Throughout all of this, Greitens has refused to step down, calling the special investigation by state lawmakers into his conduct a “political witch hunt.” (It’s worth noting the committee investigating Greitens has a Republican majority.) Missouri lawmakers now have to decide whether to start impeachment proceedings against the governor.

Meanwhile, Hawley has been conducting his separate investigation into the governor’s charity. Hawley, who is running in the Republican primary for US Senate and will likely face incumbent Sen. Claire McCaskill in November, has called for Greitens to resign or be impeached.

He has every reason to want Greitens gone; the Republican governor refusing to budge could be a huge drag on Hawley’s campaign and a distraction as he tries to mount a competitive challenge to McCaskill this fall. Greitens’s lawyers have seized on this, calling on Hawley to recuse himself and saying that his statements compromise his investigation.

Greitens has thus far shown no signs of budging. What remains to be seen is how far Hawley tries to push him.It appears that President Trump just blocked his own administration’s plan to sanction Russia.

Nikki Haley, the US ambassador to the United Nations, announced Sunday that the Trump administration would hit Russia with new sanctions on Monday over its support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons program in the wake of the April 7 chemical attack in Douma, Syria, that killed dozens of people. The sanctions were explicitly focused on Russian companies that deal in equipment linked to Assad’s chemical weapons program.

But just a day later, the White House backtracked, with press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders saying that the administration was merely “considering additional sanctions on Russia” and that “a decision will be made in the near future.”

So why the awkward reversal? Apparently Trump wasn’t on board with sanctioning Russia.

According to the Washington Post, after Haley announced the sanctions on CBS’s Face the Nation Sunday morning, Trump told national security advisers he was “upset the sanctions were being officially rolled out because he was not yet comfortable executing them.”

It unclear whether Haley just mistakenly announced the sanctions prematurely before the president had officially signed off on them, or if something else entirely went wrong.

On Tuesday, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow appeared to blame Haley for the mishap, saying she “got ahead of the curve.”

“She’s done a great job. She’s been a great ambassador, but there might have been some momentary confusion about that,” he said. “But if you talk to [US Treasury Secretary] Steve Mnuchin ... he will tell you the same thing. They’re in charge of this.”

Two things are obvious: The administration is once again botching the rollout of a fairly straightforward policy, and Trump is personally taking steps to ensure that he doesn’t anger Russian President Vladimir Putin.

A Russian foreign ministry official said on Monday that the Trump administration contacted the Russian Embassy on Sunday and told them that the sanctions that Haley had mentioned were not actually coming.

Trump is constantly fighting his own administration on Russia

Democrats swiftly panned the White House for backtracking. “The reversal is astounding. Either Pres. Trump doesn’t think we need more action or they can’t handle a simple rollout announcement,” Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ) tweeted Monday afternoon. “Mr. President, get your act together. What’s the strategy?”

But there are signs that Trump’s decision to hold off on sanctioning Russia might be paying off. On Monday, Russia announced that it was delaying a parliamentary vote on a plan to restrict American imports.

This isn’t the first time Trump has seemed to be at odds with or out of touch with the way the rest of his administration is handling Russia policy. Trump was reportedly furious that his administration ended up expelling 60 Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning of Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal on British soil on March 4.

Trump had apparently thought that the US was matching the number of diplomats that other US allies were expelling, but it turned out that the US’s expulsion dwarfed the numbers of any other country.

When administration officials explained to him that the US was matching the total number of expulsions from all the other countries combined, Trump apparently exploded and said he thought he had been misled.

“There were curse words,” an administration official told the Washington Post. “A lot of curse words.”“He’s one of the richest people on earth. He’s an adult. He’s 30-some years old. He can answer questions if he’s the CEO. ... Stop juvenilizing men here in Silicon Valley.”

That’s how Kara Swisher, co-founder and executive editor of the technology news website Recode, reacted to the treatment Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg received from lawmakers during his testimony on Capitol Hill last week. (Recode is owned by Vox’s parent company, Vox Media.)

Swisher was speaking on Politico’s Women Rule podcast. She’s a veteran tech journalist, hosts the Recode Decode podcast, and runs one of the most influential conference series in Silicon Valley. I reached out to her to find out more about why she thinks the media and lawmakers “juvenilize” men in Silicon Valley, and what it will take to stop it.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

When you say that we “juvenilize” male tech CEOs, what do you mean?

Kara Swisher

Well, what I mean is this: Mark Zuckerberg is an adult person, and we still call him “boy genius” and we’re still surprised that he wore a suit and we still wonder if it’s going to be hard for him to testify before Congress. I find that odd, given that he’s one of the richest and most powerful people on earth.

We tend to let people like Zuckerberg off the hook by treating them like boys. Zuckerberg didn’t make a little mess like a child at dinner. He badly mismanaged his company, and the country paid a price for that. He has to own that, and we have to make him. Treating him like a child won’t help.

Sean Illing

You’ve been covering tech for a long time. Why do you think these men are treated this way? Have we just bought into the silly mythologies around Silicon Valley?

Kara Swisher

Sure. They dress in their little hoodies and they wear casual clothes and they stay in this state of perpetual youth, and we buy into it because they don’t look like adults. And there are a lot of young people in tech, but the truth is that the most successful companies are run by older people, so it’s a lie that these are mostly young kids running the show. But we perpetuate this idea all the time.

“Zuckerberg didn’t make a little mess like a child at dinner. He badly mismanaged his company, and the country paid a price for that.”

Sean Illing

There’s this vaguely libertarian idea, which people in Silicon Valley love to promulgate, that innovators need to be left alone to work their magic.

Kara Swisher

Right, which is ridiculous. Bill Gates tried this routine in a more arrogant way with Microsoft years ago. He had this whole pose that said, “I don’t need you, I can’t deal with you, I’m over here innovating.” But it’s ridiculous. These people are obscenely wealthy, and they create these technologies and then they don’t want to take responsibility for their creations.

I saw this sort of attitude in Zuckerberg on Capitol Hill, and he’s mostly allowed to get away with it. There are exceptions, of course, but many of the questions were soft and indirect. That’s a problem. People like Zuckerberg and Gates have to take responsibility for the things they build, and people have to hold them accountable when they don’t.

Sean Illing

What price do we pay for not challenging these tech CEOs the way we should?

Kara Swisher

They’re so cavalier about what they’re doing. When Zuckerberg first become CEO, he had this business card that said, “I’m CEO, bitch,” which is so juvenile and ridiculous. I mean, really? Then his next motto was, “Move fast and break things.” But if you break things, you have to fix them.

I get the need to occasionally disrupt old ways so that you can build anew, but the idea that you can just break things — like, you know, a presidential election — and not take responsibility when it goes badly is insane, especially when you’re making billions in the process.

Sean Illing

Do you think lawmakers are just too shy, or do they simply not understand the people and technologies they’re overseeing?

Kara Swisher

I’d like to say that it’s too complicated for these lawmakers to understand, but it’s their damn job. They know how to regulate banks, so don’t tell me they can’t get their hands around social media. But listening to that Zuckerberg hearing last week, it was pretty clear that most senators were unprepared and had no idea what they were talking about. That can’t happen.

“Mark Zuckerberg is an adult person, and we still call him ‘boy genius’”

Sean Illing

Most of these tech CEOs are white men, and that has a lot to do with how they’re seen and treated. How different do you think it’d be if we had more women tech CEOs and more women on boards?

Kara Swisher

I don’t know. We tend to praise white men; it’s just the way it is in this country. But Sheryl Sandberg is a key executive at Facebook, so this particular problem is about more than gender. I recently asked the head of communications at Facebook if they had any irritants in their system. I wanted to know if there were people inside that building who don’t agree with everyone else. I didn’t get much of an answer.

Facebook constantly brags about how “cohesive” they are, but I think we need less cohesion at these companies. We need people who are asking, “What the hell are we doing?” We need people who think differently, who have different life experiences, and more diversity is certainly the best way to do that.

Sean Illing

I’m not counting on that to happen anytime soon, just as I’m not counting on tech companies to self-regulate. So where does that leave us? What will it take to push back?

Kara Swisher

I don’t know. Right now Congress can’t even decide on lunch, so I don’t expect them to do anything meaningful. And it’s not exactly easy to get voters excited about regulating Facebook, in part because it’s hard to explain and people don’t fully understand the impact.

But I’ll say this: Among the major tech companies — Facebook, Google, Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon — Facebook is the most vulnerable because it could unravel in much the way AOL did. It could be wildly popular one minute and then suddenly no one’s using it anymore. Companies like Amazon and Google are much better protected against a collapse or backlash because they’re involved in so many adjacent businesses. But that’s not the case with Facebook, so Zuckerberg, more than anyone else, better figure it out soon.The biggest solution to America’s opioid epidemic is no mystery: a major expansion of proven addiction treatment programs. There is not only research backing up the approach but historical precedent too.

Over at the Atlantic, Olga Khazan provided a brief overview of what happened when France responded to its own heroin epidemic in the 1980s and ’90s by massively expanding access to the anti-addiction medication buprenorphine, which reduces withdrawal and cravings for people with an opioid addiction.

The results are fairly persuasive (emphasis mine):

In 1995, France made it so any doctor could prescribe buprenorphine without any special licensing or training. Buprenorphine, a first-line treatment for opioid addiction, is a medication that reduces cravings for opioids without becoming addictive itself. With the change in policy, the majority of buprenorphine prescribers in France became primary-care doctors, rather than addiction specialists or psychiatrists. Suddenly, about 10 times as many addicted patients began receiving medication-assisted treatment, and half the country’s heroin users were being treated. Within four years, overdose deaths had declined by 79 percent.

As Khazan noted, France also rolled out a needle exchange program and other policies at the time that likely contributed to this drop. And unlike the US, France has a socialized health care system that makes it easy to get to a doctor offering these kinds of addiction services.

But the results are more or less in line with what you would expect to see with a huge expansion of buprenorphine. Studies show that buprenorphine and other anti-addiction medications like it, such as methadone, cut mortality among opioid addiction patients by half or more. That’s why experts consider the medications the gold standard of care for opioid addiction.

Yet these medications, like addiction treatment in general, remain very difficult to get in the US. According to a 2016 report by the surgeon general, only 10 percent of people in the US with a drug use disorder get specialty treatment — which the report attributed to a lack of access to care. And even when treatment is available, other federal data suggests that fewer than half of treatment facilities offer opioid addiction medications.

That’s why experts argue that America could do a lot more to expand access to these types of medications. For example, the federal government currently makes doctors go through a special training to get a waiver to prescribe buprenorphine, and caps how many patients a doctor can prescribe the medication to. Congress is now considering tearing down some of those barriers, but they have presented big obstacles to doctors for years.

There are other hurdles, particularly related to cost. Very often, health insurers, including public health plans, try to avoid paying for addiction treatment. Providers also often won’t accept insurance, even if it does pay for the treatment. And in terms of addressing the supply of treatment clinics, Congress has only committed a few billion dollars here and there to the opioid epidemic throughout the years — far from the tens of billions that many experts say is necessary.

Some of the poor outcomes are also related to stigma. Even among patients who would benefit from buprenorphine, there is a widespread view that it is substituting one opioid for another, since buprenorphine itself is an opioid. This view was restated last year by then-Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who said, “If we’re just substituting one opioid for another, we’re not moving the dial much. Folks need to be cured so they can be productive members of society and realize their dreams.” (A spokesperson for Price later walked back the statement, saying Price supports all kinds of drug addiction treatment.)

This misunderstands how addiction works. The problem with addiction isn’t necessarily drug use. Most Americans, after all, use all kinds of drugs — caffeine, alcohol, medication — with few problems. The problem is when that drug use begins to hurt someone’s day-to-day function — by, say, putting his health at risk or leading him to steal or commit other crimes to get heroin. Buprenorphine lets people with drug addiction get a handle on their drug use without such negative outcomes, effectively stabilizing the dangers of addiction, even if it needs to be taken indefinitely.

Buprenorphine and other anti-addiction medications aren’t the only solution to the opioid crisis. Experts and activists have also called for harm-reduction efforts (like expanding access to the opioid overdose antidote naloxone) and cutting back on opioid painkiller prescriptions (while keeping the drugs accessible to patients who truly need them).

But the anti-addiction medications are often the biggest part of expert proposals — and the history, at least in France, shows that expanding access to them works.

For more on the solutions to the opioid epidemic, read Vox’s explainer.President Donald Trump and his Republican allies are right about one thing: Former FBI Director James Comey really is the embodiment of the “deep state.”

That’s just not the indictment of his character they think it is.

In his book, A Higher Loyalty, and the media blitz that has accompanied it, Comey has made it clear that even though he’s spent most of his career in government — as a federal prosecutor who went after Mafia families, the US attorney for the Southern District of New York (the most powerful US attorney in the country), deputy attorney general under President George W. Bush — he sees himself as a different, more noble creature than the politicians around him.

Trump, who fired Comey last May (and who has taken to calling him a “slime ball” on Twitter), is reminiscent of a mob boss in his demands for loyalty and constant lying; former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, meanwhile, attempted to intrude into the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server in a way that made Comey “queasy.”

But Comey doesn’t characterize himself as the only noble man in Washington. He’s part of a brotherhood of noble public servants — law enforcement and intelligence officials — whose internal code of honor supersedes their loyalty to the agenda of the government officials they ostensibly serve.

That’s not the conspiratorial, fifth-columnesque “deep state” of fevered Trumpian imaginings. Comey’s Sam the Eagle-like rectitude is an embodiment of the attitude the FBI has often had toward politics in general, and even toward the political appointees who oversee it at the Department of Justice and the White House: an aloof superiority that, when challenged, stiffens into prickly independence.

It’s this institutional culture that’s put the FBI, which is usually characterized as Republican-leaning, in the odd position of being seen as a bastion of the anti-Trump “deep state.” The investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 presidential election, and now into whether the president obstructed justice by firing Comey, is led by former FBI Director Robert Mueller. Comey has become a leading critic of the president. Deputy Director Andrew McCabe was hounded out of the bureau and stripped of his pension; agents Peter Strzok and Lisa Page have become leading figures in a conservative conspiracy theory.

It might seem ironic, if you know the bureau’s history, that the FBI is being cast as a bunch of defenders of the American republic by some in the #resistance, and as a bunch of fifth-columnists by some on the right. But it’s actually perfectly explicable.

The very things that make the FBI, or organizations like it, troublesome or even dangerous under better circumstances and better presidents are the things that make it best equipped to resist abuses of power.

The FBI might take down President Trump; it’s inevitable that they would be the ones to do it.

To successfully be apolitical, there has to be something else for which you’re striving

One of the most striking things about Comey’s public comments in his new life as an author-pundit is his willingness to describe current or former Trump administration officials — his former colleagues — as corrupt or complicit. Take his assessment of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who is currently responsible for overseeing the Mueller probe and who has also been criticized by Trump allies as a Comey crony and a “deep state”-ist:

.@Comey says Deputy AG Rosenstein "had acted dishonorably by putting out this pretext about why I was fired." pic.twitter.com/Yfybm68sgF — Evan McMurry (@evanmcmurry) April 16, 2018

Comey’s distrust of Rosenstein isn’t unjustified. We still don’t know what exactly Rosenstein knew about the real reasons that Trump wanted Comey fired, but the fact that Trump’s recent tweets criticize Comey for going too easy on Clinton, while Rosenstein’s memo justified firing Comey for being too harsh on her, certainly raise good questions about whether the memo was really the main reason Comey got fired.

Rosenstein’s stumble isn’t the exception in this administration; it’s the norm. One of the most striking features of the Trump era is how consistently people who work for or with it end up debasing themselves — whether they’re defending conspiracy theories or fantasy math, praising the intelligence of the president after news reports that they called him a “moron,” or being forced to defend the intelligence decisions of a man who refuses to listen to his intelligence briefings.

The fact of the matter is that, from the inside, it’s not always easy to draw a bright line between doing your job and doing something in defense of your boss that is morally indefensible. While everyone fantasizes that he or she would be the person to refuse an unethical command, it’s not always easy to trust your intuitions that something is immoral — especially if speaking out would go against achieving whatever policy goals one might have as a Republican official in a Republican administration, or a Republican lawmaker under unified Republican government.

If you can’t rely on your own intuitions, then, you need some external code of behavior to guide you.

The “rule of law” is a procedural value: It says that the right thing for the government to do is to set, and adhere to, proper processes in all cases, without favor or prejudice to where those processes might lead. No man is above the law and no man strong enough to defeat it; and upholding the law means going about things “the right way.”

Take the choice Comey faced, as described in his book (and the Senate testimony he delivered last summer), about what to do after President Trump urged him in a private meeting to “see his way” to letting ex-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn go without charges. To act in service to politics (the president being, after all, his ultimate boss), he could have passed on the president’s instruction and urged the investigators to turn their attentions elsewhere. To rebel, he could have passed on the president’s remarks as possible evidence in the investigation — or ordered the bureau to start investigating Trump himself.

He did neither. Instead, he recorded the conversation in a memo but deliberately didn’t tell the people working on the Russia investigation about it because he wanted the investigation to unfold exactly as it would have in the absence of presidential pressure.

That certainly wasn’t the only correct decision, or even the most correct one. But it’s the decision that Comey could make without having to trust his own gut about right and wrong — it’s the decision that he could be held accountable for and defend according to the code of his agency.

That’s what professionalism meant to him. He immediately, and clearly, saw an ethical breach open up and sought to prevent it from occurring. But, in Comey’s telling, it simply deepened his commitment to doing the job.

Of course, everyone’s the hero of his own story, and Comey may well be engaging in a little self-aggrandizing. But it’s all the more revealing that, given the chance to cast himself as a hero, this is the heroism he chose. Comey was self-consciously making himself into an avatar of the “dogged FBI agent” — and by doing so, reinforcing (for current FBI agents as well as the general public) the idea that this is what every FBI agent should strive to be.

The institutions strong enough to undermine leaders are also the ones strong enough to resist tyrants

The term “deep state” has gotten stretched beyond recognition in the hands of Trump allies. As often as not, they use it to mean nothing more than “there are lots of people in the federal government who are liberals, and therefore they’re going to try to undermine the president’s agenda from the inside.”

It’s a conspiratorial concept that barely deserves debunking, but here goes: The federal government doesn’t act with a single mind. There’s a tremendous amount of squabbling between departments, agencies, offices, and individuals: everything from debates over strategy to fights over scarce resources to management/labor disputes and bureaucratic turf wars.

The institutions that come the closest to acting with a single mind are the ones with a robust internal culture, where everyone agrees on what it means to do the job well and defends each other for it.

A proper “deep state” — an institution whose control over the government not only can’t be touched by elected officials but actually exceeds their power — takes that one step further. It sees itself as the protector of not only its own values but the values of the entire nation.

Arguably, America really did have a “deep state” once: the FBI under J. Edgar Hoover. Hoover’s FBI really did operate without political accountability and saw itself as superior to the presidents who ruled it. The values, in this case, were Hoover’s own law-and-order self-righteousness. Men, as a rule, were weak and needed aggressive reminders to stay on the straight and narrow; politicians were simply men. But G-men were G-men.

The FBI doesn’t have the overweening power it had under Hoover. But there’s still some of that self-righteousness in its institutional DNA. That can be a problem in some cases, in the way that full-hearted dedication to any morality can create excess.

But you can’t create an institution that is transparent, humble, and open to suggestion in good times, and resilient, independent, and resistant in bad ones. It’s the organizations that are least willing to take direction from the outside about what they ought to value that are most likely to retain their identity in the face of attempted subversion. It’s the organizations that take threats to their own independence personally that are the ones most likely to act in self-defense when someone tries to overpower them.

This can be bad for democracy. But it’s a good weapon against despotism.

The complicating factor here is that civil servants are also public servants. If politicians are elected to carry out their agenda, it only makes sense that that agenda should change the way government employees do their jobs. There is, even in the best of times, a tension between apolitical professionalism and serving the public will.

Immigration agents under the Obama administration, for example, saw their job as enforcing immigration law — that was their definition of professionalism. But Obama and his political appointees, especially in their second term, believed they had been (re)elected in part to protect unauthorized immigrant families who hadn’t committed crimes from deportation. They had run on that platform and had been rewarded for it. The result was a grinding, years-long battle between labor and management that looked like a fight over “morale” but was really a fight over what job field agents were supposed to do.

It’s a tough balance to strike. But that isn’t the situation we’re in right now.

Donald Trump isn’t going hard at the FBI because they’re getting in the way of his agenda. He’s attacking them because they’re scrutinizing his behavior and he is trying to protect himself.

The Russia scandal might get in the way of Trump’s agenda because it reduces the amount of public attention paid to it, or Trump’s sway with lawmakers to enact it. But that’s not an argument that Trump should be exempt from scrutiny. If the notion of republican government is to mean anything, it must mean that the act of electing a man does not permit him legal impunity. His policy agenda does not come before the law.

If Trump were the sort of person willing to learn things, he might have interpreted the FBI’s reaction to Comey’s firing, and the appointment of Mueller, as a brushback pitch — a reminder of where the boundaries are. And it would have been welcome, even to those with no love for the FBI. But he didn’t take those signals. He ratcheted up his attacks on FBI leadership, and Republican officials followed his lead.

New York Times reporter and Trump whisperer Maggie Haberman explained one motivation for the president’s attacks: Whether or not he is seriously considering firing Rosenstein or dispatching Mueller, he thinks the constant threats to their jobs will successfully scare them into being careful — that he, in other words, is the one throwing the brushback pitches.

But what Donald Trump doesn’t understand is that not everyone in government is solely motivated by the desire to keep their jobs. Some of them have had it drilled into their minds, for decades, that their job is to serve the republic. And maybe sometimes they might even be right.

CORRECTION: This article originally identified Sam the Eagle as Sam Eagle. The author gravely apologizes for this grievous mistake.Sen. Claire McCaskill is facing an extremely tough election in 2018.

The Missouri senator is considered the most embattled Democrat incumbent facing reelection in 2018; she’s near or at the top of nearly every list of toughest Senate races. A Democrat in an increasingly red state, McCaskill has survived the past two cycles in 2006 and 2012 with nothing short of political jiujitsu.

“It’s going to be a squeaker in my view,” said Adrianne Marsh, McCaskill’s campaign manager in 2012 and her communications director in 2006. “The dynamics, they’re tough.”

Missouri voted for Trump by nearly 20 points in 2016, and McCaskill needs to peel off some of those Trump voters to hang on to her Senate seat. Her challenger will likely be the state’s 38-year-old attorney general, Josh Hawley, the current frontrunner in the Republican primary. At the same time, McCaskill is struggling to hang on to her Democratic base, particularly black voters.

But Hawley also has a problem: Missouri’s scandal-ridden Republican Gov. Eric Greitens. Greitens is accused of coercing his hairdresser into nonconsensual sex acts and taking nude photos of her as blackmail, according to an explosive report from state lawmakers released last week.

Hawley and other Republicans want Greitens gone as soon as possible. On Tuesday, Hawley said his office has discovered evidence Greitens may have committed a felony over the course of a separate investigation into a veterans charity the governor ran, unrelated to the sex scandal.

But Greitens is refusing to budge, insisting he had a consensual extramarital affair and calling the investigation and report into his conduct a “political witch hunt.” The state legislature is now considering whether to impeach him, which could take months. The longer it goes on, the longer it will be a drag on Hawley’s Senate campaign.

With so many variables, the race is going to be tight.

It’ll be a tough — but not impossible — race for McCaskill. To say that Missouri is a solid Republican state would be missing the point: It is a fiercely independent political landscape that McCaskill, a fiercely independent Democrat, has navigated skillfully for the past two decades.

Missouri state politics “is not about sheer partisanship; it’s about, do you make your case? Do they think you’re an honorable person?” longtime Missouri Democratic operative Roy Temple told me.

As McCaskill tries to court Trump voters and bring her base back into the fold, the 2018 midterms could be the toughest balancing act she has performed.

McCaskill is courting rural voters — and distancing herself from her party

For years, McCaskill has embodied Missouri’s independent ethos. She’s “smack-dab in the middle” between a Democrat and Republican, according to Marsh.

Even so, McCaskill has mostly stuck with her party in Washington this year. She was part of a group of red-state Democrats who voted against the GOP’s massive tax cuts last year, upset with the lack of Republican outreach to conservative Democrats on the bill. McCaskill also voted against the repeal of Obamacare and has called for gun control measures to be implemented after the shooting in Parkland, Florida (she has an F rating from the National Rifle Association).

“What voters want is Claire McCaskill as a Republican,” Marsh said. “She’s not a Republican, but she operates above party politics.”

On the campaign trail, McCaskill has tailored her message to highlight her record of working with Republicans and make sure Missouri voters don’t see her as too liberal, adopting some Trump-like language along the way. For instance, after violent clashes over Confederate statues in Charlottesville, Virginia last summer, McCaskill told reporters she thought individual states and communities should decide whether to take down statues, saying they served a purpose — reminding Americans of the ugly past chapters of the country’s history, so that it was not repeated.

To win this year, McCaskill is trying to pick up moderates, spending lots of time courting Trump voters in rural areas. On the stump, she’s highlighting votes she cast in support of some GOP and Trump policies.

“My job isn’t to fight the president. My job is to fight for you,” she told voters last summer.

Last month, McCaskill made headlines for criticizing Hillary Clinton after the former presidential candidate said she won in parts of America that were “optimistic, diverse, dynamic, moving forward” — and implying the places she did not win were the opposite. McCaskill also said she sympathized with Missouri voters who cast ballots for Trump in an interview with MSNBC’s Kasie Hunt.

“For those of us that are in states that Trump won, we would really appreciate if she would be more careful and show respect to every American voter and not just the ones who voted for her,” McCaskill said.

WOAH.



"For those of us that are in states that Trump won we would really appreciate if she would be more careful and show respect to every American voter and not just the ones who voted for her" - Claire McCaskill on Hillary Clinton pic.twitter.com/J1rBBar8gR — Kasie DC (@KasieDC) March 25, 2018

As McCaskill spends time persuading white moderates to vote for her, there are signs of a possible left-wing revolt building, especially among Missouri’s urban African-American communities. The Black Lives Matter movement, which was born in Ferguson, Missouri, after the police shooting of Michael Brown, is experiencing a nationwide resurgence after recent police shootings of unarmed black men in Sacramento, California, and Brooklyn.

An empowered and energized progressive base is criticizing McCaskill for not showing up in the communities. McCaskill desperately needs black voters to turn out to win.

“If you’re going to win in Missouri as a Democrat, you’re going to have to get the black and the brown vote,” Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) said, adding that he’s optimistic McCaskill can mend fences with the community. “I think she’ll rise to the occasion and do what needs to be done.”

McCaskill is worried about Trump voters. Her biggest challenge could come from the left.

A few months ago, the discontent some African-American voters have been feeling toward McCaskill bubbled over into public view at a town hall with state Rep. Bruce Franks Jr., a Democrat from St. Louis.

Franks has been calling for McCaskill to spend more time in Missouri’s black communities. Though he said he’ll vote for her in November, he issued a warning: “I’m going to vote for Claire, but Claire is going to have to bring her ass to St. Louis.”

This speaks to the left’s larger frustration with moderate Democrats who they feel don’t represent their best interest. That has some strategists worried that voters who don’t have a progressive Democrat to vote for may just not vote for Democrats at all, letting a Republican win.

Cleaver, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus on Capitol Hill and the former mayor of Kansas City, says he doesn’t think McCaskill will suffer irreparable damage from the frustrations of Franks and other activists, but he agreed she does need to do more in the state’s urban communities.

“Missouri is an interesting place; it’s really a place where you have to show me,” Cleaver said, nodding to the state’s nickname. “It’s the state motto, but politics is real. I think people want to see her.”

Cleaver, a vocal McCaskill supporter, believes that problem is easily fixable. But he and Marsh say this shift isn’t necessarily Missouri Democratic voters moving more to the left; rather, it’s that Missouri’s Democratic activists are more energized and emboldened in 2018 than they have been in years (along with the party’s base in much of the rest of the country).

“I wouldn’t say they’re moving left; I feel they’re more motivated,” Marsh told me. She also pushed back against the idea that McCaskill hasn’t shown up for African-American voters.

“No one in Missouri politics has fought harder for the African-American community than Claire McCaskill,” Marsh said, referencing the senator’s stance on criminal justice reform and mass incarceration, especially following Ferguson. “If you talk to the old guard, they’ll tell you the same. She’s always been a huge supporter and has stuck her neck out there at times when it’s been most difficult.”

McCaskill herself has promised black voters she’ll fight for them in Washington, and vowed to spend “millions and millions” of campaign dollars seeking their vote in November.

A state scandal could weigh down Josh Hawley’s candidacy

After two cycles of difficult defeats for Republicans against McCaskill, Josh Hawley was supposed to be the perfect candidate to do the job.

He’s the state’s young, conservative attorney general whom Republicans recruited to beat McCaskill in 2018. A graduate of Stanford and Yale Law School, Hawley has nevertheless cast himself in the mold of a Trump loyalist, railing against “political elites.”

The young AG is staunchly conservative and Christian. He has kept a fairly low political profile so far, although he got plenty of headlines for once claiming the sexual revolution of the 1960s and ’70s was directly responsible for human trafficking. (Hawley has said he thinks sex should be confined to marriage.)

“Our culture has completely lost its way,” he said in recent remarks to reporters. “The sexual revolution has led to exploitation of women on a scale that we would never have imagined.”

Democratic political operatives in Missouri are skeptical of Hawley’s alliance with Trump, saying it’s one of political convenience.

“The dude is a human pretzel right now, contorting himself,” said Temple. “The guy is trying to pretend he’s a populist, but he’s not very good at it. At the heart of it, he’s a phony.”

Hawley and McCaskill are currently in a dead heat, according to a recent poll.

Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens could complicate that. Greitens has been besieged by scandal for the past few months, after accounts that he had an extramarital affair and allegedly tried to blackmail the woman. Recently, new details surfaced that Greitens allegedly coerced the woman into oral sex, took a nude photo of her as blackmail, and slapped her on multiple occasions.

“I think what was extraordinary about the report was everyone was prepared for it to be bad and uncomfortable and salacious,” said Missouri GOP consultant Gregg Keller. “Even with the expectations set there, it still took a lot of people’s breath away.”

And that’s not all of it. On Tuesday, Hawley gave lawmakers and reporters an update on the investigation he’s been conducting into a veterans charity Greitens founded, called The Mission Continues. Though no formal charges have been filed, Hawley said his office has discovered evidence that Greitens may have committed a felony-level criminal offense by using a donor list of his veterans charity to ask for donations leading up to his 2016 campaign for governor.

Hawley was unusually blunt in remarks to reporter Tuesday, calling Greitens’ conduct in the matter “serious misconduct” and adding he think it constitutes an “impeachable offense.”

Despite all that, Greitens has so far refused to step down, calling the bipartisan Missouri House investigation into his conduct a “political witch hunt.” Hawley was quick to call for Greitens to resign, and to urge lawmakers to start impeachment proceedings if he doesn’t. Greitens’ lawyers have shot back, saying Hawley should recuse himself, because calling for the governor to resign shows he can’t conduct an impartial investigation. In other words, Greitens isn’t planning to go anywhere.

That has a lot of people baffled, but not Missouri Republicans who know the governor.

“He’s a classic sociopath,” said one Republican in the state who requested anonymity to speak freely. “I’m not saying that ironically; he is literally not a balanced, normal personality. He’s almost incapable of embarrassment, like Bill Clinton was.”

The Missouri legislature has never impeached a sitting governor before. The process is complex and could take months. That’s bad news for Hawley, who would undoubtedly like Greitens and his scandal to disappear as soon as possible. It’s also a boon for McCaskill, who has benefited from Republican scandals in the past. In 2012, her campaign spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to try to get the ultraconservative Republican Todd Akin to win the Republican primary for Senate.

The reason? McCaskill was making a big bet that Akin would say something alarming during the general election. And that’s exactly what he did: Explaining his anti-abortion stance, Akin argued that instances of men raping women were rare, and during “legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down.” McCaskill went on to win that race by 12 points.

Republicans backed Hawley because they hoped he wouldn’t be another Akin. But with months to go until his primary, Hawley already has to cope with a massive scandal that is casting a cloud over Missouri Republicans and his own campaign.

By responding quickly and coming down hard on Greitens, Hawley can sidestep some of the drama, Keller said. But he admitted it would be much better if Greitens wasn’t something Hawley had to deal with.

“I think Josh was smart and forceful about it,” Keller said. “I think the people who know the governor, they do not expect the governor to resign regardless of how much pressure he’s under. This could potentially be a long and arduous process.”A federal judge forced President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen to reveal the identity of a secret client. It’s Fox News host and Trump ally Sean Hannity.

Cohen was trying to protect Hannity’s name as part of a lawsuit he filed to prevent the FBI from searching through the documents agents took on April 9 during a raid on Cohen’s office and hotel room.

On Friday, federal Judge Kimba Wood, who is presiding over Cohen’s lawsuit, told Cohen’s lawyers that she wanted a list of Cohen’s clients to make a decision on whether to stop the FBI from reviewing the seized materials.

In a Monday morning court filing, Cohen’s lawyers revealed two of the three clients that Cohen had between 2017 and 2018 but refused to name the third.

On Monday afternoon, during a hearing, Wood rejected the plea from Cohen’s team and demanded to be told who the third client was.

“I understand that he doesn’t want his name out there, but that’s not enough under the law,” Wood said.

After a back-and-forth in which Cohen’s lawyers offered to tell the judge confidentially, they gave in and announced the unnamed client was Hannity.

Hannity confirmed the news after Cohen’s team announced his name.

“I have sought legal advice from Michael,” he said in a statement.

The news broke while Hannity was broadcasting his live radio program on Monday afternoon. Hannity referenced the Cohen hearing but didn’t directly address it.

“I think it’s pretty funny,” he said. “I’ll decide if I’m going to put out a statement here.”

The other two clients to whom Cohen provided legal advice since Trump took office are Trump and Elliott Broidy, according to Monday morning’s court filing.

Wood had yet to rule on whether the FBI would be allowed to go through the documents when she demanded Hannity’s name.

Update: After this piece was published a spokesperson for Fox News contacted me and asked for Vox to publish a full statement from Sean Hannity, which is included below.

“Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. I assumed those conversations were confidential, but to be absolutely clear they never involved any matter between me and a third party.”Sean Hannity promised to set the record straight on the “Michael Cohen hysteria” during his Fox News program Monday night, but he instead repeated his earlier statement that Cohen had “never represented me in any legal matter.”

“I never retained his services, I never received an invoice, I never paid Michael Cohen for legal fees,” Hannity recited on his program. “I did have occasional brief conversations with Michael Cohen — he’s a great attorney — about legal questions I had, or I was looking for input and perspective.”

Hannity added that his discussion with Cohen “never rose to any level that I needed to tell anyone,” and that none of his interactions with Cohen involved a third party.

“My questions exclusively almost focused on real estate,” Hannity concluded. “I said many times on my radio show, ‘I hate the stock market, I prefer real estate.’ Michael knows real estate.”

Despite promising to put “wild speculation” to rest, Hannity basically just repeated his earlier statement — with the added nugget that he allegedly consulted with Cohen on real estate. He didn’t give any details on what that real estate advice might have been.

A federal judge unmasked Hannity as longtime Trump attorney Cohen’s mysterious third client during a court hearing on Monday. Cohen had filed a lawsuit to prevent the FBI from searching through documents it had seized in an April 9 raid. In court filings, Cohen had listed Trump and Elliott Broidy, the Republican National Committee deputy finance chair, as two of his three clients but left one client’s name secret. When the judge ordered Cohen to make it public, Hannity’s name popped up.

Hannity, who’s taken the side of team Trump in the Cohen saga, provided little new information on his show — but allowed time to chastise the media for its reaction to the revelation that he was Cohen’s client.

“Predictably, without knowing all or frankly any of facts, the media went absolutely insane,” Hannity said. He proved his point, apparently, by showing a cable news supercut of hosts saying his name:

I am here for Sean Hannity's Sean Hannity supercut pic.twitter.com/3dLqTIWByq — Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) April 17, 2018

Hannity has spent the past week echoing the president’s line that the Cohen raid is part of the Robert Mueller “witch hunt,” without revealing his own relationship with Cohen. It’s something even fellow Trump defender and lawyer Alan Dershowitz scolded Hannity about on his program Monday night, telling the host that he should have disclosed his relationship with Cohen to viewers. Hannity replied that the relationship was minimal, having to do with real estate and “nothing political.”

Alan Dershowitz (!) says that Hannity should have disclosed that he was a client of Cohen before discussing the FBI raid last week.



Hannity responds: "I have the right to privacy." pic.twitter.com/lheMdQWqHl — Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) April 17, 2018

“You should have said that,” Dershowitz replied. “And that would have been fair to say, that it was minimal.”Is there a link between the vanishing Arctic sea ice and extreme weather?

Some prominent climate researchers think so. That’s because warming temperatures in the Arctic are altering the behavior of the polar jet stream, a high-altitude river of air that drives weather patterns across the globe. As the winds that propel the jet stream weaken, storms, droughts, and extreme heat and cold move over continents at slower rates, meaning bad weather can stick around for longer.

Eli Kintisch reports aboard the Norwegian research vessel Helmer Hanssen about how changing conditions at the top of the world could be impacting weather far away.

To learn more, watch the video above.

This video is part of a three-part series on the changing Arctic. Thanks to the Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting for supporting Thaw. You can find part one and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe and stay tuned for more.

Footage and story made possible by Interdependent Pictures’ documentary film Into the Dark, coming 2019.President Donald Trump has made no secret of his desire to remove US troops from Syria. But his administration’s latest plan for how to do that is unlikely to materialize — and would be dangerous if it did.

Here’s the idea, as reported by the Wall Street Journal: Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and other Arab states like Egypt would band their troops together and form an “Arab force” to keep ISIS at bay in Syria.

That may sound good in theory, but there are several problems in practice. First, there’s little chance the majority of Arab countries in question would agree to such a plan. Saudi Arabia is in discussions with the US to send troops into Syria, according to Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir, but it’s unclear if other Arab states will follow suit.

Second, experts say their militaries would struggle in a campaign against ISIS. “No Arab state has the military or institutional capacity needed for this sort of task,” Faysal Itani, a Middle East security expert at the Atlantic Council think tank, tells me. “Arab armies are bad at counterinsurgency, and even worse at war,” he adds.

It’s unclear as of now if a remnant of US troops in Syria would remain to train and support the Arab forces. That seems unlikely, though, as Trump has indicated he wants to bring all of America’s 2,000 troops back home and let Middle Eastern counties take care of stabilizing Syria.

Finally, the Arab countries’ goals when it comes to intervening in Syria aren’t necessarily the same as the US’s. The Trump administration is exclusively focused on defeating ISIS and stabilizing the areas it once held to make sure the terrorist group doesn’t just come right back.

But James Jeffrey, a former top Middle East security official in the George W. Bush administration, explains that fighting ISIS is not the primary focus for the countries that would theoretically make up this new Arab force. “The Saudis and Emiratis want a policy focused on countering Iran and working against [Syrian President Bashar al-]Assad,” says Jeffrey.

It would also pit the military forces of two mortal enemies — Iran and Saudi Arabia — directly against each other in Syria, potentially provoking a dangerous and unnecessary escalation in the already horrifically bloody Syrian civil war.

“In sum,” says Jeffrey, the Trump administration’s plan for an Arab force is “not well thought out.”

Why an Arab force is unlikely

The politics surrounding the creation of an “Arab force” are so complicated that it’s surprising the Trump administration even considers it an option.

Take Saudi Arabia and the UAE. They’re in the midst of a US-backed military operation in Yemen against the Houthi rebels. And Randa Slim, a Syria expert at the Middle East Institute, says that Riyadh and Abu Dhabi are already both so overextended that they’re unlikely to divert troops, equipment, and money from that fight.

In fact, last December, Trump asked the Saudis for $4 billion to rebuild Syria, but Riyadh has yet to accept that proposal. That said, Saudi Arabia may send troops into Syria soon as part of the campaign to defeat ISIS. “We are in discussions with the US and have been since the beginning of the Syrian crisis [in 2011] about sending forces into Syria,” Jubeir, the Saudi foreign minister, told reporters at a press conference in Riyadh on Tuesday.

Slim also says the US would probably need Turkey’s go-ahead to send an Arab force into Syria, but that approval doesn’t seem likely to happen.

Turkish forces are currently fighting in northern Syria to establish an approximately 19-mile “safe zone” between Kurdish-controlled territory and the Turkish border. Ankara has been fighting a decades-long insurgency against Kurdish separatists inside its own country, and thus considers the powerful Syrian Kurdish forces near its border to be a looming terrorist threat.

But Syrian Kurdish forces just so happen to be working closely with US forces in Syria’s northeast to defeat what remains of ISIS. Introducing Arab forces into the mix — forces that might potentially cooperate with or even fight alongside the Syrian Kurds — would cause Ankara some serious heartburn, Jeffrey, who is now at the Washington Institute for Near East policy, explains.

“This would be Arab forces entering an Arab country without permission of its government at least potentially to cooperate with, fund, and protect a Kurdish ideological movement’s control over an Arab population,” he says, “with the goal on the part of Kurds, at least in theory, to have a base [from which] to destabilize NATO ally Turkey.”

It also doesn’t help that Ankara has a bad relationship with Riyadh and Abu Dhabi because Turkey supported the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings in countries like Tunisia and Egypt. Saudi Arabia and the UAE, on the other hand, fought to suppress those uprisings abroad and prevent similar ones from happening in their own countries.

But Turkey has also consistently called for Assad’s removal and pushed the US to do more to depose the Syrian dictator, which conceivably could make it more amenable to the idea of an Arab force interested in removing Assad getting involved in Syria.

And then there’s Egypt — one of America’s most important allies in the Middle East. Egypt supports the Assad regime. Cairo would likely be unhappy if the US backed an Arab force that went into Syria, especially if those troops started attacking Assad regime positions.

John Bolton, Trump’s national security adviser, reportedly called Egypt’s acting intelligence chief to discuss the possibility that Cairo would even contribute to the Arab force; there was no readout on how the call went. But on Tuesday, Mohamed Rashad, a former top Egyptian intelligence official, implied Egypt won’t join it. “Egypt’s Armed Forces are not mercenaries.” he said. “Egypt is adopting a strategy based on supporting the unity of Syria’s territories and its national army.”

Steven Cook, a Middle East expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, on Tuesday tweeted “Apparently the new Natl Security Advisor doesn’t know that the Egyptian government supports Assad.”

The Saudi-Iran “cold war” could turn hot

Even if an Arab force did go into Syria, it would likely do more harm than good.

Iran’s government is a Shia Muslim theocracy; Saudi Arabia’s government is a monarchy closely aligned with the country’s Sunni Muslim religious establishment. The two countries represent two ideological and political poles and have spent decades fighting each other for dominance in the Middle East and for the right to represent the Muslim world.

But instead of waging war against each other directly, Saudi and Iran back opposing political factions and extremist groups throughout the region as a way of exerting influence and control.

Iran is doing just that in Syria. Tehran has spent most of the Syrian civil war fighting to keep Assad in power while taking advantage of the conflict’s chaos to gain more control in the region. It does this in part by supporting its proxy, the militant Lebanese group Hezbollah, which is fighting in Syria on behalf of the Assad regime. On top of that, Iran’s powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) has established numerous military bases in Syria.

So imagine what would happen if, all of a sudden, Saudi and Emirati troops show up on the scene in Syria. “They will be in direct confrontation with IRGC, Hezbollah, and the Syrian regime,” Slim says. That means the “cold war” between the two biggest rivals in the Middle East could become an actual war.

To be fair to Trump, other US administrations had the Arab force idea too. President Barack Obama, for example, worked to rally Arab countries to do more to defeat ISIS, receiving bipartisan support for that plea. Saudi Arabia did announce a 34-nation coalition to counter ISIS in December 2015, but the US still carries most of the burden when fighting ISIS.

But just because it was an idea before doesn’t mean an Arab force is a viable idea now. “This is unrealistic, to put it mildly,” says Itani.Everything is a witch hunt. President Donald Trump will tell anybody who will listen that Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s Russia connections (and other alleged misdeeds) is a political witch hunt. The single greatest political witch hunt, in fact.

This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 18, 2017

You are witnessing the single greatest WITCH HUNT in American political history - led by some very bad and conflicted people! #MAGA — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 15, 2017

A TOTAL WITCH HUNT!!! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 10, 2018

There are many other tweets like those. Trump doesn’t even provide context anymore.

He’s not alone. Last week, when Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens was facing allegations of horrendous sexual misconduct, he unsubtly said it was “exactly like what’s happening with the witch hunts in Washington, D.C.” The critics of #MeToo — often but not always men — have compared the campaign to eradicate sexual abuse to a witch hunt.

If you want people to believe you’re wrongfully accused, the subject of malicious scrutiny on the part of your enemies, you cry that you’re the target of a witch hunt.

Trump didn’t pick this phrase out of thin air. Politically, this goes back at least to McCarthyism and Watergate. The Nixon White House also claimed he was the subject of a witch hunt. Critics of Sen. Joe McCarthy’s insidious anti-communist probes called them witch hunts. Back in those days, playwright Arthur Miller made the subtext text with his play The Crucible, an anti-McCarthy allegory set during the Salem witch trials of the 1690s.

Which is where our story really begins. In the modern setting, “witch hunt” is a useful defense because people living in the 21st century know that the “witches” of 17th-century Salem were almost certainly innocent and, therefore, that the persecutions that led to 20 deaths were unjust. It’s a hyperbolic if undeniably powerful rhetorical device to claim one’s innocence.

There is also, once you stop to think about it, something distasteful about men in power — particularly two men credibly accused of sexual assault — using a term that harks back to an era in history in which a patriarchal society wrongfully persecuted (mostly) women.

“We’ve turned the expression on its head. Traditionally a witchcraft charge amounted to powerful men charging powerless women with a phony crime. Now it is powerful men screeching that they are being charged with phony crimes,” Stacey Schiff, who wrote a 2015 book about Salem called The Witches, told Vox over email. “Unfair targeting is the only thing the two have in common, and even that is debatable.”

The Salem witch trials, explained by politics

What exactly caused the mass hysteria in Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692 and 1693 is still a subject that divides historians and others who study the witch trials. What we know for sure is that between 1692 and 1693, 19 people were hanged, and one crushed to death, ostensibly for the civil crime of practicing malevolent witchcraft, after an outbreak of mass hysteria. They had all maintained their innocence — with the exception of Tituba, a local enslaved woman, whose confession may have been tortured out of her.

The majority of the Salem witch trials didn’t actually happen in Salem Town — what is known as Salem today — but in Salem Village, an inland hamlet that was renamed Danvers in 1752.

Mary Beth Norton, a Cornell University professor who wrote 2007’s In the Devil’s Snare with an eye toward explaining the crisis in its historical and political context, connected the hysteria over the witch trials and the actions taken by village elders to Native American attacks on the New England settlers.

She summarized her understanding of the witch trials to Vox like this:

I argue in my book that the judges at the trials, who were also the military leaders of the colony, used the search for “witches” as a means of deflecting their own responsibility for the disasters then afflicting the colony. But as they genuinely believed in the existence of witches (that was the accepted opinion at the time), we can’t say that they manufactured a belief in witches for political reasons. Still, the search for witchcraft was very beneficial to them politically, until it all came crashing down on their heads after about nine months when skepticism about how the trials were being conducted prevailed in the colony. People didn’t stop believing in the existence of witches, but they stopped believing that the Massachusetts judicial system was successfully uncovering and convicting them.

As Norton emphasized, it’s simplistic to think of the Salem trials as purely political: Christians living in New England in the 1690s absolutely believed that witches were real and that they could serve as consorts of the devil to wreak havoc in their town.

But the relevance to our modern understanding of a “witch hunt” is eerie. Sinister authorities using the specter of “witches” to protect their own interests. The deteriorating faith in political institutions. Right from the start, “witch hunts” were imbued with much of the meaning that would make them such a powerful rhetorical tool in 2018.

How “witch hunt” became so politically potent

As a result, Salem has held a prominent place in America’s political imagination ever since.

As Texas Tech’s Gretchen Adams chronicled in her book The Specter of Salem, the witch trials served several political purposes in the intervening centuries. In the 1790s, textbooks would use Salem as the quintessential example of America’s less enlightened past, a history the new nation was abandoning as it embraced Enlightenment ideals in its early years.

During the 1830s, during a religious revival known as the Second Great Awakening, which rejected the Enlightenment, critics would compare those new religious orders to the Salem elders, seeking to remind people of the dangers of unchecked fanaticism. During the Civil War, Southerners would cite the witch trials to attack the Union for its supposed irrationality in persecuting the war.

But for modern politics, the turning point seems to have been Arthur Miller’s 1953 play The Crucible. A retelling of the trials, the play was a coded indictment of the anti-communist hysteria of the 1940s and ’50s. Miller heavily implied that the accusers and magistrates of Salem were motivated by a combination of fear and greed, including a desire to seize the lands of the accused. The story of Salem, for Miller, was the story of any mass panic — how self-interested humans use fear and panic to stoke “witch hunts” for personal gain.

“It’s a 20th-century term that comes into use during the Cold War. There was no single, directed, witch-identifying force in America’s 17th-century prosecutions,” Schiff said. “In that sense, Salem does not actually constitute a ‘hunt.’ It’s more a panic, or an epidemic, or a societal delusion.”

As Vox’s Dara Lind noted previously, Richard Nixon (or his staff) invoked Salem as the Watergate investigation was gaining steam:

President Nixon and his top aides believe that the Senate Watergate hearings are unfair and constitute a “political witch-hunt,” according to White House sources. The sources, said, that the President in recent weeks had expressed bitterness and deep hostility toward the two-month-old proceedings. “The President sees the hearings as an attempt to get Richard Nixon and do it just damn unfairly,” one source said. According to four separate sources, the hostility toward the hearings is pervasive among the White House staff, especially among former assistants to H.R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman, the resigned top presidential aides. One White House source said he saw the struggle with the Senate Watergate committee as not just politics but a battle for survival. “The Ervin committee is out to destroy the President,” he said.

The current “witch hunt” claims are both gross and dangerous

Vox’s Lind wasn’t the only one to connect Nixon and Watergate to Trump’s use of the phrase. Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward cited Trump’s laments of a “witch hunt” as they described the “eerily similar confrontation” that Trump is having with Mueller and that Nixon had with special prosecutor Archibald Cox.

On the one hand, Trump comparing the investigation into his campaign to a crisis that left 20 people dead in the 17th century is clearly ridiculous — there is much more evidence in the criminal indictments, the court-sanctioned wiretaps, and the consensus of Republican and Democratic investigators for Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election than there is for witchcraft — and rather unsavory.

As for Greitens, who is so transparently drafting off Trump’s tactics, his use of the term might be even more galling: This is a man accused of coercing a woman into sexual acts and then threatening to blackmail her if she talked.

“There is something twisted, misdirected, and vaguely demented in the cries of ‘witch hunt,’” Schiff said. “Many American women (and a handful of men) did protest their innocence. They were not witches, though the courts decided they were; they hanged all the same. None ever cried ‘witch hunt.’”

But Trump’s never-ending laments of “witch hunt!” can’t just be dismissed. They serve an important function for the president: discrediting the Mueller investigation.

A total WITCH HUNT with massive conflicts of interest! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 19, 2018

It isn’t an accident that Trump’s most influential allies in the media, like Fox’s Sean Hannity (a man also connected to Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, whose current presence on the national stage arose from alleged payouts to women on Trump’s behalf), deploy the exact same rhetoric.

For now, a solid majority of Americans support the Mueller investigation: 69 percent, according to the most recent Washington Post/ABC News poll. Screaming “witch hunt” didn’t save Nixon either — not that we should necessarily believe the Mueller probe will end the same way Watergate did.

But at the same time, Mueller’s investigation is underwater with Republicans: Only 43 percent support the probe, while 51 percent disapprove of it. Trump’s “witch hunt” claims have found a particular audience, it seems — and that audience is responsible for the majorities that currently control both chambers of Congress, whose leaders claim they do not want Trump to fire Mueller but at the same time have refused so far to take any steps to protect the prosecutor.

Investigating potential crimes against the country shouldn’t be a partisan issue. But it’s become that way. Trump — and the screams of “witch hunt!” — have helped make it so.Colorado’s Sixth Congressional District was the site of the deadly 2012 Aurora movie theater shooting and close to the 1999 Columbine massacre. Right now, the Sixth is represented by Republican Rep. Mike Coffman, but a Democratic House candidate thinks he can beat Coffman in November by running a campaign to end gun violence.

Attorney and Army veteran Jason Crow still has to win his primary on June 26, but he has the backing of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) and the gun control advocacy group started by former Rep. Gabby Giffords.

Democrats have been eyeing CO-6 for years, and the district is on the DCCC’s “red to blue” list to flip this year. The nonpartisan Cook Political Report rates the district D+2, and Hillary Clinton won it by 9 points in 2016. Yet Coffman, the incumbent Republican, has managed to hang on to his seat since he was elected nearly a decade ago.

Crow thinks he can beat Coffman by aggressively campaigning on an issue Democrats have shied away from in the past: gun control.

“It’s now gotten to the point where this constant flow of shootings in the country has now impacted people where we think about this all the time,” Crow told me in a recent interview. “Loud noises happen in a crowd and at public events, and instead of people thinking about, ‘Maybe someone dropped something,’ people think about a gun.”

Crow is quick to mention his background as a hunter and his extensive military experience when he’s talking to constituents who are skeptical of gun control efforts.

“I say, ‘I grew up a hunter and I know about firearms,’” he said. “I’m not coming to this issue as somebody that’s never used them and doesn’t know anything about them. I’m not trying to take away law-abiding citizens’ gun rights, and I’m not trying to take away the Second Amendment.”

In the wake of the Parkland, Florida, shooting in February, Coffman has had some tense town halls with angry constituents on the issue of gun violence. Crow is seizing on that political wave.

His first ad, called “Enough,” hit Coffman for taking money from the National Rifle Association, and highlighted the fact that his young children are starting to take part in active shooter drills at their elementary school.

Crow told Vox that his proposed gun control solutions are ones that both parties can get behind. The list of measures he’s backing includes universal background checks, a ban on military-style assault weapons, magazine limitations, closing the gun show loophole, overturning the Dickey Amendment, and imposing better checks on mental health before people purchase guns.

He’s hopeful this issue will resonate with voters, along with the rest of his platform — which includes economic inequality, affordable health care, and getting money out of politics (Crow has refused to take corporate PAC money and just announced a $460,000 fundraising haul for his last quarter, putting his total war chest over $1.2 million).

I talked to Crow about why he got into politics this year, why he decided to make guns such a prominent issue in his campaign, and whether he thinks the issue will translate to national politics in 2018. (He’s unsure.)

Our conversation has been lightly edited for length and clarity.

Ella Nilsen

What do you see as the biggest issues in your district right now?

Jason Crow

Economic inequality is always a big issue in this community. We see the cost of living and the cost of housing skyrocketing here. People are working for the most part, we have very low unemployment, but wages and benefits are really stagnant. We really need to address that issue of economic inequality of the middle class. The tax bill passed by Mike Coffman and his colleagues in Congress is a move in the wrong direction.

In addition to that, we’re hearing a lot about health care, the cost of premiums are rising fast, there are still way too many families and folks who are not covered here, and we just can’t have that. In 21st-century America, everyone should have quality, affordable care.

Gun violence is another issue. We’ve been hit very hard in this community in particular, with not only some of the larger mass shooting in recent history but a lot of street violence as well. I am hearing also, everywhere I go, young people, parents, children that are saying, “We need somebody to do something about this, this is a public health crisis, there’s fear in our schools, there’s fear in our streets, we want someone to lead.”

Mike Coffman is refusing to do anything about it. He takes more money from the NRA than any other representative in the state and won’t even listen to the constituents on this issue. So I’m standing up; I’m leading on this issue.

Ella Nilsen

I wanted you to dive a little deeper into one of those issues: gun violence. First of all, I wanted to know why you decided to take this on directly. Why did you decide to make this a central campaign issue?

Jason Crow

I took this on very early in my campaign, before the Parkland shooting. I was one of the first candidates in the country to seek and receive the endorsement of the Giffords organization. And here’s why: Between 1970 and present, there have been more people killed by guns in this country than by all of our wars combined. And I find that a massively troubling statistic.

When we have 33,000 people being killed by gun violence and our government isn’t even willing to study it and figure out sound policy to address that number, and isn’t willing to do something as simple as banning bump stocks in the wake of the shooting in Vegas, or doing universal background checks like we did in Colorado, that is a failure of leadership in epic proportions, in my view. The community is calling for action, they’re calling for leadership, and it’s something I’m very proud to stand up and say I’m not afraid to lead on it, and I’m going to try to work to address it.

I come to this issue from, I think, a pretty unique perspective. I was raised and grew up a hunter. When I was 12 years old, I hunted deer and duck and rabbit. I went into the military, became an Army Ranger, so I know about firearms. I’ve used them in war; I’ve had them used against me.

But at the same time, before I declared for Congress and long after my political career is over, I’m going to be an American. I’m going to be a member of this community, and I’m going to be a father. This is a problem that has to be addressed right now.

Ella Nilsen

Were you living in the area during the time of the Aurora shooting in 2012?

Jason Crow

Yeah. My wife and I have been in Colorado for over a decade, actually fourth-generation ... kids are fifth-generation. And the shooting happened just a few miles from our home. We were in the community when it happened.

Ella Nilsen

How did that shooting impact the community? Did you notice a change in attitude toward guns before and after it happened?

Jason Crow

So Columbine happened here, so we were impacted very early on, in the current era of mass shootings. And of course, Aurora happened not too many years ago. I do feel like in the past year or so, we have really reached a tipping point on this issue.

It’s now gotten to the point where this constant flow of shootings in the country has now impacted people where we think about this all the time. Loud noises happen in a crowd and at public events, and instead of people thinking about, “Maybe someone dropped something,” people think about a gun.

I hear from students that when they have fire drills, the first thing that comes to their mind is whether or not there’s a mass shooting. I talk to parents about this when they drop their kids off at school in the morning. My wife and I are one of those parents, when we drop our kids off at school, what goes through our minds.

We’ve reached the tipping point as a country and community where this is now impacting our daily lives and our thoughts. I think this is one of the reasons why there is a sense of urgency around the dialogue and why people are calling for action and we’re seeing a sustained call to action on this.

Ella Nilsen

You mentioned you grew up a hunter and obviously know a lot about guns from your time in the military. When you are talking to constituents who own guns and who are pro-gun, how do you balance that?

Jason Crow

We released a policy proposal on this issue ... some of the things it calls for is universal background checks, a ban on military-style assault weapons, magazine limitations, closing the gun show loophole, addressing “no fly, no buy,” overturning the Dickey Amendment, and better checks and mental health reforms. Those are the highlights. You know, dealing with this issue, I think it’s important that, like with any complicated issue, you address this from a value perspective.

I talk to gun owners about my personal experience and say I grew up a hunter and I know about firearms. I’m not coming to this issue as somebody that’s never used them and doesn’t know anything about them. I’m not trying to take away law-abiding citizens’ gun rights, and I’m not trying to take away the Second Amendment.

What I’m trying to do is address commonsense policy solutions that can make our country and our community safer, and that I think the vast majority of our community can get behind, and that I think can make a real difference. Just talking about it in that way is helpful to folks.

Ella Nilsen

What are the concerns you hear from people that are nervous about gun control legislation? When you meet with constituents, are you hearing the same concerns over and over again?

Jason Crow

I think some of those concerns are being fueled by NRA talking points. The biggest is when folks say, “This is just the start, this is a slippery slope here; you start with this, the next thing you know, you’re taking away my guns.” I tell them that’s not our intention; that’s not what we’re going to do.

Whenever this country has had a public health crisis or major challenge, we study it, we think of reasonable ways to do something about it, and we address it.

Automobile deaths are the perfect example. We haven’t taken away cars, but when we had a very large number of automobile deaths in this country, we studied the problem and we decided to have certain design things done on cars to make people safer. We can do this without infringing on people’s rights, but do it in a meaningful and intelligent way.

Ella Nilsen

I’m sure the gun issue is different in every district, and obviously, your district has a particular history with gun violence. I’m curious what your thoughts are on whether this will become a national political issue in 2018 and how this translates on a larger scale.

Jason Crow

I honestly don’t know on the national scale. Perhaps to what I said earlier, I think every district and every campaign is different, and I’m running a very local campaign. I’m running on local issues, what I’m hearing on the ground here in the Sixth Congressional District, what the folks in this district are telling me they want to have happen. I’m laser-focused on that. I don’t think I can really speak to what’s happening nationally in other races.

Ella Nilsen

I was wondering if you have given any thought to single-payer — there are a couple of bills floating around Congress about single-payer and a public option. Have you given any thought as to whether you would support one of those bills if it came up?

Jason Crow

I’m a proponent of universal care. I think we get there by a public option, inserting a public option into the individual marketplace and simultaneously fixing the problems with the ACA and making sure we address the increases in premiums and the coverage and affordability issues. I’ve come out and said that very early in my campaign and have been getting a great response with that.

Ella Nilsen

I was talking to one of your staffers yesterday about the district. The Cook Political Report rates it D+2, so I guess it’s a bit more of a swing district than, say, the Pennsylvania district where Conor Lamb won. We’ve been hearing a lot of hype about a potential blue wave in 2018, and I guess I’m curious what you’re seeing in terms Democratic enthusiasm in your district.

Jason Crow

I think it’s very high. I don’t feel like I’m one of those candidates that thinks there’s going to be a massive blue wave that’s going to wash all of us into office. I think every candidate has to make his or her own wave and campaign. That’s the mentality we’re taking here: We have to win this, and we have to win it on our own terms.

There are levels of enthusiasm that I have never seen in my lifetime. We show up to community meetings where normally eight or nine folks would show up. There are 30 or 40 people there; they show up with clipboards and they’re ready to call, they’re ready to walk, they’re ready to translate their energy and their enthusiasm into action.

And the local elections in our districts in November, Democrats swept most of the races and in some cases in very deep parts of the district. So I think there is energy and enthusiasm I haven’t seen certainly in my lifetime. Now the question is, how do we as candidates and campaigns sustain that and translate that into direct action between now and November?

Correction: A previous version of this article said Colorado’s Sixth District encompasses both Columbine and Aurora. Columbine is now outside the district.Robert Reece, a sociology professor at the University of Texas Austin, recently wrote an essay for Vox exploring men’s efforts to reckon with potentially coercive sexual behavior in their pasts.

“As #MeToo continues to prompt conversation about sexual misconduct, what are the conversations that men across the country are having about this movement?” Reece wrote.

The piece did prompt public conversation — including a debate about the author and his qualifications to teach about sexual consent. After his piece ran, Jazmine Walker, a 30-year-old reproductive rights activist and co-host of the podcast The Black Joy Mixtape, said on Twitter and in interviews that in 2012, when she and Reece were in a relationship as graduate students at the University of Mississippi, Reece came into her bedroom one morning and forced her to have anal sex. Walker told me she identifies the event as a rape.

“I felt so helpless, so vulnerable, I just wanted him to leave,” she wrote on Twitter. Ultimately, she did what he wanted.

Reece doesn’t dispute that the event took place, but he does interpret it differently.

In a text message exchange with Walker shortly after she sent her tweet, Reece wrote, “We remember things differently, not the incident, just the resolution.” (Walker posted the exchange online.) In another text, he says, “I want to understand why my understanding of how we resolved that morning differs so greatly from yours. I remember distinctly that coming up in couples counseling and you saying we’d talked about it and moved on.” Walker told me the two did go to couples counseling but never directly addressed the 2012 incident.

Reece also responded to a question from me about Walker’s description of the incident.

“I’m not here to undermine her account of events,” he said in an email. “Memory is imperfect. We were arguing and we had sex that we both agree we shouldn’t have had.”

On March 21, Reece, whose Twitter account is now private, tweeted about his Vox essay, apparently in response to Walker’s report and other criticism: “This piece wasn’t about me, but I was eager to write it because I’ve been coercive before, specifically with my ex about ten years ago. There are no easy solutions. But I apologized to her many times. We went to counseling. I’ve gone alone for years.”

On March 26, Inside Higher Ed published a story on Reece’s essay and Walker’s account. After Vox editors became aware of Walker’s tweets, they added an editor’s note to his essay. On March 27, I was assigned to report on the story for Vox.

Walker’s report about Reece, and the circumstances under which it became public, set off a conversation among his colleagues in the field about whether Reece is equipped to write and teach on questions of gender and consent, and, more broadly, who should and shouldn’t tackle these issues.

“We commit to creating a culture in sociology and academia that is inhospitable to sexual violence,” wrote a group of sociologists in an open letter released earlier this month. “A first step would be to hold Dr. Robert L. Reece accountable for his actions.”

Other women accuse Reece of damaging behavior

Additional women have described other behavior by Reece they say raises questions about his true sensitivity to issues related to gender:

Walker tweeted that several women have contacted her with their own accounts of alleged inappropriate behavior by Reece, who denied any coercive, harassing, or inappropriate behavior with other women when I contacted him.

One of these women, Shan’Ternera Williams, posted on Facebook that Reece abused her verbally and sexually.

Editors at a magazine where Reece served as an editor apologized earlier this month for not investigating a claim by a staffer in 2016 that Reece made an inappropriate advance toward her and a claim by another woman that he damaged her career.

A 20-year-old undergraduate student at UT Austin says Reece “swiped right” on her on the dating app Tinder.

Allegations of abuse from Shan’Ternera Williams

One of the women who Walker says reached out to her, Shan’Ternera Williams, wrote a public Facebook post regarding Reece on April 9. Williams says she and Reece began dating in 2010, when she was an undergraduate student and he was a graduate student. She writes that during their relationship, he was verbally and sexually abusive. In particular, she describes a 2016 visit to him in North Carolina during which she felt pressured to agree to various sexual acts.

“I was in NC with little money for a hotel, no car, and with a man who seemed to be angered by my very presence. I couldn’t say no,” she writes. “Hours later, Reece would go on to accept his job offer at UT Austin.”

“I haven’t seen the post and don’t want to comment on anything she says,” Reece told me in an email. “I’m not interested in arguing with her in public.”

At the magazine

Editors at Scalawag, a magazine of Southern politics and culture for which Reece was once an editor, posted a statement on their website on April 2 apologizing for not taking complaints about Reece more seriously when they were raised at the publication in 2016.

“We did not take further action then, with Robert or with our fuller team; in doing so, we failed to fully serve our team and community. We apologize. We made the wrong judgment call, and we regret our inaction,” the statement reads.

The magazine has decided not to publish an article from Reece in an upcoming issue and does not plan to work with him again.

In response to the Scalawag statement, Reece told me, “I’ve spoken to them, and they know I recruited the first two women of color to the editorial board.”

Online dating on campus

A 20-year-old undergraduate student at UT Austin told me that in March, she was near campus looking through profiles on her Tinder app when she noticed a man whose profile said he was a professor at the university. It was Reece.

The woman, who listed herself as a UT student on her profile, “swiped right,” a signal to Tinder that she was interested in him. Tinder alerted her that Reece had also “swiped right,” a signal he was interested in her too. She said she quickly unmatched with him, which would prevent Reece from messaging her. She said she never sent him any messages or received any from him.

She later told a friend she’d stumbled across Reece’s profile. The student said that her friend, a 22-year-old undergraduate, told her that she, too, had seen Reece’s profile on the app and taken screenshots of his account. The images, provided to Vox, show that Reece listed his official title, assistant professor of sociology at UT Austin. He identified himself as a “womanist.” His listed age, 29, was current.

Reece told me he has not matched with a 20-year-old undergraduate. He also said he hasn’t used the app “in some time.” “I only recently learned Tinder doesn’t delete your profile when you delete the app,” he said, “so seeing me on the app doesn’t mean I was active.”

Tinder allows users to set a desired age range for potential matches. To see a profile of a 20-year-old woman, for example, a user must include that age in their age settings. Tinder is location-based, allowing users to see people near them. Using the app near the Austin campus with an age range set to include 20-year-olds would make it likely that Tinder would display student profiles.

There is a difference between seeing another user’s profile on Tinder and “matching.” The 20-year-old student said that she didn’t just see his profile but “matched” with him, meaning both of them would have to have swiped right. University policy prohibits faculty members from having relationships with undergraduates. No students have told me that Reece met or tried to meet them in person.

“It doesn’t matter if we’re technically legal; it’s still inappropriate,” the 20-year-old student said.

“It scared me so bad”

When Walker read Reece’s Vox essay, she told me, “it scared me so bad.”

She was disturbed by Reece’s discussion in his essay of what he called the “gray area that looms larger and larger in discussions I’ve had with men about consent and coercion.” “There was nothing gray” about any of the situations Reece cited in the essay, she said.

And in her view, Reece’s failure to disclose the 2012 incident made his point of view on sexual situations and consent untrustworthy.

Walker tweeted, “My ex doesn’t get to walk around here with a PhD, create and legitimize this concept of ‘grey area’ around rape.”

“One way that this campus culture, this culture of violence on college campuses, is perpetuated is because there are folks like him on these campuses with power,” Walker told me. “This man is credentialed. This man is saying that I have the authority to teach about masculinity in America.”

Reece got his PhD in sociology from Duke in 2017 and joined the faculty at UT Austin as a tenure-track assistant professor the same year. His academic research focuses on the history of racism and colorism, but he has written on a variety of topics for non-academic media outlets.

Before his essay on men and consent, he had written for Vox on the Trump administration’s attacks on affirmative action. In 2012 and 2013, he wrote a number of pieces for the Good Men Project website, including one called “5 Ways Disavowing Masculinity Changed My Life.”

Reece has organized a number of panels on gender and race issues, including one titled “Learning a Healthy Masculinity” and another called “For All Men Who Have Considered Sexual Assault When ‘No’ Isn’t Enough.”

Reece opened his latest Vox essay with a description of a male student’s reaction to a lesson he taught on consent. The conversation seemed to make the student “uncharacteristically uncomfortable,” Reece wrote, and in an email exchange afterward, “he told me the topic was difficult to grapple with, that he struggled to reconcile past encounters with his new knowledge of consent and coercion.”

Reece described identifying with the student: “The look on his face was familiar. I’d been there myself.” But he did not write about committing any specific coercive behavior in his own life.

Students are protesting

The public debate about Reece has fanned flames on the UT Austin campus among students who already distrusted the administration over a decision to keep on a professor who pleaded guilty in 2017 to strangling his then-girlfriend until she “saw stars.” The 57-year-old professor was found dead in his home on April 5; while the cause of death has not been determined, authorities say his death is not considered suspicious.

“I wish they would start caring about our students,” one UT Austin student told me. On April 5, the university announced that after a review of its policies around criminal acts by faculty, it would change its policy to allow discipline solely on the basis of those acts, regardless of whether the faculty member is found to pose a threat to campus safety.

UT Austin has not made public whether it is investigating Reece. The university “generally does not comment on personnel matters” but “is aware of recent accusations raised on social media and in media reports,” said J.B. Bird, UT Austin’s director of media relations, in a statement to Vox.

“The university takes all accusations of sexual misconduct seriously and follows up on accusations through its Title IX office and the Office of Inclusion and Equity, following established procedures,” Bird added. “Sexual harassment or violence in any form is unacceptable and in contradiction of our core values.”

Reece, however, says he is not under investigation at UT Austin in connection with Walker’s report or other sexual misconduct allegations.

On March 26, the Revolutionary Student Front Austin, an anti-capitalist student group, posted a message on its Facebook page warning students about Reece.

“Through his course, he is uniquely able to identify potential rapists, yet he does nothing to stop them — and worse, he shows them his sympathy as a fellow misogynist and abuser,” the post reads. The group also argues that setting an age range on Tinder low enough to match with potential students “is in conflict with what he preaches — informed consent with an understanding of how social and material power may guide romantic and sexual encounters.”

Sociologists often study inequality and power imbalances. What happens when one is accused of abuse?

Outside of UT, the allegations against Reece have prompted discussions about who is qualified to teach sociology — which often examines questions of inequality and power imbalance — and what to do when allegations of past misconduct surface.

Earlier this month, a group of sociologists released an open letter expressing support for Walker. “While the current #MeToo movement has heightened the nation’s awareness of sexual violence, it has failed to center the experiences of black women,” the letter states. “The fact that Dr. Reece publicly professed to be a black male womanist despite an apparent pattern of violating and harassing black women is appalling and makes our anger and concern all the more acute.”

The letter also calls for the American Sociological Association (ASA) to delete its tweet promoting Reece’s Vox article and issue a statement against sexual violence, and for other sociological organizations to develop anti-sexual violence policies. The Association of Black Sociologists endorsed the letter on April 6, and on April 11, the group’s president said in a statement that “Jazmine’s bravery and disclosure is a broader call to action” and that “we all must do so much more to ensure that Black people, especially the most marginalized of us, are protected and safe.”

“The American Sociological Association strongly condemns sexual violence and is deeply concerned about the information that has emerged since the publication of Robert Reece’s piece in Vox,” said Nancy Kidd, the executive director of the ASA, in a statement to Vox.

The organization established a working group on harassment in 2017, she added, which has developed an anti-harassment policy for the ASA’s annual conference and planned several workshops on the topic. “We take the issue of sexual violence very seriously and, as sociologists, are particularly mindful of the fact that there are intersectional concerns with race, gender identity, and sexual orientation,” Kidd said.

Shantel Gabrieal Buggs, a sociology professor at Florida State University and one of the letter signatories, tweeted about Walker’s report, saying, “I hope this particular case makes people w/ some actual power think long and hard about what they can change. because this is not the kind of academia I want to work in.”

Reece maintains that part of his commitment to talking about masculinity comes from his own past missteps. “My politics doesn’t lean on me having never been toxic in the past,” he tweeted on March 21.

“I don’t do this work on masculinity because I think I am a superior masculine role model or my past is perfect,” he told me. “I do it because I am and have been flawed, and I want to start and engage in conversations that encourage men to do better. Ironically, this entire situation has done just that.”

For Walker, the fact that Reece teaches sociology — that he is in a position to teach students and the public how society works or should work — makes him especially dangerous.

Sociology teaches students how ideas become accepted, Walker explained to me: “Someone in the past said something, gave an idea legitimacy, and then people just keep repeating it, and then next thing you know, it’s the truth.”Lawyers for both Michael Cohen and President Donald Trump faced off with Justice Department prosecutors in a New York courtroom Monday, as they battled over what can be done with documents and other evidence the FBI seized from Cohen in raids last week.

The hearing concluded without Judge Kimba Wood deciding on a path forward, but it did make some news — Cohen’s lawyers were forced to disclose the name of an apparent client Cohen was trying to keep secret: Fox News host Sean Hannity.

Trump, Hannity, and former RNC fundraiser Elliott Broidy were Cohen’s only legal clients since Cohen left the Trump organization in January 2017. For both Trump and Broidy, Cohen arranged hush money payments to cover up sex scandals. Hannity said Monday afternoon that he had asked Cohen for advice on matters that “dealt almost exclusively about real estate,” leaving unclear what exactly that entailed or what the non-real estate advice pertained to. Hannity also claimed he had never paid Cohen legal fees or gotten an invoice from him.

Cohen has not yet been charged with any crimes, and prosecutors haven’t publicly said what he’s under investigation for. (Reportedly it’s at least partly related to hush money payoffs he arranged during the presidential campaign.) Yet despite the absence of charges so far, Cohen and Trump are already pushing hard to try to block investigators from reviewing the evidence they seized — arguing that much of it should be protected by attorney-client privilege, which shields some communications between lawyers and their clients from prosecutorial scrutiny.

The Justice Department — specifically, prosecutors from the US attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York, or SDNY — currently plans to review the seized evidence with a separate “filter team,” walled off from the team actually working on the case. The filter team would separate out material that they think could be subject to attorney-client privilege and seek permission from either Cohen, Trump, other privilege holders, or the courts before handing over that material to the main investigative team.

But Cohen filed suit in federal court last week to try to block that review from happening — arguing that he himself should be able to review the seized material first and hand over only what he deems not to be privileged.

And President Trump has hired a new attorney, Joanna Hendon, to back up Cohen. On Sunday, Hendon submitted a filing arguing that a judge should block the filter team process entirely and should instead hand over copies of everything seized to Cohen for his review.

SDNY, however, has said that they are adhering to “common practice” for matters like this, and following “rigorous protocols” by using a filter team. They say they found probable cause that the places they searched and the devices they’ve seized contained evidence of potentially criminal conduct by Cohen himself — something that attorney-client privilege would not protect. They’ve fired back at Trump, too, writing Monday morning that “the President’s proposal” to block their review “would set a dangerous precedent.”

The background to Monday’s Michael Cohen court hearing

The full story of why, exactly, SDNY is investigating Michael Cohen remains shrouded in mystery. Since he hasn’t been charged with anything, even the crimes he’s under investigation for have been redacted in the government’s filings. The evidence justifying the warrant and raids hasn’t been publicly disclosed either.

We have, however, learned some bits and pieces from SDNY’s filings:

Cohen, they say, “is being investigated for criminal conduct that largely centers on his personal business dealings” and “finances.”

This investigation has been underway for months with a New York grand jury — meaning that it’s separate from special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe.

Previously, investigators had secretly obtained search warrants “on multiple different email accounts maintained by Cohen,” and have already had a filter team review them for privileged material.

They claim they were worried “records could have been deleted” if they hadn’t carried out the raids — but they’ve redacted their explanation for why specifically they had this worry.

Additionally, various media outlets have reported that investigators were searching for the following materials in the raid (though there could be more):

The argument over attorney-client privilege

Trump and those close to him have responded to the raid on Cohen with fury and panic. The president called it an “attack on our country.” Clearly, he does not want investigators to look at what they took from Cohen. But he’s framed his public objections in terms of “attorney-client privilege”:

Attorney–client privilege is dead! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 10, 2018

But though pop culture may have led you to think that all of a client’s communications with his or her lawyer are de facto shielded by “attorney-client privilege,” that is not actually the case.

“Attorneys are not magic sorcerers. Merely having one in the room or on the phone does not automatically mean that anything that is said in that room or during that conversation is protected by the attorney-client privilege,” Loyola law school professor Jessica Levinson told my colleague Sean Illing last year for his roundup of expert opinion on the topic.

For instance, communications that aren’t about legal advice would not be shielded. Communications that include people other than just the attorney and his client would also not necessarily be shielded. Additionally, communications in which the attorney helps the client commit a crime or fraud (rather than giving legal advice about what the client did) wouldn’t be privileged, in what’s known as the crime-fraud exception.

Now, SDNY prosecutors say they found probable cause that Cohen’s residence, office, and devices had evidence of criminal activity he may have committed, and that Cohen couldn’t be trusted to turn over such evidence voluntarily. A magistrate judge agreed with them, and that was the justification for last week’s raids.

Still, since Cohen is a lawyer, SDNY is having a separate “filter team” (some call it a “taint team”) review the evidence they seized to separate out any material they think might fall under attorney-client privilege, before letting the actual investigators get their hands on it. The specific process they’ve proposed is:

The filter team will separate out any communications they deem indisputably not protected by privilege and hand them right over to the investigators.

However, they will hold on to communications that they think are relevant but “potentially privileged,” and those that might fall under the crime-fraud exception, or other exceptions, to attorney-client privilege. They won’t hand over any of those to investigators right away.

Then the filter team would communicate with privilege holders’ lawyers (Trump, Cohen, or other Cohen clients) about any documents where privilege might apply. If the two camps disagree on what’s privileged, though, the courts would settle the matter.

It’s this process that Cohen and Trump are trying to stop. They are claiming, essentially, that it should be just them who get to decide which of the seized documents are privileged. They don’t want even the filter team involved at all.

Judge Wood was deeply skeptical of Cohen and Trump’s arguments in court Monday. She said that SDNY’s “integrity is unimpeachable” and “a taint team is a viable option.” And she lifted the temporary restraining order preventing the filter / taint team from beginning their review of the seized documents.

However, the judge also mused about potentially appointing a “special master” to play some supervisory role in the process, and asked both sides to submit potential candidates. The hearing closed without a clear decision from Wood on the path forward.Fox News personality Sean Hannity stood with team Michael Cohen since last week when the FBI raided Cohen’s office, home, and hotel room, calling the Justice Department’s investigation a “witch hunt.” It turns out Hannity’s been on team Cohen for a lot longer.

Hannity was a client of Cohen’s, a revelation that came out in a court proceeding on Monday. In all Hannity’s ranting about the unfair treatment of Cohen, Hannity never mentioned Cohen had provided him legal guidance.

Hannity tried to couch the revelation, saying he never paid Cohen, other than “10 bucks” to establish attorney-client privilege. He was vague about what Cohen actually did for him.

“Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective,” he tweeted.

He went on: “I assumed those conversations were confidential, but to be absolutely clear they never involved any matter between me and a third-party.”

District Court Judge Kimba Wood ordered Cohen, who is currently the subject of a major FBI investigation, to disclose that Hannity was one of his three clients last year.

Cohen’s other clients were Donald Trump and major RNC fundraiser Elliott Broidy; Cohen negotiated a payment to a Playboy model in exchange for her keeping quiet about an alleged sexual relationship with Broidy. Broidy and Hannity’s names emerged after Judge Wood asked for a list of Cohen’s clients to make a decision on whether to block the FBI from reviewing materials seized during the raid following a lawsuit Cohen filed.

Hannity talked a lot about Michael Cohen — but never mentioned he was a client

According to Fox News transcripts, Hannity has spent the past week ranting about the search of Cohen’s home, office, and hotel room.

On April 9, the day of the raid, Hannity said that the FBI’s act “means ... Mueller’s witch-hunt investigation is now a runaway train that is clearly careening off the tracks.”

He added:

Keep in mind. Cohen was never part of the Trump administration or the Trump campaign. This is now officially an all-hands-on-deck effort to totally malign and, if possible, impeach the president of the United States. Mueller and [Deputy Attorney General Rod] Rosenstein have declared what is a legal war on the president.

On April 10, Hannity said after news broke that the FBI was looking for information on payments made by Cohen to two women allegedly on behalf of Donald Trump:

Does anyone believe that a porn star and a former Playboy playmate, that they are going to shed any light on potential collusion with Russia? The answer is of course not. Robert Mueller has officially gone rogue and declared war against the president.

On April 11, Hannity described the raid as evidence of “the fishing expedition that Mueller is now engaged in” on his daily radio show.

Up next on #Hannity @michellemalkin & @SebGorka join me to discuss how the media’s anti-Trump agenda has hit a new low since the Michael Cohen raid — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 12, 2018

During that episode of Hannity, a guest commentator, Joseph diGenova, said that Attorney General Jeff Sessions “now has an obligation to the president of the United States to fire Rod Rosenstein after Rosenstein authorized the unconstitutional and unprofessional search of the office of Michael Cohen in New York. It’s Mr. Sessions’s job, and he has a duty to fire Rod Rosenstein.”

But despite reporting on, opining on, and speaking with Michael Cohen on his popular show, Hannity has never revealed that he was a legal client of Cohen’s.

And in a statement released Monday afternoon, Hannity denied that Cohen was his attorney, saying that he had only had “brief discussions with him about legal questions.”Medicaid expansion is back on the ballot.

Organizers in Utah submitted signatures on Monday to put an initiative expanding Medicaid on the state’s ballot in November. They got 165,000 signatures, or about 50,000 more than they needed.

State legislators are actually pushing a limited form of Medicaid expansion, but, as we covered before, the Trump administration seems unlikely to greenlight that proposal. The ballot initiative being submitted today would be a clean version of expansion.

Medicaid expansion would cover about 150,000 low-income people in Utah, one of 18 mostly Republican-led states to refuse to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. A recent poll by the Salt Lake Tribune and the University of Utah found 62 percent of Utah voters support the ballot initiative.

”People want more health care — not less,” Jonathan Schleifer, executive director of the Fairness Project, a left-leaning economic justice group that is helping support the initiative, said in a statement. “They are done with politicians who are not addressing their top concerns, and they are taking action to do something about it.”

vox-mark VoxCare Vox's email explaining the biggest news in health care, edited by Sarah Kliff Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

Last year, Maine became the first state to approve Medicaid expansion by ballot initiative, though its Republican governor is doing what he can to stop it. Utah could be the next — and signatures are being gathered in several other red states to try to finally push through Medicaid expansion.

Organizers are also hoping to put initiatives on the ballot in Idaho and Nebraska. It has been a slow grind to push the holdout states to expand Medicaid — some 4 million Americans have been left without insurance as a result — but this fall, voters will have a chance to make significant strides toward the nationwide expansion that the ACA originally envisioned.

In Idaho, organizers have an April 30 deadline to submit about 56,000 signatures. The Fairness Project told me they “will significantly exceed that number.” Medicaid expansion would cover about 62,000 people in the Potato State; a 2017 survey found that 70 percent of Idahoans said they supported closing the state’s coverage gap, though it didn’t ask about the Medicaid expansion explicitly. (Here’s a good piece from BuzzFeed’s Anne Helen Petersen about the health care politics there.)

In Nebraska, the deadline for submitting signatures for a ballot initiative is July 6; organizers said that the campaign was “on track” to gain the 85,000 signatures that they need. Medicaid expansion would cover nearly 90,000 people in the state.

(The Fairness Project is also helping to support a signature drive in Montana. The state has already expanded Medicaid, but the expansion would end in 2019 unless it is reauthorized. It has covered about 90,000 people in the state.)

The prize turkeys for Medicaid expansion will always be Texas and Florida, where serious ballot initiative campaigns have yet to be mounted. And, as we have seen in Maine, voters approving Medicaid expansion doesn’t mean things will go smoothly if there are intransigent state officials.

Still, Medicaid notched some big wins at the polls last year — in Maine and in Virginia, where Democrats won huge victories campaigning on the issue and may soon approve expansion as a result — and it will get another shot in a few months.

This story appears in VoxCare, a newsletter from Vox on the latest twists and turns in America’s health care debate. Sign up to get VoxCare in your inbox along with more health care stats and news.A South Carolina prison erupted in violence on Sunday night and early Monday morning, turning into what officials described as a “mass casualty” event.

In total, seven inmates were killed and at least 17 were seriously injured, according to the Associated Press. An inmate told the AP that bodies were “literally stacked on top of each other,” claiming that prison guards did little to stop the violence between inmates. Most of the fatal injuries appeared to be a result of stabbing or slashing, although some inmates may have been beaten to death. No prison guards were hurt.

The riot was the worst in a US prison in a quarter century, according to the AP.

Officials said the dispute at Lee Correctional Institution, which holds people convicted of some of the worst crimes in the state, was over money and territory. An inmate told the AP that the fighting appeared to be gang-related.

He also said that many cell lock doors were broken even before the riot, allowing inmates to roam freely and perhaps contributing to the chaos.

“It’s been over two hours, but no COs [corrections officers] have responded to this unit, and no medical personnel have attempted to render any kind of aid,” the inmate wrote to the AP. “The COs never even attempted to render aid, nor quell the disturbance. They just sat in the control bubble, called the issue in, then sat on their collective asses.”

The violence broke out around 7:15 pm on Sunday, spreading to three housing units. Officers failed to contain the violence for hours, with order restored by 2:55 am on Monday, the South Carolina Department of Corrections said in a statement on Facebook.

While the incident was particularly bad, it’s also part of a problem of violence in US prisons more broadly — a problem that, at least in South Carolina, seems to be getting deadlier.

Violence is a growing problem in South Carolina’s prisons

Violence is a very big problem in American prisons. According to a 2009 study published in the Journal of Correctional Health Care, about 21 percent of male prison inmates during a six-month period are physically assaulted, and between 2 and 5 percent are sexually assaulted.

But this kind of problem appears to be getting worse in South Carolina in particular. An investigation by John Monk for the State, a South Carolina newspaper, found that the number of inmates killed in the state’s prisons “more than doubled in 2017 from the year before and quadrupled from two years ago.”

John Bacon and Tim Smith at USA Today reported on recent incidents at Lee Correctional:

The prison, which opened 25 years ago and holds about 1,700 of some of South Carolina’s most violent offenders, is no stranger to violence. Three weeks ago, inmates overpowered a guard, holding him hostage and taking control of part of a dorm for about 90 minutes. The guard was released uninjured. In February, one inmate fatally stabbed another. … The prison is about 50 miles east of Columbia. The state capital is home to the Kirkland Correctional Institution, where four inmates were fatally strangled a year ago. One of the two inmates accused of the crime said he killed them so he would be moved to death row.

Lee County Coroner Larry Logan told the AP that most South Carolina prisons have struggled to find enough workers, indicating that understaffing is making it difficult to keep these places under control. South Carolina Department of Corrections Director Bryan Stirling has previously acknowledged the understaffing problem — and the dangers it causes — as well.

Following reports of the riot, Stirling also blamed the availability of cellphones in prisons, which, he said, allows disputes over “real money and real territory” to continue in prison. He’s tried for years to get federal approval so state officials can block cellphone signals in the facilities.

Some lawmakers are already calling for action. South Carolina House Minority Leader Todd Rutherford (D) tweeted that the riot was “unacceptable” and a “symptom” of broader flaws in the criminal justice system.

“A mass casualty incident inside a correctional facility is simply unacceptable,” Rutherford wrote. “Safety — for inmates, SCDC employees, and the public — must be a priority. Rioting like this is a symptom our criminal justice system is broken and needs reform now.”President Trump is poised to make two nominations to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, according to Nick Timiraos at the Wall Street Journal. Economist Richard Clarida, a former assistant secretary of Treasury under George W. Bush who currently works at Columbia University and the bond fund PIMCO, will be tapped to serve as vice chair, while Kansas Bank Commissioner Michelle Bowman will be selected for the board seat reserved for community banking specialists.

The two picks continue in the broad trend set by Trump’s earlier selection of Jerome Powell to serve as Federal Reserve chair of filling these critical Fed jobs with boring, reasonably well-qualified Republicans.

The healthy state of the national economy has obviously been a major bright spot for Trump even as his White House is a constant swirl of chaos. Adding Clarida and Bowman to a Fed board that currently consists of Powell, Obama appointee Lael Brainard, and regulatory czar Randy Quarles should keep things on track in the medium term — though all of Trump’s appointees share a business-friendly deregulatory bias that could be sowing the seeds of trouble down the road.

Richard Clarida offers an academic counterpoint to Powell

Clarida offers some academic chops to complement current Fed Chair Powell, whose experience is primarily in industry.

Trump rather famously doesn’t value government or academic experience, so Clarida’s work at PIMCO is probably somewhat appealing to the president. But from a Fed governance perspective, Clarida’s academic background — he writes monetary policy theory papers like last spring’s “The Global Factor in Neutral Policy Rates: Some Implications for Exchange Rates, Monetary Policy, and Policy Coordination” — is likely more significant since it adds ballast to what’s mostly an industry-heavy group.

In the short term, Clarida’s basic views on monetary policy, as expressed on PIMCO’s blog and in larger theoretical work on what he calls “the new neutral,” seem to be basically in line with the course that Powell and Yellen have already set. Clarida favors the Fed’s policy of increasing interest rates in advance of any inflation trouble, but doing so gradually and with the expectation that interest rates will be permanently lower than what was the norm in the 20th century.

Michelle Bowman would fill a long-vacant seat

The community banking seat has been vacant since 2014, since Senate Republicans refused to hold a vote on President Obama’s nominee for the job. Bowman herself has been under consideration for the gig since at least the summer of 2017, and it’s not immediately clear what caused the White House to finally greenlight her pick.

Bowman worked years ago for then-Sen. Bob Dole and as a counsel to the House Transportation Committee and later the House Oversight Committee. Later, she served as congressional affairs director for the Federal Emergency Management Agency under President George W. Bush, and shifted over to be a policy adviser to Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge when DHS was created. She then worked for years in London as a government affairs consultant before moving home to Kansas in 2010 as an executive at Farmers & Drovers Bank.

She's served as Kansas’s state bank commissioner since January 2017.

Bowman’s years of work in Republican Party politics plus her background in the banking industry lead most observers to expect she’s a supporter of business-friendly, light-touch regulation, but she has very little public record of expressing views on federal banking policy and essentially no record on monetary policy. Senators and advocates working in this space are interested in hearing what she has to say.

Trump is on track, but trouble may brew

The Federal Reserve is a fundamentally obscure institution during non-crisis times, and both its staff and the appointees who run it like it that way.

But it’s also a critically important agency, and Trump-hating liberals who wonder how the economic recovery has stayed on track despite chaos in the White House should look to the Fed. Trump inherited a competent, though vacancy-ridden, Fed board from Obama and replacing Yellen with Powell and adding Quarles to the board has kept it in competent hands. Clarida is very much an appointment in the Yellen/Powell tradition, and unless Bowman has secret but extremely strongly held views on monetary policy, she will almost certainly also be a voice for continuity and pragmatism and the core management of the economy.

The problem, if there is one, is that the Powell/Clarida/Quarles/Bowman lineup is very heavily weighted toward industry insiders and ideological deregulators — and that’s also the case at Trump’s Treasury Department, at the key market regulatory agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission, and with Mick Mulvaney at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The nature of overly lax bank regulation, however, is that nothing particularly bad happens on any given day. As with many other Trump-related concerns, the problem is tail risk — if nobody is minding the regulatory store, the odds of a catastrophic blow-up of some kind emerging down the road grow ever higher, and it’s at least somewhat remarkable that after running a campaign that promised to get tough on global finance, Trump has in practice appointed a uniform slate of deregulators.

For the short term at least, however, the economy seems to be in good hands.Back in August 2013, the first time Bashar al-Assad deployed chemical weapons against his people on a large scale, Donald Trump repeatedly said the US shouldn’t bomb Syria in response. In a series of tweets spanning about a month, the future commander in chief warned President Barack Obama that a strike would be (among other things) a pointless waste of money that risked civilian casualties and broader escalation.

“Don’t attack Syria — an attack that will bring nothing but trouble for the US,” Trump wrote. “Focus on making our country strong and great again!”

That was then. When Assad used chemical weapons against civilians in April 2017 and again just this past week, Trump chose to bomb Syria. Perhaps the best way I’ve seen to visualize the jarring contrast between Trump’s past and present is through this American Chopper meme, made by Twitter user @hrtbps.

The meme, often deployed to display arguments, stages a debate between Trump’s 2013 tweets and his 2018 comments about his own strike:

It’s perfectly fine for people to change their minds. All sorts of different presidents come into office with one set of ideas about policy and change their minds based on new information or events. Barack Obama, for example, came into office vowing to pull US troops out of Iraq — and then ended up bulking up the US presence there after ISIS became a major threat.

But the American Chopper meme reminds us, by staging a fake argument, just how wide the gulf is between what Trump thought after the 2013 chemical attack and what he thinks today. Businessman Trump insisted that the president should get legal authorization from Congress before launching a strike; President Trump just attacked Syria without it.

Trump used to think an attack could have dangerous consequences; now he’s touting the success of the bombing raid with a jaunty “Mission Accomplished!” even though there’s no reason to think it dealt a death blow to Assad’s chemical weapons program or persuaded the Syrian dictator not to use them in the future.

We’ve never, as far as I recall, heard the president himself detail the reason for his radical change of heart on all these different facets of the Syria intervention question. Given that he’s sent US troops into combat, and may well do so again if there’s another chemical attack, it’s time that someone asks him the question.

Correction: This piece originally credited the American Chopper meme to a Facebook user, who had in fact reposted it. Twitter user @hrtbps is the actual creator.Donald Trump really can’t seem to make up his mind about whether China is devaluing its currency.

He complained about it back in 2013 when he was a private citizen, and on the campaign trail he continually vowed that he would put an end to the practice, saying it gave Chinese exports an unfair edge in global markets.

”On day one of a Trump administration, the US Treasury Department will designate China a currency manipulator,” he wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-ed in 2015. In his Contract With the American Voter describing his plan for his first 100 days in office, he pledged: “I will direct the Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator.”

But just a few months into his presidency, he abruptly reversed his position, saying China was actually not manipulating its currency — a major policy reversal that calmed fears of a trade war.

Now Trump seems to have flipped yet again on the issue. On Monday morning, seemingly out of the blue, he tweeted this:

Russia and China are playing the Currency Devaluation game as the U.S. keeps raising interest rates. Not acceptable! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2018

That contradicts a report released by his own Treasury Department just a few days ago, which did not identify China as a currency manipulator. In fact, the report noted that in 2017, China’s currency had risen in value, which should help reduce the US’s trade deficit with China — which is the president’s main concern when it comes to Beijing’s currency practices.

Trump’s tweet raises the question of whether he’ll begin to once again consider instructing his advisers to formally blacklist China as a currency manipulator, a move that triggers a process that could potentially result in the US government imposing new tariffs on Beijing.

The US is already in the midst of imposing tariffs on billions of dollars of Chinese imports, so that would cause an even greater escalation in tensions between the two countries.

It would also be punishing China for something it’s not actually doing.

So is China manipulating its currency or not?

Beijing’s central bank actively tries to move the value of Chinese currency, the renminbi (also called the yuan), by buying or selling foreign currencies.

That’s in contrast to many advanced economies like the US, which have a floating exchange rate, where the price of the currency is largely determined by supply and demand for it relative to other currencies (although it can be influenced by other factors as well, like a country’s macroeconomic policies).

China spent decades suppressing the renminbi’s value to keep the country’s colossal export machine competitive. It bought up tons of foreign currency, mainly dollars, in order to keep its own currency lower, accumulating $4 trillion worth of foreign exchange reserves by 2014. (When you buy a ton of currency, its value appreciates, and your own currency depreciates relative to it.)

By keeping the renminbi’s value low, China ensured that its goods remained inexpensive in global markets — and made foreign imports into China more expensive.

But as China’s growth slowed in recent years, foreign investors started pulling out of the country, and the pressure on the renminbi started going the other way. So in 2015 and 2016, Beijing changed its approach: It didn’t suppress its currency — it intervened in order to prop it up. China’s foreign reserve dropped from $4 trillion to $3 trillion during those years as the country sold off foreign currency to keep the renminbi from depreciating too swiftly.

In other words, China was actively making sure its currency wasn’t dropping, which made its products more expensive than they would be otherwise. It also made US exports more affordable to Chinese consumers.

That’s why economists were alarmed by Trump’s allegations that China was suppressing its currency on the campaign trail and during the early months of his administration. “If anything, we should be thanking the Chinese lately,” Joseph Gagnon, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told me in February 2017 when it seemed that Trump might be on the brink of blacklisting China as a currency manipulator.

Over the course of 2017, China changed its approach once again — now it’s taking a hands-off approach. In an email on Monday, Gagnon told me that China’s handling of currency isn’t enough to count as manipulation of any kind, and that China’s central bank is “basically doing nothing.”

China is no longer doing what Trump alleges. The president has a number of things he could take up with China to make American trade with the country more competitive, like pushing for more stringent worker standards there.

But right now he appears to be, once again, trying to pick a fight over an issue that’s become obsolete.As the Democratic Party struggles to regain its once-solid national majority, journalists, academics, commentators, and politicos keep reverting to an irresistible narrative: that the party’s commitment to racial equality has alienated it from the white working and middle classes — perhaps irreversibly. As a result of this misstep, Democrats now seem to be the “party of minorities, the marginalized, and their young and elite liberal patrons.”

Those are the words of the journalist James Traub, which appear in a provocative piece in the Atlantic. Traub is only the latest in a long line to make this claim.

But where most commentators trace the Democrats’ downfall to the late 1960s, when the party broke with the allegedly “colorblind” universalism of Martin Luther King Jr. and embraced something these critics call “identity politics,” Traub makes the case that the Democrats’ decline can be traced all the way back to 1948, when Hubert Humphrey persuaded the Democratic National Convention to endorse a platform in favor of civil rights, over the objection of Southern conservatives and risk-averse Northerners.

By morally committing the Democrats to racial equality, Humphrey set the party and the country on the path that led to desegregation, LBJ, the Great Society, mandatory busing — and, finally, white “backlash.”

“Did the commitment of 1948 lead inevitably to the electoral calamity of 1968 and beyond?” Traub asks. “That is, did the Democrats doom themselves to lose much of the white middle class simply by demanding equal rights for black people?”

The defection of white Southerners, the loss of support among white working- and middle-class voters in the North, the rise of George Wallace, Ronald Reagan, and now Donald Trump — each might have been avoided but for this commitment to racial equality. In Traub’s words: “Thanks to Humphrey and the ADA [Americans for Democratic Action], the Democrats had done something even more dangerous than they understood: They had exchanged a politics of self-interest for a politics of moral commitment.”

It has now become common to argue that the downfall of the New Deal can be attributed to the belated addition of “identity-based” claims — namely, claims to racial equality — to what had been a broad-based coalition rooted in the economic interests of workers, albeit one focused at first mainly on whites. The universal — or at least, seemingly universal — appeal of the New Deal was lost as the particular interests of African Americans and other minorities came to the fore. Mark Lilla, author of The Once and Future Liberal: After Identity Politics, is another prominent exponent of this view.

In the 1930s and ’40s, “liberalism” came to mean support for both economic and racial justice

But this argument misses something New Deal liberals recognized early on: By the late 1930s, without racial justice, there would be no program of economic equality. It is New Deal liberalism itself that upended the supposed distinction between identity politics and class politics.

Rejecting the choice between “self-interest” and “moral commitment,” liberal New Dealers drew on a moral vision that linked fighting the gross injustices facing African Americans and other minorities to the shared interest of all workers. By the late 1930s and early 1940s, the core constituencies backing the New Deal were groups that supported civil rights: industrial labor unions, African Americans, and urban liberals.

Conversely, it was Southern white Democrats who not only opposed civil rights but also adopted a virulently anti-union stance. Leading Southern white Democrats worked with Republicans to attack the same labor unions that were essential to electing New Deal Democrats in the North. These same Southerners increasingly worked with Republicans to block a range of New Deal initiatives, not just those relating directly to race.

Long before civil rights rose to the top of the national agenda, in sum, it was evident to labor leaders, African Americans, and other liberal New Dealers that they had to act together to defeat the Southern Democrats who stood in the way of both civil and labor rights.

Debating the “universalism” of the New Deal programs, and coalition

Traub’s point of departure is that the strength of Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal coalition derived primarily from white voters. That helps explain why the introduction of racial issues to the Party by Humphrey and others was so destabilizing, in his view. “FDR had created the modern Democratic Party by deploying the state on behalf of ordinary citizens — ordinary white citizens,” he writes.

There is an element of truth to that: To hold on to Southern white Democrats, the New Dealers enacted numerous policies that excluded African Americans, particularly from 1933 to 1938. Most black Southerners were initially barred from receiving Social Security, for example, because farmworkers and domestics were not included.

But Traub misses the extent to which, from an early moment, the New Deal set in motion changes on the ground that linked racial and economic concerns. The Democrats’ ultimate, if incomplete, embrace of racial liberalism was not the top-down creation of Humphrey in 1948 or Lyndon Johnson in 1964.

Instead, the core groups behind the New Deal — industrial unions, African Americans, and urban liberals — transformed the party from below. Claims for racial justice were a key part of the liberal program, as understood by New Dealers themselves in the late 1930s and early 1940s.

While parts of Roosevelt’s program perpetuated discrimination, New Deal labor and jobs programs also offered real benefits to many African Americans in the North and even in the South. In response, black Northerners voted overwhelmingly for Roosevelt in 1936 and stuck with the president for the rest of his time in office. This new voting bloc motivated many Democratic politicians to back civil rights.

The Congress of Industrial Organizations argued that only a cross-racial coalition could defeat labor’s enemies

At the same time, the New Deal helped propel the rapid rise of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO), which became a key ally for African Americans within the Democratic Party. Before the formation of the CIO in 1935, the labor movement was dominated by American Federation of Labor (AFL) unions that typically excluded African Americans.

But the CIO stood out among white-led organizations in its support for civil rights. Even as rank-and-file union workers often shared in the racial prejudice that was prevalent in their communities, the union’s leaders and organizers made civil rights a priority.

They did this for both practical and ideological reasons. The CIO’s leaders and organizers believed that African-American support was crucial in industrial workplaces where replacement workers were a recurrent threat. As long as black workers were not welcome in the union, and treated unfairly by it, they would be a potential source of strikebreakers. Many of these same union officials had roots in left-wing political movements committed to the idea that racial divisions undermined class consciousness.

The CIO pioneered a fusion of class and race, arguing that economic justice required the labor movement and the state to tackle the mutually reinforcing problems of economic and racial inequality. CIO president John L. Lewis emphasized that “no group in the population feels more heavily the burden of unemployment and insecurity than the Negro citizens. … The denial of civil liberties lie[s] with heavy discrimination upon Negroes. Only when these economic and political evils are wiped out will the Negro people be free of them.”

The CIO’s John Brophy declared, “behind every lynching is the figure of the labor exploiter, the man or the corporation who would deny labor its fundamental rights.”

Lewis and Brophy looked to African Americans as critical allies for the labor movement, both in workplace struggles and in a larger political battle to drive Southern conservatives from power.

The push for racial justice was a bottom-up movement, not a misstep by elites

African Americans, the CIO, and other urban liberals fostered a new understanding of “liberalism” in which support for civil rights was a key marker of one’s identity as a liberal. Ordinary voters, too, came to link racial and economic liberalism: By the early ’40s, Northern Democratic voters were substantially more likely to back key civil rights initiatives than were Republicans.

Grassroots African-American activists played a critical role in tightening these connections. Capitalizing on the mobilization for World War II, they pushed Fair Employment Practices legislation — to prevent racial discrimination in employment — onto the political agenda. The Fair Employment Practices Committee soon became a core element of the “liberal program.”

The energy and activism that propelled the Democratic Party in the 1940s and beyond came from this new coalition, which gradually captured the formal party organization, despite the reluctance of most top party leaders. The Democrats’ endorsement of civil rights in 1948, and beyond, was not a matter of elites steering the people the wrong way. It was the product of a long-term, cross-racial movement that viewed civil rights as integral to the liberal program — and the labor program.

The “identity politics” argument assumes that racial justice ultimately brought down the liberal project. But this gets the history almost backward. Indeed, much of the moral fervor that fed the liberal project in the 1940s came precisely from its linkage to the cause of racial justice.

The bitter response to this program forged a clear division in which Southern conservatives were identified on one side and African Americans, unions, Jews, and other urban liberals on the other. Where Traub and others think this division was the product of liberals’ shift in focus from white workers to African Americans, racial backlash was sown into the attack on the New Deal almost from the beginning (just as cross-racial solidary was assumed by many of its supporters).

Lessons for today’s Democrats

Contemporary liberals are once again confronted with the challenge of forging a politics in which reformers seeking progress for particular groups do not see themselves as isolated advocates but instead as part of a broader ideological coalition with common aims and shared enemies.

The biggest obstacle to such a coalition today is the decline of organized labor, which played a critical role in forging the expansive New Deal liberalism that took hold in the 1930s. But this decline is rooted not in a post-1965 reaction against civil rights; instead, it can be traced to the alliance between Southern Democrats and Republicans nationally that made crushing unions a top priority from the late 1930s onward.

What the cross-racial liberal vision put forward by the CIO and its African-American allies suggests is that movements for economic justice can derive vitality from attending to the identities and interests of marginalized groups.

New Deal liberalism was, in part, identity politics. Appeals to identity — whether by farmers, veterans, workers, or immigration opponents — have always been a potent political force. The main difference is that, unlike previous versions of identity politics in the US, the identity politics of the New Deal era was not limited to white Americans.

The lesson of the New Deal coalition for liberals today is not that they should turn away from appeals to the identities of particular groups. Instead, liberalism is at its strongest when its advocates understand that justice for each group is essential to achieving justice for all.

Eric Schickler is the Jeffrey and Ashley McDermott professor of political science at the University of California Berkeley and the author of Racial Realignment: The Transformation of American Liberalism, 1932-1965.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links.

For a conversation about depression, this week’s episode of The Ezra Klein Show is a joy to listen to. Guest Johann Hari, author of the new book Lost Connections: Uncovering the Real Causes of Depression — and the Unexpected Solutions, giggled profusely over an unintentionally hilarious slip of the tongue regarding the book Bowling Alone, joked about his former KFC addiction, and profanely paraphrased Confucius — “If you think life is about money and status and showing off, you’re gonna feel like shit.”

Buy Lost Connections here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

Despite the jovial tone of the conversation, Hari is serious about the implications of his research. Lost Connections was very much informed by his work on his previous book, Chasing the Scream, about the failures of the war on drugs. He discusses the “Rat Park” experiments in which lab rats that were given access to opioid-laced water were dying from overdoses until their social needs were fulfilled and they stopped getting addicted. In many ways, he sees addiction — to opioids, to porn, to online video games — as a response to needs going unmet.

Buy Chasing the Scream here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

The podcast covers a wide range of topics related to this idea that depression is, to a large extent, societally created and what we can do to make our societies happier. Hari’s book recommendations reflect the idea that the state of our mental health is largely a reflection of the world around us.

Rebecca Solnit, author of Men Explain Things to Me, which inspired the term mansplaining, wrote about her experience recovering from an earthquake in A Paradise Built in Hell: The Extraordinary Communities That Arise in Disaster. She found that the overwhelming response to natural disasters is one of solidarity, and many people even found joy in helping their community rebuild. To Hari, the book asks the important question: “How do we hold on to those moments beyond the crisis zone?”

Buy A Paradise Built in Hell here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

He also recommends Solnit’s book Hope in the Dark: Untold Histories, Wild Possibilities. The book about overlooked activist victories is a celebration of political engagement, which Hari calls “particularly necessary at the moment, for reasons I don’t need to summarize.”

Buy Hope in the Dark here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

Hari calls This Changes Everything: Capitalism vs. the Climate by Naomi Klein a “tour de force of the social crisis we’re facing.” The book and subsequent documentary argue that not only is climate change the most dire issue the globe is facing today, but that combating it requires a fundamental reorganization of our economic and social structures.

Hari ties This Changes Everything into his own research by saying “a species engaged in destroying their own habitat should feel anxious and depressed.” He draws a comparison between feelings of distress over the environment and Tums. According to Hari (who grew up in London), indigestion pills “completely baffle British people ... because indigestion is a signal from your body that you’re eating too fast. That’s not a malfunction; that’s a function.” Similarly, he believes that anxiety should be treated as a serious warning rather than a pathology.

Buy This Changes Everything here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

Hari’s next project is a biography of Noam Chomsky, so it makes sense that he’d recommend a book by the modern philosopher. Chomsky’s Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media, written with economist Edward S. Herman, relates to the latter half of the conversation about why, if there are relatively easy fixes to our society’s happiness problem, those changes aren’t implemented. According to Hari, the book does a good job of “helping us to understand the ways in which our consciousness gets constructed ... that divert us from genuinely understanding what’s going on.”

Buy Manufacturing Consent here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

You can listen to Johann Hari on The Ezra Klein Show by subscribing on Apple Podcasts or wherever you get your podcasts, or by streaming the episode here:As Beyoncé herself reminded the crowd during her historic Coachella performance last Saturday, she is the first black woman to headline the music festival. (“Ain’t that about a bitch?” she added, with a tiny but telling smirk.) But even if she hadn’t literally said it, every single minute of her set was imbued with her acknowledgment of that fact, which was, as the New Yorker’s Doreen St. Félix put it, “an education in black expression.”

Throughout the two-hour set, St. Félix writes, Beyoncé put on a show that honored “New Orleans and its horns, Houston and its chopped and screwed beats, Brooklyn and its rap velocity, Kingston and its dancehall, and Nigeria and the legacy of its dissenter, Fela Kuti.” At one point, she sang a heartfelt rendition of “Lift Every Voice and Sing,” a song rooted in the civil rights movement that is commonly referred to as the “black national anthem.”

Surrounded by black dancers and musicians, Beyoncé was purposeful and direct about her influences and what she wanted to pay homage to — and she did so in front of a predominantly white crowd that mostly failed to pick up the references.

But that, according to her mother, Tina Knowles-Lawson, was exactly the point.

“I told Beyonce that I was afraid that the predominately white audience at Coachella would be confused by all of the black culture and Black college culture because it was something that they might not get,” Knowles-Lawson wrote on Instagram the Monday after her daughter’s performance. “Her brave response to me made me feel a bit selfish and ashamed.”

Knowles-Lawson said Beyoncé told her that she wanted to use her platform to elevate and educate people, to do “what’s best for the world and not what is most popular.” In fact, Knowles-Lawson added, Beyoncé deliberately referenced the aesthetics of historically black colleges and universities in order to encourage more people to go there — a wish she quickly backed up by announcing that she will sponsor scholarships to Xavier, Wilberforce, Tuskegee, and Bethune-Cookman universities this year.

“[Beyoncé] said that her hope is that after the show young people would research this culture and see how cool it is,” Knowles-Lawson continued in her Instagram post, “and young people black and white would listen to LIFT EVERY VOICE AND SING and see how amazing the words are for us all and bridge the gap.”

In centering black traditions in such a spectacular way for the Coachella audience, Beyoncé made sure that they — not to mention those watching the live stream around the world — wouldn’t just have an amazing time at the show but would actually learn something while she had their undivided attention.As the new musical Mean Girls premieres on Broadway, it’s entering the not-quite-proud tradition of the screen-to-stage musical, with all the baggage that lineage entails.

There are plenty of musicals that have made the transition from stage to screen without losing their sterling reputations (West Side Story! Chicago!), but the shows that make the change the other way around — that start as movies without singing and then become stage musicals — have a much more fraught reputation.

For every underappreciated gem like Bring It On: The Musical (with music by a pre-Pulitzer Lin-Manuel Miranda and a post-Pulitzer Tom Kitt), there’s a flop like Breakfast at Tiffany’s (it ran four Broadway performances total and closed before it ever officially opened). For every giant moneymaker like Hairspray or The Lion King, there’s an also-ran like Catch Me If You Can or The Little Mermaid.

Mean Girls may not quite change that tradition. It’s a solid outing with great jokes, some catchy songs, and so-so lyrics. While a major success is within the realm of possibility here, it’s far from a sure thing.

Based on the 2004 movie written by Tina Fey and starring Lindsay Lohan, Mean Girls comes to Broadway with a book written by Fey, music by her husband Jeff Richmond, lyrics by Nell Benjamin, and direction and choreography by Casey Nicholaw. It tells the story of Cady Heron (Erika Henningsen, likably blank), a Nice Girl who enters a public high school for the first time and falls under the spell of Queen Bee Regina George (Taylor Louderman, deliciously vicious). In the time it takes to do an onstage quick change out of a dorky Halloween zombie costume and into a miniskirt, Cady finds that she has become one of the titular Mean Girls.

It is in many ways exactly the story you remember from 14 years ago, but this time the iconic catchphrases are set to music: “Come sit with us tomorrow / It’ll be fetch!” sings Gretchen Weiner.

But in its new form, Mean Girls is also an excellent case study in the pitfalls and the advantages of the screen-to-stage musical as a genre. Here are two things that hold it back from being great — and the one thing it does really well.

Remember how funny “You go, Glen Coco” was in 2004? Don’t you want to hear it again with a slightly different delivery?

A problem that all screen-to-stage musicals eventually run into is this: If a movie is iconic enough to get turned into a musical, chances are it has certain moments that fans in the audience will have memorized. So how do you adapt those moments in a way that’s true to the source material while also leaving the new stage musical room to do its own thing?

Some screen-to-stage musicals are able to translate their source’s most indelible moments from one medium to another, so that the stunning animation of the Lion King movie becomes the stunning puppet work of the Lion King stage show. Others choose to ignore those elements altogether. Bring It On: The Musical kept its source material’s focus on competitive cheerleading and a rivalry between white and black schools and ditched the rest, and was the stronger for it.

Mean Girls is most famous for its killer Tina Fey one-liners. And Fey, who wrote the book for the new musical, decided to preserve most of them in amber. That’s not a hugely successful choice.

In the best-case scenario, the show has to grind to a halt every time one of the movie’s most famous lines pops up to give the audience a chance to laugh and applaud while the cast winks and does a soft-shoe flourish: “Four for you, Glen Coco. You go, Glen Coco!” (Applause break.) “Oh, my god, Danny DeVito, I love your work!” (Applause break.) “I’m not like a regular mom, I’m @CoolMom!” (Okay, that one got updated for the social media generation. But did it need to be?)

In a worst-case scenario, the audience ends up hearing the original version of the quote echoing in their ears as they watch the musical, and that’s wildly unfair to the able new cast. Why does poor Louderman — who’s developed a fantastic character voice for Regina, part Valley Girl drawl and part growl — have to compete with my memory of Rachel McAdams’s manic fury on the line, “Gretchen, stop trying to make fetch happen! It’s not going to happen”?

And when Henningsen and Kyle Selig, as Cady’s crush object Aaron Samuels, rush through a shoehorned-in, “Hey, what’s the date?” / “October 3rd,” it’s impossible to avoid thinking about how every year on October 3, Jonathan Bennett and Lindsay Lohan used to tweet those lines at each other but now Lohan has deleted all her old tweets, and how it’s really sad how she brought back her Twitter account for that depressing April Fool’s joke. Honestly, the whole thing is more of a downer than Cady and Aaron’s sweet torch ballad “Stupid With Love” needs.

Smushing a three-act story into a two-act structure always gets messy

If you’ve ever seen The Lion King onstage, you might have experienced a brief and intense moment of confusion when the cast launches into “Hakuna Matata” and you still haven’t gotten to the act break. “Is there no intermission in this show?” I once saw an audience member mouth to her companion with horror as young Simba transformed into adult Simba onstage.

It’s a confusing sequence. The moment before Simba the lion cub goes into exile and meets Timon and Pumba feels like a natural break in the story, just the point for an intermission. When the show cheerily sails on past it, it can be disorienting.

That’s because The Lion King is structured for the movies, where the three-act structure reigns supreme. Simba’s exile feels like a natural act break because it is: It’s the end of the first act in the movie. His adventures with Timon and Pumbaa as they Hakuna Matata around form the second act of the movie, and his final battle with Scar is the third act.

But Broadway shows are almost always two-act shows, with just enough room for the audience members to stretch their legs and brave the line to the bathroom in the middle. You can only get away with two intermissions if you’re Shakespeare or Tony Kushner or something; it’s certainly nothing you want in a family-friendly extravaganza. So generally, when you bring a story from screen to stage, you have to massage its structure enough that there’s a natural breaking point halfway through.

Or you can pull a Lion King and just stick the act break halfway through the movie’s second act, more or less at random, which is pretty much what Mean Girls does.

The results aren’t horrible — as the success of The Lion King shows, you can absolutely have a successful play with a confusing structure — but they’re messy. There’s a certain shaggy clumsiness to Mean Girls around its midsection, when the structure of the movie is fighting the structure of the Broadway show, and it keeps the musical from working as cleanly and effectively as the movie did.

The best parts of Mean Girls are the parts that expand and improve on the movie

While Fey’s involvement in the creation of this musical isn’t an unalloyed good, it does give Mean Girls one giant advantage: While some screen-to-stage musicals can feel like a weak copy of their source material, this feels like a second draft of the movie in all the best ways.

The characters are more thoroughly thought out, and their arcs are better developed. The nerdy glee that Cady takes in math gets plenty of room to breathe, and so does her anthropological study of Regina’s predatory ways. Karen gets a better running joke than her movie counterpart’s obsession with her psychic breasts. New parallels emerge between approval-hungry Gretchen and the hapless Mrs. George in a comic and surprisingly touching duet.

Part of that is because, at two and a half hours, the musical is a solid hour longer than the movie. But a lot of it is because of what musicals have to offer as a medium. A good musical theater song can take the audience deeply into a character’s mind, and it can make that character come thoroughly to life in a way no other medium can quite manage. It’s a feature that Mean Girls takes full advantage of.

Most impressively, the musical is willing to look at the structures that make girls mean, where the movie threw up its hands and declared the meanness of girls to be just fate or something. Where the movie laughed at its girls, the musical is willing to seek the systems that make them act out, and point its jokes in that direction instead.

That’s why, despite its minor flaws, Mean Girls has the potential to be one of the truly successful screen-to-stage musicals. And even if it doesn’t quite become a Broadway fixture like The Lion King, it’s already outlasted Breakfast at Tiffany’s.There are two lyrics in Beyoncé’s oeuvre that sum up the paradox that makes her so astonishingly compelling.

The first is from 2013’s “Flawless:” “I woke up like this, I woke up like this / We flawless, ladies tell ’em.”

The second is from 2016’s “Formation:” “I see it, I want it, I stunt, yellow bone it / I dream it, I work hard, I grind till I own it.”

Beyoncé is effortless, flawless perfection. And Beyoncé is endless effort, grinding labor, working hard until she achieves her goals.

Practically speaking, both can’t be true: You can’t be both effortlessly perfect and someone who puts in the work for perfection. But what makes Beyoncé great is that she makes both feel true.

Beyoncé personifies effort and effortlessness simultaneously

In her breathtaking, momentous performance at Coachella this past weekend, Beyoncé never once let her audience forget how much work she was putting into what they were seeing, how it was her labor and exertion that built that two hours of practically nonstop song and dance. As Jon Caramanica at the New York Times put it, “Beyoncé shows her work — the cameras captured the force and determination in her dancing, and also her sweat.” TMZ reported that she was working 11-hour days to prepare for the big night, and every second of that rehearsal time showed onstage.

But even while the audience marveled at the work and sweat Beyoncé put into what she was doing onstage, simultaneously it was possible to feel that it all just emerged from her with no real work on her part, that it was as unthought and natural as breathing. “The thing is, Beyonce did wake up like this,” the Guardian marveled.

Beyoncé makes it possible for her audience to understand her both as the hardest-working woman in the business and as someone who does not need to work because of her natural perfection. She is effort and effortlessness all at once. Call it the Bey Paradox.

If a star can reconcile a paradox, she can become an icon

One of the things that separates a star who will fade from an icon who will last is this: Icons can reconcile a major cultural paradox through the power of their images. A star is a person onto whom the rest of us project all of our fantasies and fears, so when the star is able to resolve one of those fears, to make us feel that it is meaningless and insignificant just for as long as we’re looking at them, we love them for it. We turn them into icons.

Marilyn Monroe is the prime example here. Marilyn was both pure sex and pure innocence at once, in a time that was profoundly anxious about sex and women’s bodies. You didn’t need to be worried about whether sex was corrupt or dirty when you looked at Marilyn because she made sex feel innocent just by existing as Marilyn.

Today, you might think of Angelina Jolie, who is both a sex symbol and a mother figure, or Oprah, who is both our wise, empathetic, and selfless best friend and a brilliant businesswoman mogul: They have resolved a contradiction that we don’t like, and because of that, we love them.

The Bey Paradox does the kind of work that made Marilyn Monroe an icon. It takes one of the major questions our culture frets over — Should women be naturally beautiful/good at their work/perfect in general? Or should they take pride in working hard and earning their perfection? — and it answers, yes. Both. Natural perfection and high-maintenance perfectionism, both at the same time.

Beyoncé dreams it and works hard, and then she wakes up flawless. That’s what makes her Queen Bey.After their in-depth reporting on Harvey Weinstein’s alleged sexual harassment and assault over decades triggered an avalanche of other accusations against dozens of power players, the New York Times and New Yorker have been jointly awarded the Pulitzer Prize for public service.

Jodi Kantor and Meagan Twohey’s New York Times reporting on the Weinstein allegations — not to mention the webs of secrecy and institutional protection that kept them from coming to light for years — beat Ronan Farrow’s initial New Yorker exposé to publication by five days. But together, they painted a damning portrait of a man and an industry that prize power above basic respect for the vulnerable.

After these reports were published, dozens of actors came out against Weinstein to solidify the case — including op-eds from Lupita Nyong’o and Salma Hayek — with Kantor, Twohey, and Farrow reporting follow-up stories that backed up their initial reporting.

Many had tried to bring the Weinstein allegations to light before and found that they didn’t have the resources, pull, proof, or opportunity to make it to print. But Kantor, Twohey, and Farrow managed it, and for that, the Pulitzer committee saw fit to recognize their work, in tandem, as exceptional.

But the reason the Pulitzer committee singled out their contributions under the public service category — as opposed to, say, investigative reporting — is that the sexual abuse revelations didn’t end with Weinstein. In fact, they sparked an outpouring of hundreds more revelations about powerful people in the entertainment industry and far beyond. Their reporting started a long-overdue national conversation about how sexual harassment and assault pervades every industry — and at least for now, it’s impossible to ignore.

Updated to reflect that the Pulitzer went to the New York Times and New Yorker for their collective coverage of the Weinstein allegations.Kendrick Lamar just won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for music for his album DAMN. and made history in the process.

Announcing the prize, the Pulitzer board called DAMN. “a virtuosic song collection unified by its vernacular authenticity and rhythmic dynamism that offers affecting vignettes capturing the complexity of modern African-American life.”

The Pulitzer for music, which was first awarded in 1943, generally goes to contemporary classical music; a quick scan through the list of previous winners reveals a lot of operas and symphonies. Lamar, however, is a hip-hop artist, and DAMN. is a hip-hop album. Lamar is now not only the first person to win a Pulitzer for a hip-hop album but the first person to win a Pulitzer for any music that’s not classical or jazz.

And even jazz, it’s worth noting, is a late addition to the Pulitzers. The Pulitzer jury once recommended giving the award to Duke Ellington in 1965, but the board declined to honor anyone that year. The first jazz musician to win the Pulitzer, Wynton Marsalis, didn’t take home his prize until 1997.

The Pulitzer for music is overwhelmingly homogeneous not only in the genres it recognizes but also in the race and gender of the musicians it honors. No woman won the award until 1983, and no African American won until 1996.

Lamar’s win is in some ways a vindication of a series of reforms that the Pulitzer Prize Board enacted between 1996 and 2004 that allowed it to gradually open up eligibility to music outside of the so-called “larger forms” — i.e., music beyond contemporary classical music.

But Lamar’s win is also just a recognition that while DAMN. may not have taken home the Grammy for Album of the Year, it’s still an iconic damn album.Vox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world, curated by Ella Nilsen. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.

A prison riot in South Carolina leaves seven dead; North and South Korea might be in talks to end their 68-year military conflict.

Deadly mayhem in a South Carolina prison

A seven-hour prison riot at Lee Correctional Institution in South Carolina that left seven inmates dead and 17 injured has focused renewed attention on the issue of prison violence — especially in South Carolina, where the problem appears to be growing faster than it is elsewhere. [Vox / German Lopez]

Around 7:15 pm Sunday, inmates armed with homemade knives began fighting over territory, money, and contraband in what became the deadliest US prison riot in a quarter of a century. The brawl was apparently sparked by warring gangs within the prison. [AP]

An inmate who witnessed the violence and was communicating with the AP via a banned cellphone reported that bodies were “literally stacked on top of each other.” He also said no corrections officers or medical personnel attended to the dead or dying. [CBS]

South Carolina Department of Corrections director Bryan Stirling defended the prison’s actions, saying it’s protocol for guards to call for help and then extricate themselves from the situation. He attributed the delayed response to having to gather enough armed officers, saying that assembling a SWAT team in a rural area on a Sunday night takes time. (The first large response team didn’t enter the site of the fight until 11:30 pm.) [NYT / Richard Fausset]

Lee Correctional Institution, which houses about 1,700 of some of South Carolina’s most violent offenders, is no stranger to violence. Three weeks ago, inmates held a guard hostage and took control of part of a dorm for about 90 minutes. The guard was later released uninjured. [USA Today / John Bacon and Tim Smith]

One factor contributing to all this violence is an increase in inmates obtaining cellphones, which allows them to continue criminal activities from inside. Stirling said the corrections department would continue to push the Federal Communications Commission and cell service providers to block cell signals from the prison. [Washington Post / Amy B. Wang and Mark Berman]

Pervasive staff shortages is another factor: At Lee Correctional, the shortage is 28 percent. There were reportedly only four officers on duty for the 250 to 260 inmates in the dorm where the fighting broke out. [NBC / Kalhan Rosenblatt]

These staff shortages are common across the state: There are roughly 650 vacancies for correctional staff statewide. Amid this staffing shortage, 12 South Carolina prisoners were killed by fellow inmates last year. [The State / John Monk]

vox-mark Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

As neighborly disputes go, the Koreas’ conflict might be about to end

Some 65 years since open conflict officially ended, North and South Korea are still technically at war. But that might be about to change. [CNBC / Sam Meredith]

South Korea’s Munhwa Ilbo newspaper reported Tuesday that the two countries are in talks to announce a permanent end to the military conflict, citing an unnamed official. [USA Today / Jessica Durando]

The news comes ahead of a summit between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, scheduled for April 27. According to the official, easing military tensions and ending the military confrontation are high priorities on the summit’s agenda. [Newsweek / Sofia Lotto Persio]

Negotiations could focus on one of the most enduring symbols of the conflict: the 2.5-mile-wide stretch of land separating the countries known as the Demilitarized Zone. As of now, there’s no plan on what will happen to this uninhabited stretch of land that has become a haven for some of the most endangered animals in Asia, but it could involve returning the DMZ to its “original state.” [Bloomberg / David Tweed]

The report comes amid news that Kim Jong Un plans to formally announce his willingness to denuclearize his country during the summit with the South. [NYT / Choe Sang-Hun]

Miscellaneous

Parents whose children were killed during the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting have filed defamation suits against Alex Jones for portraying the incident as a hoax. [NYT / Matthew Haag]

[NYT / Matthew Haag] In disturbing Soviet-era Russia news: The US and UK jointly accused Russia on Monday of hacking into global internet equipment with the intent of spying on the two countries. [Time via the AP / Frank Bajak]

Despite their name, rare earth elements aren’t actually all that rare. [The Verge / James Vincent]

A lost planet may have just been rediscovered: Rock fragments that hit Earth in 2008 may contain evidence of a planet that was part of the early solar system. [Guardian / Ian Sample]

Verbatim

“I began to shout in hope maybe some miracle happened and they were here. I shouted and shouted through the wind. And finally I heard some quiet voice.” [Rescue climber Denis Urubko to Outside Magazine / Marcin Jamkowski]

Watch this: How a warmer Arctic could intensify extreme weather

Is there a link between the vanishing Arctic sea ice and extreme weather? Some prominent climate researchers think so. [YouTube / Eli Kintisch and Mallory Brangan]

Read more

Missouri’s chaotic, contentious Senate race, explained

A professor teaches about feminism and consent. Now he’s been accused of abuse.

Sean Hannity claims he went to Michael Cohen for minor real estate advice

Beyoncé knew Coachella’s white audience wouldn’t understand her set. That’s why she did it.

“Witch hunts” explained, from Salem to Donald TrumpOnline shopping has its perks: infinite items to buy, product reviews to tell you what’s worth buying, and, of course, convenience. In many cases, these transactions also skip the sales tax. On Tuesday, though, the Supreme Court will hear a case that could slap a digital sales tax on online purchases at big sites like Etsy and eBay, and as well as smaller, independent online shops.

Today, the justices will start listening to both sides of the case of South Dakota v. Wayfair Inc. In what’s been dubbed the “tax case of the millennium” by the National Conference of State Legislatures, South Dakota is looking to repeal a 1992 decision from the case Quill v. North Dakota, which ruled that companies only had to collect sales tax in states where they are physically located. South Dakota is arguing that the state, along with many other states, has been robbed billions of dollars as a result of the decision.

This case, which the Supreme Court is expected to decide in June, is hugely important. If Quill is overturned, giant e-commerce companies might have to start collecting sales taxes on all purchases — meaning you might have to start paying more for all that online shopping you do. It also just so happens to be top of mind for the president, as Donald Trump blasted Amazon a few weeks ago on Twitter for its tax practices.

What’s the case?

During the ’60s, the Supreme Court decided only businesses with a physical presence, like a company’s headquarters or company-owned property, had to add sales tax to purchases, according to the Tax Foundation. This decision was further cemented by the Supreme Court case Quill v. North Dakota when the Court decided mail orders placed through companies out of state didn’t have to have added sales tax.

In the 26-year-old case, North Dakota’s tax commissioner tried to get Quill Corporation, an office supplies retailer, to pay taxes on its business in North Dakota. The state argued that since it had so many customers in the state, it should be considered a North Dakota company and pay local taxes.

But because Quill had no physical presence or any workers living in North Dakota, and was instead doing business through methods like out-of-state mail orders and phone orders, the Supreme Court ruled that the business could avoid the local taxes. Since then, businesses have relied on the case as a legal defense for not collecting taxes in states where they don’t have a physical presence.

Fast-forward two decades, and shopping is ruled not by mail-to-order catalogs but by the internet. Does a decision from 1992 still make sense when online shopping in the US hit $360 billion in 2016, according to Statista, and yielded as much as $107 billion during last year’s holiday season alone?

South Dakota argues it does not. In 2016, the state passed a law that required online retailers to charge its residents a sales tax when they shop online. Once the law was passed, South Dakota sued four sites — the discount retailer Overstock.com, the home goods site Wayfair, the tech destination Newegg, and the industrial equipment supplier Systemax — for not complying.

The lower court struck down the law because it violated the 1992 Quill decision. The Supreme Court is now hearing the state battle against Wayfair.

Both Amazon and Walmart charge a sales tax in the 45 states that have a statewide sales tax even though they don’t legally have to. But many other online stores don’t collect taxes because of the Quill case — including third-party businesses selling through Amazon Marketplace, which is responsible for half of Amazon’s sales, or the third-party vendors selling their home goods on Wayfair.

South Dakota believes it loses almost $50 million annually because it’s not collecting online sales tax, according to Reuters. And its calculation is pretty low — a 2012 study from the University of Tennessee found that internet sales were making states lose about $23 billion every year.

Why does this matter for shopping?

It’s not as if there are no online retailers that charge digital sales tax. E-commerce giants like Amazon and Walmart voluntarily charge sales taxes for digital sales they make directly (as opposed to third-party sellers). Some department stores like Macy’s and Nordstrom also charge tax to customers who live in states where the company has a physical location, like warehouses or stores.

But businesses with no physical location aren’t required to charge sales tax beyond the state they inhabit. This is why small online boutiques and independent sellers on Etsy don’t currently have to charge sales tax. For giant companies staffed with lawyers and accountants, charging sales tax wouldn’t be such a big lift. Smaller retailers, on the other hand, could wade into complicated tax territory if they have to start charging sales tax for shoppers in every state.

South Dakota is backed by 35 states, which filed briefs in support of the state trying to implement online retailers to charge residents a sales tax. Some small brick-and-mortar businesses that don’t rely on the web for the majority of their sales, like local bookstores and mall owners, have also filed briefs voicing their support for the measure.

“Under Quill, if a customer purchases a book from a bricks-and-mortar bookstore in a state with a sales tax, the bookstore is legally obligated to collect the tax. But if a customer purchases the same book from an online bookstore without a physical presence in that state, the online bookstore cannot be subjected to the same legal obligation — which means, in practical terms, that the customer will not pay sales tax,” the American Booksellers Association wrote in a brief. “This artificial imbalance creates a powerful incentive for customers to buy books online rather than from their local bookstore, and as such, causes significant competitive harm to those bookstores.”

Last year, according to Bloomberg, 49 percent of retail sales growth came from online shopping, while in-store foot traffic is declining. Business owners feel particularly incensed about “showrooming,” where customers go into stores to browse and then buy the product online at a cheaper rate, without the sales tax, one business owner recently told Reuters.

In a press release, the National Retail Federation wrote that the “current tax system favors online retailers over brick-and-mortar businesses, and undermines fair and open competition in the marketplace.”

Those opposed to reversing the decision argue that starting to charge sales taxes on a state level would open a can of worms, as local taxes could get extremely complicated. In its challenge, Wayfair says having businesses navigate each state’s laws would be a herculean task, referring to the small, independent businesses that don’t have the manpower to start deciphering tedious tax codes.

“It doesn’t seem fair to me to have to pay taxes in an area I’ve never even visited before,” one eBay business owner told the Washington Post. “If we had to start charging sales tax, it would put us out of the market.”

Wayfair also argues that back tax could make things even worse. While South Dakota says it is only looking to collect sales tax on future sales, other states could decide to start charging for previous years they didn’t collect taxes. That could ruin small businesses.

Wayfair tells Racked it already collects taxes on 80 percent of its sales and that it wants to level the playing field of online and brick-and-mortar business, so long as the process is clear.

“In regard to the current Supreme Court case, Wayfair firmly believes a legislative solution that creates certainty and addresses the concerns of all constituencies is the best way to move forward,” it said in a statement. “Win or lose at the Supreme Court, we will continue to advocate for a legislative solution and a level playing field where all retailers collect and remit sales tax on the same basis.”

How is President Trump involved?

While this case has important ramifications for both shoppers and businesses, it also has political implications. President Trump has been in a public, ongoing feud with Amazon and its tax practices. He is reportedly “obsessed with Amazon” and wants to “clip CEO Jeff Bezos’ wings.” Last year Trump tweeted that the company was doing “great damage” to tax-paying retailers.

A few weeks ago, he accused Amazon of paying “little or no taxes to state & local governments.” While this isn’t completely correct — the company has been collecting taxes on items it sells directly since 2017 — it is true that people who sell through Amazon Marketplace don’t collect local sales tax.

The Trump administration, naturally, wants the Supreme Court to toss the Quill decision and wrote a legal brief on March 5 advocating that it do so.

“The court should resolve this case by making clear that an out-of-state internet retailer’s virtual presence within a state is a sufficient ground for requiring the retailer to collect sales or use taxes owed by its in-state customers,” Solicitor General Noel Francisco wrote.

If the Quill decision gets overturned, Amazon might have to charge sales tax on every purchase, even the ones coming out of its Marketplace — something Trump definitely wants to see. Wealthy friends of the president have reportedly been complaining to him about Amazon eating away at their businesses.

But the decision could also backfire for the president. Apparently, one online store that’s been enjoying the ruling of the Quill case includes the Trump Organization’s e-commerce site. According to the Wall Street Journal, TrumpStore.com, which sells Trump apparel, slippers, keychains, and golf accessories, only collects sales tax from two states.

Update: April 17th, 2018, 12:20 p.m.

This post has been updated to include a statement from Wayfair.The Cambridge Police Department is under scrutiny after law enforcement officers pinned a naked black Harvard student to the ground and one officer punched him in the stomach multiple times, adding fuel to the ongoing debate about race, policing, and use of force.

On the evening of April 13, officers responded to multiple calls that a naked man was walking around Cambridge and acting erratically. The man, identified in police reports as 21-year-old Selorm Ohene, is a Harvard undergraduate. When officers arrived on the scene they confronted him, and the police department released a video recorded by a bystander of what happened next.

In the video, you can see Ohene standing on a median in a busy street as the group of officers approach him. They then move closer and grab him, and he flails and yells. According to the police report, one of the officers struck Ohene five times.

[WARNING: Video contains graphic content.]

Ohene was charged with disorderly conduct, indecent exposure, and resisting arrest. He was also charged with assault after spitting blood and saliva at a responding EMT. Ohene is currently in the hospital under police custody.

The officers involved in the incident have not yet been placed on leave.

The police report states that the officers used force after Ohene did not respond to verbal commands and after he began to move toward them with clenched fists, and that the officer struck Ohene to get him to comply with the arrest.

In an email to students and community members on Monday, Harvard president Drew Faust called the incident “profoundly disturbing.” Members of Harvard’s Black Law Students Association, some of whom witnessed Ohene’s arrest, called the incident a “brutal instance of police violence,” noting that a pool of blood was left in the spot where Ohene was arrested.

And in a Tuesday statement, Cambridge Mayor Marc McGovern called the video disturbing. “Cambridge affirms that Black Lives Matter, but it must be true in practice as well,” he added.

The controversial arrest comes at a time of heightened attention to racial disparities in police use of force. In March, Sacramento police shot an unarmed black man, Stephon Clark, while he was a holding a cellphone in his backyard. Clark’s death led to widespread protests.

The Harvard student incident has sparked a wider discussion of police brutality and race

Several studies show that there are significant racial disparities in police use of force. While this is usually attributed to issues like implicit bias and systemic racism, high levels of housing segregation and economic inequality also play a role in where police shootings occur and whom they affect.

It’s important to gauge officers’ actions in the context of highly stressful, “rapidly evolving” situations, Cambridge Police Commissioner Branville Bard said during a press conference on Monday. To judge them “with 20-20 hindsight,” he continued, is unfair.

Bard argued that the officers adhered to appropriate procedure, noting that the Cambridge department uses a “force continuum” approach that allows officers to increase the amount of force used when necessary, moving from verbal commands to the use of less than lethal force.

Students who witnessed the incident disagree, saying that the officers responded excessively to a man in distress. “The University has ample resources that could have, and should have, been mobilized to come to the student’s aid prior to CPD getting involved,” the Harvard Black Law Students Association said in a statement, explaining that university health services received calls about Ohene but transferred those calls to the local police.

“By involving CPD, HUHS [Harvard University Health Services] put this student at great risk of being killed by the police,” the law students said.

Harvard students are asking for the university to create a crisis response team independent of the police department, and for the officers involved to be held accountable.

On April 16, the police department said it is considering dropping the charges against Ohene depending on the results of a mental health evaluation.

And on Tuesday, a pair of Harvard law professors who are acting as Ohene’s attorneys released a statement, saying, “the video speaks for itself.”It is now more or less taken for granted that solar panels are getting cheaper and cheaper. But that didn’t just happen — solar PV did not jump onto that trajectory on its own. After all, solar panels have been around for decades, but they didn’t really start plunging down the cost curve until the mid- to late-2000s.

Germany deserves some credit for creating demand with its aggressive feed-in tariffs. President Barack Obama and the Democrats deserve some credit for creating demand with the 2009 stimulus bill. But the lion’s share of credit goes to China, which, rather than fiddling with tax breaks and credits and “market mechanisms,” invested a boatload of money into production subsidies, scaling the industry up by brute force.

China’s wild binge of solar manufacturing drove down the costs of panels, both by oversupplying the market and by hastening economies of scale. In effect, the country voluntarily took on the costs of pushing solar panels onto the “S-curve” of rapid growth, a strategy that will greatly benefit the Chinese — and the rest of humanity.

Now there’s evidence that China is in the midst of doing the same thing for another key clean-energy product: electric buses.

Battery-electric buses (BEBs) are important to the clean-energy transition for a number of reasons.

Most significantly, diesel pollution is a scourge in cities everywhere and BEBs are emission-free. Also, buses travel on fixed, predictable routes and are thus good candidates for electrification. And BEBs, which are quieter, more spacious, and more high-tech than their competitors, serve as great ambassadors for EVs more generally.

But they are still a nascent technology; they haven’t hit the steep upward slope of the S-curve yet. For city and county authorities, the decision between BEBs and diesel or natural gas buses is still agonizingly difficult, involving considerations about infrastructure, interoperability, lock-in, and lifecycle analysis that are new to many of them.

So the market needs a kick in the pants to really get moving. And it looks like China is providing it.

China is kickstarting the electric bus market

The rapidly growing megacity of Shenzhen, China, was choked with diesel pollution in the early 2010s. Though buses were just 0.5 percent of the city’s vehicles, they were responsible for 20 percent of the air pollution.

So, as the World Resources Institute recounts, Shenzhen electrified them. All 16,359 of them. It took only a few short years:

That right there is a miniature S-curve. Shenzhen now has the worlds largest fleet of BEBs.

It got there through some cleverness — they planned out charging infrastructure and pushed manufacturers to offer lifetime warranties on batteries — but mainly through government subsidies, which covered up to half the upfront cost of the vehicles.

A similar story played out nationally over the same time frame. This remarkable graph is from a recent report on BEBs from Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF):

In 2013, China was bopping along with 1,700 BEBs. Around then, it realized that its rapidly expanding urbanization could not continue to rely on diesel buses, lest it make an already crippling air-pollution problem even worse.

So it decided to make electric buses a thing. How? By dumping a giant pile of money on the problem, subsidizing the purchase of more than 350,000 BEBs in the following four years. Battery and hybrid electric buses went from 0.6 percent of annual bus sales in the country to 22 percent in 2017. They now constitute 17 percent of the nation’s total bus fleet.

Today, of the roughly 385,000 BEBs that BNEF estimates are operating in the world’s cities (13 percent of the global bus fleet), 99 percent — virtually all — are in China. The country has, in a few years, taken electric buses from a niche product to a decent-sized chunk of the global market. Costs are already falling.

The cost calculation on electric buses is changing quickly

BNEF runs the numbers — not only on upfront costs but on total cost of ownership (TCO), including operating and maintenance costs — on a range of buses with different sized batteries in different cities with different costs of diesel and electricity. I won’t go through all the details. Suffice it to say, in many cities, lifetime costs are already lower for BEBs than for diesel buses. But it’s a complicated calculus.

One key factor in TCO is how far the bus is driven. The farther it goes every year, the better BEBs look:

That means big cities with long routes can already save enormous amounts by transitioning to high-capacity BEBs.

But the calculus will get simpler. Based on current cost trends and BNEF’s calculations, total cost of ownership for BEBs will be lower than for diesel buses in almost every city, under almost every foreseeable circumstance, within two or three years — especially if profitable uses can be found for BEB batteries after they are no longer suitable for vehicles.

However, most cities do not make bus purchases on the basis of TCO. They have to deal with upfront costs — sticker prices. And almost everywhere, BEBs are still more expensive up front, by anywhere from $100,000 to $300,000.

Some of that upfront cost barrier can be overcome with clever financing. Different cities are experimenting with leasing the buses, or in some cases, buying the buses but leasing the batteries. BNEF also suggests that development finance institutions could offer low-interest loans.

But bringing down the sticker price is the ultimate guarantor of market success, and the big driver there is battery costs.

BNEF assumes that the other parts of the bus have already gotten as cheap as they can (a questionable assumption, if you ask me), which means that battery costs make all the difference. Luckily, battery costs are falling.

As costs continue to decline, BNEF expects demand for batteries to skyrocket:

(That swooping slope up and to the right is the beginning of the S-curve for EVs.)

If bus batteries decline in cost at the same rate EV batteries historically have, BNEF estimates that upfront costs for electric buses will dip below diesel buses around 2030. That seems like a long time to wait.

However, BNEF notes that rising BEB demand could drive bus-battery costs down faster, which could move upfront costs below diesel between 2025 and 2027.

Basically, costs will decline, and upfront cost parity will get closer, the faster BEB demand rises. It seems to me that the shocking explosion of demand in China is good reason to believe that even BNEF’s optimistic demand forecasts are conservative — but we shall see.

Other cities are beginning to get on the BEB bandwagon as well. Late last year, 13 cities, representing 80 million people and around 60,000 buses, signed the C40 Fossil Fuel Free Streets Declaration, pledging to purchase only zero-emissions buses from 2025 forward.

“Many signatory cities have targets that exceed the ambition of the declaration,” BNEF writes. “Paris aims to electrify all of its 4,500 buses by 2025, Copenhagen has committed to procure only zero-emission buses from 2019, and Los Angeles has the same target for its fleet of 2,200 buses by 2030.”

11/ With all the focus on passenger vehicles, it's easy to miss what's going on in other segments. E-bus adoption is going to go quickly. pic.twitter.com/wu8y0OwkZ0 — Colin Mckerracher (@colinmckerrache) April 16, 2018

Every forward-looking city that adds to BEB demand in the short-term, slipstreaming behind China’s lead, pushes demand up faster and thereby pushes costs down faster. And if early experiments prove a success, the hundreds of other growing cities in the world suffering from diesel pollution could follow suit, ahead of schedule. (India, a huge potential market for BEBs, is choking on diesel as we speak.)

I would not be at all surprised if we look back in 10 years and see clearly that China, almost single-handedly, forced BEBs onto the S-curve of accelerated development. Thanks, China!

Sometimes big, dumb policy now is better than clever policy delayed

I do not mean to glorify China or to hold it up as a model. I prefer, y’know, democracy. But I do think there is something to learn from the country’s recent successes in clean energy.

Economists are inclined to frown on the strategy of dumping giant piles of government money onto budding technologies that are in need of scaling up. They prefer market mechanisms, tech-neutral incentives, and nudges that maximize the free choices of market participants. In any economic model, such policies will perform better.

And that’s well and good. But sometimes problems are big and urgent, you need scaled-up solutions quickly, and you just don’t have time to mess around. China didn’t nudge its solar industry, it kicked it in the pants. Now it’s doing the same to the BEB industry.

As economists will rush to point out, there have been enormous inefficiencies and waste along the way, money lost on graft or junk technology. Solar has often been poorly installed or curtailed. According to BNEF, some 43 percent of the BEBs allegedly produced in China in 2015 were basically fraudulent. (It’s factored into the graph above.) That’s insane.

There are undoubtedly lower-cost routes to scaling up solar or BEBs, all kinds of policy mousetraps that economists could design on a whiteboard to outperform the ugly reality. China could have waited for Western technocrats to fiddle around on the margins until the same cost reductions were achieved, but who knows how long that would have taken. The country rightly recognized that the problems (coal and diesel pollution) are intensely urgent and it’s not that huge a mystery how to solve them.

Whatever the full solution is, it’s pretty obvious solar PV and electric buses are going to be a big part of it. The sooner those technologies can be made cheap, the more time human beings as a species will have to enjoy their benefits.

So China set out to make them cheap as fast as possible by dumping a bunch of money on them.

Twenty years from now, 50 years, 100, do you think anyone will care about the elegance or cost-effectiveness of the transition from coal to solar power, or from diesel to electric buses? Will anyone look back in regret that it was done too quickly and crudely?

I doubt it. Amortized over the next 50 to 100 years, the next several generations of humanity, the cost of transition are a screaming deal at almost any price. It’s just a matter of learning (or perhaps relearning) to take a long-term view of human interests — to be a “good ancestor,” as they say.

Though the US seems to have lost the ability for long-term planning, it is still vastly richer than China on a per-capita basis; it could certainly afford to brute-force the clean-energy transition forward at a faster pace.

The politics are much trickier here, obviously, but the American people have proven capable of great things when called to purpose. There’s no reason we couldn’t turn our fabulous wealth and endless ingenuity toward, I dunno, microgrids or hydrogen fuels or small modular nuclear or floating wind turbines and make them a thing.

We can engineer beneficial technology transitions on purpose. It’s been done.Antidepressants are now among the drugs most commonly used by Americans — but the decision to use them can be especially fraught for women considering motherhood.

On the one hand, we now know that women with depression and their babies are at a higher risk of all kinds of health problems — like preterm birth, a lower birth weight, and postpartum depression. And we have drugs that can potentially alleviate moms’ symptoms, including antidepressants.

These days, about 5 percent of expectant mothers take antidepressants, most commonly, serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, such as citalopram (brand name Celexa), paroxetine (Paxil), or sertraline (Zoloft).

Now here’s the dilemma: While the risks of depression in pregnancy are well-documented, there’s a lot we don’t know about the risks of moms taking antidepressants — in particular, how the medicines affect their babies.

There’s no easy answer to what women should do about antidepressants during pregnancy. And a study published April 9 in the journal JAMA Pediatrics may complicate matters. It suggests SSRI use among mothers may interfere with fetal brain development, especially in the regions of the brain associated with emotions.

But don’t go running to tell your pregnant friends to chuck their SSRIs just yet. Jiook Cha, an assistant professor of neurobiology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, tells me researchers still have a lot of unanswered questions. The new paper, while intriguing, is preliminary. Still, it’s a good excuse to walk through what we know and don’t know about this common question.

Depression is twice as common in women as it is in men. Pregnancy can make it worse.

Depression affects 16 million Americans every year — and being a woman is a risk factor for the condition. Depression is twice as common in women as it is in men. In one study, for example, the 12-month prevalence of depression in females was 8 percent, while it was only 4 percent in men.

Pregnancy, and the severe hormone changes it brings, can put women at an even greater risk. Between 14 and 23 percent of pregnant women experience depression while they’re expecting, according to the Mayo Clinic. That means many women end up grappling with the question of what to do with their depression, and medications for it, during pregnancy.

At a time when women are expected to be joyful, these lows can be especially alienating and stigmatizing. Women who are prone to depression are especially vulnerable while expecting — though other risk factors include maternal anxiety, life stress, lack of social support, and domestic abuse.

The standard US guidelines now recommend screening for depression throughout pregnancy and suggest women with mild to moderate symptoms opt for psychotherapy first, while those with more severe depression consult their doctors about trying (or continuing to take) antidepressants. But many women face hard and confusing choices here, and there are many questions that still need to be resolved by science.

The shoddy evidence on antidepressants in pregnancy

Before we dive into the research on pregnancy and antidepressants, know this: Most studies in this area aren’t very high-quality, and there are no randomized trials because researchers aren’t allowed to do them. Instead, there’s lots of observational research — which look at associations between women on antidepressants and certain health outcomes in their babies — and they’re often biased by design.

According to Lauren Osborne, the assistant director of Johns Hopkins Women’s Mood Disorders Center, who has analyzed the research, most studies compare depressed pregnant women who were taking antidepressants to healthy pregnant women — so there may be more that differs between the two groups than just the use of antidepressants.

Women on antidepressants may have other medical and psychiatric problems and use other medications to control them, which may also confound the results. “Therefore, if you find a risk associated with SSRI use, it might just be that SSRI use is a marker for a group of women who is very different,” she added.

Still, in the studies we do have, some risks and questions have emerged. Among the most important, according to UpToDate’s summary of the evidence: SSRIs have been associated with preterm birth (before 37 weeks as opposed to the full 40), though it’s not clear how much of an impact that has on clinical outcomes.

Importantly, SSRIs don’t appear to increase the risk of birth defects — with the possible exception of the drug paroxetine, which has been linked to an increased risk of congenital heart defects in some studies.

Overall, though, there are no major suggestions of harm. And doctors have been operating under the assumption that the risks of leaving moderate or severe depression untreated, for both mom and baby, typically outweigh the known risks associated with antidepressants.

The effects of antidepressants on neurodevelopment are less well known

Enter the new study. Researchers used MRI scans to examine associations between SSRI use and brain development in 98 newborns of women, including 16 moms taking SSRIs, 21 untreated women with depression, and 61 in a healthy control group.

In line with research from previous animal studies, the researchers found an association between prenatal exposure to SSRIs and increases in the volume of several areas of the brain, including the amygdala and the insular cortex.

Cha, the study author, emphasized that while he was surprised to have found this link, the study was preliminary and “our data need to be replicated and rigorously tested against confounders in order to make a firm conclusion.” So the study suggests a “potential” association and more research is needed.

Indeed, there were a number of important limitations to the research that should make any reader pause. Osborne pointed out that researchers have previously shown that amygdala volumes are different in babies of moms with depression, irrespective of antidepressant use, and that moms who have inflammation in pregnancy also have different amygdala volumes. “So is this a finding unique to SRRIs?” she asked. We don’t yet know.

“We don’t know how well the drugs work in pregnant women”

We also don’t know the long-term significance of the finding for infants’ cognitive and emotional development. Nor do we know what role, if any, anxiety play here.

“There are other reasons for using SSRIs than depression. They are [the] gold-standard treatment for anxiety,” Osborne added. Researchers have found that anxiety is more common than depression in pregnancy and that an overactive amygdala is linked with increased anxiety. “We don’t have any measure of anxiety for women in this study,” she said — so it may be the anxiety, not the antidepressants, that’s causing the brain restructuring.

While the researchers tried to overcome the problem in other studies, which have often compared only healthy women and their babies to depressed women, there were some problems with their groupings. The women on SSRIs were overwhelmingly white and high-income compared to the women with untreated depression and the healthy women. So there may be differences between them and the other groups beyond what medications they were on.

That means the study shows differences in brain development of unknown clinical significance in groups of women who may not have been comparable. “It’s great that researchers have started to look at the effects of drugs on human brain development,” Osborne said, “but we now [need to] take it to the next step and look at it in a way that compares groups that are actually comparable.”

There’s another even bigger question at issue here. “We don’t know how well the drugs work in pregnant women because nobody studies this specific question,” Osborne added. Many women who take antidepressants during pregnancy become ill, for example, but under-dosing is a rampant problem during pregnancy, so it might be that, and not the medications, causing the problems. Plus, antidepressants even at the best of times are an imperfect fix for depression.

For now, Cha suggested women work with their doctors to decide on the best treatment. “More rigorous scientific research is required to aid such decisions,” he added. His study, however limited, will help push the science along.Vox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world, curated by Ella Nilsen. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.

We have a lot of questions about what exactly Michael Cohen was doing for Sean Hannity; the US secretary of defense clarifies that Friday’s Syria strikes won’t be followed up with a larger military response.

The hottest new reality TV show: US District Court in Manhattan

Will wonders never cease? The latest news out of the investigation into Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen is truly like the plot of a bad television show, and comes about a week after Cohen’s office was raided by the FBI. [CNN / Kara Scannell and Shimon Prokupecz]

Cohen had to attend a court hearing in New York today. Over the course of the afternoon’s hearing, we learned that in addition to Donald Trump, he’s had none other than Fox News host and noted Trump fanboy Sean Hannity as a secret client. [Vox / Zachary Fryer-Biggs]

We don’t know yet the nature of the legal work Cohen was doing for Hannity; the right-wing talk show host tweeted today a claim that he had “brief discussions with [Cohen] about legal questions” but never retained him as an attorney. [Sean Hannity via Twitter]

The whole reason Cohen and his lawyers (as well as lawyers for Trump) were in the courtroom today was to hammer out what exactly can be done with the evidence the feds seized in those raids last week. Let’s not forget this all started because of the news that Cohen paid off porn actress Stormy Daniels to not reveal her alleged affair with Trump before the 2016 presidency. [NYT / Alan Feuer]

As Vox’s Andrew Prokop notes, Cohen hasn’t yet been charged with any crimes, but he’s fighting really hard to keep investigators from seeing the evidence, including documents and correspondence with Trump. [Vox / Andrew Prokop]

Cohen’s argument (and Trump’s, made over Twitter) is that the evidence should be protected by their attorney-client privilege. Cohen wants to look over the materials before investigators get their hands on them (a request the judge will have to decide on). [WSJ / Erica Orden]

Along with special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russian investigation, there is an increasing focus on Cohen’s activities during the 2016 campaign. In particular, a secret trip Cohen made to Prague in 2016 — which a new McClatchy report says he lied about. [McClatchy / Peter Stone and Greg Gordon]

The reason this detail is so important is that it was in the infamous Steele dossier. The dossier claimed Cohen went to Prague to meet with the Russians in 2016. Trump’s attorney insisted he did no such thing, but if he in fact did, it would lend Steele’s dossier more credence. [Vox / Andrew Prokop]

Cohen is being investigated by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York whom Trump can’t fire ... and they are scouring the records of a man who has a very close relationship with the president. The Cohen matter is colossal for Trump, and already, some are speculating it’s the beginning of the end of his presidency. [New Yorker / Adam Davidson]

vox-mark Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

The US dropped missiles in Syria on Friday. What’s next?

On Friday night, the US, the UK, and France launched airstrikes in Syria to take out the chemical weapons capability of dictator Bashar Al-Assad. A week before the strike, Assad was suspected of using chemical weapons against civilians, including women and children, in Douma. [Vox / Alex Ward]

Despite President Trump’s promise on Friday night that the US was ready to “sustain” the response to Syria until the use of chemical weapons ended, Secretary of Defense James Mattis has now made clear that this was a one-time strike. [NBC News / Daniel Arkin, F. Brinley Bruton, and Phil McCausland]

We also now know that the US attack could have been much bigger. Trump (egged on by new National Security Adviser John Bolton) wanted a much broader attack but was reined in by Mattis — who reportedly was worried about provoking a broader conflict with Russia. [WSJ / Peter Nicholas, Gordon Lubold, and Dion Nissenbaum]

Meanwhile, chemical weapons experts who work for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons have been blocked from getting to Douma to verify whether the attack was indeed chemical, despite having approval from the United Nations to do so. [CNN / Jamie Tarabay, Angela Dewan, and Holly Yan]

Miscellaneous

More than 200 million eggs have been recalled across nine states after a salmonella outbreak was linked to a farm in North Carolina. [Time / Laignee Barron]

Every two weeks, a language dies somewhere in the world. One organization wants to change that. [National Geographic / Nina Strochlic]

With all the talk of imposing trade tariffs on China, here’s a brief history of America’s stance on them. [Smithsonian / Ryan P. Smith]

Who’s to blame for climate change? The courts are trying to figure it out. [Guardian / Dana Nuccitelli]

Verbatim

“Thank you to our crews who are clearing a considerable amount of water that entered the system from the street this morning and are helping to keep New Yorkers moving.” [The MTA tweets after “waterfalls” of rain descend on many NYC subway platforms during a storm / Twitter]

Watch this: Why Trump’s “limited strike” on Syria probably won’t work

Trump gave the same reason last year, and Assad’s use of chemical weapons hasn’t changed. [YouTube / A.J. Chavar, Sam Ellis, Danush Parvaneh, Joe Posner, and Alex Ward]

Read more

Donald Trump’s corruption means he’ll never be a “normal” commander in chief

Debunking the myth that “identity politics” is bad for the Democratic Party

GAO: Scott Pruitt’s $43,000 secret phone booth broke the law

Who will die and who will survive in Avengers: Infinity War

Why I’m boycotting TurboTax this yearAndrea Constand, the woman at the center of the Bill Cosby retrial, faced another round of grueling cross-examination on Monday.

It was her second day on the witness stand. On Friday, she testified that, in 2004, Bill Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her. It was the same story she told 10 months ago, in a trial that ended with a deadlocked jury.

Five other women who have accused Cosby of drugging and assaulting them also testified last week. But Constand’s allegation is the one for which Cosby is on trial, and the defense went after her hard in two days of cross-examination. His lawyers tried to discredit her story and portray the allegation against Cosby as a premeditated plot to make money off the comedian. (Cosby has maintained his innocence and says the encounter was consensual.)

How the jury receives Constand’s testimony — and how she withstands the defense’s questioning — will likely determine the outcome of this case more than any other evidence. The hours of questioning she withstood about her past, her reliability, and her financial situation sometimes made it seem as if Constand herself, not Cosby, were the one on trial.

Constand’s testimony: “I wanted it to stop”

Constand, a former Temple University employee, met Cosby in 2002 at a basketball game. She considered him a mentor and went to him for career advice. In January 2004 at Cosby’s home, she said, he gave her three blue pills that he told her would help to relieve stress. She took them, and became unfocused and confused. She said she passed out on the couch.

“I felt Mr. Cosby on the couch behind me, and my vagina was being penetrated quite forcefully, and I felt my breasts being touched,” Constand testified on Friday.

Constand said she was too weak to fight Cosby off. “I wanted it to stop,” she said. “I couldn’t say anything. I was trying to get my hands to move, my legs to move, and the message just wasn’t getting there.”

The prosecutors also tried to get out ahead of the issue the defense would press in cross-examination — Constand’s motivation for participating in the criminal investigation after she had received a $3.4 million settlement for Cosby. Montgomery County assistant district attorney Kristen Feden asked Constand why she was in court; Constand replied, “For justice.”

Cosby attorneys pressed Constand on her credibility and financial situation

The grueling cross-examination of Constand lasted hours on Friday, and resumed Monday.

Cosby’s lead attorney, Tom Mesereau — who defended Michael Jackson against child molestation charges — questioned Constand relentlessly about her allegation against Cosby and the terms of her settlement with the comedian.

Mesereau tried to discredit Constand by picking out inconsistencies in her statement about the night of the alleged assault — a strategy the defense deployed in the first trial, too.

The defense also tried to insinuate that Constand put herself in a position to be alone with Cosby, questioning a visit to Cosby’s hotel room in Connecticut, where she saw him perform months before the assault. “Did you think it was appropriate to be in a married man’s hotel room in Connecticut at that time of night?” Mesereau asked Constand.

According to the Philadelphia Inquirer,“When she responded that it was Cosby who had invited her to his room, Mesereau quickly moved on asking similar questions stressing Cosby’s marital status again and again.”

These lines of attack — that Constand had singled out a married man, that her story doesn’t add up — are the supporting threads to Mesereau’s main argument: It was about the money. The defense is trying to create a narrative that Constand wanted a payout,” and decided that Cosby was her best means to obtain it.

Cosby’s lawyer trawled her past to find examples of a tenuous financial situation that seemed unrelated to the case, including a long line of questioning about 16-year-old emails she sent to Temple co-workers asking for money for a “business opportunity” that was basically a pyramid scheme.

“I didn’t know anything about that stuff,” Constand replied. “I was an athlete my whole life. I was just helping a friend.”

The defense also drilled hard into the $3.4 million settlement between Constand and Cosby. Constand pursued civil litigation against Cosby in 2005, after she had reported the incident to police and they had declined to file charges against the comedian at that time.

Prosecutors have argued throughout the trial that it was they who reached out to Constand in 2015 when they decided to reexamine the case. Mesereau tried to dismantle the prosecution’s argument, making it seem as if once Constand collected on the settlement, she broke its terms. (The prosecution tried to fight this in later questioning, emphasizing again that if authorities reached out to her and compelled her to testify, it wouldn’t violate the settlement.)

“And having paid you all that money the expectation on this part, as far as you knew, was that all this ends, right?” Cosby's lawyer asks Constand.

“That’s correct,” she says.

“What are you doing here?"

(She did not answer - judge sustained prosecutor's objection.) — Laura McCrystal (@LMcCrystal) April 16, 2018

Mesereau honed in on another element of the settlement: Cosby admitted no wrongdoing. Mesereau asked why Constand would accept such a settlement, if that were the case. The unspoken implication is that Constand didn’t want justice — she just wanted the money.

“I can’t speak for him, but I was glad it was over,” Constand said Monday, adding that it was “a very painstaking process for me and my family, it tore my family apart and we just wanted it over.”

The defense also brought up Marguerite “Margo” Jackson, a witness for Cosby’s lawyers expected to testify that Constand told her before the alleged assault that she planned to fabricate an assault claim to get money. Constand denied knowing Jackson beyond her name, but Mesereau still asked, “Did you ever tell someone that you could falsely accuse someone of sexual assault and make a lot of money?”

Constand replied, “No, sir,” but the jury heard the pointed question — the crux of the defense’s argument.

Over the course of two days, Constand spent more than seven hours on the stand. The grueling questioning put all sorts of details from her past under extreme scrutiny, forcing her to explain not just the alleged incident with Cosby, but her personal and professional decisions around 2004. Whether Cosby, who did not take the stand in his defense in the first trial, will face a similar barrage of questions seems unlikely — though not impossible.