One top Republican senator is pressing ahead with legislation to protect special counsel Robert Mueller, despite a vow from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) that he won’t allow the bill to get a vote on the floor.

Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), the Senate Judiciary Committee chair, told reporters on Wednesday that his committee will vote on the bill regardless.

“They got together, so I feel an obligation to keep my word and move forward,” Grassley said. “But I can’t worry about what’s going on on the floor. I’ve just got to do what I can do.”

If the bill can get out of committee, its future is uncertain, especially after McConnell’s promise to block it from getting to the floor. The Senate majority leader has said for months that he doesn’t believe a bipartisan bill to protect Mueller is necessary because he doesn’t think Trump will fire the special counsel, despite Trump’s rhetoric.

Just days after the administration fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe in March, President Donald Trump furiously attacked special counsel Robert Mueller on Twitter, writing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started,” and that the “the Mueller team” was biased and “a total WITCH HUNT.”

Most Senate Republicans, however, have sided with McConnell, seeming unfazed by the president’s comments when Vox interviewed them last month.

“I know what President Trump tweeted, but President Trump’s management style is such that he likes to say what’s on his mind,” Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA) told Vox last month, repeating a time-worn Trump-will-be-Trump sentiment. “He grows anxious when he has an unexpressed thought.”

It has become increasingly clear that neither the tweeting nor McCabe’s dismissal is enough for Republican leadership in Congress to act to protect Mueller, or his investigation of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential elections, from any major staffing shake-ups.

The bipartisan proposal comes from a group including Sens. Thom Tillis (R-NC), Chris Coons (D-DE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Cory Booker (D-NJ) — and would check Trump’s power to fire Mueller by requiring the decision to be put before a three-judge panel in federal courts.

McConnell has also been clear he thinks Mueller should be allowed to carry out his investigation into Russia’s alleged meddling in full. But he is not prepared to follow that through with legislation.

“I agree with the president’s lawyers that Bob Mueller should be allowed to finish the job. I think it was an excellent appointment,” McConnell said, referring to White House lawyer Ty Cobb’s statement that Trump “is not considering or discussing the firing of the Special Counsel.”

Last month, I talked to five Senate Republicans to see why Congress isn’t taking action and what actions from the White House — if any — would be a red line for Congress to act.

Here are the transcripts of our conversations, lightly edited for length and clarity.

Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA): “If he fired Mr. Mueller. That would be the red flag.”

Tara Golshan

Is there any room for Congress to protect the special counsel’s investigation?

John Kennedy

I don’t think it’s necessary. First, I don’t think it’s constitutional. If President Trump issued an executive order this morning and said Kennedy is off the Judiciary Committee, I don’t think that would be constitutional. I also am not sure it’s constitutional for us to tell the president who he can fire and can’t fire. Having said that, I think it’s all academic — Mr. Mueller isn’t going anywhere.

Tara Golshan

So what would be the red flag? Or the red line to cross? The president has tweeted —

John Kennedy

Well, if he fired Mr. Mueller. That would be the red flag.

Tara Golshan

Do you think there would be consequences in Congress if he did that?

John Kennedy

I think Congress would be very upset. I think Mr. Mueller ought to be allowed to finish his investigation and report to the American people, and I trust the American people to figure it all out. I know what President Trump tweeted, but President Trump’s management style is such that he likes to say what’s on his mind. He grows anxious when he has an unexpressed thought. It’s not a criticism; it’s just the way he is. He likes to say, “Here’s what I’m thinking.”

But you have to judge him by what he does. He hasn’t fired Mr. Mueller. His lawyer says he’s not going to fire Mr. Mueller. I don’t expect him to fire Mr. Mueller. And so I think this is all an academic exercise.

Sen. Pat Toomey (R-PA): “I’m not sure that’s necessary at the moment”

Tara Golshan

I wanted to ask if you saw any room for Congress to act to protect the special counsel’s investigation.

Pat Toomey

I’m not sure that’s necessary at the moment.

Tara Golshan

Why not?

Pat Toomey

Um. Because it’s not. It’s not been terminated or suspended.

Tara Golshan

So the tweets, or McCabe?

Pat Toomey

(Silence, walks away)

Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ): “I think it’s time for our leadership to be firm and say this is the red line, don’t cross it”

Tara Golshan

Did you feel the need for Congress to act to protect the Mueller investigation?

Jeff Flake

Well, the problem is that I’m not convinced the two pieces of legislation that have been introduced are constitutional.

Tara Golshan

So what can Congress do?

Jeff Flake

Well, we are still exploring that. One thing that I think leadership needs to do is to firmly state, “You can’t go here,” and communicate that with the president. We want to preempt this; we don’t want to act afterward.

Tara Golshan

It seems like a lot of your colleagues seem unfazed by a lot of these actions. What’s the red flag, if any? Do you see a line being drawn?

Jeff Flake

Not as much lately. He’s closer than ever, it seems. He’s going after Mueller specifically now on Twitter. So I am concerned. I think it’s time for our leadership to be firm and say this is the red line, don’t cross it.

Tara Golshan

But you don’t think there is a constitutional way Congress can act?

Jeff Flake

We are still looking, obviously. I mean, the only remedies afterward, you know, are, well, the ones you know of. So we are still looking. But I’m not sure you can infringe on the executive power like that.

Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN): “Do I think the administration is planning to do it? No.”

Tara Golshan

Do you think there is room for Congress to act to protect the special counsel?

Bob Corker

I would have thought if it were to happen, it would have happened on the [omnibus] — a must-pass piece of legislation.

Tara Golshan

So you think this is something Congress should do?

Bob Corker

Sure. I think — I am just being honest — does something happen anytime soon? I doubt it. Do I think there would be a significant backlash if he were fired? Yes. Do I think the administration is planning to do it? No.

Tara Golshan

It seems like a lot of your colleagues are unfazed. Is there a red line before it gets to actually firing Mueller?

Bob Corker

I guess there could be. But again, the backlash would be very strong if that were to occur. Do I think there is momentum to pass something — honestly, do I think there is? Not really. But the best place would have been to put something in this [omnibus], which is must-pass. I actually suggested that.

But I don’t think anything is going to happen anytime soon. Just being honest.

Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): “I see no indication from anything the White House has said”

Tara Golshan

Do you think Congress should act to protect the special counsel’s investigation?

Rob Portman

Uh. I think those of us like me who believe Mueller ought to be able to do his work ought to continue to speak out, and I see no indication from anything the White House has said — in fact, just the opposite. They said they are going to respect him doing his job.

Tara Golshan

So you don’t think Congress should act to —

Rob Portman

Well, I don’t know what it would be (elevator door closes).Sens. Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) are out Wednesday with a new Medicare buy-in proposal, one that allows both individuals and large employers to purchase coverage through the public program that covers elderly Americans.

We’ll get to the substance of the bill in a moment. But first, I want to highlight the fact that this bill enters an increasingly crowded field of liberal health care proposals, all of which want to go beyond the Affordable Care Act and increase the government’s role in providing health care services.

vox-mark VoxCare Vox's email explaining the biggest news in health care, edited by Sarah Kliff Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

By my count, we currently have five major proposals on the table, each envisioning different futures for the American health care system:

A Medicare-for-all bill from Sen. Bernie Sanders

A Medicare buy-in bill from Sens. Tim Kaine and Michael Bennet

A Medicaid buy-in bill from Sen. Brian Schatz

A Medicare “extra”-for-all proposal from the Center for American Progress, an influential liberal think tank that has strong ties to Clinton-land

This new Medicare buy-in bill from Sens. Murphy and Merkley

It’s notable to me that Democrats seem really keen on having another health care debate. They’re preparing for it by putting all these different options on the table, to sort through where a consensus might exist.

That Democrats would continue pursuing health policy as a key priority isn’t a given. There are plenty of different priorities they could pursue if they regain a congressional majority and control of the White House. Immigration, infrastructure, climate change ... the list of potential policies goes on and on. The last health care debate was incredibly bruising, with the Affordable Care Act remaining divisive eight years after passage — never attaining the popularity that some Democrats expected.

But when I had a chance to discuss this with Sens. Murphy and Merkley Tuesday, they made the case that health care will definitely be a top item in the party’s agenda — that Democrats will return to the issue that defined the early 2010s.

“There is no question we’ll have to act,” says Murphy. “It’s the No. 1 issue in America. The polls are clear.”

Merkley added that even though the Affordable Care Act has expanded coverage to some, many still “worry about additional costs, that their co-pays will be increased or individual provider leave the network.”

“Generally people who are in Medicare have peace of mind,” he continued. “This is why it’s such a widely regarded, highly appreciated program. ... This is why we’ll have to absolutely engage in health care.”

Now, let’s get to the Murphy-Merkley plan itself

The Choose Medicare Act would allow individuals and large businesses to buy coverage through the Medicare plan. This would go a bit beyond the Kaine-Bennet version of a Medicare buy-in, which limits that choice to individuals. The Murphy-Merkley plan would allow, for example, a company like Vox Media to purchase Medicare for its employees rather than buy coverage from the private health plan we currently use.

The idea at the heart of this (and any) Medicare buy-in plan is that individuals and companies would benefit from the public program’s strong bargaining power. It tends to set lower rates than private insurance plans. Doctors still accept those rates because Medicare covers a massive amount of people — about 45 million Americans or 14 percent of the population. Medicare would gain even more bargaining power, the theory goes, as more and more people join the program.

The Choose Medicare Act envisions that individuals and companies would cover their costs for buying into Medicare, meaning actuaries would need to determine what those premiums would look like. There is some reason to expect these premiums would be lower than premiums for private insurance, because Medicare typically pays lower prices. But the senators haven’t actually run the numbers on this or begun discussions with the Congressional Budget Office, so we don’t really know.

Obamacare enrollees who receive subsidies to purchase health insurance would be able to put those subsidies towards buying into Medicare, just as they do now with private plans.

Speaking of those subsidies, the most expensive element of this plan arguably has nothing to do with Medicare at all. Murphy and Merkley envision using their bill to really bump up the Obamacare subsidies, extending them to cover all Americans who earn less than 600 percent of the federal poverty line (right now, they stop at 400 percent). They would also change how the subsidies are calculated, to give people enough money to buy one of the more generous “gold” plans on the marketplace (right now, the subsidies are tethered to the less generous “silver” plans).

Merkley and Murphy aren’t quite in the same place when it comes to what Democrats should do next on health care. Murphy, for example, hasn’t endorsed Sen. Sanders Medicare-for-all plan but Merkley has.

“One of the reasons that we wanted to work together is that we’re in different places,” Murphy says. He argues that their bill is the best path forward because it allows a way to “test the idea that Americans will want a Medicare product.”

I mostly take the Murphy-Merkley bill as a sign that Democrats are eager to have another health care debate, that they see problems that the Affordable Care Act didn’t fix — and, rather than being battle-scarred from the last Obamacare debate, seem eager to take another swing at a contentious issue.

This story appears in VoxCare, a newsletter from Vox on the latest twists and turns in America’s health care debate. Sign up to get VoxCare in your inbox along with more health care stats and news.We may just have ourselves a Senate race in Texas. A new poll from Quinnipiac University shows incumbent Sen. Ted Cruz (R) just barely ahead of his Democratic opponent, Rep. Beto O’Rourke — 47 percent to 44 percent.

And though polling of this contest has been sparse this year, and Cruz remains the favorite in the red state, this result seems to cement the Texas race as a top target for Democrats as they battle to retake the Senate in 2018.

Though Trump won Texas, his margin of victory over Hillary Clinton was only 9 percentage points — the closest Texas had been in a presidential election for two decades. And the Quinnipiac poll finds that the state’s voters aren’t particularly thrilled with Trump’s performance in office — 52 percent of respondents disapproved of it, while 43 percent approved.

O’Rourke’s fundraising numbers have been impressive too — powered by grassroots small donors who seem to really want Ted Cruz gone from the Senate, O’Rourke raised more than twice as much money as Cruz did in the first quarter of this year and has a comparable amount of cash on hand to the incumbent senator.

However, Quinnipiac also found that O’Rourke still wasn’t particularly well-known statewide, with 53 percent of respondents saying they didn’t know enough to form an opinion of him. Cruz will seek to take advantage of this situation by trying to define his opponent. (He’s already embarked on an odd effort to cast aspersions on O’Rourke for using the nickname “Beto.”)

The bigger picture is that though Democrats face a tremendously unfavorable map in trying to regain the Senate — they’re defending 26 seats to Republicans’ nine, with many of their own seats located in states Trump won — their chances appear to have improved in a few different places of late.

The party’s top two targets have long been Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV) and the Arizona seat vacated by the retiring Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ). If Democrats won those two seats, they’d retake control of the chamber — if they held on to all of their own seats up this year, which could be quite difficult with red-staters like Joe Manchin (WV), Claire McCaskill (MO), Heidi Heitkamp (ND), and Joe Donnelly (IN) on the ballot.

For Democrats’ odds to improve, they needed to expand the number of competitive GOP-held races to some redder states — like the Tennessee open seat in which former Gov. Phil Bredesen (D) is polling ahead of Marsha Blackburn, the Mississippi special election in which Republicans are dealing with intraparty tensions, and Cruz’s seat in Texas. They’ll face difficulties in all three races — but it does appear that they’re in the hunt.Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is facing a tangle of accusations of unethical behavior — so many that it’s hard to keep up.

Questions about his conduct in office arose almost immediately after he was sworn in, when Pruitt displayed extreme paranoia by refusing to release his schedule to the public like past administrators, surrounding himself with a 24-hour security detail, and building a soundproof phone booth in his office.

Since then, journalists and investigators have revealed the phone booth cost $43,000, well in excess of federal limits, and that Pruitt’s security detail costs $3 million a year. We’ve also learned that he regularly flew first class, his security detail accompanied him on personal trips, and he paid next to nothing to rent a cushy condo on Capitol Hill owned by an energy lobbyist’s wife.

There are also questions about Pruitt’s personnel decisions, like hiring his banker to run the Superfund program, allowing employees to keep side jobs as political consultants, and bypassing the White House to secure massive raises for two close aides.

Many of these allegations were fleshed out by a whistleblower in a long report to congressional Democrats. It added details like the fact that Pruitt asked aides to find housing for him, that he used to lights and sirens to make it to dinner reservations, that he opted for more luxurious accommodations on international trips than those recommended by the State Department, and that he sidelined staffers who questioned his habits. The whistleblower also said he was threatened by the head of Pruitt’s security detail when he raised concerns.

Government watchdogs now have a half-dozen investigations underway over these alleged ethical breaches during his time in office. One, the Government Accountability Office, has already found that Pruitt violated two laws.

But Pruitt has managed to keep his job through the hullabaloo in part because he is one of President Trump’s most productive subordinates. He’s begun the process of rolling back 22 regulations and slowing down the overall pace of work at the EPA to create a more favorable environment for coal, oil, gas, chemicals, and agriculture interests.

The big question is whether any of these concerns will register with the president, who has continued to support Pruitt, but whose chief of staff has reportedly called for Pruitt to be fired. In a White House engulfed in chaos and spiraling legal problems, concerns about Pruitt at the EPA barely get any attention.Evidence continues to trickle out about how Russians and potentially other bad actors used Facebook to spread disinformation during the 2016 campaign. The latest piece of information: a new study that found that more than half of the sponsors of Facebook ads that featured divisive political messages ahead of the 2016 election were from “suspicious” groups with little or no paper trail to identify them.

And it gets worse: One in six turned out to be linked to the Internet Research Agency, the Kremlin-linked troll farm responsible for much of Russia’s disinformation campaign in the US.

Earlier this month, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced ahead of his congressional testimony that the company would require political advertisers to verify who they are and where they’re from. Facebook also came out in support of the Honest Ads Act, proposed legislation that would regulate online political advertising much in the same way as television, radio, and print.

The study found that ads on hot-button cultural issues, from dark money groups and others who don’t have to report on their spending, were targeted to voters in swing states. The study doesn’t speculate about whether those ads ultimately affected the outcome of the election. But it’s the latest evidence that Facebook political advertising is a murky world where little disclosure is required about who’s paying for the ads shown to voters across the country.

“Suspicious” ad buys on Facebook are shockingly common

Young Mie Kim, a professor of journalism at the University of Wisconsin Madison and the study’s lead author, and a team of researchers analyzed 5 million paid ads shown to a group of 9,519 individuals who model the US voting-age population in the weeks leading up to the 2016 election, from September 28 to November 8, 2016.

From that pool, they took a random sample of 50,000 paid ads and searched for any discussing eight hot-button political issues: abortion, LGBTQ issues, guns, immigration, nationalism, race, terrorism, and candidate scandals. The researchers examined both whom the ads were coming from and whom they were targeting.

Their findings: Of the 228 groups that bought ads about those issues before Election Day, 121 were identified as “suspicious,” meaning researchers couldn’t find a trace of them in federal records or online. The Facebook pages they ran, for example, were deleted or went inactive after Election Day, and there are no IRS records to identify them. “We were not able to identify who they are,” Kim told me.

Moreover, one-sixth of the suspicious advertisers turned out to be Kremlin-linked groups. The researchers matched them up with Russian-linked ads released by the House Intelligence Committee last fall.

“I expected that we would find some unknown actors in the digital media political campaign landscape, because there are some regulatory loopholes,” Kim said. “The findings are a lot worse than I thought. It is shocking and surprising.”

The suspicious and unregistered ads were targeted at — you guessed it — swing states

The study, released in conjunction with watchdog groups Issue One and the Campaign Legal Center, compares political and issue ads registered with the FEC to ads run by groups that didn’t file with the FEC — suspicious groups, Russian groups, and activist and other dark money groups that didn’t file. They found that the unregistered ads were disproportionately targeted at battleground states, including those that ultimately swung the election to Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton — Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

Race-related ads were most targeted to North Carolina and Wisconsin, as well as Indiana, Kentucky, and Missouri. Terrorism-related ads were disproportionately served to voters in Michigan, North Carolina, and Wisconsin, as well as New Jersey. Abortion was the only campaign ad that was disproportionately served to Arkansas voters.

Low-income voters — defined as households with incomes of less than $40,000 a year — were targeted with Facebook ads about immigration and race. Middle-income voters — income in the $40,000 to $120,000 range — saw more Facebook ads than average on nationalism.

There were also racial divisions. Eighty-seven percent of immigration ads and 89 percent of nationalism-related ads were targeted to white voters.

“Our results clearly demonstrate that data-driven political campaigns are adopted not just be resourceful political parties … but also relatively low-resourced groups,” the researchers wrote in a discussion of their results.

The study doesn’t delve into whether the ads had any impact on voters’ decisions. In fact, whether Russian-linked ads and disinformation swayed a significant number of voters in the 2016 election remains largely unknown. As New York magazine’s Brian Feldman pointed out last fall, millions of people saw the Russian-linked ads, but we don’t know if what they saw really sank in. But Facebook does brag about the effectiveness of its ability to sway voters when trying to sell ads.

No one knows who’s behind so many of Facebook’s political ads because legally, it’s not required

The study reinforces that policing political ads online is far behind television, radio, and print.

Most spending on digital ads that only discuss issues but don’t explicitly advocate for or against a candidate — even if it mentions them — isn’t reported to the Federal Election Commission. In this case, groups that had never filed a report with the FEC placed four times as many ads as registered political committees or other groups that had.

Nine percent of the ads the researchers identified should have been subject to disclosure requirements under current law as they advocated for or against a candidate. Had they been on television or the radio, 25 percent of the ads identified would have been subject to FEC disclosures.

The Federal Election Commission is contemplating amending its rules on for disclaimers on political communications, including advocacy and fundraising, online. In late March, it put out two alternative proposals on the matter. Most experts and observers I’ve spoken with, however, don’t have much faith in the FEC’s ability to police online ads under current law.

Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mark Warner (D-VA), and John McCain (R-AZ) last October introduced the Honest Ads Act, which seeks to regulate online political advertising much in the same way television, radio, and print are. Facebook and Twitter in recent weeks have come out in support of it, but the legislation has largely stalled.

Twitter is pleased to support the Honest Ads Act. Back in the fall we indicated we supported proposals to increase transparency in political ads. — Twitter Public Policy (@Policy) April 10, 2018

Facebook and other tech platforms could be subject to know-your-customer laws, along the lines of laws and regulations that require banks to know whose money they’re dealing with and where it’s coming from and going. And there are a couple of legislative proposals in California that would clamp down on bots.

Facebook has a lot of problems that need fixing

This study’s findings are yet another example of the multitude of problems Facebook faces in policing and understanding its own platform. The social media giant has come under scrutiny not only over Russian use of the platform in its political disinformation campaign but also in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which exposed major faults in its data privacy and protection practices.

And the drip, drip, drip continues: Facebook earlier this month suspended dozens more Russian-linked accounts and admitted the Cambridge Analytica could have involved the data of 87 million accounts. Brittany Kaiser, a former Cambridge Analytica employee, told British lawmakers on Tuesday that she believes the amount of people affected could be “much greater” than 87 million.

European lawmakers have been rather aggressive in taking on Facebook and the other tech giants. The United States has just started to take baby steps, with the Senate and House of Representatives hosting committee hearings with Zuckerberg last week. But US lawmakers seem to have no idea where to start on regulating Facebook — even in the face of mounting evidence, including this suspicious ads study, that the platform has some pretty serious issues.President Donald Trump shocked Washington on Thursday when he told lawmakers he was looking into rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership. In his first week in office, Trump withdrew the US from the huge free trade pact after criticizing it sharply as a bad deal for American workers on the campaign trail.

But now it appears he’s changing his mind yet again — back to his original stance.

“While Japan and South Korea would like us to go back into TPP, I don’t like the deal for the United States,” Trump tweeted Tuesday night. “Too many contingencies and no way to get out if it doesn’t work. Bilateral deals are far more efficient, profitable and better for OUR workers.”

The TPP is a free trade agreement between 11 Pacific Rim countries, including Canada, Mexico, Japan, and Australia, which eliminates barriers to buying and selling goods and services between them. On his path to the White House, Trump said it would end up killing jobs in the US by exposing them to more foreign competition.

It’s unclear if Trump’s tweet means he has decided against rejoining the TPP or if it’s just a general expression of skepticism as the process is underway.

Trump’s tweet came hours after his top economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters the US is “in the pre-preliminary stages of any discussions” with TPP countries about rejoining the pact, and that the prospect of reentry was more a “thought” than a “policy” at this point. The 11 countries that make up the TPP all signed on to the free trade agreement in March and are currently in the process of officially ratifying the deal.

On Thursday night, after the original news that he was reconsidering the agreement broke, Trump tweeted that he would “only join TPP if the deal were substantially better than the deal offered to Pres. Obama.” That seemed to suggest he had withdrawn from the TPP because he thought the terms of the agreement didn’t favor the US as much as he liked.

Now, based on his latest tweet, he seems to simply find the very idea of doing a multilateral deal — that is, an agreement with more than one other country — to be overly complicated and cumbersome.

It’s difficult to determine what’s causing the president’s equivocations and reversals. Trump revisited the idea of joining the TPP while telling farm-state lawmakers and governors on Thursday that it could open up new export markets for American farmers’ crops. He apparently did that in response to lobbying from US farmers, who were worried about China’s promise to impose tariffs on their products, as Washington and Beijing gear up for a possible trade war. But it’s hard to tell why that calculation would change within a matter of days.

Trump’s true position on the TPP is vague. But what is clear is that he’s doing huge damage to his ability to secure a stronger deal if he chooses to negotiate one in the future.

Trump has sent lots of mixed signals on the TPP lately. This puts him in a weak position.

If Trump does ultimately decide to get into formal talks over the TPP, as he instructed his economic advisers to look into last week, he’s going to be in bad shape.

Trade experts like Edward Alden at the Council on Foreign Relations say Trump already squandered his best chance to nail down a stronger deal than Obama did after he left. The other 11 countries in the agreement have already wrapped up grueling negotiations, and Trump simply doesn’t have the leverage he would have had if he were already in talks and threatening to pull out if he doesn’t get what he wants (much the way he has with renegotiations over NAFTA).

But by sending these mixed signals on the TPP, he’s further weakening his negotiation position. That’s because he’s losing something that analysts point out as key to effective bargaining in trade talks: credibility.

Countries that have signed on to the TPP are going to be more skeptical than ever that the US is truly committed to rejoining. And if they don’t trust Trump, they’re going to be more reluctant to make concessions to US demands, which could include things like forcing Japan to import more US cars or agreements on patent laws that benefit US pharmaceutical companies.

They’re also going to question if Trump has the competence and resolve to convince Congress to approve any agreement that he secures, especially after the midterm elections in November, since it’s unclear if Republicans will remain in control of the House.

In fact, Trump’s constant reversals on the TPP will also weaken his strength as a negotiator for potential future bilateral deals with Japan, the UK, or others. It would be foolish for any country to concede to his demands if they know he could change his mind about the deal, or any of its provisions, if they wait long enough.

So Trump is potentially shooting himself in the foot here by making unforced errors. The US has enormous leverage in trade talks because it has a highly desirable market. And Trump’s top trade official, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, is a formidable negotiator with trade experience dating back to the Reagan era.

But all this doesn’t amount to much if Trump can’t make up his mind about what he wants.This is a real sequence of events that have unfolded over the course of the past 72 hours or so:

On Sunday, Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley went on CBS’s Face the Nation and, relying on White House talking points, announced the US would impose new sanctions on Russia.

President Donald Trump, who was apparently watching TV, became furious. He hadn’t yet approved the sanctions, and apparently hadn’t seen talking points his own administration had produced, so he immediately demanded to know what Haley was talking about.

On Monday, the White House announced that Haley was not correct and that sanctions weren’t approved. National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow then told reporters on Tuesday afternoon that Haley had had an episode of “momentary confusion.”

On Tuesday night, Haley issued a statement blasting Kudlow, saying, “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

Kudlow apologized to Haley and clarified in a comment to the New York Times that she wasn’t confused — just out of the loop on a vital policy initiative. “As it turns out, she was basically following what she thought was policy,” Kudlow said. “The policy was changed, and she wasn’t told about it.”

None of this — not one of these things — should have happened. The UN ambassador is one of the most important diplomatic posts in the government; she should not be going out announcing policies that haven’t been fully approved. She should not be corrected by another high-level staffer and then get into a public spat with him where they both end up looking uninformed. And the president should not be hate-watching television news.

“It is bizarre,” says Loren DeJonge Schulman, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security. “When I was in government, people were deeply conscious of where every senior official was in terms of making [a] policy decision.”

Clearly, the Trump administration is not as tight a ship as the Obama administration (in which Schulman served) or even the Bush administration before it. But this incident isn’t just a matter of bad optics; it speaks to a deep and fundamental dysfunction plaguing the way the Trump administration makes decisions — one that will likely, at some point, lead to a far more serious error.

The Trump administration doesn’t have a functioning policy process

In theory, the White House’s process for deciding on a new policy is clear. The president, in consultation with advisers, figures out what objective they want to accomplish. Cabinet members and their aides come up with concrete policy ideas that could accomplish those objectives and then present them to the president in private meetings. The president picks one of those options, and then the rest of the government implements it.

In practice, things don’t always work that way. Sometimes situations change on the fly, or new information comes to light; presidents must make quick decisions, and sometimes statements get overtaken by events (see Obama’s infamous comment that ISIS was the “JV team” of terrorism).

But in the Trump White House, things almost never seem to work the way they’re supposed to.

Trump doesn’t have a clear vision for what he wants his foreign policy to accomplish, and often seems unfamiliar with the details of major foreign policy issues. He exercises little control over Cabinet members, which means sometimes they move toward policies he doesn’t like and goes on to publicly denounce. And he watches so much TV that aides have a strong incentive to go on television to make their case to the president, which can lead to public disputes over policy.

“It’s horrifying to see a president whose policymaking agenda is set so trivially,” says Paul Musgrave, a scholar of US foreign policy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. “We all thought that modern White Houses had built elaborate systems of vetting and checking to prevent reactive thoughts from becoming policy, or from disclosing the president’s ideal point without some measure of calculation. But the Trump White House is a glass house.”

Sometimes this isn’t actually that big of a problem. All the people involved get some egg on their face, but everyone moves on. There’s almost always a bigger scandal in Trumpworld.

But the cumulative result of this process is that no one — not in Congress, not in the press, not even in foreign capitals — knows who is speaking for US government, or what policy they’re going to land on.

Signaling is a really important part of foreign policy; if you want, say, North Korea to slow down or shutter its nuclear program, you need to signal in a clear and credible way what the United States is willing to do to make that real. If Pyongyang doesn’t know who in the White House speaks for Trump, or what the US’s North Korea policy actually is, this could lead them to (unintentionally) do something that derails talks or sparks a crisis.

“We’re seeing again a real-life example of what happens when there either is no decision process at the White House,” Schulman says. “Usually it doesn’t matter and just creates a fun Beltway moment. [But] what if, instead of sanctions ... we were talking airstrikes?”

There is a cost to be paid for a profoundly mismanaged foreign policy process. It’s just a question of when the bill comes due.Eleven House Republicans — Ron DeSantis, Andy Biggs, Dave Brat, Jeff Duncan, Matt Gaetz, Paul Gosar, Andy Harris, Jody Hice, Todd Rokita, Claudia Tenney, and Ted Yoho — have signed a joint letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions calling for the criminal prosecution of Hillary Clinton and a variety of other Obama administration appointees, career FBI officials, and even Trump appointee Dana Boente, who is currently the FBI’s general counsel.

The lead of the letter states that the authors are “especially mindful of the dissimilar degrees of zealousness that has marked the investigations into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the presidential campaign of Donald Trump, respectively.”

Clinton was, of course, extensively investigated by multiple committees of the US Congress as well as the FBI. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy went so far as to concede at one point that the only actual purpose of the Clinton investigations was to hurt her poll numbers, and though the FBI’s investigations exonerated Clinton, then-FBI Director James Comey offered, against DOJ guidelines, multiple instances of public commentary on her conduct that ultimately hurt her campaign.

Nonetheless, House Republicans suggest that she should be prosecuted on the theory that because the Steele dossier was paid for in part by a lawyer who worked for the Clinton campaign, the campaign was “disguising payments to Fusion GPS” in a way that violated federal campaign finance law.

But the issue here, to be clear, is not a particular zeal for campaign finance law. It’s a broad request that the full force of the US government be brought to bear against Trump’s political enemies. They want prosecutions of not just Clinton but also:

Former FBI Director James Comey (for what they allege to be a politically motivated failure to prosecute Clinton, as well as for the allegedly illegal act of leaking his own notes to a friend)

Former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe (for the same “lack of candor” that was already the pretext for taking away his pension)

Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch (for not prosecuting the Uranium One deal)

FBI agent Peter Strzok and DOJ lawyer Lisa Page (for allegedly interfering with the Clinton email investigation)

Separately, it calls for prosecution of “all DOJ and FBI personnel responsible for signing the Carter Page warrant application,” which is Comey and McCabe plus former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates plus former US attorney (and current FBI general counsel) Dana Boente for allegedly violating Page’s civil liberties.

The point here is almost certainly not to generate any actual prosecutions so much as it is to try to muddy the waters in the media — creating a two-sided battle between and his “deep state” enemies rather than the reality that the Trump investigation has been led almost entirely by Republicans and career civil servants.

But it’s also an important signpost of where we stand in terms of Trump’s relationship to the congressional Republican Party. On policy issues, Trump has largely adopted Paul Ryan’s views. In exchange, mainstream GOP leaders like Mitch McConnell are shutting down legislation that would stop Trump from firing Robert Mueller, while fringier figures like the signatories to Trump’s letter are urging him to go further and mount politically motivated prosecutions of the opposition party.If your Facebook page starts to look different or the platform starts asking you whether you’re okay with having your data shared in the coming weeks or months, you’ll have Europe to thank for it: The company has begun to roll out Facebook privacy changes to comply with a new data protection measure in the European Union.

Late on Tuesday, Facebook announced the first steps it is taking to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, a new privacy law out of Europe designed to make sure users know and understand the data companies collect about them and consent to sharing it. Set to be enacted on May 25, the GDPR is the most sweeping overhaul of online privacy in more than two decades.

Starting this week, Facebook is introducing what it called new “privacy experiences,” said Facebook chief privacy officer Erin Egan and deputy general counsel Ashlie Beringer in a post laying out the changes.

The announcement seeks to cast the changes as something Facebook wanted to do — which, given the company’s past bad behavior in protecting user data and Mark Zuckerberg’s history of privacy violations and apologies — it probably did not.

European users will start to see changes this week; they’ll be prompted to agree to certain elements of Facebook and asked to give the terms of service a second look. Facebook users in the US and the rest of the world are expected to get the same treatment “on a slightly later schedule.”

Here’s what Facebook says is changing, starting with Europe:

Facebook will prompt users to say whether they want to see targeted ads based on the political, religious, and relationship information they’ve shared on their profiles or data collected by Facebook’s partners. They’ll also make it easier for people to delete information they don’t want shared.

Users in the European Union and Canada will be asked whether they want to turn off Facebook’s face recognition feature it uses to, for example, suggest tagging you in pictures posted by others. (Face recognition technology is already optional for anyone on Facebook.)

Facebook will prompt users to agree to its terms of service and data policy, which was updated earlier this month.

People under the age of 18 will have some special features, including requiring parent or guardian permission for those between the ages of 13 and 15 to see targeted ads in some European countries, and restricted sharing and less personalized ads. Later this year, Facebook will introduce a new “global online resource center” for teens.

Facebook said new settings and privacy shortcut features it unveiled last week were built with GDPR in mind and will start appearing this week. They essentially make Facebook’s privacy tools easier to find, including those that let you locate, download, and delete your Facebook data. (Vox’s Jen Kirby has an explanation of how to do that, and what you’ll discover Facebook has been tracking about you is pretty wild.)

Facebook’s GDPR adjustments are a first step in a long road ahead toward fixing its data privacy problems

The Cambridge Analytica scandal, which left the data of an estimated 87 million people exposed, has kicked off a global debate about Facebook’s privacy practices and just how much it knows — and shares — about its users.

Before news of the scandal broke, Europe, which has traditionally been tougher on big tech, had the GDPR ready to go. But in the United States, lawmakers and regulators have been caught flat-footed. There are a handful of ideas out there for cracking down on Facebook in the US, including the proposed Honest Ads Act on political ad disclosures online and potential action from the Federal Trade Commission, but most of them are in nascent stages at best.

Zuckerberg, Facebook’s CEO and chair, testified for several hours before Senate and House committees last week, and the results were less than satisfying. Many lawmakers, specifically in the Senate, seemed confused about what Facebook does and what its problems even are. Much of the time, Zuckerberg pivoted to easier answers or said his team would follow up.

“Right now Congress can’t even decide on lunch, so I don’t expect them to do anything meaningful,” Kara Swisher, a veteran tech journalist and executive editor of Recode, recently told Vox’s Sean Illing.

Zuckerberg has said many of the GDPR-required changes will be applied globally, though he has largely stopped short of specifics. As European users start to see changes this week, the rest of us will have to wait and see.A black Alabama woman who lost a job offer because she refused to cut her dreadlocks is asking the Supreme Court to hear her case.

On April 4, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund filed a petition to add EEOC v. Catastrophe Management Solutions to the Court’s docket — a case with serious implications for how racial discrimination in the workplace is defined.

The case revolves around Chastity Jones, an Alabama woman who was offered a job as a customer service representative at a call center in Mobile in 2010. During the interview, Jones wore her hair in short, natural locs and was dressed in a business suit and pumps. An HR manager later told Jones that dreadlocks violated the company’s grooming policy because they “tend to get messy.” She told Jones she couldn’t wear her hair that way at work, and when Jones refused to cut her locs, the job offer was rescinded.

Since then, Jones has been locked in a legal battle with the company over its decision. Jones contends that the issue was a clear example of racial discrimination. The company, Catastrophe Management Solutions, says its decision was merely a grooming policy unrelated to race.

In 2013, the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) filed a racial discrimination lawsuit against the Alabama company, arguing that the HR manager denied Jones a job based on the harmful racial stereotype that African-American hair is naturally unprofessional. The federal district court in Alabama dismissed the claim, saying that racial discrimination must show bias based on traits that a person cannot change, like skin color, and that a hairstyle doesn’t fit into that category because it can be changed. The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the lower court’s ruling in 2016 and then declined to hold a full en banc review of the case in December 2017.

Now Jones wants the Supreme Court to weigh in.

The case appears, on the surface, to be about an African-American worker’s right to wear natural hairstyles on the job. But it’s also about how the US legal system defines race. And it’s also about black women’s efforts to push back against deeply entrenched workplace stereotypes that pressure them to adopt white standards of beauty and professionalism.

“Black women who wish to succeed in the workplace feel compelled to undertake costly, time-consuming, and harsh measures to conform their natural hair to a stereotyped look of professionalism that mimics the appearance of White women’s hair,” lawyers for the LDF wrote in their petition to the Supreme Court.

They argue that this is what modern-day racial discrimination looks like: sometimes subtle, yet intentional racial biases and stereotypes that make it hard for people of color to get jobs and advance their careers.

How the US courts have defined race

The central issue in the case revolves around two significant questions: What is race, and what is racial discrimination?

The federal courts have generally considered race as a set of “immutable” traits shared by a group of people, hereditary characteristics that a person cannot change — such as skin color, hair texture, and facial features.

This definition is important because it determines how the courts decide what is racial discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, which prohibits employers from limiting job opportunities to workers “because of such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.”

The 11th Circuit justices said they consulted dictionary definitions for “race” from the 1960s, when the Civil Rights Act was signed into law:

Although the period dictionaries did not use the word “immutable” to describe such common characteristics, it is not much of a linguistic stretch to think that such characteristics are a matter of birth, and not culture.

The Alabama district court dismissed Jones’s lawsuit based on the argument that dreadlocks are not an “immutable trait” that Jones can’t change. By that logic, a company policy that bans dreadlocks cannot be a form of intentional discrimination. They cited the 1981 case of Rogers v. American Airlines, in which a New York district judge ruled that the airline did not discriminate against a black flight attendant when her supervisor said her braided cornrows violated the company’s grooming policy. The Alabama appellate court agreed with that view.

The LDF and the EEOC argue that those rulings rest on outdated notions of what race is and what racial discrimination looks like.

Discrimination is now more subtle and harder to detect

The LDF and the EEOC say that race is more than a person’s biological traits, and that a growing body of research shows that race is also a social construct based on shared culture and identity. According to this argument, dreadlocks are so closely associated with black America that any company policy banning them is a race-based policy.

But their main dispute is over the HR manager’s reason for banning locs — because they “tend to get messy” — which hinges on a racial stereotype that intentionally harms black workers:

Locs are often the target of scorn and derision based on long-held stereotypes that natural Black hair is dirty, unprofessional, or unkempt. Indeed, the term “dreadlocks” originated from slave traders’ descriptions of Africans’ hair that had naturally formed into locs during the Middle Passage as “dreadful.” The stereotype that Black natural hairstyles are dirty or unkempt and therefore not appropriate for more formal settings remains unfortunately widespread. For example, until 2014, the U.S. military banned a number of common Black hairstyles, including cornrows and braids. School administrators and dress codes also often restrict Black natural hairstyles.

The LDF said that modern-day racial discrimination is not as overt as it was 40 years ago, and that the courts need to recognize that.

“In an age where employment discrimination rarely presents itself in policies that explicitly exclude employees based on skin color, the vitality of Title VII depends on its ability to root out more subtle practices — facially neutral policies, racial proxies, stereotyped thinking — that still operate to disfavor applicants based on their race,” the lawyers wrote in their petition.

Research shows persistent biases toward black women with natural hair. In one implicit bias test, white women showed the strongest bias — both explicit and implicit — against textured hair, rating it as less beautiful and less professional than smooth hair.

The LDF also argues that the 11th Circuit is ignoring precedent set by the Supreme Court in its 1989 ruling in Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins. In that case, a female lawyer said her supervisors repeatedly told her she was too aggressive and needed to walk, talk, and dress more “femininely” if she wanted to get a promotion. The Court ruled that gender stereotypes at work can be a form of intentional sex discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, even though femininity is mutable. The LDF said that legal standard should also apply to racial discrimination claims, and that denying someone a job based on a racial stereotype can also be a form of discrimination. In Jones’s case, the stereotype is that natural black hair is unprofessional and messy.

The Supreme Court is in the process of picking cases to hear during its next term, which starts in October. The Court normally hears arguments for 100 to 150 cases out of the thousands of cases submitted to the bench. So far, it has granted requests to hear eight cases next term, though none have been added since the LDF made its petition.The IRS’ website has recovered from the glitch that took parts of its e-file system down for most of Tuesday. But it’s only extending the 2018 tax filing deadline by one extra day — until midnight on Wednesday, April 18.

Parts of the tax payment and refund system went down early Tuesday morning because of a glitch on the IRS’ servers. They remained down for most of the day — coming back up only barely before the original deadline of midnight Tuesday.

When the glitch was resolved Tuesday evening, the IRS put out a statement that “Individuals and businesses with a filing or payment due date of April 17 will now have until midnight on Wednesday, April 18. Taxpayers do not need to do anything to receive this extra time.”

Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin told the Associated Press on Tuesday that once the system was back up, “We’ll make sure taxpayers have extensions once the system comes up to make sure they can use it and it in no way impacts people paying their taxes.” But the IRS’ statement doesn’t indicate whether that includes taxpayers affected by the glitch who don’t, or can’t, file by midnight Wednesday. If you can’t file Wednesday, the safest bet might be to file for an automatic six-month tax extension, which will give you until October 15.

Taxpayers who have questions are encouraged to check out the help section of the IRS’ website before calling the agency’s customer-service phone number — especially because the glitch and its aftermath might be causing more people than usual to call. If you need to call the IRS’ help number (800-829-1040 for individuals), make sure you have the required information ready so that you can be helped quickly once you reach the front of the queue.

The glitch was extra-confusing to would-be filers because the site’s error message that the e-file system is down for a “planned outage.” However, the error message also said that the site would be back up either in September 2016 or in December 9999 — meaning the error message indicating a “planned outage” was, itself, an error.

The tax deadline is now April 18 at midnight in a filer’s local time zone.

It’s not clear what exactly caused the IRS system outage. But the IRS ought to be prepared for a last-minute rush of web traffic. In past years, the IRS site has often been the most visited government website in the week before taxes were due. In 2017, according to weekly IRS data, 13.6 million people filed their taxes online from April 15 to April 21, and 18.2 million people visited IRS.gov during that time. (The 2017 deadline was April 18.)

In 2017, congressional Republicans promised to use tax reform to simplify the tax code, with House Speaker Paul Ryan and others advocating for taxes so simple they could be filed on a postcard. The tax reform they actually passed in December 2017 did not live up to that standard (even though they are pretending it does).

Meanwhile, the system outage may have caused some Americans to use TurboTax rather than filing their taxes themselves — especially because TurboTax allows some taxpayers to file their federal returns for free — thus driving more business to a company that has also lobbied to keep the tax code complicated.Facebook finally released a tool last week allowing users to check if their personal data was compromised by Cambridge Analytica, the shady British firm that used such data to “psychologically profile” potential voters. I took a deep breath, clicked, and was greeted with good news: “Based on our available records, neither you nor your friends logged in to ‘This Is Your Digital Life’” — the app that the company used to lure Facebook users into revealing personal data. So my data was not compromised.

There’s an aside in that message that ought to alarm every Facebook user: the phrase “neither you nor your friends.” And indeed, many Facebook users who checked their status were greeted by a different message: “You don’t appear to have logged into ‘This Is Your Digital Life’ … [h]owever, a friend of yours did.” That means their data was collected, although they (wisely) had not personally enabled the app.

That’s because even a user with stringent privacy control practices, but who has friends who were less careful, could have ended up with Cambridge Analytica collecting private information like their phone number, who their family members are, all the places they’ve “checked in,” and which groups they’ve joined — including those whose very names and subjects might reveal private information, such as support groups for health conditions.

And really, who can trust that none of their hundreds of friends is careless? All of us have that one uncle who responds to “Nigerian prince” emails, or the high school friend who has never met a personality quiz they didn’t take. Unfortunately, the way Facebook’s privacy controls were set up prior to 2014 made it effectively impossible for even the most conscientious Facebook user to protect themselves against the data leakage one friend could cause.

And despite many rounds of revisions and overhauls over the years, Facebook privacy controls still leave many things outside users’ control. Too many users still don’t realize just how vulnerable their data is to their friends’ third-party apps.

Mark Zuckerberg was scheduled to meet this week with the European Commission vice president in charge of digital issues, Andrus Ansip. Here’s some of the problematic history — and continuing problematic behavior — that Ansip, not to mention US regulators, might want to zero in on:

Facebook opened the privacy floodgates with apps

Remember how annoying the days of unfettered apps on Facebook were? Farmville and other games sent a deluge of notifications to friends of players (“Sally Smith sent you a sheep on Farmville!”). Apps incentivized players to grant the app access to their friends’ information by restricting play unless they did so, or by letting the players score higher in the game if they did. But the problem went much deeper than annoyance.

When a player granted an app permission to access their friends, it was all or nothing: The app didn’t just get access to a list of people; it could see everything the player could see — friends’ birthdays, phone numbers, posts, check-ins, groups, and more.

Facebook likes to emphasize the role of user choice in control of privacy settings, but app users may not have realized what they were agreeing to when granting access, and app users’ friends were, of course, not consulted at all.

As a computer scientist, I knew it was foolish to grant that kind of access to dubious quizzes, games, and the like, but I watched in exasperation as my friends eagerly installed them, revealing my information without my consent. I even considered unfriending certain especially app-promiscuous friends, but, realizing this task was Sisyphean, I resigned myself to unwanted and unapproved data leaks.

Facebook might retort that even friends of app users retained some control over their data: If they opted not to let their friends see their birthday or phone number, or even status updates, apps couldn’t see those things either! But many users are on Facebook because they enjoy small pleasures like having their friends send them birthday wishes. Should they have to choose between that pleasure and losing their privacy to third-party developers?

And what is the point of updating a Facebook status if your friends are blocked from seeing it? Yet this was the “choice” that privacy-minded Facebook users confronted at that time.

Since then — in 2014, to be specific — Facebook has decoupled some of these privacy settings: Now you can show your friends your birthday but hide it from your friends’ apps. The screenshot below shows what the controls look like today. I’ve turned off all access, but the default setting is that every piece of data you see listed here is something that your friends’ apps learn about you:

Whether or not you’re comfortable with Facebook having all this data about you, you should definitely not trust third-party app developers with it. Facebook does a cursory check of apps to make sure they meet requirements like not crashing, but there is essentially no vetting of the individuals behind the apps to ensure that they are trustworthy, or even know what they’re doing.

App owners agree to terms of service that prohibit them from, for example, taking every “friends only” post you’ve ever written and posting it publicly. But the apps have this data, and in practice, Facebook has no way to ensure they don’t use abuse it. Facebook doesn’t even have a good way to punish violators after the fact, except to ban their apps from collecting new data on Facebook users in the future.

Once the app-makers have the data, Facebook doesn’t have an effective way to get it back. Imagine that 30 years from now an amateur author of an obscure, long-defunct Facebook third-party app dusts off their server and remembers they still have the private data of a million people. Now imagine they use the names and phone numbers — along with years of recorded photos and memories — to defraud now-elderly people by convincingly pretending to be a long-lost acquaintance.

Zuckerberg told senators last week, “It’s not enough to give people control of their information, we have to make sure developers they’ve given it to are protecting it too.” So far, he hasn’t come close to achieving either goal.

Facebook tracks you even if you’re not on Facebook

Over the past few weeks, there have been many stories about people who have decided to reduce their activity on Facebook, or even delete their account altogether. But this is not enough to ensure that Facebook doesn’t continue to collect personal data about you. Here are some examples of ways Facebook gathers data on users — and non-users — that are less obvious than just warehousing what you write and do on the site:

Off-Facebook browsing data: Through use of web browser cookies and tracking “pixels” — tiny images, too small to see, tucked away in a corner of many webpages — Facebook can track your browsing habits even when you are on websites that are not owned or operated by Facebook. For example, NYTimes.com, Huffington Post, Drudge Report, and, yes, Vox all have embedded pixels or social sharing buttons that track which articles you read. This provides websites and their advertisers critical information about audience demographics, size, and whether the ads lead to purchases, but it also provides Facebook with this tracking data.

Through use of web browser cookies and tracking “pixels” — tiny images, too small to see, tucked away in a corner of many webpages — Facebook can track your browsing habits even when you are on websites that are not owned or operated by Facebook. For example, NYTimes.com, Huffington Post, Drudge Report, and, yes, Vox all have embedded pixels or social sharing buttons that track which articles you read. This provides websites and their advertisers critical information about audience demographics, size, and whether the ads lead to purchases, but it also provides Facebook with this tracking data. Non-users’ browser data: Facebook may not know the names of non-users, but using pixels and browser tracking, they can still accumulate a demographic profile based on their use of other websites — like news and shopping — that Facebook sees their device repeatedly visit. Facebook can then suggest ads that appear on those other sites that are tailored to the person’s interests, all without that person ever having visited Facebook or created an account.

Facebook may not know the names of non-users, but using pixels and browser tracking, they can still accumulate a demographic profile based on their use of other websites — like news and shopping — that Facebook sees their device repeatedly visit. Facebook can then suggest ads that appear on those other sites that are tailored to the person’s interests, all without that person ever having visited Facebook or created an account. Non-users’ friend networks: Facebook not only knows what non-users read and buy online, but the company may also have a pretty good idea who their friends are. That’s because someone using Facebook’s “Find Friends” feature uploads all their contacts, without those friends’ permission. (This is not unlike the pre-2014 app problem.) Each time someone who isn’t on Facebook is listed among those contacts, Facebook learns more about their social and business ties.

Facebook not only knows what non-users read and buy online, but the company may also have a pretty good idea who their friends are. That’s because someone using Facebook’s “Find Friends” feature uploads all their contacts, without those friends’ permission. (This is not unlike the pre-2014 app problem.) Each time someone who isn’t on Facebook is listed among those contacts, Facebook learns more about their social and business ties. Facial recognition: If your face has appeared in group photos that have been posted to Facebook, the website learns to recognize you with biometric facial analysis. Facebook can then track who you spend time with by analyzing photos, whether or not you’ve been tagged in them. And if those photos have GPS tags attached, they’ll have your location data as well.

Given the near monopoly Facebook enjoys on what is now a key piece of infrastructure in our global society, protecting our data is essential. I’ve heard many friends tell me that recent revelations about privacy problems have made them feel ashamed of their social media use, or ashamed that they find the idea of quitting to be overwhelmingly difficult, or ashamed that their attempt at giving up Facebook for Lent fell apart only a few days in.

I don’t think anyone should feel ashamed of wanting to be connected to their friends and family. A better answer than disconnecting from each other is to ensure that those who connect us do so safely and responsibly.

Cynthia Lee is a lecturer in the computer science department at Stanford. She founded the website Peer Instruction for Computer Science to support educators in flipping their computer science classrooms using peer instruction. She has a PhD in high-performance computing.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.You’ve heard of David Hogg. But the right has claimed another Parkland student as its own.

Share You’ve heard of David Hogg. But the right has claimed another Parkland student as its own.

Before the shooting in Parkland, Florida, on February 14, and before the March for Our Lives and Friday’s planned National School Walkout, Kyle Kashuv, a 16-year-old junior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, spent a lot of his time taking Advanced Placement classes and playing video games in his spare time (his favorite is Fortnite). But since February 14, Kashuv has been too busy for video games. He’s visited Washington, met President Trump and Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, and made multiple appearances on Fox News.

In the weeks after the shooting, Kashuv has emerged within conservative media as a “professional and respectful” alternative to Parkland students like David Hogg and Emma Gonzalez, who’ve become something of celebrity faces in the anti-gun movement.

Kashuv has never touched a gun, he told me, but said, “I am super conservative on the Second Amendment because I realize that the Second Amendment protects all the other amendments.”

With the help of a 19-year-old marketer, Michael Gruen, and popular conservative columnist Ben Shapiro, Kashuv met with dozens of lawmakers in March to urge the STOP School Violence Act toward passage — which it did, clearing the House on March 14 and becoming law as part of the omnibus funding bill on March 23. And his profile has only grown since then.

Immediately after the shootings, many on the right decried the teen activists from Parkland, with Fox News’s Todd Starnes calling them “propaganda pawns [used] to peddle a fake news narrative.” But now it seems they have decided that if they can’t beat teenagers lobbying to stop school shootings, they needed to get their own teen.

As the American Conservative’s Matt Purple wrote, “Conservatives objected that leveraging kids in policy arguments was a lousy tactic — until they found a kid of their own: Kyle Kashuv, just as bright and eloquent as his peers and a stout defender of the Second Amendment.”

Kashuv has become part of a culture war far bigger and older than him taking place between liberals and conservatives over one of the most divisive issues in America. Kashuv is conscious of the pitted battle over guns and gun control on a daily basis, an issue he says is “very polar[ized] and split down the middle. It’s sad.”

“I mean what I say, and I am sincere”

Kyle’s activism comes from an honest place: He wants to balance stopping another school shooting with maintaining the Second Amendment. He told me he’s done the research on different gun control proposals, and opposes nearly all of them, telling me that ideas lifted up by his Parkland classmates (like lowering magazine capacity or reinstating the federal assault weapons ban) are “likely unconstitutional and likely statistically devoid of benefit.”

His activism, he said, is all based on saving lives. “I genuinely believe, with all my heart, that what I am doing will save lives and is the best way to avenge [the Parkland victims’] deaths,” he told me, adding, “I mean what I say and I am sincere. I am doing this to avenge my friends that lost their lives.” The STOP School Violence Act, which Kashuv strongly supported, creates an annual $50 million grant to schools for training programs and revamped reporting systems for school safety (and doesn’t mention guns).

To many conservatives who had criticized the gun control favoring Parkland activists capturing national attention, Kashuv’s pro-gun activism was a breath of fresh air. Conservative columnist Guy Benson described Kashuv as “a reasonable voice in pursuit of bipartisan solutions.”

In a March 9 article for the conservative website RedState, “In the Midst of the Parkland Student Media Spectacle, Kyle Kashuv Is the Only One I Respect,” Brandon Morse wrote, “Kashuv has a clear intended goal, and he works toward it. He’s not putting on airs, organizing marches, or promoting politicians. He’s just talking with them and reaching middle ground solutions.”

But more recently, Kashuv’s tweets about debating other Parkland survivors on gun control have made national news. And after former Newsweek senior writer and MSNBC contributor Kurt Eichenwald went after Kashuv on Twitter, Kashuv seemed to call for a boycott of MSNBC’s advertisers. Kashuv was trying to make a point about double standards in the media about boycotts, but at least one company pulled its ads from MSNBC in response.

After the incident, National Review columnist David French wrote that Kashuv was being used by adults, just like David Hogg, adding, “I hope someone is talking to these Parkland kids, telling them the cold, hard truth. The vast majority of their new friends love them because they are useful. If they deviate one inch from the tribal lines, they’ll quickly learn how scarce their true friends are.”

A month after Morse’s story on Kashuv at RedState, the outlet has promised to stop publishing any stories about Parkland student activists, including Kashuv. “The main reason is that this entire media scrum is entirely out of hand and I don’t want to be a part of it,” RedState editor-in-chief Caleb Howe wrote. “And I don’t just mean criticisms of the students, I mean those purporting to admire or praise them. And I mean the kids themselves. It’s all an ugly mess.” I reached out to Howe but haven’t received a response.

A 16-year-old “smart, dedicated kid” turned conservative activist

I spoke to Ben Shapiro, who has worked to raise Kashuv’s profile on his popular podcast and website, DailyWire (and whom Kashuv considers a personal hero). And I asked him if Kashuv was the conservative response to Hogg. He told me, “To a certain extent, of course. Kyle is a really smart, dedicated kid, but his opinion probably wouldn’t be public fodder except that the left has hijacked a series of leftist teenagers to do their political dirty work, and Kyle is happy to respond to his classmates.”

Shapiro started his career as a syndicated conservative columnist at the age of 17 but wrote a critique in February of Parkland activists like Hogg and Gonzalez, pointing out their youth and saying, “Children and teenagers are not fully rational actors. They’re not capable of exercising supreme responsibilities. And we shouldn’t be treating innocence as a political asset used to push the agenda of more sophisticated players.”

I asked him if, given his prior writing on the subject, his decision to lift up Kashuv wasn’t a bit hypocritical. “I didn’t say youth activism is inappropriate, I said that young people often think dumb things, and probably think dumb things more often than older people,” he responded. “That’s true of everyone, including Kyle. The only reason Kyle is important to this discussion is because media have elevated the opinions of particular Parkland survivors above others, and that’s unfair and wrong.”

As Kashuv’s media profile grows, Shapiro told me, “I do worry about Kyle and his exposure to the media,” adding that he speaks to Kyle regularly to “try to caution him against mistakes I made when I was his age.” But, he added, “Kyle’s old enough to know whether he wants to speak in public, and he has every right to do so.”

After going at it with @tedlieu on Twitter, I am scared at who this country elects. But on the bright side, I am confident I will be able to, one day, serve as a member of Congress! — Kyle Kashuv (@KyleKashuv) April 15, 2018

Kashuv says the attention has been challenging. He wants to “be the voice for the other side” from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School — and speak out for gun owners and gun rights. But he’s also 16 years old and a survivor of a deadly mass shooting, one that he spent in hiding for two hours, trying to calm down crying classmates until a SWAT team freed them from a classroom closet.

When I asked him if it was hard to have so many new followers on Twitter, and if he felt pressure to tweet the right things or say things that will get a big response online, he agreed emphatically. And when I asked him if balancing his activism with school and family had been difficult, he laughed. “I don’t [balance them.] It’s impossible.”

And I asked him if he thought he’d had enough time and space to work through what happened on February 14, when he and Hogg and Gonzalez and hundreds of other teens experienced the unimaginable: a deadly mass shooting in the halls of their own high school.

He told me, “Honestly, I don’t think we’ll ever have it all worked through.”This year’s unlikeliest competitive Senate race might be Mississippi.

There, in the Deep South, 80-year-old Republican Sen. Thad Cochran retired after four decades in the Senate. He was replaced by a new senator, Cindy Hyde-Smith, appointed by Gov. Phil Bryant, who had been in close contact with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell as it became clear that Cochran’s health would not allow him to serve much longer. Cochran’s seat will now be on the ballot in November — and hard-right conservatives have had their eye on Mississippi for months.

Could it be Alabama all over again?

Conservative insurgent Chris McDaniel, a former state senator with ties to the neo-Confederate movement, was prepared to primary Mississippi’s other Republican senator at Steve Bannon’s urging. But now he’s running for Cochran’s open seat.

McDaniel already challenged Cochran in a bitterly contested 2014 Republican primary — it involved a break-in and a suicide — and to this day, his supporters contend that election was stolen from him in part because many of the black voters in the state lined up behind Cochran.

But even if Hyde-Smith prevails over McDaniel among Republicans, as recent polls suggest she would, Democrats could still make the race competitive. A new poll conducted for Y’all Politics, a well-read conservative news site in the state, showed McDaniel significantly behind Hyde-Smith — and found Hyde-Smith leading the top Democrat in the race, former congressman Mike Espy, by just six points.

“Mississippi is a red state, but I think most people would be surprised to learn that [John] McCain only won the state by 13 points and [Mitt] Romney by 12. It is actually substantially less red than Alabama,” Sean Trende, an elections analyst at RealClearPolitics, told me in an email. When you add it all up, Mississippi is a “lighter load than Alabama.”

Then you have the Trump factor. For now, the president has refused to back Bryant’s choice for the Cochran seat. Mississippi’s Senate race should be a familiar drama — the establishment versus the far-right wing, McConnell versus Bannon, with a credible Democrat waiting to run against whoever makes it out alive.

Chris McDaniel versus the Republican establishment, explained

First things first: The Mississippi race will be a jungle primary. That means every candidate runs in the first race on Election Day in November. If one candidate gets 50 percent of the total vote, they win. But if they don’t — and it seems unlikely, with a strong Democratic candidate and a fractured GOP field — the top two candidates face each other in a runoff election that same month. (One of them could be the Democrat Espy — whom we’ll get to in a bit.)

McDaniel was originally going to challenge Republican Sen. Roger Wicker, a favorite target of alt-right mastermind and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon. McDaniel had discussed his Wicker challenge with Bannon before announcing, Mississippi Today reported last fall, and his potential candidacy had received favorable coverage from Breitbart, Bannon’s former employer. But McDaniel switched over to the open Cochran race after the senator said he would step down in April.

It probably doesn’t make much difference to Bannon, who clearly sees Mississippi as fertile ground for the alt-right populist revolution he is still trying to get off the ground.

“Mitch McConnell is a literal anchor tied to the hips of folks like Roger Wicker and Thad Cochran,” Andy Surabian, a Bannon adviser, told NBC News last fall. “We expect the anti-establishment wave we are seeing across the country today to hit Mississippi like a tsunami in 2018 and beyond.”

Bryant’s pick to replace Cochran on April 1 was Cindy Hyde-Smith, the state’s agriculture commissioner. She is Mississippi’s first woman senator.

McDaniel had once upon a time lobbied Bryant to name him as Cochran’s replacement, the Washington Post reported, but the governor was not interested.

There is a lot of bad blood between McDaniel and the Republican establishment, left over from the 2014 primary. Bryant even took a swing at McDaniel after the state senator announced he would switch from the Wicker to the Cochran race.

“This opportunistic behavior is a sad commentary for a young man who once had great potential,” Bryant told the Jackson Clarion-Ledger.

The newspaper reported that Bryant was looking for a candidate who was particularly well suited to beating McDaniel. The governor settled on Hyde-Smith, but the White House and Washington Republicans weren’t exactly on board with that choice. Politico reported that Trump won’t campaign for or endorse Hyde-Smith because the White House is worried her history as a Democrat (she switched parties in 2010) could make her vulnerable. McDaniel, right on cue, has already begun attacking Hyde-Smith for her past in the other party.

The most recent polling suggests Hyde-Smith is building a substantial advantage over McDaniel, though. The Clarion Ledger reported this week that Espy and Hyde-Smith were pulling away from the rest of the field based on the Y’all Politics survey of the race:

Democrat Mike Espy: 33.1 percent

Republican Cindy Hyde-Smith: 33 percent

Republican Chris McDaniel: 12.8 percent

Democrat Jason Shelton: 6.2 percent

(Another recent poll, commissioned by Espy’s campaign, found the Democrat and Hyde-Smith as the top two candidates, though McDaniel had a stronger showing at 21 percent.)

The establishment is hellbent on stopping McDaniel and they might be succeeding. Which brings us back to 2014.

Let’s remember how absolutely surreal the 2014 campaign was

McDaniel has to be taken seriously because he mounted a very credible challenge against Cochran in 2014. Let’s start with the math: In the first round of the GOP’s jungle primary that year, McDaniel actually got more votes (49.5 percent) than Cochran (49 percent); a man named Thomas Carey got the remaining votes. But McDaniel did not get the needed 50 percent, so he and Cochran had a rematch.

In that showdown, Cochran narrowly prevailed over McDaniel, 51 percent to 49 percent, but not without a lot of bitterness and allegations of wrongdoing on both sides.

But those are the vote totals. That’s not the memorable part. In brief — and to understand why Bryant and other establishment Republicans are so hell-bent on beating McDaniel this year — here is your unofficial rundown of the 2014 Mississippi primary, courtesy of Talking Points Memo:

A 26-year-old blogger and McDaniel supporter nicknamed “Constitutional Clayton” broke into the nursing home where Cochran’s wife resides and took pictures of her for an attack ad accusing the senator of infidelity with one of his aides.

That blogger later went to jail for the break-in conspiracy. On a more tragic note, one of his alleged conspirators killed himself during the investigation.

Chuck Johnson, the infamous conservative raconteur, accused the Cochran campaign of bribing black voters to support the senator.

Johnson was later investigated by the Mississippi attorney general for his report and allegations that he actually bribed a source of the accusations he made against Cochran.

But after the election, the McDaniel campaign did file a lawsuit accusing the Cochran camp of soliciting Democratic votes, which they said would invalidate the results. The suit was eventually rejected by the state Supreme Court.

In other words, the McDaniel campaign tried to use the specter of black voters to delegitimize an election result — a problematic tactic, to say the least, given the state senator’s history of racially charged remarks.

The 2014 race is still a sore point for everybody involved. Just this year, McDaniel said:

“What I have is a situation in which I’m running for the same seat I ran for in 2014 — the seat we felt we won in 2014. Now God had other plans for that, obviously, and that’s okay and we accept that. All I’m asking for now is to be allowed to finish that term that we ran for in 2014.”

And that explains equally well, on the establishment side of the equation, why Bryant and other Republican leaders are so intent on defeating McDaniel again. McDaniel and his supporters had maligned Cochran, a titan of Mississippi Republican politics, and deployed dirtier-than-dirty tactics to try to unseat him.

The hypothetical path for another Democratic win in the Deep South

All of this leads to a pretty serious opening for Democrats. So who is the Democrat in this race?

Former Democratic Rep. Mike Espy — who comes with some of his own baggage after being acquitted of bribery charges in the 1990s — has already announced that he will run for Cochran’s seat with the backing of Democrats in the state. The 64-year-old represented the Jackson area in Congress for six years before serving as President Bill Clinton’s secretary of agriculture from 1993 to 1994.

But he was forced to step down amid an ethics investigation. Allegations were made that he improperly received airplane and sports tickets. Espy was eventually acquitted on all charges, but it more or less ended his career in politics; he has been out of public office for nearly 25 years, spending the past decade as a private attorney.

Espy looks likely to lock up one of the spots for the runoff election. That means the initial vote will function as a quasi-Republican primary: The top two GOP candidates will be vying to come in first or second and earn the right to face Espy. And with Democratic turnout up all around the country, that could put Espy on the map in a real way.

“I think against a more traditional Southern Republican, you get maybe something that looks like the presidential numbers, tightened a bit for turnout,” Trende told me.

To his point: for now, according to the Y’all Politics poll, Hyde-Smith is leading with 42 percent of the vote to Espy’s 36 percent.

If Hyde-Smith holds onto her lead over McDaniel, she has to be considered the favorite against Espy in the runoff. Maybe things will be a little closer than usual. It could get even more competitive if Espy runs a strong campaign or if the national environment becomes even worse for Republicans.

If McDaniel were to win and face Espy in a one-on-one runoff, things start to get really interesting. The poll cited by the Clarion Ledger found the Democrat with a 43 percent to 24 percent lead over McDaniel.

Espy certainly starts with some challenges: He could have lost his skills in retail politics, he might not be adept at fundraising, etc. But if he shows up in game shape, he could have some real advantages in Mississippi against McDaniel.

The conservative candidate has a troubling list of, shall we say, racially charged rhetoric and affiliating with more openly racist people:

He spoke at a neo-Confederate conference in 2013.

He recently appeared on a radio show with a host who traffics in anti-Semitic 9/11 conspiracies.

He has blamed “hip-hop” for gun violence, saying that it is “morally bankrupt” and destroys community values,

TPM had a long rundown in 2014 of McDaniel’s various remarks about reparations and “mamacitas.”

With some solid fundraising and spending, Espy could turn out more black voters — already about one-third of the state’s electorate — and he could then bring the race down to single digits, Trende told me.

“At that point, you’re really not talking about convincing that many whites to either state home or vote Democrat because of McDaniel’s racialized statements,” he said.

Espy, it should be noted, said kind words about Cochran as he announced his candidacy, and the Clarion-Ledger wrote that Espy has long been considered the model for the kind of black candidate who could win crossover white voters in Mississippi.

We’re a long way from an Alabama-style upset coming to fruition in its neighbor state. But the state may have the right ingredients.Is civilization good for us? Has it made us any happier?

The takeaway from a new book by James Scott, a professor of political science and anthropology at Yale University, is that the answer to the first question is yes but it’s complicated, while the answer to the second question is, well, even more complicated.

In Against the Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest States, Scott explores why human beings decided to shift from a hunter-gatherer lifestyle to a more sedentary, agrarian lifestyle roughly 12,000 years ago. The accepted narrative is that humans abandoned hunting and gathering as soon they discovered agricultural technology, because it made life easier and safer.

But Scott argues that this is not quite right. Humans, he says, spent thousands of years trying to preserve their hunter-gatherer lifestyle. Sure, settling down in agrarian societies provided the basis for the modern state by allowing large numbers of people to live in one place for extended periods of time, but it also led to the spread of diseases and forced people to give up the freedom of an itinerant lifestyle for the affluence of a modern one.

The story we tell ourselves about human history is one of linear progress, fueled in large part by moral and technological development. There is some truth to this, and on a long enough timeline it makes sense, but Scott says the sacrifices made along the way are rarely understood.

I spoke to him recently about those sacrifices, and what we tend to get wrong about early civilizations. For Scott, the price of civilization — for the individual and the environment — has been higher than we think.

Our conversation, lightly edited for clarity, follows.

Sean Illing

Has civilization been good for humanity?

James Scott

So much of what I thought I had understood about early civilizations and pre-modern men and women was just wrong. I’ve tried to offer something of a counternarrative that suggests the domestication of grains centuries ago did not lead directly to humans living in large groups in one place for long periods of time, as we now do.

It turns out that the kind of agriculture that early humans practiced was onerous and involved a tremendous amount of work. The first civilizations were very hard and unhealthy places that gave us most of our first infectious diseases, many of which are still with us. They also produced the first coercive states that took slaves and oppressed large numbers of people.

Now, that doesn't mean that the modern state since the French Revolution is not the ground of both our freedom and our oppression, but it does mean that the early states were by no means a simple advance in leisure, freedom, emancipation, or help.

Sean Illing

We can circle back to that last point about what we lost in terms of leisure and freedom, but first tell me what you initially got wrong about early civilizations — and presumably what a lot of us get wrong.

James Scott

A couple of things. One is that I think the standard narrative is that once we had domesticated plants, then we immediately shifted to an agricultural society so that we could stay in the same place. People also assume that before the agricultural revolution, humans had to wander around as foragers and hunter-gatherers. But that’s not quite right. Four thousand years passed between the first firm evidence of domesticated plants, cereals, and the beginning of truly agrarian communities that are living largely by agriculture.

The other mistake, which I had never thought about, was this assumption that we couldn’t wait to settle down, that this was part of the inevitable progress of humanity. That’s not true at all, and it certainly could have gone another way.

The truth is that staying in one place, which is what civilization more or less forced us to do, wasn’t all that healthy for us, and our human ancestors resisted [it] strongly for a very long time.

Sean Illing

So the birth of agriculture, which effectively laid the foundation for modern civilization, was not welcomed by most humans at the time. What were they resisting? What did they see?

James Scott

Well, you have to remember that in places like Mesopotamia, people lived in a kind of wetland paradise, with water levels much higher than they are today and with diverse migrations of mammals and birds and fish that created an extraordinarily rich set of ecosystems. Those early humans had a variety of plant and animal and fish sources of subsistence, and it actually required very little of the year for them to get all of their protein needs.

“It’s important to understand that this was not a choice between hunting and gathering and foraging on the one hand and the Danish welfare state on the other”

Sean Illing

So the hunter-gatherers were healthier than those who switched over to the more sedentary agricultural lifestyle — at least initially.

James Scott

That’s right. Their diet was extremely varied, which is to say extremely healthy. So that when you find the bones of people who died at the same time and you want to know whether they were a part of an agrarian state or whether they were hunters and gatherers and foragers, you can tell because the hunter-gatherers’ skeletons are much larger because they had fewer interruptions in growth, and their bones show almost no signs of malnutrition, whereas the people in the agricultural civilizations are both shorter and their bones and teeth are less robust. You see evidence of growth interruptions that are mostly due to protein deficiency of one kind or another.

It's clear that people outside these grain civilizations were healthier than the people inside.

Sean Illing

People tend to think of human history as a story of steady progress, which is largely true, but it’s also more complicated than that.

James Scott

Even today, there is this idea that life with civilization is easier and affords more leisure, but hunters and gatherers spend only about 50 percent of their time producing or searching for what they needed to survive. The idea that hunters and gatherers and foragers were living hand to mouth and one day away from starvation is nonsense, even for those in pretty marginal areas where there is less access to natural migrations of fish and animals and the fruiting seasons of trees and so on.

Hunters and gatherers only spent half of their time working, and the rest was spent in play or leisure. By contrast, those early agrarian civilizations involved much more labor and drudgery. [They] also involved a narrower diet that turned out mostly carbohydrates. And that’s why people resisted this transition, and why many had to be forced into this change.

Sean Illing

You’re not arguing — and I’m certainly not arguing — that we would be better off if we all returned to this pre-modern world. No one wants to swap lives with someone from 10,000 years ago.

James Scott

Of course. From our perspective today, it’s inconceivable that we would want to go back like that. But I think it’s still important to understand that this was not a choice between hunting and gathering and foraging on the one hand and the Danish welfare state on the other.

At this point in history, this was a choice between hunting and gathering and foraging on the one hand and an agrarian state in which all of the first epidemic diseases developed due to the concentration of animals and human beings in a concentrated space. This was not as clear-cut a choice as a lot of people suppose.

Yes, things are better now, but it’s really only in the last 200 years or so that we’ve enjoyed the health and longevity that we do today. But this initial period when we think civilization was created was, in fact, a really dark period for humanity.

“Moving from hunting and gathering to working on an assembly line has made us more machine-like and less attuned to the world around us because we only have to be skilled at one thing”

Sean Illing

What have the demands of modern civilization done to the individual? We enjoy more abundance and greater comfort, but at the same time many of us are less happy, less free, and more cut off from our natural environment. Isn’t this the real price of civilization?

James Scott

It’s an important question. Modern industrial life has forced almost all of us to specialize in something, often in mundane, repetitive tasks. This is good for economic productivity but not so good for individual self-fulfillment. I think this has created a narrowing of attention to the larger world. Moving from hunting and gathering to working on an assembly line has made us more machine-like and less attuned to the world around us because we only have to be skilled at one thing.

Sean Illing

I want to press you a bit on this question of whether we’re any happier now. We live mostly isolated lives in a culture that prizes growth over sustainability. We’re encouraged to own more things, to buy more things, to define and measure ourselves against others on the basis of status and wealth. I think this has made us less happy and more self-conscious. How do you see it?

James Scott

I’d say two things. The first is that once we had sedentary agriculture, we then had investment in land and therefore property that could be taxed. We then had the basis for inherited property and thus the basis for passing wealth from one generation to another.

Now, all that matters because it led to these embedded inequalities that were enforced by the state protection of property. This wasn’t true for hunter and gatherer societies, which regarded all property as common property to which everyone in the tribe had equal access. So the early agricultural societies created the basis for systematic class distinctions that could be perpetuated between generations, and that’s how you get the kinds of massive hierarchies and inequalities we see today.

Sean Illing

You mentioned earlier that human history could have gone another way. I keep wondering what the alternatives were. Could we have developed or progressed in a way that would have left us happier than we are today?

James Scott

History unfolded the way it unfolded, and it’s hard to know how it could have been. My sense is that once the modern state was created, things were more or less destined to go the way they did.

Sean Illing

That’s an interesting point. What do you mean?

James Scott

In the long run, states were always going to be militarily and technologically superior to hunter-gatherer societies, and states were able to increase their populations in ways hunter-gatherer societies could not manage. So it seems inevitable that we would eventually end up with something like the modern state system we have today.

Sean Illing

You’re not as critical of modern civilization as I seem to be, though we’re both in agreement that it’s better to be alive now than 1,000 years ago, but I wonder if you think the world we’ve built is sustainable.

James Scott

Well, I think we’ve gotten ourselves into a fix with our natural environment. We keep building and destroying and growing, and I worry that we might jeopardize everything if we can’t slow down and reexamine what we’re doing. Part of why I’m interested in studying these lost cultures is to understand how humans have lived for 95 percent of our existence, and to remind myself that things could be otherwise.Former FBI Director James Comey, having reemerged from his post-firing silence to promote a book, is increasingly now cast as a villain.

True, he’s a Republican with a reputation for independence and integrity who could represent a sort of “resistance” figure, one who is publicly calling out President Donald Trump, including in his new book A Higher Loyalty, for firing Comey and for conducting himself with no ethics or integrity in the White House.

But in a twist, many establishment Democrats — especially those closely associated with Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign — hate the guy. They feel that his handling of the investigations into Clinton’s emails makes him personally responsible for Trump’s ascension to the White House. And it’s true both that Comey’s handling of the email situation was problematic in several respects and that broader left and libertarian critiques of the overall federal law enforcement mentality that Comey exemplifies have some merit.

But to react to Comey’s charges against Trump with a comprehensive assessment of his entire career is to miss the point. James Comey is a critical figure of our time not because of any particular decision, right or wrong, that he made during his tenure in government. He’s important because he exemplifies values — most of all, the pursuit of institutional independence and autonomy — whose presence among career officials safeguards the United States against the threat of systemic corruption.

The greatest safeguard we have against the dangers of Trump’s highly personalized style of leadership and frequently expressed desire to reshape all institutions to serve his personal goal is that officials and bureaucrats have the power to say no. Comey, whatever else he did, said no to his boss and was fired for his trouble. America needs more government officials who are willing to take that stand. In many ways, Comey is not the hero the United States deserves. But in a critical moment, he may be the hero we need.

The Martha Stewart case explains James Comey

Comey’s long career as a federal prosecutor means he’s touched many high-profile and incredibly consequential cases and issues over the years. But perhaps nothing explains his worldview quite so clearly as his attitude toward a high-profile but not consequential case that he was involved with: the prosecution of Martha Stewart in the early aughts.

The historical context for this is that in the wake of the 2000-’01 stock market crash, it turned out that several high-profile companies, including Enron and Worldcom, had engaged in major accounting shenanigans. The George W. Bush administration then decided to do what Barack Obama’s team would later not do after the housing market crash, and bring a series of high-profile white-collar criminal cases against the major malefactors.

The Supreme Court ultimately ruled against the government in most of these cases (which is one reason Obama didn’t bring them), launching a string of precedents that ended up serving to mostly legalize political corruption when they were eventually applied to overturn the conviction of former Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell.

But at the time, Comey was the US attorney for the Southern District of New York, high-profile securities fraud cases were in vogue, and allegations emerged that Martha Stewart had violated the rules against insider trading. She was ultimately exonerated in this investigation but was nonetheless prosecuted and convicted of making false statements to investigators and of a securities fraud violation that amounted to making false statements about the case in public. At the time, a range of observers from Michael McMenamin in Reason on the right to Doug Henwood in the Nation on the left saw the prosecution as a huge stretch, with Stewart essentially convicted of covering up a crime she didn’t commit.

Talking to George Stephanopoulos recently, however, Comey described his decision to prosecute the case as central to his worldview:

And folks don’t realize this, but I almost hesitated and almost didn’t bring the case against Martha Stewart, in hindsight, because she was rich and famous. And decided that if she were anybody else, any other ordinary person, she would be prosecuted. And what helped me come to that conclusion was I remembered a case I’d been involved in against an African-American minister in Richmond when I was a federal prosecutor there, who had lied to us during an investigation. And I begged this minister, “Please don’t lie to us because if you do, we’re going to have to prosecute you.” He lied. And at the end of the day, we had to prosecute him. And he went to jail for over a year. And as I stood in my office in Manhattan, I’m looking out at the Brooklyn Bridge, I remember this moment. And I’m thinking, “You know, nobody in New York knows that guy’s name except me. Why would I treat Martha Stewart differently than that guy?” And the reason would only be because she’s rich and famous and because I’ll be criticized for it. The truth matters in the criminal justice system. And if it’s going to matter, we must prosecute people who lie in the middle of an investigation.

That Comey isn’t railroading obscure black ministers in Virginia while letting rich white celebrities off the hook in Connecticut is surely laudable. And while equal treatment under the law is an important concept, there is also an important question as to how everyone should be treated. Comey’s answer is: harshly.

While criminal justice reformers push for less punitive treatment of poor and minority suspects and defendants, the Comey view is that true justice is treating Martha Stewart just as shabbily as the cops would treat anyone else.

James Comey is really into DOJ/FBI power and autonomy

The ability to prosecute and jail people for lying to investigators is, obviously, an incredibly powerful tool of the FBI, US attorneys’ offices, and other aspects of federal law enforcement. And it’s a tool that Comey believes in passionately, offering rather scathing remarks about the leniency shown to retired general and former CIA Director David Petraeus for his own false statements to investigators.

“I thought David Petraeus should’ve been prosecuted not just for the mishandling of the classified information,” Comey told Stephanopoulos, “but also for lying to the F.B.I. because lying is — strikes at the heart of our rule of law in this country.”

Lying is, of course, not something that’s generally illegal. Indeed, most people think that it is morally acceptable (or even obligatory) to lie in certain situations. The great 18th-century German philosopher Immanuel Kant famously disagreed, of course, denouncing the “supposed right to lie from altruistic motives,” but he’s an outlier. And while mounting these prosecutions is sometimes a useful way to catch bona fide bad guys, it’s also prone to abuse in some fairly obvious ways — especially because it’s perfectly legal for the investigators to lie to you. That’s why standard legal advice is to simply refuse to talk to investigators under any circumstances.

“People seem to think that: If I haven’t done anything wrong, then it’s okay for me to talk to the government,” writes defense lawyer David Benowitz, “and that’s just dead wrong.”

The argument that lying to the FBI shouldn’t be a crime has picked up steam on the right since false statements prosecutions have become crucial to Robert Mueller’s investigation of Trumpworld, but also reflect a longstanding viewpoint of principled civil libertarians who worry about investigators’ power to essentially manufacture crimes once they’ve decided on an investigatory target.

Comey, obviously, doesn’t see it that way, and in general, federal prosecutors are not major civil libertarians. But it’s important to note that when the circumstances were right, Comey did briefly emerge as a major civil libertarian hero back when he served as deputy attorney general later in the Bush administration.

The issue was, essentially, that both the White House and important elements of the intelligence community wanted Comey — who was acting as attorney general while John Ashcroft was sick in the hospital — to certify that the Justice Department regarded certain aggressive surveillance practices as legal. The DOJ’s career staff disagreed, and Comey refused to overrule them — first at a dramatic White House meeting and then later at an even more dramatic hospital encounter when he raced to Ashcroft’s bedside to prevent Dick Cheney and his allies from prevailing on the ailing attorney general.

To most people, both the surveillance issue and the false statements issue exist on the same axis of civil liberties versus law and order. But from a Comey’s-eye view, the key question is the prerogatives of the professionals at the Department of Justice — the right to both prosecute civilians for lying to them and tell political leaders and heads of other intelligence agencies to fuck off go together as a bundle of institutional independence.

Comey managed the email investigation as an institutionalist

Institutional power and autonomy of federal agencies in the United States is in part a question of law but in practice largely a question of politics.

The FBI has traditionally enjoyed an unusually large degree of institutional autonomy. That stems in large part from the scandalous legacy of former Director J. Edgar Hoover, who amassed vast power during an epic 48-year run heading the agency through a mix of political savvy and implicit and explicit blackmail.

When Hoover died, Richard Nixon tried to assert presidential authority over the bureau, and for his trouble, FBI Associate Director Mark Felt, a Hoover loyalist, became the infamous Watergate-era source “Deep Throat” and helped bring down the president.

Felt, of course, kept his identity secret for decades, and Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein typically presented Deep Throat’s motives as somewhat more high-minded than cutthroat bureaucratic warfare. Indeed, the proximate upshot of post-Watergate congressional investigations into Nixon’s abuses of power was to further insulate the FBI from direct political control.

Comey’s handling of the 2016 campaign was essentially in the tradition of FBI directors acting on behalf of their agency’s institutional goals. Knowing that the Obama administration was reluctant to fight publicly with the FBI over the matter while congressional Republicans were relatively eager, he slanted his decision-making on both the Russia and email investigations toward the interests of the GOP. As Adam Serwer writes, “the FBI is petrified of criticism from its conservative detractors, and is relatively indifferent to its liberal critics.” And over the course of 2016, it showed — when Mitch McConnell wanted Comey to keep quiet about Trump and Russia, he did. When Trump-friendly elements among the rank and file wanted him to speak up about Anthony Weiner’s laptop, he did.

All that said, the fact remains that whatever one makes of Felt’s motivations in detail, his actions helped bring down the most corrupt and dangerous president in American history. And, similarly, the very same defense of institutional autonomy that led Comey to help Trump win the election also led him to refuse to back down when Trump urged him to drop the investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and bring the entire Russia inquiry to a premature conclusion.

More broadly, the FBI’s zealous pursuit of its own institutional autonomy has very much not been an untrammeled good throughout American history (the bureau famously tried to blackmail Martin Luther King Jr. into killing himself), but it does serve as a check against authoritarianism and a potential bulwark against Trump’s most malign impulses.

James Comey is the hero America needs

In the very opening weeks of the Trump administration, the legal and national security analyst Ben Wittes coined the phrase “malevolence, tempered by incompetence” to characterize Trump’s approach to policymaking.

He was referring specifically to the initial version of Trump’s travel ban, but it serves as a nice summation of Trump’s approach to the rule of law more generally. Between the effort to get Comey to pledge personal loyalty to him, threats to use antitrust law to punish CNN, and Trump’s various musings about the relationship of Amazon to both the Washington Post and the US Postal Service, it’s clear that Trump has a fairly chilling vision of how the American government ought to work. In his view, the entire state is essentially an extension of him personally, just as the network of privately held LLCs known as the Trump Organization operates.

To Trump, the key question about everything is how it relates to him personally — friends should be rewarded, and enemies should be punished.

That’s how economic regulation works in many autocratic states, and it serves to entrench the autocrat in power and to impoverish their populations. But to impose that vision of America requires both political appointees and career civil servants to ignore not just the letter and the spirit of the law but also their own personal and institutional imperatives. In an ideal world, of course, people would do the right thing just because it’s the right thing to do. But real-world governments and political institutions don’t function because they’re populated by angels — they need to function despite being populated by actual, flawed human beings.

Comey isn’t a storybook hero, and the real-world consequences of his pursuit of institutional autonomy have been decidedly mixed over the years. But it served as a decided virtue during the early months of the Trump administration, and the country’s best hope for the duration of his time in office is that a wide range of officials — not just FBI agents and federal prosecutors but also regulators and Cabinet secretaries and all the rest — more or less follow his example and insist on maintaining their prerogatives and autonomy.Vox Borders is an international documentary series that focuses on the human stories of some of the world’s most interesting places. It started last year with six locations and six docs. I’m excited to announce that I’m hitting the road again to make more of these videos. This video announces our first location for season two.

I’ll be traveling to new places to tell similar stories to season one. Hong Kong is my first stop, where I’ll be producing multiple shorter video docs on local stories that need explaining.

Vox Borders stories are always so much stronger when the community helps in the storytelling. To that end, I’m looking for locals from Hong Kong (or Macau) who want to help with the project. If you have local knowledge of Hong Kong or Macau and want to contribute to Borders, please join the Vox Borders local network to tell me more about yourself and how you’d like to contribute to the project. If you’ve been to Hong Kong and just want to contribute an idea, you can do that too.



You can also follow everything publishing from Borders on the new Vox Borders Facebook Watch Page. And you can follow along behind the scenes in real time on my Instagram page.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more!Last year, I made a case for Legends of Tomorrow being the weirdest, and therefore greatest, superhero TV show out there, and hoo boy, did I undersell it.

Made up of odds and ends too big or too silly to fit anywhere else in The CW’s Arrowverse (also comprising Arrow, The Flash, and Supergirl), Legends of Tomorrow follows a group of DC Comics characters, and random relatives of DC Comics characters, as they alternately repair and destroy the fabric of time. It makes for an absurdly fun, live-action-cartoon approach to superhero TV.

In last year’s finale, the Legends broke time so badly that their former leader, Rip Hunter (Arthur Darvill), started a UN-sanctioned time travel enforcement agency called the Time Bureau just so he could have the authority to fire them. But the Legends, now led by the bold and reckless Sara Lance (Caity Lotz), refuse to go quietly, living by the motto “sometimes we screw things up for the better.” So they steal back their time machine, the Waverider, and go on the run, kicking off Legends of Tomorrow’s best season to date.

Season three, which aired its finale on April 9, took the best parts of the show — its humor, its fearlessness, and its heart — to new heights, and strengthened the case for its status as a top-tier superhero series. To illustrate exactly what distinguishes Legends from other, lesser superhero shows, here are the 10 most outrageous things you may have missed in its third season, which just hit Netflix in its entirety.

1) Return of the Mack

Outside of fixing their own mess, the Legends’ greatest challenge this season was Damien Darhk (Neal McDonough) and his daughter, Nora Darhk (Courtney Ford), using dark magic to free a time demon, whatever that is. Damien died on Arrow, but Nora raises him from the dead and his triumphant return is set to Mark Morrison’s 1996 hit “Return of the Mack.” No, really.

2) The Legends lost a fight to a guitar

To fight this time demon, the Legends need to track down six magical totems. The totem that commands the dead happens to be attached to the guitar of a young Elvis Presley, and if played, it will destroy the city of Memphis in 1954, erasing rock ’n’ roll from history and creating an alternate timeline where the video game Guitar Hero is replaced with Trombone Hero. A clear-cut, universal problem that could happen on any show.

The most ridiculous part? The haunted guitar kicks all their asses.

3) Kidnapped by the circus

While retrieving an anachronistic saber-toothed tiger from the circus, Ray Palmer (Brandon Routh) and Jax Jackson (Franz Drameh) get kidnapped and forced into the circus by P.T. Barnum himself (Billy Zane). You know, the guy from The Greatest Showman. In their defense, they were very drunk. Nate Heywood (Nick Zano) and Amaya Jiwe (Maisie Richardson-Sellers) get kidnapped trying to save them while completely sober, for which there is no excuse.

They do eventually escape, because circuses are a tent in a field and you can just walk away, but not before Mick Rory (Dominic Purcell) lets the saber-toothed tiger loose on the Waverider.

4) Gorilla Grodd vs. America

Gorilla Grodd, a super-intelligent psychic gorilla that the Legends run into during the Vietnam War, wants to create “One nation under Grodd” by killing President Lyndon B. Johnson. When that fails, he attacks a 2018 production of Hamilton attended by a time-displaced Alexander Hamilton, an adventure we sadly only see over video call. After that, he tries to kill a young Barack “Barry” Obama in 1979 to “Make America Grodd again,” a reference Obama won’t understand until 2015.

Clearly Grodd hates America and loves wordplay, making him the Legends’ most formidable villain to date.

5) When you can travel through time, it’s always 5 o’clock somewhere

The Legends of Tomorrow pilot included both a bar fight and a bong fight, so they’ve always been pretty laid-back when it comes to inebriating substances. However, this was the year Nate learned how to make psychedelic drugs in the kitchen, Amaya got a rum named after her, the Legends threw a Viking kegger during Mick’s intervention, and Rip recruited Wally West (Keiynan Lonsdale), an actual A-List superhero, by performing a drunken karaoke duet of “Careless Whisper.” At this point, the Waverider is more party bus than time machine.

6) Television’s first Muslim superhero

Super-hacker Zari Tomaz (Tala Ashe) is the one member of the team who doesn’t drink, because she is a practicing Muslim. That’s right: Perhaps the most jaw-dropping thing you can see on Legends of Tomorrow is an Iranian-American Muslim woman being treated like a normal person — albeit one who owns a magical amulet that lets her control air.

Even if Zari gets hangry during Ramadan, Islam is overall presented as a positive influence on her life, connecting her to her family and helping her stay grounded. Many American shows still struggle to acknowledge a religion that has 1.6 billion followers globally, but Legends of Tomorrow not only went there — it did so with purpose.

7) The Waverider has only one bathroom

At least nine people live on the Waverider, but they only have one bathroom. This isn’t really significant to the plot; I just can’t stop wondering how many hot-water-related stabbings they’ve had.

8) Still flirting their way through history

Sara Lance retired as the most legendary flirt in history when she started dating Ava Sharpe (Jes Macallan), a no-nonsense agent from the Time Bureau. But she passed the mantle to the Legends’ newest member, John Constantine (Matt Ryan, reprising his role from Constantine and Arrow). Constantine is bisexual, like Sara, and has been in comic books since 1992. In 2014, Daniel Cerone, executive producer of NBC’s Constantine, thought Constantine’s bisexuality could maybe happen on television “20 years from now”; Legends of Tomorrow executive producer Phil Klemmer must be from the future, then, because in 2017 he said Constantine would fit right in on the team as a “bisexual, world-weary demonologist.”

John Constantine wastes no time calling all the Legends “dishy,” flirting with Captain Cold’s gay doppelgänger Leo Snart (Wentworth Miller), hooking up with Sara in 1969, and kissing Time Bureau agent Gary Green (Adam Tsekhman), who, if he wasn’t interested in men before, probably is by the time he ends up in Aruba with Constantine. Someone has to be the team flirt, because besides Sara and Ava’s courtship, or Amaya and Nate’s doomed affair, the most action the rest of the team gets is reading Mick’s literary erotica.

9) They murdered the fourth wall in cold blood

While watching Lord of the Rings, the Legends notice that the actor who plays Denethor (John Noble) sounds very similar to the time demon they’re fighting, Mallus (voiced by John Noble). Not wanting to go through his agent, Ray sneaks onto the set of Lord of the Rings to get the actor John Noble (played here by the actor John Noble) to read lines he can use to trick Nora Darhk.

To his credit, John Noble doesn’t even step all the way out of his trailer for this scene. By the way, the episode is titled “Guest Starring John Noble.”

10) Beebo the god of war

Beebo is a less terrifying version of a Furby who’s introduced when a young Martin Stein (Graeme McComb) accidentally brings it back to Leif Erikson’s American settlement. The vikings love Beebo so much, it creates an alternate timeline where the Vikings conquered America. Beebo just has that effect on people.

When the Legends finally face Mallus head on, they must create a magical avatar to fight for them. Naturally, they choose Beebo as their champion, resulting in the most flat-out bananas fight scene the Arrowverse has ever produced:

It might help to remind you that they did come up with this plan while drunk.

All three seasons of Legends of Tomorrow are available to stream on Netflix.The Amy Schumer brand of studio comedy rests on the notion that she is Everywoman — which means that when she approaches the front desk of a SoulCycle studio in the opening moments of I Feel Pretty, we know where this is going. The lobby is filled with thin, fit, glossy-haired women clad in Lululemon; she feels like everyone is staring at her because she’s none of those things.

The message of I Feel Pretty is (I can personally attest) an important one: Absolutely nobody is thinking about you as much as you are. So you should quit magnifying your own faults, quit berating yourself for not “being perfect,” and just chill out.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

Great! Good message. Nice work, everyone. But a good message goes nowhere without a good movie, and unfortunately, the faults of I Feel Pretty are hard to ignore. There’s a potentially funny movie in here somewhere. But it lumbers along, wasting some of its greatest assets and, in the end, overstaying its welcome.

There are some outstanding performances in I Feel Pretty. Too bad they’re sidelined.

Complaints aside, the existence of I Feel Pretty (written and directed by rom-com vets Abby Kohn and Marc Silverstein) is very nearly justified by one bright, shining beacon of hope: Michelle Williams’s performance as Avery LeClaire, heiress to and CEO of a cosmetics empire launched by her grandmother Lily LeClaire (Lauren Hutton).

Williams can do most anything she’s asked to do — her past five movies include one mega-cheesy circus musical, one prestige drama, one Cannes premiere, one quiet arthouse drama, and one weeper that landed her a fourth Oscar nomination — but as Avery she is, and I’m only half-joking here, a revelation. Dolled up (that’s the only way to describe it) within an inch of her life, with a voice pitched high and breathy, she gives a comic performance that’s just about worth the price of admission.

But there’s not nearly enough of her in this movie. Nor is there enough of Aidy Bryant, or of Busy Philipps, Williams’s real-life bff and former Dawson’s Creek co-star. The pair plays Vivian and Jane, best friends to Schumer’s Renee, but they’re remarkably one-dimensional and underused, especially with such talented comic actresses in those roles.

The trio is pretty ordinary women, with ordinary lives. But while Vivian and Jane are okay with that (that’s the aforementioned “one note” — they’re just normal and chill), Renee is obsessed with her failure to measure up to the women she sees in magazines and at SoulCycle. She has a cabinet full of name-brand cosmetics, stacks of magazines, and a queue full of YouTube hair tutorials, but when she looks in the mirror, what she sees looking back displeases her.

That obsession has turned into crippling insecurity, which is not helped by her job at Lily LeClaire’s, where she and Mason (Adrian Martinez), the company’s e-commerce department, are housed in a Chinatown basement space, far away from the beautiful people uptown at the brand’s headquarters. Renee has to go to headquarters sometimes, and she longs to work there, but knows she’d never make the cut.

Then one day, venturing into SoulCycle once more, Renee falls off of her bike and suffers what appears to be a concussion (though nobody thinks to send her to the doctor). And in a moment, everything is changed. Now, when she looks in the mirror, she sees herself as she’s always wanted: as a hot, fit young woman worthy of being hit on by every man and admired by every woman.

It’s a SoulCycle miracle!

I Feel Pretty’s one-note premise limits its comedic potential

This premise, as you might imagine, leads to a variety of comic situations, as Renee flaunts her newfound confidence and what she believes is her newfound beauty. But the thing is, nothing has changed. Renee looks exactly the same, and everyone around her knows it. Her friends are baffled that their formerly self-conscious friend has found abundant self-confidence, but they can’t exactly contradict her when she talks about herself as beautiful. So she struts and dances and commands attention, and people start to respond.

You can see where this is going. What hampered Renee in the past wasn’t really her looks. It was her crippling insecurity, her belief that she was only worthy of the job and the attention and the love she wanted if she looked “perfect.”

The movie tries to flesh out the idea that everyone, even the “beautiful,” feel insecure about something. Avery worries about her girlishly high voice and whether her grandmother thinks she’s doing a good job at work. A model Renee meets at SoulCycle (Emily Ratajkowski) is insecure about her intellect. Ethan, the man Renee starts dating (Rory Scovel) after coming on to him in a laundromat, worries that he’s not manly enough. And so on.

But a premise alone does not make for a good movie. The problem with I Feel Pretty — in an odd and probably unintentional parallel to the story itself — is that it focuses too much on Renee, whose obliviously confident schtick starts to wear thin pretty quickly. Over the movie’s nearly two-hour runtime, that becomes almost unbearable; by the end, it’s excruciating to watch. We’ve figured out what happened to Renee, but she hasn’t, and for some reason the film draws out that realization as slowly as possible.

A comedy with a thin premise can work — witness, for instance, the recent film Blockers, which doesn’t go anywhere unexpected with its premise (parents try to block their daughters from fulfilling their “sex pact” on prom night), but at least never feels like it’s dragging it out. It pulls that off by focusing on its ensemble cast, letting them all carry roughly equal weight in the plot. So just when you might be getting tired of one character, another can take the spotlight.

I Feel Pretty, though, makes Schumer carry the whole movie as Renee. Schumer is a consistently funny performer who’s responsible for many of the movie’s best line reads, and her performance, which has to take on a Freaky Friday-style quality — she acts like an entirely different person after her accident — is funny at first.

But there’s rich material and great performers strewn throughout the film that simply don’t get enough room to shine, and the movie suffers as a result. So even though it sometimes feels like the movie is nailing the tortured feeling of obsessing over your body, it just doesn’t have anywhere to go, or any way to develop that premise.

Too bad. I Feel Pretty has all the elements of a very funny comedy, one with a fresh take on a common issue and a lot of soul(cycle). But unlike Renee — who was always beautiful, all along — I Feel Pretty could have used more work to be ready for its moment in the spotlight.

I Feel Pretty opens in theaters on April 20.Jordan Peele just used deepfakes — the nightmarish dystopian tool we last saw being used to generate fake celebrity porn — to deliver the deepest fake of them all.

The Get Out director teamed up with his brother-in-law, BuzzFeed CEO Jonah Peretti, to produce a public service announcement made by Barack Obama.

Obama’s message? Don’t believe everything you see and read on the internet.

“It may sound basic, but how we move forward in the age of information is going to be the difference between whether we survive or whether we become some kind of fucked-up dystopia,” Obama tells viewers in the BuzzFeed video. He also declares that Black Panther’s villain Killmonger was “right” about his plan for world domination, “Ben Carson is in the Sunken Place” — a reference to one of the heartiest memes from Peele’s Oscar-winning Get Out screenplay — and Trump is a “dipshit.”

As anyone who’s familiar with deepfakes has guessed by now, “Obama” in this video is actually Peele himself, doing his famous interpretation of the former president. The algorithmic machine learning technology of deepfakes allows anyone to create a very convincing simulation of a human subject given ample photographic evidence on which to train the machine about what the image should look like.

Given the sheer amount of media coverage around Obama, it was fairly easy for BuzzFeed’s video producer Jared Sosa to create the simulation — though to get the simulation right still required 56 hours of training the machine, according to BuzzFeed’s report on the video.

“Deepfakes” is the term coined by a Reddit user who made a script for the process and released it onto a subreddit he made, also called deepfakes. Another user took that script and modified it into a downloadable program, FakeApp. But although the term came to the world’s attention in conjunction with celebrity porn, the first complex face-capturing tools used to demonstrate the techniques deployed by FakeApp were originally applied to manipulating political figures.

A 2016 research experiment saw the technique being applied to world leaders like George W. Bush, Vladimir Putin, and Obama. Subsequent research applied the technique just to Obama — and the researchers were immediately wary of the monster they’d created.

“You can’t just take anyone’s voice and turn it into an Obama video,” Steve Seitz, one of the researchers, stated in a press release. “We very consciously decided against going down the path of putting other people’s words into someone’s mouth.”

Barely six months later, deepfakes was born. And as Peele and BuzzFeed have proven, you clearly can just take anyone’s voice and turn it into an Obama video — provided the voice is convincing enough.

Though Reddit ultimately banned all faked porn generated via deepfakes, the Pandora’s box of fake reality generation has been opened, and anything — from Obama to Nicolas Cage — is fair game.

Given all this context, it’s arguable that Peele’s contribution might not actually be helping people understand how serious the potential for reality distortion is, so much as giving them a taste of how fun this tech might be to play around with.

Still, in the age of “fake news,” Peele and Peretti clearly felt the message was timely. “We’re entering an era in which our enemies can make it look like anyone is saying anything at any point in time,” the PSA begins.

Point proven.Few TV shows feel as much like a solid hour of high-intensity cardio as Westworld.

When I reach the end of any given episode, I feel like I’ve put in the effort, but I also feel a little deflated, like I’m going to have to sit for a second before I can climb a flight of stairs. Everything about the show — including the ideal way to watch it — is effortful, and it wants you to know it.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

The series’ first season scrabbled around looking for a point for too long, before zeroing in on some ideas about the nature of consciousness. I really loved the first season finale, but it also laid bare a lot of the series’ problems. This was a show that reset its protagonist’s consciousness every few episodes, one that seemed more interested in structural gimmicks than in creating a story or characters worth getting invested in. It’s telling that the closest thing the show had to a breakout character — Thandie Newton’s Maeve — is the only character with a readily defined set of desires and goals.

And yet ... there’s something about Westworld I can never shake. It lives with me throughout the week, even in spite of its flaws, like a slightly stiff feeling in the legs the morning after that big workout. I’m always aware of how much the show wants me to buy its bullshit, but I’m also incredibly susceptible to bullshit salesmen.

And in season two, the series is emulating one of the least likely shows imaginable: AMC’s faded zombie drama The Walking Dead. And it’s kind of working?

How Westworld is like The Walking Dead in season two

Most of the frustrations I had with Westworld’s first season involved how thoroughly the series devoted itself to sticking viewers inside the point of view of its robotic Hosts, artificial near-intelligences designed to populate a theme park for the ultrarich. Very basic ideas about the series’ world or time period were left deliberately obscured, and the show’s story was self-consciously constructed as an elaborate nesting mystery, owing to how the nature of the Hosts’ consciousness allowed them to revisit events from their own pasts as if they were really happening in the present. (I’ve never entirely understood how this functions, but hey, I’ll go with it.)

In season two, however, the series has freed its Hosts from their mental bondage, the self-awareness that seemingly began with Dolores (Evan Rachel Wood) and Maeve rippling through the rest of the park, leading them to fight back against those who hold them there. Gun battles erupt frequently, the characters race all over on a variety of missions, and both Dolores and Maeve are chasing phantoms they might not find. Westworld, in short, feels a lot more like a TV show than it does an extended lecture on the nature of consciousness.

This is a good thing. Though two of the five episodes HBO sent out (out of a total 10 in the season) were around 70 minutes long, and no episodes were under 55 minutes long, Westworld has a propulsiveness it often lacked in season one. Knowing even the most basic facts about the world at large, as well as the sister parks to Westworld (which include the Shogun World teased in season one and another I daren’t spoil), helps situate the show’s chaos in something real.

But what’s most notable is the way that Westworld is telling stories this season, which is to say that it’s largely abandoned the gigantic patchworks of season one in favor of telling smaller chunks of the same bits of the story from different perspectives.

These first five episodes don’t cover a very large chunk of time, but because we keep looping back to see what was happening to different characters (who were often in different locations) within that chunk of time, they end up feeling more momentous. And that’s before we get to the way the series can hop, skip, and jump about within the Hosts’ consciousnesses, to fill in vital bits of backstory.

There’s another TV show that tells stories in this fashion: The Walking Dead. And where that show’s tendency toward decompression — the storytelling term for taking a plot and examining it in almost microscopic detail — eventually led it down a deep, deep hole, it had a couple of really good seasons when it found a way to tell compelling character stories within the framework of reiterating the same series of events from slightly different perspectives. (At its most decompressed, the show spent eight episodes covering about 16 hours of story time from a myriad of perspectives.)

Westworld hasn’t quite gone that far down the rabbit hole, but it does keep finding ways to move the story forward but a few inches with every episode by focusing on different character pairings in each hour, thus allowing it to keep things moving but also let them stand still while everybody gets a chance to catch up. One episode might follow the diptych of Bernard (Jeffrey Wright) and the Man in Black (Ed Harris), linked in ways they don’t quite understand, while the next lays out what happens as Maeve heads into Shogun World and Dolores chases her own ambitions into an ever-tightening, potentially self-destructive spiral.

Westworld doesn’t yet have the characters to completely pull this off — poor James Marsden continues to play a complete cipher as Dolores’s sidekick/main squeeze Teddy — but its embrace of this kind of storytelling decompression keeps it from feeling like a watered-down Game of Thrones or Lost rip-off like it often did in season one.

But the decompression also highlights how Westworld talks an enormous game but has yet to truly prove itself as anything other than the Most Important Show on Television (in theory).

Westworld is working toward some sort of grand unified theory of oppression, but its games get in the way

The frequently stunning visuals of Westworld — all sweeping vistas and sly reinterpretations of prior scenes with new information added — promise big, brassy TV like only HBO can make. Sit down and enjoy yourself and feel like you’ve watched something important, even if you haven’t.

There’s nothing wrong with this. Vaguely intellectual escapism has a long, proud history on cable television (and in American pop culture more generally), and Westworld ably slots into this tradition. But at times, I feel like Westworld wants to be an escapist show that is simultaneously about everything in existence, and that’s when it starts chasing its own tail.

Take, for instance, the season’s fifth episode, largely set in Shogun World. (Don’t worry; I’m not going to spoil anything.) The hour opens with some fascinating exploration of the universality of certain storytelling tropes, then continues with a plot that gleefully lifts from as many landmarks of Japanese cinema as it can (right down to several shots of faces painted white with makeup before bright red backdrops — either straight out of Akira Kurosawa’s Ran or some strange inversion of the Japanese flag).

The series is self-aware enough to realize what it’s doing, but somehow incapable of transcending that self-awareness to a place where it’s interested in talking about the perniciousness of storytelling tropes that exoticize non-Westerners or turn all Japanese men into brave warriors and all Japanese women into geishas.

Westworld, on some level, is telling a story that takes aim at presenting a grand unified theory of oppression. The Hosts that viewers have best gotten to know have largely been coded as women, or as people of color, or as members of other groups who have been subject to horrible oppression throughout human history. This makes them at once an all-purpose metaphor for how it’s sometimes tempting to tear down the world and start over again and examples of the very storytelling tropes they’re supposed to be subverting. The series, after all, is about storytelling too, and at times showrunners Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy behave as if their characters are oppressed by them and the other writers.

I don’t want to suggest that focus on oppression is somehow irresponsible. By telling a story about the future oppression of artificial intelligences, set in the weird future-past of the parks, the show is able to examine power structures of our own world through a literal funhouse mirror that offers just enough remove that viewers who’d rather think of the series as pure escapism wouldn’t be wrong to do so. But it also frequently leaves me feeling like I’m chasing the show in circles, never quite catching it, because if it slowed down enough to let me do so, I might realize how little was there in the first place.

All of the above leaves Westworld sometimes working at cross-purposes, trying ably to tell a story and subvert it at the same time. When it works, there’s nothing like it on TV. When it doesn’t, it’s hard not to watch in fascination as the train flies off the tracks, wondering if it might land back on them or this time finally plummet into the gorge below.

Westworld returns Sunday, April 22, at 9 pm Eastern on HBO. Watch season one on HBO’s streaming platforms.CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Donald Trump’s pick to be the next secretary of state, met with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un over Easter weekend.

That’s a big deal: Pompeo is the first senior US official to meet a member of the ruling Kim family since October 2000 — and the first ever to meet with Kim Jong Un himself. The face-to-face comes just a month or so before Trump is set to sit down with Kim for a historic summit, and it’s likely Pompeo and Kim used part of their time together to hash out the details of that forthcoming meeting.

Trump confirmed Pompeo’s trip to Pyongyang in a tweet on Wednesday morning, saying the “Meeting went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed. Details of Summit are being worked out now.” Just the day before, he told reporters that the US and North Korea had spoken at “extremely high levels” without mentioning Pompeo’s name.

The Pompeo-Kim meeting has sparked optimism that the Trump-Kim summit might actually happen. “Many criticized the president for going into a head-of-state summit without holding working-level talks first,” says Matthew Kroenig, a nuclear expert at Georgetown University, “so this should be received as good news that Pompeo is laying the groundwork necessary for a productive meeting.”

But danger remains, especially if Kim uses the summit to extract major concessions from Trump. “This should raise our probabilities that Trump will go into the summit intending to emerge with a ‘deal’ — almost certainly not a good one — and definitely not one that results in denuclearization but something he can hail as a win,” says Mira Rapp-Hooper, an Asia security expert at Yale Law School.

“Kim has every incentive to play that game too,” she adds.

Trump and Kim may strike a deal. It just might not be what Trump wants.

Trump and Kim may not be on the same page when they discuss denuclearization, and that’s a problem.

That’s because the US and North Korea define it differently. Washington has a straightforward view: North Korea ends its nuclear and missile programs and allows international inspectors to ensure Pyongyang doesn’t reconstitute them.

North Korea has a more grandiose outlook: It wants the US to stop threatening to destroy it, end its nuclear protection of South Korea and Japan, and likely remove the 28,500 US troops from the Korean Peninsula.

The two leaders will likely hash this out if they meet. Kim has repeatedly said he’s willing to discuss denuclearization with Trump, and Trump has hyped the possibility of denuclearization in his Wednesday morning tweet, writing that “Denuclearization will be a great thing for World, but also for North Korea!”

But it’s not clear Trump gets the nuance of what Pyongyang means by denuclearization.

“There are CIA analysts who know that but the information may not trickle up,” says Van Jackson, a North Korea expert at the Victoria University of Wellington. But, he warns, Trump may suddenly come to understand how different the two sides’ views are while “in the room with a charismatic personality getting the dirt straight from their mouth.”

There’s an even bigger worry: Kim could dangle “denuclearization” in front of Trump in hopes of receiving something North Korea has wanted for decades — that is, the removal of all US troops from the Korean Peninsula and the end of America’s protection of South Korea and Japan.

There are issues with that when you dig into the specifics. Retired Marine Lt. Gen. Chip Gregson, the Pentagon’s top Asia official from 2009 to 2011, explains that Kim might “offer to eliminate his ability to strike the US” — that is, get rid of his intercontinental ballistic missiles — “while retaining a massive threat to South Korea and Japan.” That might sound great to Trump, but it would be a disastrous outcome for South Korea and Japan — and a massive breach of trust between the US and those two close allies.

If Trump agrees to that, which he might, “it would mean the end of our alliances and go a long way to persuade our allies that they should pursue their own nuclear capability,” says Gregson.

Trump has repeatedly complained that the US is “losing money” by protecting South Korea with US troops without getting any substantial financial compensation in return. During a rally in Missouri on March 14, Trump lamented the US relationship with South Korea, telling the crowd: “We lose money on trade, and we lose money on the military. We have right now 32,000 soldiers on the border between North and South Korea. Let’s see what happens.” That’s music to Kim’s ears, since Pyongyang has wanted US troops removed from the Korean Peninsula for decades.

That bombs-for-troops deal would be much, much less than what Trump probably has in mind right now, but it would allow him to say he guaranteed America’s safety while reducing the military’s global footprint.

That kind of agreement, though, may actually be the extent of what Trump can get from Kim. Most experts say there’s little to no chance Kim would agree to give up his nuclear or ballistic missile programs. Pyongyang worked hard to attain the ability to hit the US with a nuclear weapon, which it wants in part to safeguard against possible invasion by American and South Korean forces.

But Adam Mount, a nuclear expert at the Federation of American Scientists, says it’s better that Trump and Kim agree to something. “Even a thin and largely symbolic agreement is far preferable to war,” he told me when I spoke to him last month. “What we should avoid is giving away issues of strategic or diplomatic importance for an agreement that doesn’t make us safer.”A new front is opening up in the battle for control of the United States Senate: Florida.

Republican Gov. Rick Scott announced his candidacy Monday to challenge sitting Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson, who is up for reelection this year. Scott is one of the best recruits for Republicans this cycle, in what will likely be a difficult national environment for the party.

Nelson has built a reasonably strong brand, representing Florida in the Senate since 2001, and as a pretty popular senator, he’s still likely favored in a state where President Donald Trump appears to be underwater. Scott, meanwhile, has never won a race by more than a point in years friendlier to the GOP. But however close those races were then, Scott is a serious threat.

The rivals would appear evenly matched: Nelson has a 51 percent approval rating, with only 26 percent disapproving, per Morning Consult; Scott has 58 percent approval and 31 percent disapproval.

Scott’s candidacy means Florida will be one of 2018’s marquee — and most expensive — Senate races. He will put Democrats on defense in yet another state, with the minority already facing a difficult map. They can’t afford to lose any additional seats if they’re to have any hope of reclaiming the majority — but the Trump factor, and the historic trend of midterm elections favoring the party out of power, should make Nelson the tentative favorite.

“The two biggest determinants in the Senate race are, one, resources and, two, Donald Trump,” Mac Stipanovich, a longtime Republican operative in Florida, told me. “Either one of them can win, but my sense is that if Nelson has comparable resources then the governor is the underdog.”

Why Rick Scott’s Florida Senate candidacy is such a big deal

Scott’s candidacy was long expected. Trump and Washington Republicans have been courting him. He is term-limited at the end of this year, after his two four-year terms as governor. He doesn’t really have anything else to do.

Rick Scott is also very, very rich, and he has shown before he’s willing to spend whatever it takes to win a statewide election in Florida.

He is worth about $150 million, according to the most recent estimates, after making his money as a hospital executive. He spent $75 million of his own money to win the 2010 gubernatorial race — his first political campaign of any kind — and another $13 million in his 2014 reelection campaign.

Scott never won big: He beat Alex Sink by 1.2 percentage points in 2010 and Charlie Crist by 1 point in 2014. But he did win.

“With Scott, this is a guy who’s been told he can’t do something like this twice, and twice proven everybody wrong,” Steve Schale, a Democratic operative in Florida, told me. “A more conventional politician might look at national mood and think, ‘Wow, this could be really uphill.’ Scott’s view is: ‘You told me I couldn’t win the first time, and I won. Why would I listen to you now?’”

Scott’s candidacy is also important from a national perspective. Republicans theoretically have a lot of Senate pickup opportunities this year; Nelson is one of 10 Democrats up for reelection in a state that Trump won in 2016. But they have at times struggled to attract top-tier candidates. To give one example: Democratic Sen. Jon Tester, representing Montana, a state that Trump won by 21 points, is currently facing such a weak Republican field that Cook Political Report rates his race as a likely Democratic win.

The Florida governor, on the other hand, is a hardened, well-qualified, and sure to be well-funded candidate. Scott will force Democrats to take Florida seriously and to invest the necessary time and money into the race to make sure Nelson beats Scott. This race will now demand resources that Democrats otherwise could have spent defending their other more vulnerable incumbents or going on offense in states like Arizona, Nevada, or Mississippi.

Republicans currently hold a slim 51-49 advantage in the Senate. Democrats are defending seven of the 10 most competitive races this fall, and need to hold on to every seat they can — including, now, Florida, which Cook rates as lean Democrat — if they want a shot at a majority.

“This is a very competitive race, and if the Democrats don’t lay out on it, they’ll lose. They are going to have to step up and help Bill Nelson,” Stipanovich said. “If Scott outspends him 2 to 1, it’s quite likely that Gov. Scott will prevail.”

The charisma-free Rick Scott versus Bill Nelson campaign, previewed

As for the candidates themselves, the Florida Senate race will be lacking in charisma. Schale said of his fellow Democrat Nelson: “Not a guy who’s lining up to give the keynote speech at the DNC. Not gonna break any records for his oratory skills.”

Regarding Scott, Stipanovich, the Republican operative, said: “Gov. Scott doesn’t exactly light up the stage. He’s not the most dynamic and inspiring speaker.”

I profiled Scott in 2013 for Governing magazine and came away with much the same impression:

At the Florida statehouse for National Day of Prayer this May, for instance, the businessman who won Florida’s governorship in 2010 doesn’t work the room so much as he goes through the motions. He dons the same slight smile as each photo is taken. He exchanges a few friendly words with every person who approaches him in the large room on the 21st floor of the Capitol. Standing by the windows, he’s framed by an expansive view of Tallahassee and beyond, but he doesn’t own the scene. There isn’t the charisma you might associate with the governor of the fourth-largest state in the country.

Scott tried to turn that to his advantage in his announcement on Monday.

“Let’s stop sending talkers to Washington. Let’s send some doers to Washington,” he said in his maiden campaign speech.

Nelson, meanwhile, sought to portray Scott as a political opportunist.

“While it’s clear that Rick Scott will say or do anything to get elected, I’ve always believed that if you just do the right thing, the politics will take care of itself,” he said in a statement.

They do have strengths, of course. Nelson has been elected in the state three times, after all, most recently by 13 points in 2012 — unheard of in a state where statewide elections are usually decided by a point or two. Schale praised the senator (who once famously went to space) for sticking to Florida-specific issues, like offshore drilling and Medicare for the state’s more elderly population, while mostly avoiding the high-profile spats in Washington on more contentious matters.

“Nelson does a pretty good job as well of avoiding those big fights,” Schale said. “He’s a guy who leans in really hard on issues that are important to the state.”

Scott, meanwhile, rode into office on the Tea Party wave, railing against Obamacare. He seemed for all appearances an ideologue, famously rejecting money for a high-speed rail from the Obama administration, to the chagrin of even some Republicans in his state.

But over the years, he has moderated himself. He has become almost comically on message, refusing to talk about anything except for jobs and the economy and a few other pet issues he picks every legislative session, like raises for teachers. The thrust of his 2018 campaign message is sure to be the 700,000 jobs created while he’s been governor.

“In the beginning, similar to but not the same as Trump, he had the CEO syndrome,” Stipanovich said. But “he’s gotten better at doing the job. Fewer gaffes, fewer unforced errors, more discipline.”

Most recently, after the Parkland high school shooting that killed 17 people, Scott defied the National Rifle Association and got some modest gun control measures passed in a state that had been to date one of the most gun-friendly in the country. People from both parties commended how the governor handled that crisis. “Scott was actually pretty active in that fight,” Schale said. “He was the first governor to stand up to the NRA.”

But Democrats will “make sure Nelson has everything he needs because you can’t go forward if you go backward first,” Schale said. “It’s hard to imagine a scenario where we win the Senate without winning Florida.”

Ultimately, the race is likely to be determined more by Trump.

How Donald Trump will shape the 2018 Florida Senate campaign

Trump won Florida by 100,000 votes in 2016. But for 2017, Gallup reported that 51 percent of Floridians disapproved of his job performance, and only 42 percent approved. Also worth watching: Trump’s response to the crisis in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria has been heavily criticized, and tens of thousands of displaced Puerto Ricans have settled in Florida — either for good or until they can safely return home.

Once upon a time, Scott was one of Trump’s biggest fans. He chaired a pro-Trump Super PAC, endorsed the future president in a laudatory USA Today op-ed well before most GOP politicians were doing the same, and spoke at the Republican National Convention. Trump has been one of the biggest boosters of Scott’s potential candidacy, and his administration hasn’t hesitated to bestow some favors on Scott, like rolling back an unpopular plan to allow oil drilling off the state’s shores.

Lately, Scott has tried to put a little distance between himself and the president, notably condemning Trump’s racist “shithole” comments regarding African nations and criticizing the offshore drilling plan.

“This is a conundrum faced by Republicans everywhere: Can Rick Scott get far enough away from Donald Trump to survive a competitive campaign?” Stipanovich said. “More recently, he is much less likely to embrace Trump publicly on some issue. He’ll bob and weave and obfuscate. That’s telling in itself.”

“A year ago, he could not wait to wrap himself around Donald Trump,” Stipanovich noted.Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer, is potentially facing years in prison as federal agents look into payoffs to a pair of women who claim they had affairs with Trump before he won the White House.

The good news for Cohen is that Trump could pardon him if he’s convicted of violating federal campaign finance or banking laws. The very bad news for Cohen is that he could still be convicted of those alleged crimes under New York state law — and Trump would have no way to prevent him from being punished for his misdeeds.

Here’s why: New York has laws that closely mirror the federal ones Cohen stands accused of breaking. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman could charge Cohen with breaking those state laws regardless of whether Cohen is convicted of breaking some of the federal ones — and regardless of whether Trump issues a federal pardon. He also has a wide array of weapons to use against Trump’s attorney and confidant.

Take federal banking laws, which Cohen may have broken if he lied about the reason he got a loan to pay off one of the women. That would also be illegal in New York, which outlaws bank fraud. New York prosecutors could go after Cohen at the same time as federal prosecutors do. The only difference would be that Cohen would have no White House protection.

Schneiderman hasn’t announced any kind of investigation into Cohen, but he has been coordinating closely with the Justice Department and special counsel Robert Mueller on their investigation into former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort. Some commentators argued that the early charges against Manafort, which left off a series of related crimes, were a sign that Mueller was leaving the door open for state prosecution.

And while many states have laws on the books related to the types of crimes federal prosecutors are investigating Cohen for, including bank and wire fraud, the New York state judicial system is uniquely well prepared to handle possible financial crimes.

“So many local law enforcement officers and prosecutor’s offices in New York have expertise in these areas that would be lacking ... in most other states,” Ric Simmons, an Ohio State University law professor who was a New York state prosecutor, told me.

It’s not just Mueller: Cohen could also face a wide range of state charges

Although federal prosecutors haven’t revealed the specifics of their investigation into Cohen, the Washington Post reported that the major focus of the investigation is payoffs to women in exchange for their silence on claims of affairs with Trump.

One of the payoffs, to porn actress Stormy Daniels, came directly from Cohen, who claimed he used a personal loan to gather the $130,000 he gave her.

Federal investigators are reportedly looking at whether Cohen lied to banks in order to get the money, by, for example, falsely claiming he wanted it for his extensive real estate investing or another of his businesses.

If he did, that would constitute federal bank and wire fraud. Jed Shugerman, a professor at Fordham Law, wrote that those crimes would fall under “scheme to defraud” in New York state law, which means Cohen could face state felony charges.

If the $130,000 payment was meant to help Trump win the election (something Cohen denies), it could count as a campaign contribution that was well in excess of federal limits. Beyond the possible federal crime, Cohen could also be charged with breaking New York state law if he made a false statement to a bank or to investigators about how he used the money.

Cohen also had a central role in contacts between Trump’s business and Russian officials, which could mean trouble if there was actual collusion between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin.

To take one example, Cohen was the Trump business’s point person for the Trump Tower Moscow project in 2015, even asking the Kremlin for help to get the project approved.

That deal is why Mueller reportedly looked into Cohen. Mueller brought the details of what he’d found to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who decided that the federal prosecutor in New York should handle an investigation into Cohen.

If Cohen used any of the contacts he made with the Russian government to try to influence the election, he could face state election fraud charges. New York state law bans trying to get a candidate elected by “unlawful means,” and working with the Russians would likely fall under another section of the law that bans interfering with the “free exercise of the elective franchise.”

And if Cohen lied as part of any filings tied to his finances or his work with the Trump Organization, or as part of any of his dealings with investigators, he could face state obstruction of justice charges.

All of which means that New York state prosecutors could go after Cohen on a variety of fronts — and that the lawyer couldn’t look to the White House for salvation.

“None of these would be subject to pardon by President Trump,” Cornell Law professor Jens David Ohlin told me.

New York state prosecutors could face one major issue with state charges. New York has a law that prevents prosecutors from charging twice for the same crime. That means that if federal prosecutors charge Cohen with a specific crime, and then Trump pardons him, Cohen could avoid state charges.

But federal prosecutors would be aware of that risk, and in the case of Paul Manafort, it appears that Mueller may have shaped his charges to leave state prosecutors space to go after him on their own.

Mueller may be giving state prosecutors a road map

When Mueller’s office filed charges against Manafort, they included a range of financial crimes.

But the charges puzzled some experts, because there were several obvious potential cases tied to those crimes that didn’t appear.

“There is a glaring omission in the indictment,” conservative commentator Andrew McCarthy wrote last year.

Although Mueller added new charges against Manafort in February, there’s still a range of tax and fraud charges that Mueller hasn’t used.

That could be because he’s making sure that New York state prosecutors have ammunition in the event that Trump pardons Cohen from federal charges.

Mueller has been working with Schneiderman since August, and the decision about federal charges could well be a way for Mueller to ensure that targets of his investigation can’t get off with a pardon. Even if Trump fires Mueller, New York prosecutors could proceed with cases.

The pardon issue isn’t theoretical, as the New York Times reported last month that Trump’s former personal lawyer John Dowd discussed pardons with several people charged by Mueller, including Manafort.

Thus far, Trump hasn’t suggested that he’ll pardon Cohen, although he has repeatedly defended him in public as a “good man.”

The president could easily decide to give his lawyer a get-out-of-jail-free card, at least on the federal level. Unfortunately for Cohen, Trump can’t do anything to get him out the crosshairs of New York state prosecutors.When we talk about individual countries and what they’re doing about climate change, the focus tends to be on the two big emitters, the US and China, as well as some of your sexier renewable energy leaders, your Germanys and your Denmarks.

As it happens, though, some of the most interesting climate developments in the world are unfolding in the staid old United Kingdom.

In fact, this week, the UK moved several steps closer to becoming the first G7 country to commit to net-zero carbon emissions by midcentury. Whatever one thinks of its follow-through on its goals so far, or its prospects for success, that would be a Very Big Deal — a signal that wealthy countries are actually taking the Paris climate agreement seriously.

For the UK to emerge as a global climate leader is somewhat puzzling. Like the US, it is undergoing a white rural backlash, yielding the almost-as-ignorant-as-electing-Donald-Trump Brexit vote late year. It has been under conservative rule since 2010.

And yet climate policy is moving forward in the country in what appears, to this American’s eyes, an almost surreally sensible fashion. (Admittedly, we Americans have a low bar these days.)

Let’s start with a brief primer on UK climate policy to date.

The UK is already committed to 80 percent reductions by 2050

In 2008, the UK Parliament passed the Climate Change Act, which committed the UK to reducing its emissions 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. The act created the Committee on Climate Change (CCC), an independent panel of climate change experts, to advise the government and produce regular reports and assessments. And the act required that the government establish targets (“carbon budgets”) every five years along the way.

So how’s it going so far? The short answer: great in the short term, uncertain in the long term.

The decline in coal is driving rapid emission reductions in the UK

Coal is undergoing a spectacular collapse in the UK. It’s not unlike what’s happening in the US, only even spectacular-er — consumption is down 74 percent since 2006 and fell 52 percent in 2016 alone. After another 19 percent drop in 2017, coal use in Britain is now at its lowest levels on historical record.

Fun fact: On April 21, 2017, National Grid (the UK’s grid manager) reported that the country’s energy system had gone its first full day without any use of coal since the Industrial Revolution.

National Grid can confirm that for the past 24 hours, it has supplied GB's electricity demand without the need for #coal generation. pic.twitter.com/vgyWEUYqZ4 — National Grid Control Room (@NGControlRoom) April 21, 2017

The government recently vowed to close all remaining coal power plants by 2025.

Thanks to the decline in coal, overall emission reductions in the UK averaged an annual 6 percent over the past three years, which is about as fast as any industrialized country has ever reduced emissions in the post-1990 world. British emissions are now lower than they’ve been since ... wait for it ... 1890.

As of 2017, UK emissions were 42 percent below 1990 levels — about halfway to the current 2050 target.

Nonetheless, the UK is not on track to hit its midterm targets

The collapse of coal allowed the UK to fairly easily hit its early and near-term carbon targets. But that strategy is running out of juice — there are only so many coal plants to close.

The CCC reports: “The first carbon budget (2008-12) has been met and the UK is currently on track to outperform the second (2013-17) and third (2018-22) carbon budgets, but is not on track to meet the fourth, which covers the period 2023-27.”

Speaking of the fourth carbon budget, late last year, the UK government published its long-awaited Clean Growth Strategy, a set of policies meant to cover the fourth (2023-’27) and fifth (2027-’32) carbon budgets. By the end of the fifth budget, UK emissions must be down 57 percent from 1990 levels to stay on track for the 2050 target.

CarbonBrief has a deep dive on the plan if you want details. It’s pretty ambitious, but according to the CCC, it is not enough. Even if all the policies pay off as hoped (an optimistic outlook), there remains a significant gap between policies and targets.

Some of the dispute is over flexibility. The UK government wants to bank the overdelivered emissions of the first three budgets and pay them against the fourth and fifth. The CCC says those banked reductions should instead go toward increased ambition.

And that is where things currently stand.

Meanwhile ... [cue transition music, fade]

Big move as UK becomes first country to move towards a "net zero" emissions target. The only problem is it isn't yet on track to meet the targets it already has. https://t.co/wFjqQ2e42f pic.twitter.com/li7ChsRp4m — Damian Kahya (@damiankahya) April 17, 2018

The UK acknowledges that Paris targets require net-zero emissions

In Paris, the countries of the world did not just agree to limit the rise in global average temperature to beneath 2 degrees Celsius. They also agreed to make efforts to limit temperature to 1.5 degrees, a considerably more ambitious undertaking.

The standard 80-percent-by-2050 target that most developed nations use is not going to get us to 1.5 degrees. That target is based on a model with a 50-50 chance of staying under 2 degrees.

Models designed to show a likely (66 percent) chance of hitting 1.5 degrees all show the same thing: The UK, along with the rest of the developed world, needs to reach net-zero carbon emissions by midcentury. (Net zero means carbon removed from the atmosphere balances carbon added, theoretically through the use of negative-emissions technologies, which the CCC says the UK will definitely need.)

In 2016, UK energy minister Andrea Leadsom told Parliament: “The government believes that we will need to take the step of enshrining the Paris goal for net zero emissions in UK law. The question is not whether but how we do it.”

Since then, there has been no such enshrining and David Cameron was replaced as prime minister by Theresa May, so it’s not been clear how real that commitment is.

Turns out, there’s some news on that front!

This week, the UK submitted the Clean Growth Strategy to the United Nations as part of the Paris agreement’s communication of long-term strategies program, wherein countries (26 so far) submit their strategies to reach 2050 targets.

In her cover letter with the submission, UK climate minister Claire Perry wrote: “The UK will need to legislate for a net-zero emissions target at an appropriate point in the future to provide legal certainty on where the UK is heading.”

There was no firm commitment or guarantee, nor any definition of “appropriate point in the future.” But at a side event earlier in the day, Perry said that after the IPCC releases its big report on 1.5 degrees (expected in October), the UK government plans to ask the CCC to analyze what the 1.5 degree target would mean for Britain.

.@claireperrymp :"I am pleased to announce that after the IPCC report later this year, we will be seeking advice from the UK’s independent advisers, the Committee on Climate Change, on the implications of the Paris Agreement for the UK’s long-term emissions reduction targets." pic.twitter.com/WCXHsfEtwT — Dept for BEIS (@beisgovuk) April 17, 2018

Everyone knows what the CCC is likely to find. It was previewed in a big report from the London School of Economics released last month. That report found that to bring its targets in line with the Paris agreement, i.e., to do its part in a real effort at keeping to 1.5 degrees, the UK must commit to net-zero carbon emissions by midcentury.

The UK government has typically taken the CCC’s findings and recommendations to heart, so if the CCC recommends net zero, the likelihood of it actually happening is radically increased.

The politics of net zero are complicated

It is early yet, and far from clear that the UK will actually pass the legislation necessary to revise the Climate Change Act’s target to net zero by 2050. There are many fraught steps between here and there.

But the fact that the country is considering it, openly discussing it within the UNFCCC context, is a big deal regardless. New Zealand and Sweden have committed to versions of net zero, but no G7 country has yet. And eventually, they all need to. The UK has helped start that conversation, if nothing else.

Politically, the UK has some wind at its back.

Decarbonization enjoys an extraordinary degree of political consensus in Britain. I remind my American readers that it is the conservative party doing all this. Imagine if US Republicans, instead of bailing from the Paris agreement at the first opportunity, doubled down on it. (No, I can’t imagine it either.)

Meanwhile, the center-left party is endorsing a climate damages tax that will go to nations at risk from climate change, and the Green Party wants 90 percent carbon reductions by 2030. Though they vary in their ambition and policy preferences, every major UK party supports decarbonization.

And the public does too. A recent poll found that solid majorities of Britons of every stripe, including conservatives, support a net-zero target.

New analysis by @WeAreBrightBlue shows a compelling political case for today's net zero announcement by @claireperrymp, with clear majorities of the public, including Conservative voters, in favour of a net zero target https://t.co/y7wPluOZid pic.twitter.com/UQoirIbvLT — Sam Hall (@samuelhall0) April 17, 2018

The political will is in place, but right now, net zero is just an idea. In practice, it will be extremely difficult (and contentious). It will certainly take more than coal dying.

If would require the UK to boost its near- and midterm targets, rapidly accelerate all existing decarbonization efforts, and take some politically unpopular steps like building giant carbon sequestration facilities.

It will require addressing the trickiest carbon problems: emissions from aviation, agriculture, biomass, and above all transportation, which in the UK (as in the US) is now the largest source of emissions.

“While emissions from energy supplies are down 57 per cent from [1990],” the Independent reports, “transport emissions are only down 2 per cent over the same period, making it the worst performing sector.”

According to the CCC, transportation emissions in the UK must fall 44 percent by 2030 to stay on track for long-term carbon targets. That will mean engineering a rapid electrification of the vehicle fleet — Britain has already announced it will ban diesel and gasoline cars from 2040 forward.

Suffice to say, many barriers and road bumps lie ahead for the UK as it enters the second phase of decarbonization (subtitled: Shit Gets Real). After coal fades, the country will begin the real hard work.

Even if it does defy political gravity and put a commitment to net-zero emissions into law, there’s no guarantee it will succeed.

But by acknowledging the need for net-zero emissions, the UK has opened up a long overdue conversation — one that ends, we can all hope, with humanity ridding itself of carbon fuels entirely.The police shooting of Diante Yarber, a 26-year-old black man who died after officers fired a barrage of bullets at his car in a crowded parking lot, is raising more questions about race and police use of lethal force.

Yarber was inside a car in a Walmart parking lot in Barstow, California, on April 5 when law enforcement officers arrived, according to a press release. They were responding to a call about a “suspicious vehicle” and attempted to conduct a traffic stop. Yarber reportedly “reversed the vehicle and struck one of the patrol cars.” The release also stated that Yarber accelerated toward the officers and struck a second vehicle before officers opened fire on the car.

In a bystander’s recorded video, blurry footage shows the car being shot at as other people in the parking lot try to take cover. Witnesses have said they heard as many as 30 shots. Afterward, Yarber was pronounced dead at the scene, and two other passengers, a man and a woman, were injured. A third man in the car was uninjured, according to the department press release.

“They saw a car full of black people sitting in front of a Walmart, and they decided that was suspicious,” Lee Merritt, an attorney representing Yarber’s family, told the Guardian. “They just began pouring bullets. … It’s irresponsible. It’s dangerous. It’s mind-boggling, the use of force.”

The officers believed Yarber was a suspect in a recent stolen vehicle incident, according to the press release, but Yarber’s aunt told the Guardian that the vehicle officers fired at belonged to a family member and was never reported stolen.

Dale Galipo, a lawyer representing Marian Tafoya, the woman injured in the vehicle, says that while police argue that the incident was an assault on an officer, the investigation has found that Yarber was unarmed and that officers were not in the path of the vehicle when they fired. Galipo notes that police training suggests that officers not fire at moving vehicles.

The shooting has angered community members, who question why officers fired on the car, killing the father of three. There have been local protests, but outside of the press release, law enforcement has released few details about the incident. The officers have been placed on paid leave while the shooting is being investigated.

The Diante Yarber shooting raises questions about police use of force

Yarber’s death comes mere weeks after Stephon Clark, an unarmed young black man in Sacramento, was killed in his grandparent’s backyard after officers mistook his cellphone for a weapon. The Clark shooting sparked protests and national public outcry and has led to the introduction of a bill that would limit when law enforcement in California can use lethal force.

Research has shown that there are significant racial disparities in police use of force. While these disparities are most commonly attributed to issues like implicit bias and systemic racism, studies have also noted that specific factors like high levels of housing segregation and economic inequality also play a role in where police shootings occur and whom they affect.

According to the Washington Post’s Fatal Force database, some 329 people have been shot and killed by police in 2018. Sixty-three of those people were identified as black in news reports.Another blackout hit Puerto Rico Wednesday morning, the Associated Press reported, cutting off electricity across the whole island and once again undermining the fragile progress made in restoring power in the six months since Hurricane Maria struck.

The Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority said that it could be 24 to 36 hours before power is restored to the areas that had it. Its priorities are to get electricity back to hospitals, the San Juan Airport, water systems, and financial centers.

AEE Informa: Se estima que el tiempo del restablecimiento de servicio eléctrico podría extenderse de 24 a 36 horas. CC1 — AEE (@AEEONLINE) April 18, 2018

The outage was caused by a bulldozer hitting a power line while trying to remove a collapsed transmission tower, according to El Nuevo Dia. The company responsible was D. Grimm, a subcontractor for Cobra Energy, which received a $200 million contract to repair Puerto Rico’s devastated power grid.

Cobra was selected alongside Whitefish Energy Services in the aftermath of the hurricane, but the deals drew scrutiny from Congress because the companies had limited experience in grid repair on such a large scale.

The latest island-wide outage comes less than a week after a tree fell on a crucial power line, knocking out power to 840,000 people. And more than 61,000 utility customers haven’t had electricity since last September, the US Department of Energy reported earlier this month. Since “customer” typically refers to a household, which can encompass several people, estimates indicate that more than 100,000 people haven’t had power since the storm.

Puerto Rico Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz said that a Major League Baseball game scheduled for Wednesday evening will go ahead as planned with the stadium running on backup generators.

Todos los sistemas de emergencia gan sido probados en el Hiram Bithorn. El apagón no detiene el juego. Esta noche se juega en el Bithorn. pic.twitter.com/I55nI92t3F — Carmen Yulín Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) April 18, 2018

Since the storm hit, Puerto Rico’s 3.3 million residents have been forced to endure an agonizingly slow power restoration effort, suffering health and environmental harms as bureaucracy, logistical difficulties, and potential corruption hampered progress.

The blackout is the largest in US history and is now the second-largest in the world. Only Typhoon Haiyan, one of the largest tropical storms ever to make landfall and the deadliest storm ever to hit the Philippines, had a bigger impact on electricity service.Liberty University — the evangelical Christian college founded by the late Moral Majority leader Jerry Falwell — made headlines over the past few years because of its vocal institutional support for Donald Trump. But a recent ProPublica/New York Times Magazine investigative piece by Alec MacGillis has brought Liberty into the spotlight for a different reason.

According to MacGillis, Liberty’s luxurious campus — including a $7 million year-round ski resort and $3 million shooting range — is essentially funded by the revenue stream brought in by Liberty University Online: an online-learning system that, the students profiled by MacGillis uniformly say, falls significantly short of American academic standards.

But, unlike other online universities like DeVry or University of Phoenix, Liberty has secured a nonprofit status, making it far more difficult for federal regulators to crack down.

Liberty has about 11,000 on-campus students — and approximately 95,000 students enrolled in the distance-learning program. According to MacGillis’s reporting, the online university features exam questions chosen at random, required textbooks failing to arrive, and a teaching faculty incapable of spelling words like “cite” or “exceptions.”

Remote students are charged $455 per credit. (Assuming that 120 credits are necessary for a bachelor’s degree, that’s a total degree cost of about $54,600.) Meanwhile, Liberty spends on average $2,609 per full-time student per year (on-campus and off-campus combined) — about a tenth of what, for example, a private university like Notre Dame spends.

MacGillis reports extensively on Liberty’s aggressive sales tactics, using a 300-strong team of recruiters and a $16.8 million-dollar Google advertising budget to target potential students before their for-profit competitors do:

At the front lines are the “admissions representatives,” some 300 phone recruiters working two shifts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., deploying call lists that Liberty gets from websites where people register and search for information about online higher education, like BestCollegesOnline.com. There is such a race to get to customers before University of Phoenix and other rivals that the prospective students sometimes marvel at how little time has elapsed — just a handful of minutes — between their providing their information on a website and the call coming from Liberty. Liberty’s tax filings show that in 2016, the university paid Google $16.8 million for “admissions leads generation.” ... They get no more than 45 seconds between calls, and sometimes managers override even that short break. There are no formal quotas — a federal regulation that went into effect in 2011 forbids them. But as one former employee put it, the “highly motivated goal” is for each recruiter to sign up eight new students a day. Multiplied across 300 cubicles, that is 2,400 per day.

But students who have been convinced to sign up for Liberty, MacGillis reports, have little recourse when things go wrong. The Obama-era crackdown on for-profit degree mills — including requirements that graduates be able to attain “gainful employment” — only served to help Liberty’s enrollment numbers by putting many of its competitors out of business. And new Trump-era policies under Education Secretary Betsy DeVos have only made things easier for Liberty; DeVos is expected to roll back Obama-era regulations establishing higher standards for online-only learning.

Liberty isn’t the only evangelical institution whose nonprofit status allows it to operate with less financial transparency than it would otherwise. Just this year the conservative lobbying group Focus on the Family — which heavily advocates for anti-LGBTQ and anti-sex education policies, among others — filed its 2017 taxes as a church, allowing it to avoid laws about financial disclosure, and to — for example — claim property tax exemption for its “clergy.”

Whether the federal government intends to crack down on this intersection of religion and finance remains to be seen. But Trump’s repeated invocation of his desire to repeal the Johnson Amendment — a provision prohibiting 501(c)(3) nonprofits, including churches, from explicitly endorsing political candidates — suggests that, as far as the Trump administration is concerned, religious institutions should be granted as much tax-related leeway as possible.

Read MacGillis’s full article here.Former first lady Barbara Bush died yesterday at the age of 92. In practically every obituary written about her, there is mention of her signature hairstyle. Her “cloud of white hair,” as USA Today described it, even has an origin story that’s now as big a part of Bush’s legend as her fake pearls.

Bush supposedly went prematurely gray at the age of 28 after dealing with the tragic death of her 3-year-old daughter Robin from leukemia. Along the way she acquired the nickname “the Silver Fox,” courtesy of her family. Eventually she started referring to herself as “Everybody’s Grandmother,” a moniker reflected in the Washington Post’s obituary headline: “Barbara Bush brought plainspoken, grandmotherly style to DC.”

Scrutiny of first ladies’ hairstyles is a national past time, of course. Nancy’s helmet. Hillary’s headbands. Michelle’s bangs. Meaning is ascribed and attractiveness is weighed. Bush, in many ways, took this narrative into her own hands, likely originally as an act of self-preservation from the unforgiving light that is shone on women in general, and women in DC politics in particular.

Critique of her looks

According to a 1992 Vanity Fair feature titled “Barbara’s Backlash,” Bush had a critical mother who used to make comments about her weight, as well as an older sister so beautiful and glamorous that she was featured on the cover of Vogue. Later, people whispered that Bush looked older than her husband. “She looks like she could be his mother,” according to the Daily Beast’s obit, referring to a picture of the couple shortly after their daughter died.

The Vanity Fair feature notes: “By the time George and Barbara Bush reached their early forties, she was conscious of the disparity in their looks. Over time she tried different strategies for dealing with this painful contract—including, for a while, unsuccessfully dyeing her hair—until finally she settled on a rollicking self-satire that firmly beat observers to the punch.”

You can see this strategy firmly in play in 1988 during her husband’s campaign, a time when she had just entered her 60s and was an actual grandmother. “I’m not going to turn into a glamorous princess,” she said, according to the Daily Beast, in what was perceived as a jibe at predecessor Nancy Reagan, a noted clotheshorse. “I’m not going to worry about it. I have plenty of self-confidence, not in how I look but in how I feel and I feel good about my husband, my children, and my life.”

(In a New York Times interview the same year, though, she admits to being bothered by the negative criticism of her looks. “‘I tell you the truth, it hurts,’’ she told the paper, adding, “When George was first going to run for President, a member of our family said, what are we going to do about Barbara? I said, funny, it doesn’t bother George Bush.’’)

From that point on, she embraced her matronly image, at least publicly. She told the New York Times, “People who worry about their hair all the time, frankly, are boring,’’ she said.’’I wash my hair every day of my life and probably washed all the color out. But I can exercise, play tennis. I don’t ever have to say to George, ‘I’m sorry I can’t do that, I just got my hair done.’ You have to have priorities in life, and that’s just one I have. What you see is what you get.’’

America’s Grandma?

In many ways, it softened her, this image of the consummate grandmother. The Washington Post, in its 1992 profile of the relationship between Bush and son George, noted that while caring for her dying daughter, her “strength [was] belied only by her hair.” Is gray hair weakness? Duh, of course, at least in the larger culture’s perception. Gray hair = old = weak. But she understood this perception and used it brilliantly.

“Short of axe murder, I think she could get away with anything,” a former spokesperson told Vanity Fair. “She’s so benign.”

Her public image was one of supportive helpmate for her husband and pride in her primary roles of wife and mother. Her gray hair helped her husband’s image publicly, as she cuddled babies with AIDS and promoted adult literacy. At one point, she had a higher approval rating than her husband.

However, she was also perceived as out of touch by a new generation of women, which was evident when she was invited to give a commencement speech at Wellesley in 1990 (she had attended Smith but dropped out her sophomore year to get married). A petition circulated protesting that she didn’t represent “the type of career woman the college seeks to educate.” She went anyway, charmed them all, and got a standing ovation.

But she was not all hugs and needlepoint. White House staff were afraid of her, and she had a famously sharp tongue. Daughter-in-law Laura Bush wrote in her memoir, “She’s never shied away from saying what she thinks. ... She’s managed to insult nearly all of my friends with one or another perfectly timed acerbic comment.”

One of Bush’s worst gaffes came in 2005, though when her son, President George Bush, was dealing with criticism and backlash over his handling of the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina. While speaking about the New Orleans evacuees who were staying in the Houston Astrodome, she said on a radio show, “And so many of the people in the arena here, you know, were underprivileged anyway,” she said, “so this is working very well for them.” Not exactly the comment of an empathetic grandmotherly type.

Whether you approve or disapprove of Bush and her politics and attitude, as a first lady she was between a rock and a hard place, just like they all are. If she’d dyed her hair blonde and got it roller set every day, would she have been called a battle ax instead of a grandma? Probably.

While her hair and issues were much different than those of her successor, Hillary Clinton, the underlying and unsolvable problem of the first lady remains the same: America wants them to be everything to everyone. And it’s impossible.

Bush did okay though. “My mail tells me that a lot of fat, white-haired, wrinkled ladies are tickled pink,” she said, according to the Vanity Fair piece. “I mean, look at me—if I can be a success, so can they.”When the Line Hotel opened in Washington, DC, last December, the cocktail bars, gourmet coffee shops, and restaurants that fill its cavernous lobby drew a lot of buzz. Housed in a century-old church, the space was also reputedly beautiful.

My first visit in February confirmed that the Line was indeed as sleek as my friends and restaurant critics had suggested. There was just one problem: I wanted to leave almost as soon as I walked in. My ears were invaded by a deafening din. I felt like a trapped mouse, tortured with loud sounds for the purposes of an experiment. The noise was so irritating, I asked my husband whether we should go before our drinks arrived.

We ended up lingering for about half an hour at the Brothers and Sisters restaurant, straining to hear each other. On the way out, I tried to mention the tough acoustics to someone at the restaurant’s front desk. I don’t think he heard me.

This experience is by no means unique; it’s become a fixture of dining out in America. “What did you say?” “Can you repeat that?” and “It’s so loud in here” are now phrases as common as “Can I take your order?”

Both Zagat and Consumer Reports surveys have found that excessive noise is the top complaint diners have, ahead of service, crowds, or even food issues. Tom Sietsema, the restaurant critic for the Washington Post, also told me noise is “by far” his chief complaint about the restaurants he reviews.

“I’ve been harping on this for a decade by now,” he said. “It’s a constant — a constant irritation.”

Help our reporting on noise pollution We’ll be following up with more reporting on noise pollution, and we want to hear from you. If you have any questions or stories to share, email reporter Julia Belluz at julia.belluz@vox.com

But here’s the thing: Loud restaurants aren’t just irksome — they’re a public health threat, especially for the people who work at or regularly patronize them. Being exposed to noise levels above 70 to 80 decibels — which many restaurants subject you to these days — causes hearing loss over time, Gail Richard, the president of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, told me. This kind of hearing loss is “preventable, but it’s also irreparable,” she added.

In reckoning with this underappreciated health threat, I’ve been wondering how we got here and why any well-meaning restaurateur would inflict this pain on his or her patrons and staff. I learned that there are a number of reasons — and they mostly have to do with restaurant design trends. In exposing them, I hope restaurateurs will take note: You may be deafening your staff and patrons. I also hope restaurant patrons will start, er, raising their voices about this, or voting with their feet.

1) “No one wants to walk into a mausoleum”

Everyone I spoke to for this story pointed out that some level of noisiness in restaurants is intentional — and you can thank (recently disgraced) celebrity chef Mario Batali for that.

In a great New York magazine article about loud restaurants, Adam Platt points out that the “Great Noise Boom” in eateries started to flourish in the late ’90s, around the time Batali began pumping the music he and his kitchen staff enjoyed working to into the dining room at Babbo in New York. “Over the next several years,” Platt writes, “as David Chang and his legions of imitators followed Batali’s lead, the front-of-the-house culture was slowly buried in a wall of sound.”

Batali has explained his penchant for loud restaurants: He feels the sound conveys a sense of vibrancy and energy, feelings diners associate with eating out in New York. So the raucousness is by design.

Today, restaurants still use loud music to achieve that same dynamism. As Sietsema told me, “When I go around town to hot restaurants, they are all pretty noisy, for a lot of reasons, I think. But partly I blame it on restaurants, because you’re looking to create buzz or energy in dining rooms. No one wants to walk into a mausoleum.”

Indeed, quiet restaurants can be as unwelcoming as noisy ones. Remember the awkwardly silent haunts you’ve walked into that feel limp, where you had little privacy to speak freely? You probably wanted to leave as quickly as I did from the ear-piercing hotel in DC.

Still, there’s a difference between spirited, ebullient sound levels and ears-on-fire, screaming-over-the-table, lip-reading clamor — and many restaurants fail to strike the right balance. In a New York Times investigation, a reporter got a decibel reading at 37 venues across New York City, including bars and restaurants, and “found levels that experts said bordered on dangerous at one-third of them.”

For this reason, Sietsema started carrying around a decibel meter (and including sound ratings on his reviews) 10 years ago. Since then, he thinks restaurants have maintained a steady level of uncomfortable din. In other words, despite the years of complaining and awareness about the problem, it’s not getting any better.

2) Good acoustics are expensive

I used to think acoustics were an overlooked feature of restaurant design in America. So I was surprised to learn that they’re among the first thing restaurateurs think about when planning a new restaurant.

But doing acoustics right, it turns out, is really expensive. You have to hire acoustic consultants or engineers, who case the geometry and surfaces of a space to figure out which materials and treatments might create a sound that’s pleasing to diners’ ears. Like any design and construction project, the more sophisticated you get, the more you drive up the cost.

Greg Keffer, a partner with the Rockwell Group, an architecture and design firm, has worked on a number of restaurants with good reputations for acoustics, including Union Square Cafe in New York City. He noted that many common sound-controlling treatments — like spray-on foams or sound panels — “don’t look like a beautifully finished material.” So making sure your restaurant doesn’t feel or appear like a sound studio means investing in subtle sound-absorbing materials and treatments, which tend to be expensive.

For example, a custom acoustical finish system like Fellert can masquerade as stone or concrete and tamp down noise levels — but it costs a lot more to put in place than just leaving a ceiling raw. Simply sound-paneling a big ceiling can cost upward of $50,000.

“There are a lot of products that address acoustics now in a way that can be beautiful and can be hidden, so you’re not feeling like they’re surrounding you and can really complement your designs,” Keffer added. “But it’s ultimately down to budget and whether [restaurateurs] want to invest.”

Most restaurants aren’t exactly minting money, so owners need to think about what they’re going to prioritize in the budget. Because good sound treatments don’t make the splash that beautiful chairs or special artwork do, they can easily get punted to the bottom of the list.

“Sound absorption can cost a lot,” Sietsema said. “I can see chefs and restaurateurs thinking, ‘I can either buy these sound panels people aren’t going to notice visually or I can hire an extra line cook or piece of equipment or somebody to do my pastries.’ It’s certainly a trade-off.”

3) A shift in restaurant aesthetics has had a huge impact on our ears

Think about the last few trendy restaurants you visited. There’s a good chance at least one of them was housed in an industrial space, with minimally decorated brick or concrete walls, bare tables and floors, high ceilings, and exposed ducts. The explosion of new restaurants and the shift in aesthetics — down to the very spaces restaurants now commonly occupy — has fueled the restaurant noise boom.

In a 2010 article in the Wall Street Journal, reporter Katy McLaughlin documented how the move toward eating in concrete boxes coincided with a shift in decor and other design features, turning many restaurants into “noise traps”:

Upscale restaurants have done away with carpeting, heavy curtains, tablecloths, and plush banquettes gradually over the decade, and then at a faster pace during the recession, saying such touches telegraph a fine-dining message out of sync with today’s cost-conscious, informal diner.

And as these sound-absorbing elements went out of style, many restaurants introduced open-concept dining, with open kitchens or attached bar scenes, that helped turn up the volume.

As acoustically challenging as these settings have been for the ears of diners and restaurant workers, they’ve also been difficult for designers — which brings us back to the Line Hotel in DC.

4) Some spaces — like former churches — will always be noisy when filled with people

I called one of the designers on the Line Hotel project — Drew Stuart, a partner at Inc Architecture & Design — to ask him about what acoustics challenges he faced, and why the lobby was so loud. Stuart and his colleagues seem to have done everything right: They worked with an acoustics engineer “from day one,” he said, and looked top to bottom to find ways to control the sound.

They built high-tech sound-absorbing finishes into the ceilings and underneath the tables. The floor was originally pitched at an angle. “When we flattened the floor, we put in an acoustically isolating floor system,” Stuart said.

But the venue they were working with was really acoustically tricky. A former church, centered on a vast, open room with vaulted ceilings, it was created to be reflective, so that an entire congregation could hear the voice of the preacher with little amplification.

“The [church] was designed for many to hear one,” Stuart added. “Now it’s been inverted so that many will hear the one across from them as opposed to the singular person addressing the room.”

5) Americans are loud

A final point about why restaurants are so loud. This has nothing to do with restaurateurs or designers or acoustic engineers. It has to do with Americans — who I believe are a slightly louder people, on average.

As a Canadian working in the US, I am often struck by how much louder my fellow diners in restaurants seem to be, and how much more loudly the people I’m walking near on streets speak to one another or into their cellphones.

This is not a scientific observation, but it’s one that’s fueled Reddit discussions and even a ban on “loud Americans” in a pub in Ireland. Sietsema, for one, also agreed with my view. “When Europeans imitate Americans, they shout,” he said. “We tend to be louder people — we’re louder talkers; we’re bigger with our expressions.”

For fellow diners who aren’t used to American decibel levels, this noisiness can be particularly irritating — and it has been for me. One night at a pizza place in DC’s Georgetown neighborhood, I tried to compete with the howling of a woman at a neighboring table and felt myself screaming at my friends.

This factor, perhaps driving the noise in restaurants here, can’t be controlled for, but there are other things diners can do to protect themselves.

How to protect yourself from the noise

There is some consolation for restaurant-goers who cringe at the cacophony. A couple of recent developments may make dining out more pleasant.

At least at the high end, noise levels may be going down in restaurants. According to Devra Ferst at Eater:

In the decade since loud restaurants have become ubiquitous, small to mid-sized, casual restaurants — often with less backing — still embrace and work around the din, while a new generation of fine-dining and higher-end places with deep pockets are going back to if not a hushed dining room, one that allows for across the table conversation.

These restaurants have reintroduced noise-blotting carpets and tablecloths — and they’re making quiet dining a luxury for those who can afford to pay, Ferst writes. Hopefully this trend trickles down through all rungs of the restaurant population.

Decibel-reading apps have also proliferated. Some, like SoundPrint, crowdsource users’ decibel readings to rate venues so that people who are hard of hearing or sensitive to noise,can find quiet spots. (In DC, for example, I found some popular restaurants with sound levels below 70 decibels, according to the crowdsourcing, and others that were “very loud,” over 80 decibels.)

Since I downloaded Decibel X Pro, another handy decibel reader, I’ve measured the sound in coffee shops, restaurants, even on the metro. It’s given me a sense of the relative loudness of various environments and which ones I might want to avoid.

I also returned to the Line Hotel for a sound check. I found the noise less bothersome this time. The lobby’s bars and restaurants were pretty empty — about half as crowded as during my first visit, which coincided with the hotel’s opening months. But the sound still registered just above 80 decibels. (This is similar to what SoundPrint users have found, rating the Line’s Brothers and Sisters lobby restaurant a “loud” 79.)

There are even simpler things you can do to avoid loud restaurants or manage noise while you’re out:

Go early : This one isn’t very fun. Who wants to eat at 5 pm? But if noise really bothers you, restaurants tend to be less heavily trafficked — and therefore quieter — before 7 o’clock.

This one isn’t very fun. Who wants to eat at 5 pm? But if noise really bothers you, restaurants tend to be less heavily trafficked — and therefore quieter — before 7 o’clock. Request a quiet table : Not all tables are equal. If you’re seated in what you think is a particularly loud spot, ask to move. You can also request a quiet table in advance.

Not all tables are equal. If you’re seated in what you think is a particularly loud spot, ask to move. You can also request a quiet table in advance. Ask for the music to be turned down : If you feel the music is blaring in your ears, there’s a good chance others do too. Ask for it to be turned down.

If you feel the music is blaring in your ears, there’s a good chance others do too. Ask for it to be turned down. Complain: If restaurant managers field enough complaints about the noise, they may understand that they’re doing something wrong. Consider registering a complaint with management before you leave.

I’d also urge restaurant owners to get a decibel reader to find out how much they might be torturing their patrons. Together, perhaps we can defeat the Great Noise Boom.

Help our reporting on noise pollution

We’ll be following up with more reporting on noise pollution, and we want to hear from you. If you have any questions or stories to share, email reporter Julia Belluz at julia.belluz@vox.com.