The Justice Department turned over copies to Congress of former FBI Director James Comey’s memos about his interactions with President Donald Trump on Thursday.

The Associated Press first obtained copies of the 15 pages of memos, which contain some redactions. Comey has publicly testified to many of the details within the memos, including in his congressional testimony last June and now on his book tour promoting his new memoir, A Higher Loyalty.

There are a few new tidbits included in the documents. At a January 27, 2017, private dinner at the White House — the same one where Comey says the president demanded loyalty — Comey said Trump described then-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn as having “serious judgement issues.” (Comey wrote that he did not comment at the time.)

The memos also document the February 14, 2017, Oval Office encounter, in which Trump asked Comey to “see your way clear” to letting Flynn go, and other phone calls and interactions between the former FBI director and the president.

The Department of Justice sent over these memos to Congress after House Republicans demanded them last week, threatening a subpoena. The Department of Justice sent over unclassified versions of the memos Thursday, and according to Politico, will provide members of the House committees a chance to view the classified versions, without redactions, through a secure channel on Friday.

House Judiciary Committee chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), House Oversight Committee chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC), and House Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) released a joint statement about the release of the memos Thursday night. ”We have long argued former Director Comey’s self-styled memos should be in the public domain, subject to any classification redactions,” the statement read. “These memos are significant for both what is in them and what is not.”

Read the memos below, or at this link.

Update: This post has been updated with additional details from the Comey memos and a statement from House members.The Justice Department’s inspector general has submitted a criminal referral for former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, according to CNN’s Pamela Brown. Inspector General Michael Horowitz, who submitted a harsh report asserting that McCabe misled Justice Department investigators last week, has referred the matter to the US attorney’s office in Washington, DC, for potential prosecution.

Yet though McCabe has been harshly criticized by President Donald Trump and his allies for months for supposed anti-Trump bias, he’s been investigated for and may be charged about a different topic entirely — that is, his purported attempts to mislead about his role in a leak at Hillary Clinton’s expense.

The gist is that McCabe orchestrated a leak to a Wall Street Journal reporter shortly before the 2016 election, describing private deliberations he’d had with Obama Justice Department officials about an investigation of the Clinton Foundation. McCabe leaked that he had tried to keep this investigation moving forward, over an unnamed Justice Department official’s resistance. His motivation for leaking about this pending investigation, it appeared, was to rebut an earlier Journal article raising questions about his impartiality in the Clinton email probe, and a planned follow-up piece along similar lines.

However, once the FBI began looking into how the Clinton Foundation leak happened, Horowitz claims that McCabe repeatedly misled officials about his involvement. The IG report says McCabe displayed a “lack of candor” on the topic on at least four separate occasions — falsely claiming several times that he didn’t know where the leak had come from, when in fact he had authorized it.

The Justice Department says it was these findings — not Trump’s fury at and angry tweets about McCabe — that spurred Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s controversial firing of McCabe one day before he was set to retire. And it’s these findings that would likely form the basis of any charges against McCabe, should the US attorney for the District of Columbia choose to pursue them.

McCabe has been trying to portray himself as corruptly and wrongly persecuted by President Trump for political and self-interested reasons, suggesting Trump hopes to discredit potential testimony from him in special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe of obstruction of justice. Indeed, the president has aimed a truly astonishing level of vitriol at McCabe, and the news comes in the context of Trump allies in Congress calling for the prosecution of not just McCabe but multiple Justice Department officials as well as Clinton herself.

Still, the allegations against McCabe in the IG report are quite serious, inspectors general traditionally operate with independence from their department leaders, and Horowitz was appointed under President Obama. So it’s too simple to say that McCabe is just being railroaded here. If he did indeed lie to investigators, that’s criminal conduct.

Trump has gone after McCabe for unrelated reasons

To understand the full scope of what’s going on here, it’s useful to separate out President Trump’s gripes with Andrew McCabe from the inspector general’s critique of Andrew McCabe — because they’re quite different.

Trump’s distrust for McCabe personally seems to date back to the revelation that when McCabe’s wife ran for Virginia state Senate in 2015, the state’s Democratic governor, longtime Clinton ally Terry McAuliffe, raised money for her campaign. After the election (she lost), McCabe was involved in overseeing the Clinton email investigation, and conservatives questioned whether this was a conflict. Trump would later cite this information repeatedly, both in public and in private, as showing McCabe’s supposed corruption. (McCabe actually voted in the Republican primary in his state, Virginia, in 2016.)

More broadly, though, Trump has been at war with his own FBI and Justice Department since he fired James Comey. He has repeatedly urged the department to charge his political and bureaucratic opponents with crimes. McCabe, as a Comey ally and career staffer, was a natural obstacle. There’s also been speculation that Trump hopes to discredit McCabe as a potential witness to obstruction of justice in the Mueller probe. So Trump openly campaigned for McCabe’s firing for months, and exulted when it finally happened.

Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the FBI - A great day for Democracy. Sanctimonious James Comey was his boss and made McCabe look like a choirboy. He knew all about the lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 17, 2018

Yet you could follow everything Trump has said about McCabe for months and have no real understanding that he was fired for allegedly lying about his leaks about an investigation into Hillary Clinton.

The IG says McCabe misled investigators about a pre-election leak about Clinton

On October 24, 2016, the Wall Street Journal’s Devlin Barrett published that story about McCabe’s wife getting campaign contributions from McAuliffe, pointing out that McCabe had a role overseeing the Clinton email investigation.

Then on October 30, Barrett published another story. His sources describe, in some detail, interactions McCabe was said to have had with Obama Justice Department officials about an investigation of the Clinton Foundation. It portrays McCabe as heroically trying to keep this investigation moving forward, over an unnamed Justice Department official’s resistance.

McCabe has now admitted to authorizing these leaks. And they were serious ones: They described internal deliberations about an ongoing investigation tied to a major-party presidential nominee and were let out just before a presidential election. The motivation now seems obvious: They were designed to prevent damage to McCabe and the FBI’s reputation from Barrett’s earlier article (and a follow-up piece he was working on) by portraying McCabe as tough on Clinton, and offering a juicy anecdote to prove it.

But the inspector general report claims that McCabe later displayed “lack of candor” to FBI and Justice Department officials about his role in these leaks, in at least four instances.

To Comey on October 31, 2016: The day after the latter Journal article published, Comey and McCabe privately discussed it and the leaks behind it. Comey later told the inspector general that McCabe left the impression that he wasn’t involved in the leak and he didn’t know who was. McCabe disputes this, claiming he fessed up to Comey, and that Comey agreed the leak was a “good” idea. The IG writes that the “overwhelming weight” of circumstantial evidence backs up Comey’s account, not McCabe’s. To the FBI’s Inspection Division investigators on May 9, 2017: A few months later, two FBI investigators questioned McCabe about the article, and asked about the leaks. The agents claim McCabe told them he had “no idea” where the story came from or who the source was — which, of course, would be a lie. McCabe disputes that this happened, and the interview wasn’t recorded. But both agents say this happened, one of them took notes, and they got McCabe to sign his initials on the Journal article, indicating that the topic was discussed. To the IG investigators on July 28, 2017: Later, investigators from the inspector general’s office questioned McCabe in a recorded interview, and presented him with texts from his subordinate Lisa Page indicating that she was involved in the leak. McCabe said he didn’t know who gave the information to the Wall Street Journal and that he wasn’t aware of her being authorized to do it. However, a few days after saying this, McCabe contacted investigators and said that after thinking about it more, he may have authorized the leak after all. (Marcy Wheeler suggests that McCabe’s change of heart came because he realized those texts from Page made his previous, false story disclaiming knowledge of the leak untenable.) To the IG investigators again on November 29, 2017: McCabe returned for another recorded interview with IG investigators, this time admitting his role in the leak. Yet Horowitz says he misled them about other matters. McCabe said in this interview that he’d told Comey about the leak and that Comey was okay with it on October 31, 2016, and claimed he never denied knowledge of the leaks to FBI investigators on May 9, 2017. Yet Horowitz doesn’t find either claim to be credible.

From the report, Horowitz clearly believes that McCabe tried to avoid being fingered for the leak by repeatedly misleading investigators and even Comey, his boss, about it. It is this report that Horowitz submitted to the FBI and that the Justice Department cited in firing McCabe in March, and that is reportedly the basis for the criminal referral.

President Trump’s opinions about McCabe are obviously widely known. Yet there is no indication that Horowitz, whose role is as an internal watchdog and who’s been in the job since 2012, distorted his investigation to try to please the president. If McCabe truly did what Horowitz asserts, it would certainly be a firing offense and may well be criminal too.

McCabe has denied wrongdoing. His lawyer, Michael Bromwich, released a statement saying he is “confident that, unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the Administration, the US Attorney’s Office will conclude that it should decline to prosecute.” A GoFundMe page for McCabe’s legal defense raised $567,996 last month.President Trump has a new lawyer, and his name is Rudy Giuliani.

The former New York City mayor, US attorney, and Republican presidential candidate told the Washington Post’s Robert Costa and Josh Dawsey that he’s agreed to join Trump’s legal team responding to the Mueller investigation — saying that he wanted to “negotiate an end” to the probe. Martin and Jane Raskin, a husband-and-wife lawyer team specializing in complex white-collar criminal defense, will also join the team.

The news comes nearly a month after John Dowd, Trump’s previous top personal lawyer on Mueller matters, quit. In the interim, the president has struggled to recruit top-tier legal talent to join his team. Though Ty Cobb continues to lead the White House’s response to the investigation, only conservative activist lawyer Jay Sekulow, who has no criminal law background, has been representing Trump personally. Other hires were floated, and fell through.

Enter Giuliani. The former mayor, and current head of the consulting firm Giuliani Partners, has known Trump for decades and was an enthusiastic surrogate for him on the campaign trail in 2016. He was floated (both by himself and by others) as a potential secretary of state pick after Trump won. In the end, Trump passed him over for State, and Giuliani didn’t take an administration job. Now he’s stepping in in a very consequential post indeed — though it’s not clear, exactly, just how big his role will be.

just talked to Giuliani who said his role on Trump team is limited. He worked with Mueller at DOJ & as NYC Mayor (Mueller at FBI) He hopes knowing Mueller can help bring the investigation to conclusion, saying it "needs a little push." How soon? "maybe a couple of weeks" — Dana Bash (@DanaBashCNN) April 19, 2018

Giuliani enters at an important moment for the probe. The Post’s Carol Leonnig and Robert Costa have reported that Mueller is far along in his investigation of whether President Trump obstructed justice while in office, and that he could even write a report about his findings this summer. Negotiations about whether Trump will sit down for an interview with the special counsel’s team on the topic have been going on for months, without any success yet.

Then Mueller will reportedly continue with the collusion and Russian interference parts of the investigation. There have been no known new indictments or plea deals here for nearly two months. However, his team has reportedly been probing matters ranging from email hackings to the Trump campaign’s digital team to money from Russian oligarchs and the United Arab Emirates. And, separately from Mueller’s team, the US attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York is investigating Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, infuriating the president.

It has also been reported that Trump is not currently a “target” of Mueller’s probe, but rather a “subject.” Bloomberg’s Jennifer Jacobs and Chris Strohm reported Thursday that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein reiterated that Trump wasn’t a target in a meeting last week. It is unclear what exactly to make of that assurance — perhaps it’s on the level, perhaps it’s a strategic gambit, or perhaps it’s a simple acknowledgment that Mueller can’t indict a sitting president of the United States. Figuring out what’s going on will be Giuliani and his new colleagues’ job.Cynthia Nixon, the Sex and the City actress and activist, declared her challenge against incumbent New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo almost a month ago, and since then she’s managed to shake up what should have been a sleepy Democratic primary race.

Nixon has tried to make it clear she’s not just a celebrity candidate, visiting public housing residents in Brooklyn and meeting with residents upstate in Hoosick Falls about contaminated water. She’s gained significant ground in recent polls, though Cuomo still has a commanding lead.

And Nixon, who’s mounting a progressive challenge against Cuomo, seems to have successfully spooked the governor, already succeeding in pushing him left. Cuomo announced a plan to restore voting rights to 35,000 parolees and helped broker a truce in a years-long standoff between rogue and mainline Democrats in the state Senate.

She’s done this by successfully targeting Cuomo’s vulnerabilities, from the city’s subway crisis to the corruption scandals that have continued to plague Albany, the state’s capital. She’s called out New York’s gross income inequality, advocated for legalizing marijuana, and championed public schools, a longtime pet issue. She hasn’t wasted an opportunity to throw New York’s problems at the governor’s feet, but she’s also slowly beginning to carve out a progressive platform of her own.

As surprising as Nixon’s challenge is, it’s still a long shot. It will be no easy feat to unseat a very powerful governor. But she’s succeeding at putting pressure on Cuomo — which is turning out to be a win for progressives in its own way.

Who is Cynthia Nixon — and what is she running on?

Nixon, a native New Yorker, is probably best known for her role on HBO’s series Sex and the City, where she played lawyer Miranda Hobbes, one of the show’s four central characters. Her acting and artistic credentials (Vulture points out she’s one “O” short of an EGOT) inevitably branded her as a celebrity candidate.

But Nixon has also been an activist around progressive causes for years, particularly for LGBTQ rights (Nixon is bisexual) and public education. She fought for same-sex marriage in New York and other states. She’s raised awareness for breast cancer as a survivor. She is a staunch public school advocate and served as the spokesperson for the Alliance for Quality Education.

She was also a high-profile supporter of New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, and her wife worked for the mayor’s administration in the Department of Education before recently stepping down.

Nixon’s run for governor had been speculated about for months, but she made it official in March with a political ad that focused on New York’s inequality and the widening gap between the rich and the poor — a message, some pointed out, that sounded like the statewide version of de Blasio’s “tale of two cities” from his first mayoral run.

I love New York, and today I'm announcing my candidacy for governor. Join us: https://t.co/9DwsxWW8xX pic.twitter.com/kYTvx6GZiD — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) March 19, 2018

Nixon, in her first weeks as a gubernatorial candidate, has gone on the attack against Cuomo. Her campaign website questions his Democratic credentials and declares, “New York’s eight years under the Cuomo administration have been an exercise in living with disappointment, dysfunction, and dishonesty.” The site also has a section dubbed #CuomosMTA, the hashtag of choice for many frustrated subway riders. Nixon has continued to make investment in the subway a top campaign issue, touting her own ridership to bolster her case.

Instead of giving 1 percenters a massive tax break they don’t need, I am using my platform as a celebrity to advocate for LGBTQ equality, women's health, and better public schools. pic.twitter.com/0bY1E2ZBOZ — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) April 19, 2018

Income and racial inequality is another big pillar of her campaign. She has criticized Cuomo for giving tax breaks to the one percent and corporations, and has aligned herself with some well-known community groups. She toured a public housing complex in Brooklyn to meet with residents and hear their complaints about conditions amid a growing scandal over lead and mismanagement within New York City Public Housing Authority. Nixon also went to Hoosick Falls in upstate New York, where residents are dealing with a water contamination crisis. The town, close to the Vermont border, is bringing Nixon exposure beyond the city.

She’s also pushing hard for the legalization of marijuana in New York, and recommitted to the issues she’s advocated for years, including LGBTQ and women’s rights and adequate funding for public education.

Why Cuomo’s liberal credentials get questioned

Cuomo, a two-term incumbent with potential political ambitions beyond the governorship, is a skilled operator hailing from one of New York’s most famous political families. He has a deep war chest for his reelection campaign. He rarely avoids an opportunity to criticize President Trump. He’s also championed liberal policies, particularly in his second term, such as paid family leave and a $15 minimum wage.

But Cuomo is still perceived as being somewhat vulnerable from the left, as his brand of transactional politics sometimes feels out of place in an era of growing Democratic activism.

Nixon’s campaign has painted the governor as a centrist and Albany insider, whose policies have favored corporations and the rich at the expense of struggling New Yorkers. And this attack has succeeded, in the month since she’s been a candidate, in pushing the governor toward the left, making him appear even more eager to notch some progressive accomplishments.

After campaigning as a centrist in 2010, Cuomo championed socially liberal policies — New York legalized same-sex marriage in 2011, for example — but embraced a more fiscally conservative agenda, opposing tax increases and cozying up to business interests. He also didn’t make nice with some public sector unions, particularly teachers unions, and in 2014, he faced an unsuccessful but still surprising challenge from activist and professor Zephyr Teachout in the Democratic primary.

Cuomo heaped up some solid progressive accomplishments even before Nixon challenged him for his job. He championed a $15 minimum wage and enacted a 12-week paid family leave policy; got strict gun control into law; introduced a free (though imperfect) college tuition program for certain students; banned fracking; allocated $10 million for a defense fund for immigrants facing deportation; and raised the age for juvenile offenders to 18.

Yet liberals often don’t give Cuomo credit. He has a reputation as a political animal rather than a real populist — an ambitious, skilled operator. Michael Shnayerson, who wrote a 2015 Cuomo biography, told the New York Times in 2017 that though Cuomo has one of the best résumés of any recent Democratic figure, his political style can come off as “a dark, Nixonian character, harsh and vindictive.”

Another longtime sticking point was the balance of power in the state Senate. A group of Democrats known as the Independent Democratic Conference caucus with the Republicans, effectively keeping the state Senate in GOP hands. (Democrats had a majority in name in 2012 and 2016.) Cuomo’s critics argued he hasn’t done enough to force the rogue Democrats back into the fold or put real effort behind trying to unseat them.

But in April, after seven years, Cuomo brokered a deal — allegedly over cookies and coffee at a Manhattan steakhouse — to dissolve the IDC and bring most of the Democrats back into the fold. “Today what unites us is more important than what divides us,” he said at a press conference after the deal.

A unified party and a special election on April 24 could finally tip the balance of power back into Democrats’ hands.

Still, Cuomo isn’t exactly getting credit for being some master dealmaker. As one Cuomo insider told New York magazine’s Jessica Pressler in a Nixon cover story, if Cuomo could get this done over cookies and coffee, “Why the fuck didn’t you do it before?”

New York City: land of mayoral feuds and subway meltdowns

Nixon isn’t just challenging Cuomo from the left. She’s focusing on a key issue that residents of New York City are fuming over, and she’s doing it as an ally of New York’s other most prominent Democrat, Bill de Blasio. Nixon was an early and outspoken de Blasio supporter and worked on his transition team after his first victory. Two of de Blasio’s former aides are working on Nixon’s campaign.

Cuomo and de Blasio have a personal animosity that spills over into politics. Their bickering sometimes borders on the ridiculous — see the saga of the Harlem deer — but it underscores a broader problem: The mayor and the governor need to work together on policies from affordable housing to homelessness to education, and their attempts to undercut each other create a frustrating gridlock.

This has been especially acute when it comes to the subway system, which is overcrowded, underfunded, and slapped together with outdated technology and aged infrastructure. The governor and the mayor blame each other for the crisis.

Cuomo is technically in charge. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which oversees the subways, buses, and commuter rails, is a state-run agency. But as the subway hit a crisis point last summer, the governor deflected. He eventually declared a state of emergency and the MTA came up with an $800 million turnaround plan, but Cuomo and his MTA chair feuded for months with de Blasio over the cost. The city agreed to fork over half in April, but in the meantime, the subways continued to spiral into disarray.

Nixon is capitalizing on the subway’s disrepair and the depths of rider despair. In her campaign ad, she notes that “unlike Gov. Cuomo, Cynthia Nixon rides the subway every day.” Nixon said on her website that she’d prioritize emergency rescue, though she hasn’t outlined the specifics, particularly when it comes to revenue raising. But her campaign has been trying to capitalize on the optics. Her staffer tweeted a photo of her on the subway the week of her campaign announcement — with her train out of service:

That thing when you’re headed to talk about fixing the subways and your train goes out of service. #CuomosMTA pic.twitter.com/3DfJBpjrDa — Rebecca Katz (@RebeccaKKatz) March 20, 2018

Nixon tries to paint Cuomo as part of the swamp

Nixon is also targeting a vulnerability of Cuomo’s beyond the subway’s limits: the corruption in Albany. “If Washington is a swamp, Albany is a cesspool,” Nixon said at a campaign event in March. The implication, of course, is that Cuomo is mired in the muck.

Cuomo ran in 2010 on a promise to clean up Albany, and he passed modest ethics reform in 2011. He’s proposed other ethics reforms — banning state lawmakers from taking outside income, for example — but these proposals tend to die once they hit the state legislature. Critics bemoan the lack of pushback.

And a corruption scandal unfolded uncomfortably close to Cuomo. In March, Cuomo’s top aide, Joseph Percoco, was convicted on federal corruption charges for taking more than $300,000 from people who had business with the state.

Cuomo wasn’t implicated in any wrongdoing, but it’s a stunning blow nonetheless. Percoco wasn’t some lackey; he was known as Cuomo’s enforcer, and the governor has called him “my father’s [former Gov. Mario Cuomo] third son.” The governor described the verdict as “personally painful” and suggested putting in additional ethics safeguards.

Cuomo might have 2020 on his mind

Nixon could do some damage to Cuomo if he wants to join the long list of 2020 Democratic hopefuls. He has steadily been building up his résumé and bolstering his anti-Trump credentials. He’s even sounded a bit more like a presidential candidate of late. But even if he survives, a tough primary could leave him weakened on the national stage — especially if it becomes a test of his liberal bona fides.

Cuomo initially joked about Nixon’s run before she officially declared, seeming to write her off as another celebrity candidate. “If it was just about name recognition, then I’m hoping that Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie and Billy Joel don’t get into the race because if it was just about name recognition, that would really be a problem,” he said.

But Cuomo later changed his tune. The day Nixon actually announced her candidacy, he released a statement that put front and center his liberal accomplishments, which read like a progressive wish list: “Governor Cuomo has delivered more real progressive wins than any other Democrat in the country, including passing marriage equality, the strongest gun safety law in the nation, a $15 minimum wage, free college tuition, paid family leave, record setting funding for public education, expanding and protecting healthcare for our most vulnerable, and banning fracking.”

And he has tried to keep building on that list in the month since Nixon’s profile has grown. The governor found a way to bring Democrats back into the fold, setting him up for the potential of full Democratic control of government.

Cuomo got legislation passed that takes firearms away from domestic abusers. He announced this week that, by executive action, he will attempt to restore voting rights to as many 35,000 parolees. He’s declared a state of emergency within the city’s public housing and appointed an independent monitor to oversee repairs.

Cuomo, who had been resistant to legalizing weed (though he did appoint a commission to study it earlier this year), indicated at a press conference he is anything but: “It is no longer a question of legal or illegal. It’s legal in Massachusetts. It may be legal in New Jersey,” he said. “Which means for all intents and purposes it’s going to be here anyway.”

Nixon has clearly put Cuomo on the defensive. And there are signs that she’s chipping away at his formidable lead. A Sienna College poll taken before her official announcement had her trailing Cuomo 66 to 19 percent among Democrats. In the latest poll from Sienna College, Nixon cut into Cuomo’s lead by 16 points, now trailing 58 to 27 percent.

How Nixon’s candidacy will play upstate or in the suburbs, where issues like the subway matter but perhaps don’t feature as heavily, is also an open question. But it appears she’s making some inroads among upstate voters — better than in the city, in fact — where Cuomo leads by only 11 points, 48 to 37, according to the Sienna College poll.

Yet Cuomo has built-in advantages: allies, name recognition, reserves to the tune of $30 million. He’s also got the backing of some powerful unions. The Working Families Party, a small but influential progressive party with union support that Cuomo worked hard to woo in 2014, endorsed Nixon — but several union groups split in protest, dampening her victory.

New York’s Democratic politicians are also lining up behind him. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand officially endorsed Cuomo last month. Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney referred to Nixon’s bid as “a wasteful, negative, time-consuming exercise.”

But Nixon’s candidacy has resonated. Her anger over the subways has found a receptive audience. And according to her campaign, she raised more small-dollar donations — meaning less than $200 — in her first day as a candidate than Cuomo had raised since 2011.

But a lot can happen between now and September. Nixon’s campaign might be a victory for liberal Democrats if she manages to keep pushing Cuomo further and further left. With the renegade Democrats back in the fold, Cuomo has an even greater chance to rack up some extra liberal accomplishments.

The question is less about 2018 than 2020. Cuomo can likely defeat Nixon, but a close or contentious race in New York might leave him too battered for a presidential primary.The US Senate on Thursday confirmed Jim Bridenstine, a Republican Congress member from Oklahoma, to be the next administrator of NASA. The post has remained vacant since January 2017, when Charles Bolden, the space agency’s leader under President Barack Obama, stepped down.

Bridenstine, 42, brings some odd qualifications to the job, and some controversy.

Typically, NASA administrators are chosen from within NASA’s ranks, come up through the military, or have a background in science. Bridenstine has none of that. His qualifications: He’s former Navy pilot who once ran the Air and Space Museum in Tulsa. He also sits on the House Committee that oversees NASA. The third-term representative is now the first member of Congress to hold the administrator job.

Even members of Bridenstine’s own party have voiced concerns over what putting a politician in charge could mean for the future of the agency.

Who is Jim Bridenstine? And what are his qualifications to run NASA?

As a politician, Bridenstine has hedged on climate change, an issue NASA scientists study and track in many different ways. During his confirmation hearing in November, Bridenstine agreed that humans are the driving force behind climate change, but he would not agree with the assertion that human activity is the primary cause of it. It’s an odd position to hold as the leader of an agency that provides some of the most comprehensive data on climate change in the world.

NASA has a staff of 17,000 and a budget of nearly $19 billion (not to mention the numerous contractors it works with). Bridenstine’s experience of managing a museum in Tulsa pales in comparison to the enormous complexity of NASA. Plus, there are new questions, raised by reporting from the Daily Beast, about whether Bridenstein used funds from the Tulsa Air and Space Museum to prop up a private venture. He reportedly ran the museum into a financial loss.

Bridenstine will also be controversial because he’s been outspoken against LGBTQ rights. In 2013, he called the Supreme Court decision to legalize same-sex marriage a “disappointment.” He has also spoken out on the House floor criticizing the Boy Scouts of America’s decision to allowed LGBTQ members. In a speech, he charged that the left wing in the US wants to “reshape organizations like the Boy Scouts into instruments for social change.”

His confirmation comes as a bit of a surprise because some Republicans (initially) opposed it

President Donald Trump first nominated Bridenstine to the position in September, and he was cleared by the Senate Commerce Committee in November.

But it was never clear if Bridenstine could clear the 50 Senate votes needed to nab the job. He faced unanimous opposition from Democrats and from a few within his own party. Notably, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio was worried about giving the job to a politician.

NASA is “the one federal mission which has largely been free of politics,” Rubio said in September, echoing the same concerns as his Florida colleague Sen. Bill Nelson, a former astronaut and the top Democrat on the Commerce Committee. “I just think it could be devastating for the space program,” Rubio said.

Rubio ultimately voted Thursday in favor of Bridenstine’s nomination. The day before, he citied concerns that NASA’s acting administrator, Robert Lightfoot, is set to retire at the end of the month. “While I wish the president would have nominated a space professional to run NASA,” Rubio said in a statement, he wanted to avoid “a gaping leadership void.”

But it was actually Sen. Jeff Flake, a Republican from Arizona, who, in a surprise twist, cast what ended up being the deciding vote during both a procedural vote on Wednesday and a final vote on Thursday. It seems Flake may have changed his vote to gain leverage on other issues, like Cuba policy. The final vote was 50-to-49 in favor of confirmation.

What will Bridenstine do at NASA?

It’s hard to know what Bridenstine’s plans for the agency are because he has so little experience in the area and hasn’t said much about them.

But there will be challenges. NASA will be launching hugely important missions in the coming years, including the long-delayed and far over-budget James Webb Space Telescope. NASA also plans to launch the Parker Probe Plus, a spacecraft to study the sun, and needs to decide whether to extend the mission of the International Space Station.

In the past, Bridenstine has called for a permanent US lunar outpost. And during his confirmation hearing, he said that finishing the Space Launch System and Orion programs — NASA’s unfinished next generation of rockets and spacecraft for human missions — will be critical for the space agency. He also said he’d work with Congress to decide the fate of the International Space Station, which is only funded until 2025.

In 2016, Bridenstine introduced the American Space Renaissance Act in the House. It never passed. But it serves as a guide to his ideas for space policy reform. Physics Today analyzed the legislation, and it’s clear that Bridenstine is keen on space exploration and less interested in understanding the Earth.

The bill calls for prioritizing the “expansion of the human sphere of influence throughout the Solar System.” It also calls for security of our satellites from space debris and foreign enemies. But Physics Today also notes that the bill would have eliminated the NASA objection of the “expansion of human knowledge of the Earth and of phenomena in the atmosphere and space.”

On earth science issues, Bridenstine has expressed enthusiasm about supporting research when it comes to weather forecasting. “My constituents get killed in tornadoes,” he once said at an industry conference. “I care about space.” And during his confirmation hearing, he said he wouldn’t let politics interfere with earth science research.

Much remains unclear. What we do know is that the Trump administration, as a whole, has been hostile to the idea of NASA as an earth science agency and left it to languish without a full-time administrator longer than any previous administration. In 2017, the administration proposed cutting $102 million from NASA’s earth science programs and eliminating four NASA earth science missions completely. Congress didn’t allow those cuts to come to pass. But NASA’s long-term future is far from assured.

For better or worse, the confirmation will break NASA out of the holding pattern it’s been in for the past year. The lapse in leadership has made it harder for the agency to plan long-term missions in space exploration.Seth Rich’s family suffered an incredible tragedy when their son died two years ago. What came next only added to their heartache.

Seth was shot to death about a block from where he lived in the Bloomingdale neighborhood of Washington, DC, on July 10, 2016. Police never found the killer. His parents, Joel and Mary Rich, have been besieged since his death by conspiracy theorists, alt-rightists, and Trump supporters — some representing the very heights of right-wing media — who were convinced that Seth’s murder was somehow orchestrated by Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party in a byzantine scheme involving WikiLeaks and the Russia investigation.

Seth Rich’s brother, Aaron, has filed a lawsuit against several conservative outlets, including the Washington Times, for spreading “vicious lies” about Aaron’s involvement in his brother’s death. And Seth Rich’s parents are suing two Fox News contributors and the network itself for intentional infliction of emotional distress and negligent supervision.

They’re demanding the case be heard by a jury. In a statement to Vox, Fox News said, “We can’t comment on this pending litigation.”

The lawsuit will be a test of whether you can sue a major news outlet for spreading conspiracy theories. But even more so, Seth Rich’s family is trying to finally get the space to mourn Seth’s passing.

The Riches aren’t just trying to stop the conspiracy theories about their family — they’re trying to prevent conspiracy theories from taking root in the first place, ever again. And by challenging the very process by which their son’s life became material for conspiracy theorists and bad-faith actors, they might be able to get some peace.

“On a daily basis, Joel and Mary feel that they are being attacked from all sides”

Joel and Mary Rich filed a lawsuit in New York state last week accusing Fox News, Fox reporter Malia Zimmerman, and Fox News pundit Ed Butowsky of manipulating them and working with a private investigator they had hired to find their son’s killer, going so far as to meet with then-White House press secretary Sean Spicer — all to weave together a story of how Seth Rich leaked DNC emails to Julian Assange at WikiLeaks, and was murdered for it.

The lawsuit is demanding a jury trial, charging that by lying to the Riches and publishing a fake story about their son, the defendants — which include Fox News and reporters working for Fox News — intentionally inflicted emotional distress on Joel and Mary Rich.

Their lawsuit is detailed — and shows not just how much the Seth Rich conspiracy theories deeply wounded the grieving couple, but also how Fox News-affiliated figures targeted the Rich family for their own professional and personal gain.

“On a daily basis,” the lawsuit alleges, “Joel and Mary feel that they are being attacked from all sides,” with both parents struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder and social anxiety as a result of the intense harassment and scrutiny they’ve suffered.

The lawyers I spoke to told me that emotional distress claims are incredibly difficult to prove in court, particularly in New York state. But the Riches’ story isn’t just about conspiracy theorists — it’s about a conspiracy of Fox News contributors who concocted a lie while purporting to be trying to find Seth’s killer.

The lawsuit alleges a conspiracy to create “fake news”

Twelve days after Seth Rich’s murder, WikiLeaks published more than 44,000 emails from the Democratic National Committee, adding to a political firestorm that some say divided Democrats and helped swing the election to Donald Trump. While US intelligence found that the emails had been obtained through computer hacking (most likely by Russian intelligence), conspiracy theorists — and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange himself — pointed the finger at Seth.

The theory went like this: It alleged that Seth, who worked at the DNC as the director of voter expansion data, was a supporter of Sen. Bernie Sanders’s presidential candidacy and that he released the emails once Sanders lost the nomination, and was murdered for doing so.

The Rich family tried to push back on this conspiracy theory at the time, saying that those “attempting to politicize this horrible tragedy” were “causing more harm than good” and asking for space to mourn.

That’s when, according to the lawsuit, Fox News political commentator Ed Butowsky got involved. Using connections from the Riches’ Jewish community (in one email, the subject line read in part, “We met through Jeremy from your temple”), Butowsky got in touch with Joel and Mary, who told him that there was no way Seth had given any DNC emails to WikiLeaks.

In a statement to Vox, Fox News said Butowsky was never an FNC contributor.

Around that same time, Malia Zimmerman, a Fox News investigative reporter (with a controversial past, including a personal relationship with a Republican senator she reported on favorably and a story about the Pulse nightclub shooting that implicated an innocent man) contacted the Riches, saying that she wanted to get any information directly from Joel Rich or members of law enforcement “to ensure its accuracy.”

Despite Butowsky’s repeated questions about payments from WikiLeaks (which didn’t exist), Joel and Mary repeatedly told both Zimmerman and Butowsky that the conspiracy theories about their son were “baseless,” and provided Zimmerman with information about Seth’s life for stories she said she was writing.

In February 2017, Zimmerman and Butowsky met with a retired DC detective, Rod Wheeler, also a Fox News contributor. His job: to “prove” that Seth Rich had given the DNC emails to WikiLeaks, information they wanted to use in stories to be published by Fox News — which Seth’s parents didn’t know when Butowsky contacted them and said that he would pay Wheeler to work on their behalf to find Seth’s killer. According to Wheeler, Butowsky even told him that when speaking with the Riches, he should “make sure to play down Fox News, don’t mention that you know [Zimmerman].”

For months, the lawsuit against Fox News, Butowsky and Zimmerman alleges, Butowsky lied to Joel and Mary Rich, telling them that he would help stop the conspiracy theories already swirling about their son and saying in phone calls, “I know what you’ve been through.” Butowsky was so trusted by the Rich family that Joel even invited Butowsky to a fundraising concert for a Jewish summer camp scholarship fund established by the Riches to celebrate their son’s memory.

But Butowsky, Zimmerman, and Wheeler were instead planning a story that would blame Seth Rich’s murder on the WikiLeaks DNC emails. Wheeler and Butowsky even met with then-White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer to keep the White House in the loop on the sham story, which supporters of President Trump believed would help end the Russia investigation and protect Trump. (Spicer has since admitted to the meeting.) And the Riches had no idea — until May 15, 2017.

That’s when they got a call from Zimmerman, asking them to comment on the “fact” that Zimmerman had “been in communication with a federal agent who had reviewed an FBI report completed last July that showed Seth had been in communication with [WikiLeaks] and ... had in fact transferred emails from the DNC to Wikileaks.” A day later, following publication by the DC Fox affiliate, Fox News published an article written by Zimmerman, “Slain DNC Staffer Had Contact with WikiLeaks, Say Multiple Sources.” A second article that same day would say that Wheeler was the source of the claims.

Wheeler stated later that he received text messages that day from Butowsky telling him what to say in media interviews:

“If you can, try to highlight this puts the Russian hacking story to rest”

“We need to emphasize the FBI has a report that has been suppressed that shows that Seth rich [sic] did this...”

But none of this was true. As would be revealed just a few days later, Wheeler had never said that there was any emailing between Seth Rich and WikiLeaks, and everything he’d heard had been from Butowsky and Zimmerman. “I’ve never, ever seen Seth Rich’s computer, nor have I talked with the federal investigator.” And there was no FBI investigation, either — the FBI had never even seen Seth’s laptop.

In short, Butowsky and Zimmerman had worked with Rod Wheeler, told him the FBI had information about Seth Rich’s alleged connection with WikiLeaks, and then set him loose — with absolutely no proof. In fact, when Joel Rich demanded a retraction, Zimmerman told him (according to Wheeler, under direction from Fox producers) that the details about their son’s (completely false) WikiLeaks ties had come from Wheeler — whom Butowsky and Zimmerman had been working with all along.

“That nightmare is what our family goes through every day”

But none of this stopped Fox News personalities from sharing the fake story, seemingly to disprove the Russian hacking allegations — and protect Trump.

Congress, investigate Seth Rich Murder! @JulianAssange made comments u need to listen to! If Seth was wiki source, no Trump/Russia collusion https://t.co/QPHZwypU34 — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 22, 2017

Sue for what?? He was Murdered. Watch @JulianAssange interview. Maybe @realDonaldTrump should sue all u snowflakes for lying about him. Lol https://t.co/XDqhsRCs6k — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 22, 2017

Only on May 23 did Fox News finally retract the story. “The article was not initially subjected to the high degree of editorial scrutiny we require for all our reporting. Upon appropriate review, the article was found not to meet those standards and has since been removed.” And even then, Fox News shows continued to promote the conspiracy theory that Seth Rich had been murdered because he’d given DNC emails to WikiLeaks.

According to the lawsuit, Butowsky has continued to call the Riches and leave harassing voicemails accusing them of lying about him, while claiming on Twitter and in conservative media outlets that the Riches “knew” their son had sent emails to WikiLeaks and received payment for it. As recently as this month, far-right media articles are still being shared detailing how Joel Rich told Butowsky that he was aware Seth had leaked the emails — all of which is false.

Insider Ed Butowsky: Seth Rich’s Father Confirmed His Son Was the Wikileaks Leaker https://t.co/nYXv1D9jxE — Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) March 2, 2018

In a Washington Post op-ed published May 23, 2017, Joel and Mary Rich wrote about their ordeal. “Imagine that every single day, with every phone call, you hope it’s the police, calling to tell you that there has been a break in the case. Imagine that instead, every call that comes in is a reporter asking what you think of a series of lies or conspiracies about the death. That nightmare is what our family goes through every day.”

Can this lawsuit actually go anywhere?

But the charges of intent to cause emotional distress might prove legally challenging for the Riches to prove in court.

Even in cases where the material shared was deeply, painfully offensive to an individual, their family or to thousands of Americans, the Supreme Court has generally ruled that the First Amendment takes priority over personal comfort. The Westboro Baptist Church has the right to display offensive signs outside of military funerals, and Hustler magazine had the right to publish a parody ad stating that 1980s evangelical leader Jerry Falwell lost his virginity to his mother.

Eric Turkewitz, a New York trial attorney, told me, “In New York, it is very difficult to win an award for emotional distress without a physical injury, [and] for intentional infliction of emotional distress, it is even harder. For that, you have to show ‘extreme and outrageous’ conduct.”

In addition, a lawsuit against Fox News might be even more difficult, Turkewitz said. “[The plaintiffs] run into the privilege that is afforded the media under the First Amendment for news gathering. If something is protected under the First Amendment, it doesn’t matter if it caused emotional distress. Plenty of folks are deeply unhappy (and perhaps permanently, emotionally scarred) as a result of news coverage.”

Jane Kirtley, a professor of media ethics and law at the University of Minnesota, agreed. In an email, she told me that in general, the law is on the side of media companies if what is being reported is a matter of public concern.

“My guess is that [Fox News will] say they were reporting on a legitimate matter of public interest and concern,” Kirtley said. “They might also claim that they were simply reporting allegations, not adopting the assertions as truthful statements of fact. Or that people like [Sean] Hannity were just expressing opinions. Pure opinion is absolutely protected by the First Amendment, but it needs to be based on accurate facts.”

But the damage has already been done

For the Riches, their lawsuit is simply an attempt to end the stream of accusations against their son, the stress of which has caused both Joel and Mary to struggle with symptoms of PTSD, obsessive compulsive disorder, and social anxiety as they constantly try and battle back against conspiracy theorists accusing their son of being the DNC’s hacker.

Mary has been unable to work since the Fox News article was first released; according to the lawsuit, a preexisting neurological condition “became aggravated so much” by the stress and pain caused by the article that she couldn’t accept a new job, putting the Rich family under “considerable financial strain.”

There’s a good chance the Riches won’t win their case in court. Historically, American law places higher value on a free press than a family’s pain — a price that is incredibly high for the Rich family.

But by challenging how the story of their son’s murder was manipulated by people who wormed their way into their inner circle — even gaining access to their religious community — the Riches could shine a light on the darkest underbelly of the conservative media apparatus.

Updated to add statement from Fox News.On April 20, 1999, two high school students opened fire at Columbine High School in Colorado, killing 13 people and wounding more than 20. That day became a grim marker in a line of mass murders that would later include Virginia Tech, Sandy Hook, Parkland, and dozens of other, lesser-known shootings.

Friday, April 20, 2018, on the 19th anniversary of Columbine, students will walk out of classrooms to protest for gun reform. The National School Walkout is calling attention to the broken promise of “never again” — that after Columbine, the mass shootings continued.

More than 2,600 walkouts are planned across the country on Friday. Students are encouraged to leave their classrooms and gather at 10 am to hold a moment of silence for the victims of gun violence, setting aside 13 seconds to honor those killed at Columbine. The walkout is encouraging day-long protests, both on campus and outside of school, including marches, speakers, and voter registration drives. Participants are encouraged to wear orange, the color of the anti-gun violence movement.

On 4/20 walkout at 9:50 @ 10:00 AM have a 1 min 13 sec moment of silence for those lost at Columbine #NationalWalkout #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/y9FZYrgQr5 — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 18, 2018

The April 20 walkout will be a test for the staying power of this new wave of activism. The Parkland shooting has faded from the headlines in the weeks since the March for Our Lives, and Friday’s rally is one of the last coordinated, nationwide gun control efforts on the calendar.

“April 20 isn’t the end of this,” Lane Murdock, a high school sophomore, who helped jump-start the National School Walkout, told Vox last month. “April 20 is the launch. We want to make sure we take all this momentum, power, and interest and turn it into concrete, actual change.”

What to know about the National School Walkout

This idea for a National School Walkout began with a high school sophomore from Connecticut. Lane Murdock, 16, of Ridgefield High School, started an online petition after the Parkland shooting. She felt America was becoming numb to mass shootings. She was tired of it. “But I also just felt really powerless,” she told Vox in March. So, she thought, “What could I do to help other kids who felt really powerless?”

Her petition asked kids to pledge to walk out. “It kind of blew up overnight,” she said.

Murdock created her protest independent of the March 14 National School walkout, which the Women’s March helped organize. That walkout, a month after the Parkland shooting, honored the 17 victims killed and pushed for gun control measures.

Indivisible, a progressive organizing group founded after the 2016 election, is backing the April 20 walkout and helping Murdock and some of her fellow students organize — and some students indicated that the April 20 event is a bit more of an open political push for gun reform. But organizations, including the Women’s March, that participated in last month’s walkout are working together to promote this rally.

The walkout will begin at 10 am local time for all students. Most schools will host a moment of silence at the start of the walkout, followed by speakers or rallies. The National School Walkout is calling for the protest to last the length of the school day. It’s leaving it up to students how to fill that time, though organizers are emphasizing voter registration drives.

How schools are staging their walkouts

Students will get up from their desks and file out of classrooms at 10 am in each time zone. Some are organizing larger protests in cities, bringing together teens and other community members to rally in public squares. Other schools will host quieter affairs: moments of silence, a few speeches, voter registration in between class periods.

Students in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, are teaming up to host a rally in the city’s Peace and Justice Plaza. At Benjamin Cardozo High School in Queens, New York, teens will walk out with signs and banners. At Lincoln East High School in Lincoln, Nebraska, students will host a moment of silence and student speakers for a class period. The week leading up to the walkout, they’re hosting a voter registration drive, set up as students buy their prom tickets.

Diego Quesada, an 18-year-old senior at Ronald Reagan High School in San Antonio, Texas, said that teachers are treating the walkout as an unexcused absence and will deduct points for tests or other assignments for some students who aren’t present. Still, he expects at least 100 students to participate.

As a school in central Texas, its community is divided, he said — though not as obviously as it might seem. He knows Republican gun owners who support at least some gun control measures. Still, Quesada said the organizers don’t want to shut out dissent. “Instead of just trying to shut out an entire opinion, especially in our state, we decided we’re going to address both issues,” he said. They’ll host a week of kindness that will focus on mental health and school safety issues that more conservative voices tend to champion and use the walkout to push more explicitly for new gun laws.

The point of it all, Quesada said, is open dialogue. Whatever his fellow students’ political positions, they’re all affected by the issue. The same day as the Parkland shooting, a bullet box was found in their high school. The year before, an active shooter threat put the school on lockdown.

“That is normal to me — fire drills followed by the lockdown drill,” Quesada said, of students who grew up post-Columbine. “Somehow it is socially acceptable that we had to walk out of our school in a practice drill holding our hands up; that shouldn’t be acceptable. I think that’s what people are fed up about. There needs to be a change.”

The turnout might not be as large as the March 14 walkout at Benjamin Cardozo High School, 16-year-old junior Ramija Alam said, but students are going ahead with the walkout anyway to show solidarity with the national movement. “We’ve had gun threats, and we’ve had bomb threats even,” she said. “It kind of puts a lot of fear in us when we go to school.”

Alam said she thinks she and her fellow students are motivated on this issue but have also become more politically active after the 2016 election. The gun control movement is just one part of it. “It’s not okay for us to just sit down and let everything happen as it is because there is something we can do about it,” she said.

Teenage activism may have gotten quieter — but don’t underestimate it

Parkland students ignited a new push for gun control in the wake of the shooting at their school that left 17 people dead. This flurry of activism began with a student walkout on March 14 and asserted its power with the massive March for Our Lives that brought thousands to the streets of Washington, DC, and other cities, large and small, and across the country.

But the message of “never again,” still powerful, has stalled a bit in recent weeks. A Town Hall for Our Lives on April 7 — a push to get legislators to talk about gun control with constituents — put some public pressure on lawmakers, but it didn’t break through the way other organizing efforts did.

“That’s definitely something I think we’ve all noticed,” Murdock said of the fading media attention on the cause. “And we’ve been ready for it for a while.”

They’re ready for it because April 20 marks, in some ways, the end of one phase of activism — of the protests and public anger. Now begins the slog: political organizing for gun reform. There are very real signs that even if it’s not as loud or as urgent, these efforts are taking root.

The voter registration drives are critical, Murdock said last week as she was prepping for her own high school walkout, because getting young people to vote will guarantee that this is not “just a moment, but a movement.”

Emma Jewell, a 17-year-old senior at Lincoln East High School in Nebraska, said the voter registration was perhaps as important as the walkout. “I think there’s a lot of students who might not understand they have some political power that they haven’t harnessed, so we’re going to try to take advantage of that,” she said. “My biggest, greatest hope is that the issue of gun violence will become a midterm issue in 2018.”

The walkout is also helping to build the infrastructure students will need to continue grassroots activism. Murdock said students across the country are now organizing local chapters, some under the banner of National School Walkout. After the march, she’ll be working with others to empower these groups to push for gun control legislation not just on the federal level, but in their communities, cities, and states.

These groups are uniting students from across schools and communities. In New York, NYC Says Enough is bringing students together from a handful of high schools to walk out together. Students in Richmond, Virginia, are also teaming up for a march to the Virginia Capitol.

And, in a month after the March 14 walkout, their efforts have become more professionalized. Teenagers are sending press releases and putting together press packets.

“The chapters are going to be our key after this,” Murdock said, especially as the 2018 elections approach. “It’s going to be making sure we can have mass calls to action, and continually talking about our message of commonsense gun control — and student empowerment.”Missouri Republicans have a huge problem on their hands: what to do with Republican Gov. Eric Greitens.

Greitens is facing a mountain of scandals, ranging from explosive sexual misconduct allegations to questions about where he used a donor list of his veterans charity to ask for campaign donations when he ran for governor in 2016. Throughout it all, he’s vowed he will not step down, even as numerous lawmakers from both parties have implored him to do so.

That means lawmakers have one option: impeachment.

Missouri has never impeached a sitting governor before; lawmakers impeached one former Democratic secretary of state named Judi Moriarty in 1994. The process for a impeachment of a governor or Supreme Court justice is an entirely separate process from impeachment of other executive officials, involving a panel of seven judges to hand down a verdict. But lawmakers are struggling in the Greitens case because the governor’s sexual misconduct scandal and donor list flap both happened before he took office. Moriarty, on the other hand, was impeached for something she did while in office.

The question of whether a sitting governor can be impeached for transgressions committed before holding office is a legally ambiguous one — and Greitens could be the test case.

There are scandals ... and then there are Eric Greitens’s scandals

Greitens is facing scandals and investigations on a number of fronts. Most well known are the allegations of sexual misconduct and blackmail that first surfaced in February. Since then, Greitens has been indicted on a felony charge of invasion of privacy for allegedly taking naked photos of a woman as blackmail, which carries up to four years of prison time. He was led away by the St. Louis sheriff’s office and is facing a court case in the matter next month.

Last week, a bipartisan group of Missouri lawmakers released an investigative report detailing disturbing allegations against the governor by the woman, with whom he maintains he had a consensual affair. Her story was much different; she told lawmakers Greitens coerced her into unwanted and nonconsensual oral sex, took a naked photo of her tied up and blindfolded as blackmail, and slapped her on multiple occasions. Lawmakers said they found the woman’s testimony credible.

Then on Tuesday, Republican Attorney General Josh Hawley (a Republican candidate for US Senate) announced his office has discovered evidence that Greitens may have committed a felony by using a donor list of his veterans charity to ask for donations leading up to his 2016 campaign for governor.

Hawley’s office has not yet filed formal charges, but the AG reiterated his call for Greitens to step down or face impeachment by the Missouri legislature.

But with all of that, Greitens is definitely not planning to step down. He’s called the investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations, which was led by members of his own party, a “political witch hunt” and released a defiant statement in response to Hawley on Tuesday.

STATEMENT: Gov. @EricGreitens on @AGJoshHawley’s news conference regarding potential criminal acts regarding Greitens and his charity pic.twitter.com/tMmfnhp65w — Andrew Havranek KY3 (@AndrewHavKY3) April 17, 2018

Then on Wednesday, the governor filed a temporary restraining order against Hawley, an attempt to stop the AG from investigating him, according to local television station KRCG reporter Ashley Zavala. The argument from Greitens and his lawyers is that because Hawley has already called for the governor’s resignation, he can’t investigate him impartially and therefore must step down from the case.

Governor Eric Greitens' restraining order against MO Attorney General Josh Hawley aims to stop Hawley from investigating him.



Also wants a special prosecutor appointed for investigation into The Mission Continues. pic.twitter.com/PR4m7bGaE4 — Ashley Zavala KRCG (@ZavalaA) April 18, 2018

Missouri Republicans and Democrats alike have pleaded with Greitens to step down, especially after the disturbing report detailing his alleged conduct with the woman.

“He’s a classic sociopath,” one Missouri Republican who requested anonymity to speak freely told me last week. “I’m not saying that ironically; he is literally not a balanced, normal personality. He’s almost incapable of embarrassment, like Bill Clinton was.”

With Greitens unwilling to go, that means it’s entirely up to Missouri lawmakers to pursue impeachment. It’s likely the governor and his attorneys will fight this tooth and nail, especially with the legal questions about whether they can impeach a sitting governor for allegations of crimes committed before taking office.

How Missouri impeachment actually works

The Missouri Constitution says executive officials can be impeached “for crimes, misconduct, habitual drunkenness, willful neglect of duty, corruption in office, incompetency, or any offense involving moral turpitude or oppression in office.”

The Associated Press’s David Lieb interviewed former Missouri House Speaker Steve Gaw, who served on Moriarty’s impeachment panel back in 1994, asking whether the same standard could apply to Greitens. Gaw admitted he didn’t have a good answer.

“This [impeachment] provision can be read a couple of different ways, kind of depending upon how you construct that sentence, which I think is going to lead to a legal argument about whether or not this is an impeachable offense under the constitution,” Gaw told Lieb. “It’s a question that hasn’t been answered by the Missouri courts.”

The state’s House and Senate both have their own process.

The Missouri House is the legislative body that has to act first, by voting on articles of impeachment. But from there, the process gets trickier. It typically would be up to the Missouri Supreme Court to decide whether to impeach most other executive officials ... but there is an entirely different process for governors.

In that case, the state Senate has to select a panel of seven “eminent jurists” (judges) to hear impeachment proceedings and decide whether to impeach the governor, according to the state Constitution. At least five of the seven judges must vote in favor of impeachment in order for the governor to actually be removed.

In Greitens’s case, it could be made even more complicated by the Missouri legislative calendar this year. If the House decides to get the ball rolling on impeachment, it likely won’t do so until the regular legislative session ends on May 18 — four days after Greitens goes to court on the felony charge of invasion of privacy. And potential impeachment proceedings could stretch on well beyond that.

That is bad news for the man in Missouri who wants Greitens gone the most: Attorney General Hawley, who is planning to mount a US Senate challenge to Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill. Hawley has been one of the most vocal Republicans in the state calling on Greitens to step down or be impeached. The longer the governor hangs on, the more of a drag it is on Hawley’s campaign.

And unless impeachment proceedings can start soon — and actually be successful — Greitens doesn’t appear to be going anywhere.

Correction: This article originally said Greitens was facing up to seven years in prison. Thanks to when the alleged crime took place, in 2015, he is only facing four years.Continuing his ongoing immigration policy feud with California, President Donald Trump tweeted today that Gov. Jerry Brown isn’t participating wholeheartedly enough in his decision to send National Guard troops to the border as some kind of anti-immigration stunt. (Whether in California or in Trumpier states, National Guard forces will not actually be used for immigration enforcement.)

“The crime rate in California is high enough,” Trump warns darkly. “We need border security and action, not words!”

Governor Jerry Brown announced he will deploy “up to 400 National Guard Troops” to do nothing. The crime rate in California is high enough, and the Federal Government will not be paying for Governor Brown’s charade. We need border security and action, not words! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2018

In reality, in 2016 (the most recent year for which data is available) the murder rate in California was 4.9 per 100,000 residents. Every murder is a tragedy, of course, but that’s lower than the national average of 5.3 per 100,000 despite California’s significantly larger-than-average immigrant population.

Or perhaps I should say that California has a below-average murder rate likely because of its high foreign-born population since immigrants appear to commit crimes at a lower rate than the native-born population. Indeed, the three most murderous states in the country — Louisiana, Missouri, and Alabama — all have low foreign-born populations.“But what if there are 10 babies on the floor of the Senate?”

This was the question posed by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), in a discussion over whether children under age 1 ought to be allowed inside the Senate chamber during votes.

The whole debate began after Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) recently became the first sitting senator to give birth in office. Senate rules require votes to be taken in person, and, as new parents are quite aware, leaving a newborn can be a struggle — particularly for women who breastfeed.

So Duckworth suggested a natural solution: bringing Senate rules into the 21st century by allowing new parents to bring their young children into the chamber.

This suggestion was, as Laurie Kellman of the Associated Press reported, initially met with some skepticism from older male senators seemingly worried about a possible baby invasion of a most hallowed chamber.

“I don’t think it’s necessary,” Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) said of the proposal, although he also noted that he wouldn’t oppose it.

And then there was Hatch, who worried about the long-term consequences of this rule change: “But what if there are 10 babies on the floor of the Senate?”

This, of course, led to a barrage of Twitter jokes about the possible baby takeover of Congress’s more deliberative body:

If there are 10 babies on the floor of the senate it constitutes a Baby Quorum and they can form their own Baby Senate. https://t.co/pFn73Ncasb — Dara Lind (@DLind) April 19, 2018

1. Babies on the Senate floor

2. Baby eventually gets seniority

3. Baby becomes president pro tem

4. Trump, Pence, and Ryan resign

5. President Baby https://t.co/yHSYk03ymt — Matt Ford (@fordm) April 19, 2018

But let’s take Hatch’s question seriously for a moment: What if we did live in a world where there were 10 babies on the Senate floor, all brought there during votes, presumably by their senator parents?

After all, Sens. Hatch, Roberts, and their 98 colleagues voted unanimously to allow babies on the Senate floor, bringing us one step closer to more infants crawling about the Capitol.

The Senate would no doubt be a little noisier. The Capitol Architect’s office may even need to look into increasing the number of lactation rooms on Capitol Hill to accommodate the new patrons.

A world where 10 babies were on the Senate floor presumably is a world where there are more women serving in the Senate — as we know that in most households where both parents work, women still take care of the majority of child care responsibilities. That certainly sounds like a good thing: Currently, 21 women serve in the Senate. Only 50 women have served in the Senate in the body’s entire history.

A world where 10 babies were on the Senate floor might encourage more women to run for government — understanding that they could have a bright future in a government that supports working women and thinks it’s worth making reasonable accommodations to allow them to work.

A world where 10 babies were on the Senate floor might require better financing of day care services, where the waitlist currently stands at “several” years.

A world where 10 babies were on the Senate floor might be one where men are taking a more active role in parenting. Men, too, have babies while they serve in the Senate — you just don’t hear nearly as much about it. Allowing these men to also bring their babies onto the Senate floor would give dads an easier chance to share child care equitably with their partners. Economists who study the gender pay gap think this equal division of labor is key to ensuring that women are able to get paid just as much as men.

Come to think of it, a world with 10 babies on the Senate floor doesn’t sound so bad at all.

Update: After I tweeted a link to this story, Sen. Hatch’s office responded (also via Twitter) with a statement from the senator:

Seems like a wonderful thing. https://t.co/PAfvABdB3p — Senator Hatch Office (@senorrinhatch) April 19, 2018

And late Thursday afternoon, Sen. Duckworth’s 10-day-old baby made history by becoming the first infant to enter the Senate chamber — with a very conscious clothing choice by her mother.A majority of American teenagers are now worried about being the victim of a school shooting — something that is no longer an uncommon occurrence in the United States.

A new survey by the Pew Research Center shows that 57 percent of US teenagers are worried that a shooting could take place at their own school — and one in four are “very worried” about the chance. Hispanic and black kids are the most concerned. Three-quarters of Latino teens said they were worried, and 60 percent of black teens surveyed were worried about the possibility.

Researchers conducted the survey after the February 14 shooting in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 people. They talked to teens ages 13 to 17 and parents with children in the same age range. It turns out the kids are almost as afraid as parents about the chance of a gunman opening fire in their classrooms. About 63 percent of parents said they were worried.

The shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in February has reignited the debate about how to keep children safe from a future attack, with President Trump and gun rights activists saying the best solution is to let teachers carry guns.

Most teens reject that idea — especially black teens. Overall, teens thought the most effective measures were to prevent people with mental illness from buying guns and to improve mental health screening and treatment. A smaller majority also thought metal detectors in schools and a ban on assault-style weapons would be helpful.

In response to the Parkland shooting, Florida passed a law that incorporates some of those measures — such as expanding mental health services and regulations — but it doesn’t ban assault-style weapons like the AR-15 used in the shooting.

Members of Congress passed their own school safety bill in March, though it only focuses on increasing security and safety training for students and school staff. They also folded a bill that strengthened the federal background check system into an omnibus spending bill passed in March.If Democrats have any hope of retaking the Senate in 2018 while facing an unfavorable map, the Arizona Senate race is a must-win. According to a new survey, the top Democrat there has a real shot to flip retiring Sen. Jeff Flake’s seat in November: She is leading each of her potential Republican opponents in a two-way race.

Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), the presumptive Democratic candidate, tops establishment favorite Rep. Martha McSally, conservative former state Sen. Kelli Ward, and anti-immigrant Sheriff Joe Arpaio in a general election matchup, a new survey from ABC15 in Phoenix and OH Predictive Insights found.

From the poll, one of the first to evaluate the general election landscape in the Grand Canyon State:

Sinema: 48 percent; McSally: 42 percent; 10 percent undecided

Sinema: 50 percent; Ward: 40 percent; 10 percent undecided

Sinema: 59 percent; Arpaio: 33 percent; 8 percent undecided

It’s just one poll, of course, and the election is many months away. But it seems to confirm what many politicos suspected: Democrats have a real chance to win in Arizona, where Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton by less than 4 points in 2016. The appropriate caveats from CNN’s Harry Enten:

I should say that while they haven't been gold standard polls... All of the (limited) general election polls in AZ have had Sinema ahead of McSally including this latest one. Sinema also leads Ward/Arpaio by 10+. https://t.co/WZnTEF1mOA — (((Harry Enten))) (@ForecasterEnten) April 19, 2018

As for the Republican primary itself, which will take place in late August, the new ABC15 poll finds Ward in the lead with 36 percent, followed by McSally at 27 percent and Arpaio at 22 percent.

That is a little out of line with other surveys of the race, which have shown McSally in the lead, according to RealClearPolitics. That’s one reason, as Enten notes, to take this new poll with at least a grain of salt.

Still, Sinema looks like a strong contender to replace Flake, who decided to step down rather than run for another term. The Cook Political Report rates the Arizona Senate race a toss-up, as does the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics.There are still a few Republicans in Congress who are interested in addressing the status of the 690,000 or so young unauthorized immigrants facing the loss of their temporary deportation protections under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. And they’re beginning to turn up the pressure on House Republican leadership to bring a bill to the floor.

Or rather, four bills.

Moderate Republican Reps. Jeff Denham (R-CA) and Will Hurd (R-TX), together with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, announced a resolution Tuesday that escalates — slightly — a DACA fight that looked dead for the year. It’s probably not a coincidence that Hurd and Denham are two of the House members most at risk of losing their seats to Democrats in November.

Their proposal: to use an obscure House rule called the “queen of the hill” to hold votes on four different immigration bills. Two of the bills they have in mind would give permanent legal status to DACA recipients; a third would be the conservative bill written by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) that the conservative House Freedom Caucus has been pushing, which would grant temporary status to DACA recipients in exchange for deep cuts to legal immigration and beefed-up interior enforcement; and the fourth bill would be up to Paul Ryan to decide.

Which bills come to the House floor is pretty much up to the speaker, and it’s not clear that Paul Ryan (who has been squeamish, as speaker, on immigration) is on board. But here’s where it gets interesting. The backers of the “queen of the hill” plan say they have 240 members in support of their procedural gambit — enough, if they wanted, to override Ryan and force the votes to the floor. The question is just how far Denham and company are willing to go.

The “queen of the hill” rule: the bill that gets the most votes wins

When the Trump administration announced in September that it was winding down the DACA program, members of Congress from both parties leaped to promise that they’d pass a bill in the next six months to prevent the immigrants protected by the program from losing their work permits and deportation protections en masse starting in early March.

But after it became clear that President Trump and the White House weren’t committed enough to a DACA deal to make any actual compromises — and after federal judges stepped in to partially reopen the DACA program by allowing current recipients to apply for two-year extensions while lawsuits over the program’s future make their way through the courts — most Republicans lost appetite.

The Senate held a cursory debate on immigration in February but couldn’t get 60 votes to break a filibuster on any bill (though the bill Trump supported did get 60 “no” votes). The House never moved a bill at all.

House inaction frustrated both Democrats and moderate Republicans — who were convinced the House had the votes to pass a bill to legalize DACA recipients — and Freedom Caucus members who backed the Goodlatte bill. (Ryan reportedly promised the Freedom Caucus he would bring Goodlatte’s bill to the floor but hasn’t done it yet, raising questions about whether he’s struggling to find the votes for it or just dragging his feet.)

The “queen of the hill” plan solves these problems. It would bring four bills, in a series, to the House floor for a vote, and whichever one got the biggest vote margin in favor would pass:

The Goodlatte bill (temporary status for DACA recipients plus stepped-up enforcement and legal immigration restrictions)

The DREAM Act (a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and other DREAMers, with no enforcement trade-offs)

The USA Act sponsored by Hurd and Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) (quicker legalization for DREAMers with limits on sponsorship of parents once they become citizens, with some border provisions but no money for a wall)

A fourth bill, up to Paul Ryan to decide

These bills are mutually exclusive. But because of the “queen of the hill” rule, members who supported more than one would be able to vote for more than one — because even if two bills got 218 or more votes, only one of them would actually be passed under the rule.

Normally, it’s up to the House Rules Committee (which attaches procedural rules to every bill that comes normally to the House floor) to decide when to use the “queen of the hill” rule. But Denham and company have proposed a resolution to use the rule on the four immigration bills — so if 218 members of the House voted in favor of the resolution, it would trigger the “queen of the hill” quartet. And they claim they have 218 votes, and then some.

Are moderate Republicans willing to force Paul Ryan’s hand on DACA?

It’s hard to get 240 members of the House to agree on anything, so if the Denham-CHC group has its math right, they’ve already accomplished something impressive. But just getting 240 people to say the “queen of the hill” plan is a good idea doesn’t bring it any closer to the House floor, unless it suddenly inspires Paul Ryan to have a change of heart.

Members whose priorities are stuck in limbo often threaten to start a “discharge petition” to bypass the speaker and bring a bill to the floor. But few discharge petitions can get the 218 signatures needed. If all 240 members who support the “queen of the hill” plan put their signatures where their mouths are, it actually would. Which makes it all the weirder that they’re not planning to start one — at least not yet.

Hurd said that they “reserve the right” to use procedural tools like a discharge petition if they don’t get their way. But they’re hoping they won’t have to. Denham said Wednesday that “when you can show the overwhelming majority of the House that is supportive of this, you shouldn’t need a discharge petition” — which is a little puzzling because those are the only times a discharge petition can actually be used.

Denham, Hurd, and a handful of other Republicans are in a tricky position in 2018. They’re moderates in purple (and diversifying) districts. Their ability to hang on to their seats depends on the ability to both distance themselves from Trump and make voters feel that they are getting something done that’s worth keeping them in office. Supporting a policy like the legalization of DREAMers does the first — but supporting a proposal that isn’t going anywhere doesn’t help with the second.

The “queen of the hill” plan is a sign that some Republicans might be willing to pressure their own leadership to take some action on immigration. But it’s obviously not enough on its own, and it’s still an open question how far the Republican dissidents are willing to go.There are plenty of reasons to think President Donald Trump might try to pardon his way out of special counsel Robert Mueller’s crosshairs.

In March, the New York Times reported that a lawyer for Trump discussed the possibility of pardoning former advisers Paul Manafort and Michael Flynn with their lawyers. The goal, presumably, was to persuade them that they didn’t need to cooperate with Mueller because he’d spare them jail time regardless of whether they were convicted. Trump’s recent pardon of former Bush administration official Scooter Libby, as well as his pardon of Sheriff Joe Arpaio last year, would also show Mueller targets like Manafort that Trump is willing to use his powers to protect his allies.

But if Trump is considering using his pardon power to undercut Mueller’s Russia probe, he might be overlooking a clause in the Constitution that expressly forbids it. This, at least, is the argument Fordham law professor Jed Shugerman made in a column for the Washington Post last month.

According to Shugerman and his co-author, Ethan J. Leib, the Constitution says that the president cannot pardon people for the purpose of self-protection, which means he cannot pardon himself or others in order to shield himself from a criminal investigation. Nor can he use the pardon power to serve his own financial interests.

Their argument is based on a line in the Constitution known as the “take care clause,” which imposes specific obligations on the president. The clause, Shugerman and Leib argue, mandates that the president “execute” the laws in such a way as to advance the public interest and not the president’s private interests.

I reached out to Shugerman to find out more about the take care clause and why he thinks it could stop Trump from abusing his pardon power.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

I’ve heard time and again that the president has virtually unlimited pardoning power. Is that wrong?

Jed Shugerman

I think the key thing is what people mean by the word “virtually.” Yes, people have typically understood the pardon power as “almost unlimited” or “almost absolute,” but it would be inaccurate to say that it’s totally unlimited or totally absolute. The Supreme Court has made fairly clear that Congress cannot limit the pardon power; any limits on the pardon power have to come from the Constitution itself because that’s where the pardon power comes from. So yes, presidential pardon power is quite broad, but there are constitutional limits.

Sean Illing

Let’s talk about the limits outlined in Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution. What’s the clause in there that forbids a president from using pardons to protect himself from an investigation?

Jed Shugerman

This is a famous line of the Constitution that’s called the “take care clause.” It says the president “shall take care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” The key phrase that people have overlooked in that line is what it means to be “faithfully executed.” That same line also comes up in the oath that the president takes; it’s the only oath in the Constitution that is spelled out word for word, and it says the president shall “faithfully execute” the laws. The founders knew what they were doing when they used this language, but over time we’ve missed the original significance of it.

Sean Illing

Why is it significant?

Jed Shugerman

This language comes directly from fiduciary documents from the 17th and 18th centuries. Fiduciary duties still come up today in the context of corporate boards, trusts, wills, and other legal documents that impose obligations on people to act in the best interests of the people they’re serving. A fiduciary duty means you can’t serve your own personal interests over the interests of your client or company or, in the case of the president, your country.

For example, the executor of a will or estate cannot line his own pockets to the detriment of the estate or the beneficiaries. A CEO or a corporate board cannot embezzle money from the corporation to the detriment of corporate interests. So when the framers of the Constitution adopted this language from fiduciary law, they were drawing from those core legal principles.

Sean Illing

So in the same way a lawyer or a CEO must act in the best interests of her client or company, a president is compelled by the Constitution to execute the laws in such a way as to protect the best interests of the people?

Jed Shugerman

That’s absolutely right.

Sean Illing

How difficult might it be to make a legal argument that the president was acting solely in his own “self-interest”? If the president pardons himself, that seems pretty clear-cut. But if he’s pardoning other people, it may not be so simple even if it’s more or less apparent that he’s acting out of self-interest.

Jed Shugerman

This is the million-dollar question. So let’s start with the core question about whether a president can pardon himself. Clearly, a self-pardon is a breach of fiduciary duty because it’s manifestly self-interested. But if a president managed to do this, the following administration could try to prosecute the president, which would force a court to examine that president’s self-pardon and decide whether or not it was invalid on the grounds that it violated his fiduciary duty to serve the best interests of the people over himself. Similarly, if a president pardons co-conspirators in a crime, the next administration could challenge those pardons in court by claiming they were invalid for the same reasons.

Sean Illing

All of this makes sense to me, and it’s certainly a plausible reading of the Constitution, but has this ever been tested in court?

Jed Shugerman

No. This is an argument that is based on historical research that unearths the background of the Constitution’s text, but that background has been lost over time as we’ve started to talk differently about the Constitution. But the argument I’m making is perfectly in line with the language and intent of the Constitution.

Sean Illing

If we accept the claim that the president has an obligation to act for the right reasons, which is to say in the interests of the people, and not of himself, he seems to have already crossed this line by firing Comey because of the Russia investigation (which he actually admitted). We also know that Trump’s personal lawyer floated the possibility of pardoning Manafort and Flynn, presumably to influence their decisions to cooperate with Mueller.

Jed Shugerman

I want to repeat something you said, which is exactly right. The faithful execution language of the Constitution mandates that presidents and other officials must act for the right reasons and not for self-interest against the public interest. This also applies to the firing question.

Most people don’t realize that the Constitution never explicitly mentions the power to fire. This was a gap in the Constitution that had to get worked out by the first Congress. So we’re making the argument that the Constitution’s language regarding faithful execution has to be considered when we have only an implicit understanding that the president has the power to fire.

So the way this would work with, say, Mueller, is that Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein could go to a court and get an injunction to prevent their firing by the president based on this argument about faithless execution. Comey could have done that too, but that ship has already sailed. But I think someone like Mueller could argue that he’s conducting a legitimate criminal investigation and therefore should be protected from being fired by the subject of that investigation.

Sean Illing

Do you think this argument will be tested in court?

Jed Shugerman

No, I don’t. Mainly because Mueller has been careful and strategic in the ways that he’s protected the investigation even in the event that he’s fired. For example, the recent Michael Cohen raid was handed over to the Southern District of New York, so even if Mueller is fired, there’s now a basis for another office to continue the investigation and perhaps to broaden it to state-level crimes, which are shielded from presidential pardons. So there are enough failsafes against his firing that I doubt he’d ever need to test this argument in court.David Hogg might be the most vilified person in right-wing media right now.

After surviving the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, Hogg and his classmates became vocal activists in the fight for gun control, using their media spotlight to advocate for tougher gun laws.

That activism made them prime targets for the right-wing smear machine: a collection of Fox News hosts, conservative pundits, conspiracy theorists, Twitter provocateurs, and YouTube commentators who piled on the teens in the wake of the shooting.

Hogg in particular became the target of a wave of personal attacks and conspiracy theories, accusing him of being a “crisis actor,” an FBI apologist, and a budding fascist. In March, Fox News host Laura Ingraham even mocked Hogg on Twitter for being rejected from several colleges.

Those kinds of personal attacks are meant to wear down and break a target — to push a public figure out of public life by bombarding them with a never-ending avalanche of smears and accusations.

But rather than caving under the pressure, Hogg and his friends have flourished, using humor, restraint, and public pressure to engage strategically with their trolls. That approach has paid off, earning the Parkland students months of earned media coverage for their cause while helping marginalize their critics. In the face of intense media scrutiny and right-wing smears, these students are putting on a masterclass on how to deal with bullies.

You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for more episodes of Strikethrough, our series exploring the media in the age of Trump.President Donald Trump’s threats to levy sweeping trade tariffs on China and other countries have provoked near-universal condemnation, from Democrats as well as Republicans. These critics say tariffs will raise prices and invite foreign countries’ retaliation while doing little or nothing to bring back the glory days of bountiful middle-class manufacturing jobs.

They have a point. The nation’s trading partners are already preparing lists of iconic made-in-America goods like bourbon and jeans to hit with their own restrictions. And, indeed, the very promise of tariffs — the whole point of them — is that they raise prices for the protected product: If they didn’t, the policy wouldn’t work for the industry meant to be helped. There are also plenty of explanations besides globalization for the loss of manufacturing jobs. Automation has reduced the number of workers needed to churn out a slab of steel.

But these objections have been a little too knee-jerk and unreflective. Trump won the 2016 election in no small part by focusing on jobs, jobs, jobs. He mocked elites who focused on trade policy’s benefits but who ignored the painful economic losses in too many communities. The sources of Trump’s political support have been much debated, but his argument that trade deals were a “very bad deal” for Americans was compelling to a swath of voters across the political spectrum.

It would be deeply unwise to ignore the power of that message.

As an initial matter, it is worth establishing that what we’re talking about, at root, is the availability of good jobs, with benefits, that support the economic vitality of communities. Trade does matter on this score. Take the case of how trade with China has played out across the country. Economists David Autor, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson quantified the effects of China’s 2000 entry into the global trading community on local labor markets around the United States.

While this entry led to lower prices, the researchers found that businesses (and workers) faced with increased exposure to Chinese imports also paid a dear price.

A link between more imports and fewer jobs

From 2000 to 2007, local economies that had seen the most growth in their exposure to competition from Chinese imports over the preceding decade (1990 to 2000) — that is, those in the top 25 percent of all US communities in terms of exposure — saw larger declines in employment.

Relative to communities with the least increase in competition from China (those ranked in the bottom 25 percent of US communities in terms of exposure), they saw a 4.5 percent decrease in manufacturing jobs and a 0.8 percent decline in the share of people with a job. In a community like Louisville, Kentucky, a metropolitan area with about 1.2 million people, this would amount to 9,700 people tossed out of work.

The researchers also found that those who kept their jobs saw lower pay. Applying their estimate of the decline in average weekly pay to the annual pay of manufacturing workers nationwide suggests trade with China led to a $455 annual pay cut in that sector. To put this in context, the Federal Reserve estimates that nearly half of Americans don’t have $400 to cover an emergency — so that’s real money.

Economic models predict this kind of job displacement while also projecting that the economy overall benefits from trade openness. The Peterson Institute for International Economics estimates that the Trans-Pacific Partnership (once fully phased in) would have increased annual US incomes by $131 billion, or 0.5 percent of US gross domestic product. (Yes, that’s the TPP that Trump has been flip-flopping on this week, briefly embracing and then once again rejecting it.)

There’s no contradiction between that finding and the Autor study: You can have positive overall effects even if pockets of workers suffer. In general, economic studies that find positive overall effects for trade argue that the “winners” must compensate the “losers.” Otherwise, trade expansion will likely lead to greater inequality as some communities face employment and earnings decline due to heightened competition from abroad. Such compensation can include helping workers move to where the jobs are, develop new skills, or giving them money to bide them time to search for another job.

Here’s the catch: displaced workers don’t get the assistance economists say they need

Yet programs like the federal Trade Adjustment Assistance are woefully inadequate to the task. For every $1,000 increase in import competition from China between 1990 and 2007, this program increased by a paltry 23 cents per person. That’s not enough to offset the drag caused by new trade or revitalize communities or restore dignity to those out of work.

Indeed, what’s happened instead is that in these communities, people end up tapping into benefits set up to support economically struggling families — unemployment insurance, disability benefits, income support, and medical benefits like Medicaid. It’s good that these programs are available, but they treat the symptoms of lack of jobs, not the cause. Nor do they put the community and its people on a path toward a stronger economy.

The failure of trade policy has become emblematic for the failure of economic policy more generally to deliver on the promise of the American dream. This has led to growing dissatisfaction, and Trump tapped into this frustration like no other politician in recent memory. The question then is: What to do? How do we get to growth that is broadly shared? This deeper problem affects not only erstwhile manufacturing towns but also communities across America — and it can’t be solved only with trade policy.

Help those hurt by trade, but think about more than trade

In the middle of the past century, the United States created an economically secure middle class through a plethora of manufacturing jobs. Trump’s agenda harks back to this time, but the good pay and benefits those jobs provided was not because there was something magic about manufacturing, but rather because these were union jobs. Go back to the 19th century and manufacturing work was sweatshop labor. Bad jobs became good jobs because workers organized and some politicians supported them.

So, yes, it’s important that programs that funding for the Trade Adjustment Assistance program be substantially increased. But on a more basic level, if communities and workers are being left behind, the question is: Why privilege trade over other policy levers — whether that means restricting it, as Trump wants to do, or expanding it, as many economists advocate? In the end, trade is a modest slice of our $18.6 trillion economy.

Exports and imports account for 12 and 15 percent of gross domestic product, respectively. Government spending, investment, and consumption are each higher. Consumption — a rough proxy for how well ordinary Americans are doing — is by far the largest part of GDP, accounting for nearly 70 percent.

Free trade lowers prices, thereby boosting family budgets on average, but there are myriad other ways to boost consumption, strong unions being first among them. And reams of social science research show that strong unions do much more than that: They bolster regional economies, increase democratic participation, and even strengthen the social safety net for non-unionized workers.

In short, while protecting those hurt by a free trade regime should remain a priority, there are policy steps that can be taken that would have a more direct effect on living standards than trade policy. These include higher minimum wage, better infrastructure, expanded collective bargaining rights, and universal benefits — health care, but also paid family leave and retirement security.

Trump is not the only politician guilty of misguided priorities. The Democrats’ 2016 infrastructure proposal was projected to generate 25 times the gains that would have resulted from the Peterson Institute’s projection for the TPP. The Obama administration hardly gave it 25 times the attention.

Overspecialization in the social sciences shapes how we view the economy

Why did policymaking become so myopic? Part of the blame rests with how experts write and talk about economic problems. Rather than taking a holistic approach to the economic health of the nation, the debate tends to focus on individual policies in isolation.

This is in no small part because that’s how researchers think about policy questions. They’re specialists. Economists can now pinpoint with a high degree of precision causality from a policy change to economic outcomes, which is enormously useful but also too narrow.

A more well-rounded assessment of a trade deal like TPP would also look at whether important social institutions, including manufacturing unions, would be negatively affected by more openness to trade, and what changes to labor law we would need to make to soften the blow.

Such an analysis might suggest that trade endeavors like the TPP are only worth the pain if accompanied by, say, a rollback of right-to-work laws that currently make it harder to unionize in the service sector. If such a deal can’t be struck, then policymakers should approach further liberalization with caution.

Trump is not wrong in talking about communities left behind. Our economy, and the companies within it, need to serve all the nation, not just parts of it. But by stopping at trade, the president is passing up an opportunity to truly remake the economy to serve all Americans.

Heather Boushey is executive director and chief economist of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth and author of Finding Time: The Economics of Work-Life Conflict. Todd N. Tucker is a political scientist and fellow at the Roosevelt Institute and author of Judge Knot: Politics and Development in International Investment Law. Find them on Twitter @hboushey and @toddntucker.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.There is nothing normal about the 2018 Ohio governor’s race. Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad is making an appearance. An FBI corruption probe has shaken things up. Obamacare could be important — over on the Republican side. Welcome to one of 2018’s most bizarre campaigns.

Both primaries look competitive. Mary Taylor, the sitting lieutenant governor, is sending all of her fire toward the sitting attorney general and presumptive favorite in the Republican primary, Mike DeWine, hugging as close as she can to the far right and President Trump to try to get an upper hand. Over on the Democratic side, Elizabeth Warren-endorsed former Obama administration official Richard Cordray is looking to fend off Dennis Kucinich, a former Congress member who is now a Fox News talking head with an unusual affinity for Trump and the Syrian government.

Hanging over all this is term-limited Gov. John Kasich, who is relatively popular overall but has turned off many in the Republican base with his anti-Trump rhetoric — and oh, by the way, he keeps publicly fueling the speculation that he just might try to topple Trump in the 2020 GOP presidential primary.

“He occupies this very strange space in that he’s almost a man without a party, even though if he were on the ballot again he’d probably win reelection,” Kyle Kondik at the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics, who has written a book on Ohio politics, told me. “I find it very challenging to figure out his place in all of this.”

And one other thing: A massive scandal could be brewing in the state’s capital, Columbus, where the state House speaker is resigning amid an FBI corruption probe.

The primary is May 8. While the money should be on DeWine prevailing in the Republican race and Cordray, the former state attorney general who led President Obama’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, becoming the Democratic nominee, you can’t quite take that to the bank.

The Buckeye State is one of the most important governor’s races in the country, a test of whether any Democrat not named Sherrod Brown can still win statewide here, and it might also be the most wide open. Given Ohio’s swing-state nature, all four candidates could plausibly be the state’s governor in a year’s time.

The Ohio Republican governor’s primary, explained

Here’s the rub for the Republicans running to replace Kasich: He might indeed be broadly popular — 51 percent approval, per Morning Consult — but the GOP base is turning against him. A recent poll found that only 44 percent of Republicans approve of their governor, the Cleveland Plain Dealer reported, while 77 percent approve of Trump.

“They’re running as fast as they can away from him,” one Ohio Republican told me.

DeWine, the Republican attorney general and former US senator, has been treated as the most likely Kasich successor for a while now. He’s the one walking a tightrope on some issues: On Medicaid expansion, for example, which Kasich had pursued by circumventing the GOP-led legislature, DeWine has been hard to pin down, the Toledo Blade reported.

Taylor, meanwhile, has said flatly that she opposes the Medicaid expansion, even as it covered 300,000 of the state’s poorest residents in a state with one of the nation’s worst opioid crises. That tracks with her general strategy of taking the hard-right stance and trying to shore up the Trump wing of the party by painting DeWine as a sellout.

“If you like President Trump, then you won’t like Mike DeWine,” narration from a recent pro-Taylor PAC ad begins, citing alleged heresies by the frontrunner on immigration, guns, and trade.

The most recent poll of the race found DeWine with a substantial lead — 43 percent to Taylor’s 26 percent — but the gap has narrowed considerably. DeWine had been leading 54 percent to 14 percent in January.

Perhaps in a sign of DeWine’s discomfort, his campaign has gone on the offensive against Taylor, with TV ads portraying her as lazy.

“DeWine has been treating Taylor like a very serious threat now for a little bit,” Kondik said. “Aggression is interpreted as a sign of fear.”

The attorney general, who has won four statewide races, is still the favorite — the Ohio Republican I spoke with, who supports DeWine, said they were “99.9 percent sure” that he would prevail. And the establishment stigma doesn’t mean he’s a moderate: DeWine is a vocal abortion opponent who worked with Kasich to try to defund Planned Parenthood and has said he would have signed a bill banning abortion once a heartbeat is detected, which Kasich had vetoed.

But Taylor is turning it into a race with her aggressive tactics. Another ad slams DeWine for voting for “amnesty” while in the Senate — alongside Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.

The Ohio Democratic governor’s primary, explained

The Democratic contest could end up being equally eventful and represents something of a family feud within the left: Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) has taken one side, and a Bernie Sanders-aligned group is on the other.

The two big names are Cordray and Kucinich. Cordray, then the state treasurer, was elected as Ohio attorney general in 2008 in a special election but lost in 2010 in his bid for a full term — to DeWine. He later served as the first director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the agency created in the Dodd-Frank financial regulation bill, from 2012 to 2017.

That likely helped earn him the support of Warren, a progressive stalwart, who came to Ohio in April to campaign for Cordray.

“There’s no way you can paint Rich Cordray as not being progressive,” one Ohio Democrat told me. “He’s taken $12 billion away from Wall Street.”

Kucinich, on the other hand, is ... eclectic. The former Cleveland mayor represented the area for 16 years in Congress, becoming one of the House’s most prominent doves and a fierce critic of President George W. Bush and even President Obama for their military adventures. He has criticized Cordray during the campaign for not being sufficiently opposed to guns. The ex-congressman has the support of Our Revolution, the grassroots group that grew out of Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, even if the senator himself is staying out of the race.

However, Kucinich has occasionally defended Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad and been paid by pro-Syrian government groups. He also praised Trump’s inauguration speech (in a since-deleted tweet), and he’s appeared on Fox News to laud the president’s tariffs on steel and aluminum — though it should be noted that Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown is also a fan of the tariffs.

“I would never discount Dennis Kucinich because he’s a great, energetic campaigner,” the Ohio Democrat said.

For now, Cordray hasn’t gone after Kucinich the way DeWine has attacked Taylor. His campaign’s first TV ad is a positive spot with President Obama praising his then-consumer finance watchdog.

Watchdog Posted by Richard Cordray on Monday, April 9, 2018

That recent Ohio poll found Cordray with 27 percent of the Democratic primary vote while 13 percent of voters backed Kucinich. So Cordray’s lead is healthy, but there are quite a lot of undecided voters — and at least one other credible candidate, state Sen. Joe Schiavoni, who could still shake up the race. (A fourth contender — Supreme Court Justice Bill O’Neill — had also his moment in the spotlight when he boasted that he had slept with 50 “very attractive females” as a young man. But he’s polling in the low single digits.)

“If Cordray starts attacking Kucinich on television, that would be the clearest sign that Kucinich is a real threat to Cordray,” Kondik, who worked under Cordray when he was Ohio Attorney General, said.

Peering ahead to the general election, it’s really too early to say. Some unknowns include how much of the race is nationalized (i.e., how much of it is about Trump) and whether the Senate race tilts toward Brown, an advantage for Democrats, or away from him.

There is one other thing Ohio politicos are watching. Ohio House Speaker Cliff Rosenberger announced last week he was resigning amid an FBI investigation. From the Dayton Daily News:

Sources familiar with the FBI inquiry say investigators are looking at a four-day trip to London in August 2017 sponsored by GOPAC Education Fund. Along on the trip were at least two lobbyists for the payday lending industry. Factions of the industry have been trying to stall or water down House Bill 123, which calls for a crackdown on abusive practices, for more than a year.

Republicans have ruled Ohio since 2010. A high-profile ethics scandal for one of their leaders, in an environment already favorable to Democrats, could give either Cordray or Kucinich the steam they need to get to the governor’s mansion.

“Kasich is doing his party a favor in that he’s trying to hand the baton off without any sort of ethical problems. But there may be an ethical problem — not with the governor but with the Republican brand,” Kondik said. “Democrats have sometimes been aided in big elections in Ohio by GOP ethical and corruption problems.”

John Kasich 2020, explained

Meanwhile, Kasich, who has been Ohio’s governor since 2010, has been making a lot of trips to New Hampshire of late. Either he really, really likes it there or he is seriously considering a primary challenge against Trump in 2020.

“I think I’m increasingly viewed now as not just a Republican but as something different, kind of a hybrid,” Kasich told the New York Times during his most recent trip to the Granite State. “I have people of all shapes, sizes, philosophies and party preferences that approach me. But what does that mean? I don’t know. I’m on television, so all the sudden they want to talk to me. Television moves everybody up, right?”

The Times elaborated on a potential Kasich platform:

Mr. Kasich’s case against Mr. Trump rests as much on tone as substance. The governor, a longtime supporter of free-trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, has been sharply critical of the president’s tilt toward protectionism on trade, saying it runs afoul of the Republican Party he knew. He has also lamented the president’s bid to dismantle DACA, the program aimed at protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation. On this and other issues, though, Mr. Kasich has sought to contrast himself with Mr. Trump most pointedly as a spokesman for national decency.

Kasich, of course, ran a failed presidential campaign in 2016. He was the last candidate to drop out once Trump clinched the nomination, but he hadn’t been Trump’s strongest challenger — that prize went to Sen. Ted Cruz, who is facing a moderately serious challenge from Democrat Beto O’Rourke in Texas. Kasich only won Ohio, his home state, amassing 4.3 million votes nationwide to Trump’s 14 million.

But he is term-limited out of the governor’s mansion, and he doesn’t have much else to do. If nothing else, Kasich is going to weigh another White House run for a while, even if he would be challenging a sitting president. I’ve talked with people who know Kasich a few times over the past few months, and the consensus seems to be that they understand why he would be looking at it but they hope he realizes it’s futile.

For now, though, the governor hasn’t gotten the memo — maybe because he’s seen some of the latest polling. A February 2018 poll by the University of New Hampshire found that 60 percent of GOP primary voters would support Trump, while 18 percent would vote for somebody else. A solid majority, perhaps, but not exactly an unassailable position for the current White House occupant.

Then BuzzFeed reported earlier this month that a different New Hampshire poll, by the American Research Group, found Kasich narrowly trailing Trump: 42 percent to Trump’s 48 percent. That’s a real race.

Kasich has time to figure out what he wants to do once he leaves office. But his potential candidacy — and his positioning as the premier anti-Trump Republican — will cast a large shadow over the race to succeed him.Karen McDougal can talk about Donald Trump.

The ex-Playboy model reached a settlement with National Enquirer’s publisher American Media Inc. (AMI) that releases her from an agreement that barred her from speaking publicly about an alleged affair she had with Trump in 2006 and 2007.

McDougal had sued to get out of the “catch and kill” deal she made with AMI in August 2016, ahead of the election. She had sold the rights to her story about Trump to the tabloid for $150,000 and the promise it would publish some of her fitness columns. McDougal said she was misled and pressured to sign the deal. AMI chief David Pecker is a friend of Trump’s and has allegedly helped intercept negative stories about him before, but the lawsuit also alleged that longtime Trump lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen had been involved in the negotiations over the agreement with AMI.

According to the New York Times, McDougal can now freely talk about Trump, but AMI will get 10 percent, or up to $75,000, of any future profits from her story about the alleged affair. McDougal does not have to return the $150,000, and AMI will retain the rights to publish photographs and fitness columns authored by her. The Washington Post reports that Men’s Journal, also owned by AMI, will feature McDougal on its cover in September 2018.

Trump has denied the affair with McDougal, but Wednesday’s settlement solves at least one of the president’s looming legal troubles. He still faces a lawsuit from porn star Stormy Daniels, who is suing to get out of her “hush agreement” with the president. Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford) alleges she had an affair with Trump in 2006, and received $130,000 from Michael Cohen shortly before the 2016 election to stay quiet about the encounter.

The timing of McDougal’s settlement is certainly notable. The FBI seized documents related to the hush money payments made to McDougal and to Daniels during a raid on Cohen’s home, office, and hotel room last week. Cohen is the subject of a federal criminal investigation and his role in facilitating payoffs to the two women appear to be part of it.

All of that is likely much worse news for Trump than McDougal’s ability to discuss him freely. McDougal has already given interviews about the alleged affair, including to CNN, in which she said they were together “many dozens of times” while the president was married to his current wife, Melania. (AMI said it had amended the agreement after the election so McDougal could respond to press questions, per the Times.)

McDougal said in a statement after the settlement that she was “relieved to be able to tell the truth about my story when asked.”

“My goal from the beginning was to restore my rights and not to achieve any financial gain, and this settlement does exactly that,” she added.For decades, a statue of a doctor who performed painful surgeries on enslaved black women without anesthesia stood in Central Park, across from the New York Academy of Medicine.

On Tuesday, that statue came down, while onlookers stood by and cheered.

J. Marion Sims was long known as the “father of modern gynecology”: He’s known for creating the vaginal speculum as well as a successful treatment for “vesico-vaginal fistulas,” a wound between a woman’s bladder and vagina that often developed after childbirth.

But Sims conducted much of his research on slaves who were rarely given anesthesia. Three women, slaves named Lucy, Anarcha, and Betsey, are known subjects of Sims’s work; other women’s names have been lost to history. As debates about Confederate monuments raged last year, academics and activists intensified their calls for Sims’s legacy to be revisited, noting that his work raises serious ethical questions about experimenting on women who could never truly consent.

Those protests led to action on Tuesday, when New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio ordered the removal of Sims’s statue one day after New York City’s Public Design Commission voted unanimously to take it down.

It’s the latest development in a series of disputes over US statues that commemorate controversial figures: Last August, white supremacist groups violently protested efforts to remove a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee in Charlottesville, Virginia, adding fuel to national debates about the prominence (and removal) of Confederate monuments. But the statue controversy also points to a larger reckoning that seeks to address America’s failure to truly acknowledge the racism of its past and present.

Sims’s work is part of the US’s long history of medical racism

In 2006, the University of Alabama Birmingham removed a painting of Sims that had called him one of the “Medical Giants of Alabama.” The Atlantic notes that earlier this year, the Medical University of South Carolina quietly renamed an endowed chairmanship, which had initially been named for Sims.

Sims’s legacy isn’t unique — it speaks to a lengthy history of black people dealing with vast disparities in health outcomes even as their bodies are used to advance medicine in the US, a history that includes the Tuskegee syphilis experiments and the use of Henrietta Lacks’s cells for cancer research.

“The vestiges of abuse continue to haunt the medical system and give context to current racial disparities,” Vox/ProPublica video fellow Ranjani Chakraborty explained last year in a Pulitzer-nominated video on slavery’s effects on the US medical system.

According to de Blasio’s office, the statue of Sims will be moved to the Brooklyn cemetery where the surgeon is buried. A plaque next to the statue will explain Sims’s work on black slaves and will explicitly mention Lucy, Anarcha, and Betsey, three of the women whose bodies were used in his research.Designing Women, Frasier, 24, Fargo, Legion — some of the best TV shows of the past 30-plus years have one terrific actress in common: Jean Smart. Tall, striking, and bold, Smart has carved out a path in Hollywood that involves never doing the same thing twice, to the degree that her immediate follow-up to the sitcom Designing Women was a role as serial killer Aileen Wuornos in a made-for-TV movie.

Smart is currently one of FX’s Noah Hawley players, bouncing between the TV producer’s Fargo (where she played an unlikely Midwestern crime boss in 1979 in the show’s second season) and his X-Men series Legion (where she plays the head of a secret program investigating mutants). Just watching Hawley write for Smart makes clear how versatile she is. He keeps tossing new challenges her way, and she keeps landing them with precision.

But, needless to say, there are plenty of actresses who haven’t managed to build nearly 40-year careers. What’s unique about Smart is how she seems to never stop working, even as she’s never content to be pigeonholed into a “Jean Smart role” (whatever that would mean). So when she joined me for the latest episode of my podcast, I Think You’re Interesting, I wanted to know if she had found it more difficult to get work as she aged.

Her answer, as you might expect, was “yes,” but it was a more qualified yes than I was expecting, and I was interested in how she traced the differences in roles offered to men and women back to the very roots of storytelling itself — before offering up a sly takedown of Hollywood sexism in her inimitable way.

That portion of our conversation follows, lightly edited for length and clarity.

Todd VanDerWerff

You’ve been working since the 1980s, and I’m wondering: How has the industry changed for women acting since you started, and how does it still have a ways to go?

Jean Smart

Things have changed in the sense that there’s simply more work for actors, and so there’s automatically more work for women. Although, I was just talking to somebody, and it never occurred to me before: It used to be that doing stories that were based on an actual event or based on a true story — you’d sort of look down your nose at it. It was some silly movie of the week or something, based on a true story.

Now, the movie studios and the television studios can’t get enough. They have scores of people scouring, looking for stories based on true events, although the one that kills me is when they say “based on an actual event.” First of all, that sounds so loose. And secondly, name one thing that has ever been written that wasn’t based on an actual event. Even Legion, I think, must have been. Well, maybe not. Okay, our show’s the only one in history. [Laughs.]

And so because of that, because you’re doing stories about real people and real events, there are going to be more parts for women, because you’re thinking, well, if it’s based on an actual person — women have always been sort of underrepresented in stories because it used to be that it was only men who were out in the world doing things. You know what I mean? Women weren’t out in public. They were at home. They weren’t out there fighting wars or writing books or being doctors, so everything was written about men and we were very, very secondary.

Unfortunately, that just hung on for so long, people just kind of accepted it, so even when the world started to change and women were out in the world doing everything that men were doing, that wasn’t reflected in plays and television and movies, and now, it’s finally starting to reflect the real world.

Todd VanDerWerff

Have you had a point in your career when you felt like you struggled to find parts you wanted to play?

Jean Smart

I think just now that I’m not, you know, 35, it’s a lot harder, simply because you go to a movie, how many people my age are there? There’s Meryl, and that’s it. [Laughs.] And maybe somebody’s really cute secretary. Or there’s Helen Mirren, and that’s it. You know? It’s not like there’s going to be four or five parts in the movie for women my age, unless that’s the plot of the movie. Whereas you go to most movies, there’s going to be at least a half a dozen men my age, at least, playing nice supporting roles.

Todd VanDerWerff

Designing Women was at a point where we had Murphy Brown and Roseanne and all these shows led by really smart, interesting women, both the actresses and the characters they played, and it felt like maybe that went away for a while. Did it feel that way to you, as someone trying to get parts?

Jean Smart

It did. In fact, I remember when Designing Women ended, it was right around the time Murphy Brown ended. It was sort of like, clean sweep, no more Monday night women’s night, and every show after that was anchored by a guy. And some network executives ... they don’t actually send around a memo, because that could incriminate them, but they let it be known that no show on our network will be anchored by a woman over 40, or this talk show will never have a female guest on who is over 35, with a couple exceptions, like Meryl. You can see that when you watch talk shows.

Todd VanDerWerff

I sometimes feel like we don’t talk a lot about Hollywood ageism. Obviously you’ve had a very successful career. You continue to get great work, but do you feel like that’s the case, that there is this unspoken line, especially for women over a certain age?

Jean Smart

True. It is true, because for whatever reason, the things that we find attractive in men come with age, and the things that we find attractive in women come with youth. So that of course is going to be reflected in our entertainment.

This was a few years ago, but they said the average age difference, literally, between a male character and a female character in a marriage in a movie or TV show was about 20 years, and in real life, the average age difference between a husband and a wife is two years. Also, if the husband is funny in a movie, the wife cannot have any sense of humor whatsoever. I’ve seen that so many times, and I don’t know why. In real life, I don’t think that’s true. I think funny people get together.

Todd VanDerWerff

When the movie Neighbors came out, everybody was, like, “Wow, they let Rose Byrne” — who played the main character’s wife in that movie — “be funny!” And it was treated as this phenomenally feminist thing, but women are funny in real life.

Jean Smart

I know, see, that’s the thing is, over a certain age they think, “Well, if you’re not sexually attractive, what possible reason would we have to look at you, or be interested in what you have to say or do?” Unless you’re hysterically funny or you’re playing Mother Teresa or something. It’s, like, “We’re not quite sure what to do with you.” But women can be funny and everything they were at 30 [when they’re older].

Listen to the rest of our conversation to hear Smart’s stories of her early career, her memories of Designing Women, and her attempts to understand just what’s happening on Legion.

To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary filmmakers — check out the I Think You’re Interesting archives.After seven seasons of skullduggery and crazy plot twists, Scandal ends its run on Thursday, April 19. The series, which began its life in April 2012 as a political crisis of the week show — loosely based on the life of the very real Judy Smith, a former aide to President George H.W. Bush — eventually evolved into one of the decade’s wildest series, forever shifting its status quo and putting its (anti)hero Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington) through every wringer it could think of.

The endless churn of story necessitated by a show with a fast pace like Scandal means that the series’ best days are largely behind it. But at its best — particularly in its second and fifth seasons — the series was a wildly entertaining yet thoughtful examination of political power in the United States, as well as who had it, who wanted it, and who was never going to get it. It made all of the dark subtext of Washington into neon-coated text, and even if the Trump era has exhausted the show’s ability to keep ahead of reality, well, it tried.

But Scandal was more than its wildest plot twists or Olivia’s white hat. It was a very real hit that changed the TV industry in more ways than one. In fact, here are five.

1) Scandal helped reawaken network TV’s interest in nonwhite protagonists

When Scandal debuted in 2012, you could count the number of women as protagonists in shows on the big four networks (ABC, NBC, CBS, and Fox) on your hands and feet. Start trying to count the number of people of color as protagonists on those four networks, and you found yourself reduced to just one hand.

Indeed, Kerry Washington was the first black woman to be the lead of a network drama since 1974 when Scandal began. And though it was slow to start — and was almost canceled after season one — the show’s audience perked up considerably in its second season (about which more in a second). Washington received an Emmy nomination, and by season four, Scandal was one of the top 10 shows on television.

That ABC aired the first series with a black female lead in nearly 40 years can be attributed to two other black women. The first was Smith, upon whom Olivia was putatively based, and the second was creator Shonda Rhimes, one of the most powerful producers in the history of television, whose Grey’s Anatomy remains one of TV’s top hits. And once Scandal (and the Rhimes-produced, Viola Davis-starring How to Get Away with Murder, which debuted in 2014) became a hit, more networks started diversifying their own lineups.

Television still has a long way to go before it achieves anything like diversity that reflects the world as it actually is. But it’s made at least some strides in this regard in the 2010s, and if you look for point one on that chart, you almost have to start with Scandal.

2) Scandal melded Rhimes’s love of big plot twists with morally complicated, cable-style storytelling

In the early 2010s, the broadcast networks kept trying to crack the nut of how to tell more morally complicated, adult stories in their dramas — you know, like cable networks were reeling off seemingly as a matter of course. Many of these attempts died almost immediately, while others (particularly the 2009 debut The Good Wife) attracted smaller, tonier audiences.

But Scandal was a show that was interested in the often morally dubious methods that Olivia and the “gladiators” at her political crisis response firm deployed to solve problems, and in how those methods got Olivia into hotter and hotter water. In particular, the hugely divisive fifth season (which I love and other fans ... do not) spent a lot of time forcing the audience to reckon with how many horrible things the characters had done.

But because all of this was wedded to Rhimes’s consummate skill with big plot twists, carried out with panache, Scandal also became a huge hit, at least for a time. It was the ultimate example of how network television — which has always targeted a broader audience than cable or streaming — could tell darker stories without sacrificing the things that made big network shows so fun to watch.

The twists and turns on Scandal were so much fun — until the show made you sit back and realize you were having fun watching people’s lives be dragged into the muck. It was a tricky balance the show didn’t always manage, but when it did, it was exquisite.

3) The show all but invented casts live-tweeting their TV shows

Here comes my favorite Olivia Pope line I have ever written ever. #youwantmeearnme — shonda rhimes (@shondarhimes) May 3, 2013

Every Thursday night, the cast of Scandal gathers to live-tweet new episodes of the show. This was happening in the first season. It was happening when the show was a big hit. And it’s still happening now.

At the time, it was seen as a weird gambit for a show that had only seven episodes in its first season and was unlikely to survive to season two. But it helped build a highly engaged audience for the series, one that slowly built word of mouth as season one hit streaming services, then helped the show build and build through season two. Knowing that you could tweet about episodes of your new favorite series with the cast itself made for a far more interactive TV-watching experience than other shows could promise.

And, hey, it worked so well that more and more shows started having their casts live-tweet. It’s never felt quite the same as it did on Scandal, though, because when too many other shows do it, it just feels like a corporate mandate.

4) Scandal became the anti-West Wing, a deeply skeptical examination of American power that saw its tone spread across television

Here’s something I wrote toward the end of Scandal’s second season, over at my old publication, the A.V. Club:

Scandal is full of moments when the government fails to protect its citizens because it’s too busy protecting itself—or the rich men who are its greatest benefactors. In an early second-season episode, Olivia and her associates get their hands on a piece of software that allows the government to surveil anyone at any time—a slightly fictionalized version of several real-life government programs—and instead of trying to shut it down because it’s the right thing to do, they try to shut it down because they can use it as leverage against the government to protect their client. When it turns out they’re being played, nobody remarks on how the government spying on its citizens would go against the Constitution. The show doesn’t have to. It portrays the horror of such a scenario by showing how easily Olivia and company are able to hack any computer in the nation, then assumes that the government will go right ahead and do it anyway. This basic storyline plays out over and over again. Government and corporate interests on Scandal have no one’s best interests at heart, and the few people who battle against them—including the show’s one relatively pure character, ADA David Rosen (Joshua Malina, having the time of his life)—are inevitably dragged into the incestuous maw created by the intersection of politics and money.

The more you dug into Scandal on a thematic level, the more it became about a bunch of women and people of color trying to prop up an administration headed up by an empty suit of a white man (Tony Goldwyn’s President Fitzgerald Grant). And even after “Fitz” left office, the series continued its wackadoodle interrogation of American power and even foreign policy. (On the series, the security state is an unchecked behemoth that can do whatever it wants without consequence, almost always to the detriment of everybody.)

In an Obama era when many TV shows struck a more optimistic tone about American government, Scandal’s skepticism stood out. That’s a tone that plenty of TV shows have taken since Scandal debuted — notably House of Cards and the evening news — but Scandal got there first and, arguably, best.

5) Scandal was a show for shippers that kept telling shippers love was a lie

The center of Scandal is the corrosive relationship between Olivia and Fitz — Olitz — which fans loved and which Rhimes always seemed to be cocking an eyebrow and saying, “Really?!” about. Rhimes is great at writing big, romantic speeches, and she gave both Olivia and Fitz some terrific examples of the form, but boy, oh boy, she never tired of showing how the two made each other worse people, how Olivia’s need to give Fitz whatever she could caused her to slip off her game far too many times.

There’s almost no way Scandal doesn’t end its run with Olivia and Fitz together forever, but Rhimes is too canny to make this a happy ending. It’ll seem like one, until you think about it for a couple of seconds and realize how hollow that love really is. Scandal invited you to believe in love, or the government, or in power, and then it laughed at you for getting invested, because everything was a lie. There hadn’t ever been a show quite like it, and I’m not sure there ever will be again.

Scandal ends its run at 9 pm Eastern on ABC. The previous seasons are available on Netflix.Avengers: Infinity War: reviews, news, and analysis of Marvel’s biggest movie to date A decade of the Marvel Cinematic Universe has all been leading to this.

The culmination of 10 years of superhero blockbusters, Joe and Anthony Russo’s Avengers: Infinity War unites the past and future of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Established Avengers (Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, Hulk, Black Widow, and Hawkeye) team up with more recently introduced heroes (the Guardians of the Galaxy, Doctor Strange, Spider-man, Vision, Scarlet Witch, and Black Panther) to take on the biggest villain in the MCU, Thanos, whose ongoing hunt for Infinity Stones brings him face to face with Earth’s Mightiest Heroes.Beyoncé’s Coachella set is already the stuff of legends, maybe especially because access to it has been so limited. While the first performance on April 14 was live-streamed — and then aired on a loop the next day on Coachella’s YouTube page — it has not been made available in any legal way since, leaving die-hard fans to scrounge up sketchy streams and shaky videos from people who witnessed the glory in person.

This scarcity has made the question of whether Beyoncé’s second performance during the festival’s closing weekend would be live-streamed even more urgent. Even though Coachella added a second weekend in 2012, it has never live-streamed the repeat performances. But surely it would break its own rule for Beyoncé, right? Right?!

Wrong. According to Variety and Billboard, representatives for YouTube have confirmed that there are no plans to stream any performances from Coachella’s second weekend — not even Beychella.

This comes as a huge disappointment to everyone who missed it the first time around, not to mention those who did catch it and want to see it all over again. Plus, the speculation that Beyoncé might have even more tricks up her sleeve — or at least incorporate a few different songs featuring a few different guests — seems to have proved accurate, as dancer Jo’Artis Mijo Ratti confirmed to Variety that they’re “switching up a couple things.” So if you’re in possession of a Coachella weekend two pass, congratulations! You have a golden ticket.

It should be noted, however, that this lack of live stream doesn’t mean that Beyoncé won’t have her performance filmed at all. In fact, it seems very likely, given how she’s rolled out exclusives like Lemonade, that her Coachella set could become its own concert film (likely as an exclusive for Tidal, as Lemonade was).

But even with the hope that Beychella might not be exclusive forever, anyone looking to experience the magic this weekend will be out of luck unless they’re right there in the California desert with her.He’s the Mad Titan. He wrecks planets. He wants to destroy half the universe. He swats away superheroes like they’re flies on his dessert. He could very possibly end the lives of some of, if not all of, the Avengers.

His name, as the Avengers: Infinity War marketing blitz has already seared into your brain, is Thanos.

For 10 years, Marvel Studios has been pumping out superhero movies — 18 successful ones, to be exact. In that span of movies, we’ve seen the beginning of Iron Man and Captain America, the end of Ultron, Thor’s redemption, Ant-Man’s offbeat adventures, new additions like Scarlet Witch and Black Panther, and the weird birth of Vision.

But it’s Thanos, this ultimate, world-destroying villain, who marks the occasion that is Infinity War. The biggest, baddest Marvel villain of the past decade is the core of the biggest, baddest Marvel movie ever made.

Yet for all the hype, we actually haven’t been told very much about Thanos beyond his penchant for universe destruction. He’s amassed a whopping four minutes of actual screen time in those 18 movies, and the last we actually saw of him was in a post-credits scene in 2015’s Avengers: Age of Ultron.

A villain this mysterious is necessarily going to raise some questions.

Why is he coming to Earth? Is purple his real color? What’s he like in the comic books? Does he have friends? What does he like to do for fun? And most importantly, what makes him different, and more important, than all the other villains the Avengers have faced together and apart?

Since Marvel hasn’t screened the movie yet, we don’t have all the answers. What we do have is what Marvel has shown us so far of its cinematic universe, and the comic book source material the film is loosely based on. Here, then, is a brief guide to what to expect from Thanos in Infinity War:

Can Thanos have it all (the Infinity Gauntlet)?

To fully understand Thanos, you have to understand the Infinity Stones. The Marvel cinematic universe has focused more on what Thanos wants than his own backstory, resulting in a characterization defined in large part by his desire to possess the stones.

In the mythology of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the Infinity Stones are six “ingots” of immense power. We learn this in 2014’s Guardians of the Galaxy, when the Collector explains to the Guardians (and the audience) why they’re such a big deal. He says:

Oh, my new friends, before creation itself, there were six singularities, then the universe exploded into existence and the remnants of this system were forged into concentrated ingots ... Infinity Stones.

The Collector goes on to say that the gems are so powerful, the people who hold them eventually blow up and die. We find out later in the film that beings have to be superpowered just to handle them.

2015’s Avengers: Age of Ultron provided some important new intel by way of direct references to the stones and Thor’s visit to a magical, dream-inducing hot spring. Thor’s resulting vision reveals the Infinity Stones (we had previously never seen them together) as well as their locations in two different cosmic objects: the Tesseract (seen in The Avengers, Thor, and Captain America: The First Avenger) and the Aether (Thor: The Dark World). And in 2016’s Doctor Strange, we learned that the Sorcerer Supreme has an Infinity Stone — the Time stone — as well.

The six Infinity Stones (known as Infinity Gems in the comics) are referred to as Time, Mind, Space, Reality, Soul, and Power. Alone, each one has the ability to enhance its wielder’s powers (for instance, the Mind stone will enhance the telepathic abilities of telepaths). If a being manages to collect and combine them all, you have what’s called the complete Infinity Gauntlet, which will grant you unparalleled omnipotence. So if the wrong person — say, someone like Thanos — gets his or her hands on all six, it’s time to clock out early and make plans for intergalactic travel.

In the comics, the Infinity Stones played a major role in Marvel’s 1991 The Infinity Gauntlet series, by writer Jim Starlin and artist George Pérez. Marvel is borrowing some of Infinity Gauntlet’s ideas for Infinity War, and appears to be combining them with bigger elements from a 2013 comic book crossover arc called Infinity.

In Infinity, Thanos launches an attack on Earth alongside a team called the Black Order (more on them in a bit). In Infinity Gauntlet, Thanos is appointed by Death (an actual character) to assemble the Infinity Gems and cull the universe.

Both iterations depict Thanos as a maniacal, hulking brute. He’s more about force than strategy, more about strangling the life out of his enemies than simply defeating them. He’s determined to do what he sets his mind to (usually bring death and destruction upon wherever he may land). And in those two stories, he’s so laser-focused to see his goal through that it eventually becomes his undoing: In Infinity Gauntlet, he’s too obsessed with impressing Lady Death and himself that he becomes distracted, while in Infinity, he’s defeated because he overlooked his own son and a betrayal within in his ranks.

The thing about Marvel’s movies is that we don’t really know Thanos that well, nor do we know how much of the Thanos we see in these two arcs will translate to Infinity War.

From what little we’ve seen of him, he ‘s physically imposing but has yet to flex his full powers. Psychologically, he seems to be more in line with what we saw in Infinity: a villain who’s calling the shots with a heavy side of cruelty. We learned in Guardians Vol. 2 that he was a sadistic father to his adoptive daughters Nebula (who plays a big role in the Infinity Gauntlet comic event) and Gamora — pitting them against each other and making them battle. And Marvel has told us so many times that he’s the most fearsome villain in the Marvel universe.

But it’s not clear yet if these elements will combine to make Thanos not just the biggest villain in the MCU but also the best villain.

Will Thanos solve Marvel’s villain problem?

All we know about Thanos is that he’s the biggest, baddest villain and that he wants the Infinity Stones to destroy half of the universe. That Thanos has so far been a character defined solely by these two factors is a little worrisome considering Marvel has a cinematic history of villains who have wanted to do essentially the same thing, give or take an Infinity Stone or two.

Loki and the Red Skull had their own plans for Earth in The Avengers and Captain America: The First Avenger. Ultron wanted to destroy it in Avengers: Age of Ultron. Ronan the Accuser wanted to do the same, but to a different planet, in Guardians of the Galaxy. Ego, the Living Planet, wanted to take over the universe in the Guardians sequel, as did Hela, goddess of death, in Thor: Ragnarok.

Marvel villain after Marvel villain was defeated in part because Marvel was making way for Thanos — a villain that the films have been promising since The Avengers has the capability, unlike those who came before him, to tear apart the Marvel Cinematic Universe. If Thanos doesn’t live up to the hype, the disappointment won’t just be Thanos but also all the villains Marvel disposed of in prepping us for the Mad Titan himself.

One of the ways Thanos promises to be different is that there’s a distinct possibility that he’ll kill an Avenger or two. None of Marvel’s main superheroes have died facing a villain, and Thanos killing one (or three) would bolster the claim that he’s bigger and more deadly than Hela or Red Skull or Ultron. But beyond that, from a storytelling standpoint, Marvel needs to find a way to make Thanos a villain with a story, to give him a motivation beyond destroying the universe simply because that’s what he does. The biggest, baddest villain in the MCU needs a distinct voice — something that’s unfortunately lacking in Marvel’s previous movie villains.

After all, Thanos is what the past 10 years of Marvel moviemaking has been building up to; he’s got a lot to prove. But he’s not going to do it alone. He’s got an army to help him take down the Avengers and a cadre of fearsome generals to do his bidding.

Thanos’s Black Order, explained

In the official trailer for Infinity War, there’s a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it shot with major implications for the movie. Loki is pictured surrounded by four individuals who aren’t Thanos:

From the left, that’s Proxima Midnight (the woman holding a spear), Ebony Maw (the skinny guy), Corvus (who’s holding a weapon), and the Black Dwarf (the giant). These four characters appear in the aforementioned Infinity comic book arc and essentially function as Thanos’s four generals. (In the comic books, there’s a fifth member of the Black Order who is named Supergiant, but it’s unclear if she’s in the movie.)

Each one has his or her own special powers and skills, which should make for some flashy fights with the Avengers. Proxima and Corvus are your hand-to-hand combat gurus. The Black Dwarf is the muscle. Ebony Maw is the manipulative and maybe magical trickster.

I’m expecting to see Proxima and Corvus take on Cap and Black Panther, while the Black Dwarf looks to be physically on par with the Avengers’ heavy hitters like Thor.

But what’s really exciting is that these characters also come with their own motivations that will hopefully make their way into the film, helping to flesh out not only them as individual baddies but also the alpha villain they serve.

In the comic books, some of them want to please Thanos, while others are looking to use this opportunity to move up in the world. For example, at the end of Infinity, Ebony Maw uses Thanos’s long-lost son against him. Barring a drastic plot twist, the introduction of Thanos’s son doesn’t seem like a possibility in Infinity War, but keeping Ebony Maw’s personality and mentality is definitely doable.

These mid-major villains could shake up what’s become the standard Marvel villain protocol. They may not necessarily be looking to take over the universe or destroy Earth — and that’s a good thing, because there have been so many of those already. There’s an opportunity here to give each one a distinct personality and then showcase how that interacts with a boss like Thanos. Perhaps a couple might even double-cross him.

Of course, this excitement still exists primarily as speculation. There’s no golden rule that Marvel has to abide by its comic book source material. The Black Order could end up fizzling out or not living up to their comic book counterparts. Either way, we’ll get answers to these questions, and to see if Marvel cashes in on its big villain moment, when Infinity War hits theaters on April 27.Every week, some of Vox’s writers will gather to discuss the latest episode of FX’s spy drama The Americans. This week, critic at large Todd VanDerWerff, deputy culture editor Genevieve Koski, and culture writer Caroline Framke offer their takes on “Mr. and Mrs. Teacup,” the fourth episode of the final season. Needless to say, spoilers follow!

Todd VanDerWerff: The pivotal scene in “Mr. and Mrs. Teacup” is the one, late in the episode, when Elizabeth convinces Erica Haskard to go with her husband to the World Series party. Erica, deathly ill, doesn’t think anybody wants to be around her in the state she’s in. Her husband, Glenn, thinks it might be good for her to get out of the house. So does her “nurse,” who has instantly seized upon the opportunity as a way to further spy on the summit.

What’s devilish about this scene is the way it crystallizes both what Elizabeth and Erica were talking about earlier — how Erica wishes, on her deathbed, that she had spent more time with Glenn — and Elizabeth’s need to scuttle the summit. “Mr. and Mrs. Teacup” (in which, I should say, Mr. and Mrs. Teacup don’t appear) examines, in nearly every scene, the divide between political selves and personal selves.

It made me think quite a bit about the show’s title, actually. The opening scene, between a mustachioed Philip and Oleg, hinges on how Oleg’s greatest realization from working all those years in the US was that Americans aren’t horrible monsters but, instead, people who could be understood, with whom peace could be made.

“The Americans” theoretically refers to Philip and Elizabeth themselves — two people who made themselves the most American in order to blend in — but it also refers to all of us, living our lives, within a country that represents us in ways we both like and don’t like.

The central political conflict of this final season is still between the pro-Gorbachev forces (represented, however unwittingly, by Philip) and those who want him pushed out (represented by Elizabeth). But in “Mr. and Mrs. Teacup,” the show reminds us that it’s always been about something more than any one political conflict but, instead, about the ways the things that are centrally and essentially human about all of us tend to be obscured by the endless drum beat of nationalism.

Communism might be crumbling in the Soviet Union, but capitalism isn’t a bulletproof solution either, as Philip has found. I think it’s telling that the scene between Elizabeth and Erica is preceded immediately by the scene in which Philip complains to Stan about how he doesn’t understand the capitalist need to keep growing. Why not just stay at a level you’re happy with?

“The Americans” means our heroes, sure, but it also means a boogeyman you cook up in your own head, one that doesn’t really exist. We’re all just trying to get through the day, to find that happy plateau and then live there. Pity so few of us find it.

But here’s my big question: Why is this episode called “Mr. and Mrs. Teacup”? Also: How are they going to save the travel agency?!

Let’s answer the really important question: How will Philip save the travel agency? (And, okay, his soul.)

Caroline Framke: I know you’re into the travel agency drama for the pep talks and line dancing breaks, Todd, but man, trust The Americans to bring an extra level of poignancy to the death of the travel agency business and shut my skeptical mouth!

This episode is such a sad one for Philip, who started off this season as the buoyant counterpart to Elizabeth’s slow but steady deflation and has now joined her in the despondent muck. He feels like a bystander to Paige’s life now that she’s joined Elizabeth in the field he left behind; he can’t pay Henry’s tuition; his business is suddenly hanging on by a thread.

And as underlined by that stark flashback at the end, Philip’s angst surrounding his money troubles is rooted in a very real fear. He knows what it’s like to be truly, horrifically hungry, to be in poverty so bleak that there appears to be no way out. As he feels his family sinking around him, his depleted funds are another reminder that he may not be able to keep them afloat. Philip might not like or understand capitalism, but he definitely likes and understands the comfortable life it offers.

So in that respect, it’s unsurprising that Philip wades deeper back into spying this week, making a pit stop at Kimmy’s and having a frank conversation with Oleg about how neither of them is particularly into the blanket demonizing of America that comrades like Elizabeth and Claudia are prone to leaning on. He feels helpless in just about every other area of his life, so if he can actually do something that matters (as Arkady insists to Oleg’s father it does), he’ll do it.

But if I had to pick one emotion that defines this episode, it would be frustration. Philip can’t make the numbers add up like they need to; Elizabeth takes huge risks with that nearly disastrous break-in and field trip to the World Series party and still comes up empty. Both find their best efforts lacking, coming up short at every turn. Even Stan has reached the end of his rope with the aforementioned Teacups, whom he’s (understandably) sick of “babysitting.”

Something’s gotta give, but damned if I know what. Paige, probably?

Genevieve Koski: I don’t know. If anything, Paige seems to be more gung-ho about the spy game right now than even her mother is fully comfortable with. Elizabeth urging Paige to keep her relationships and “work” separate was misleading and hypocritical on her part, sure, but it also underlined the fact that Directorate S’s plan for Paige — to eventually infiltrate the State Department as an employee — is very different from the plan it had for her parents.

Considering Elizabeth’s pronounced emotional deterioration this season, it makes absolute sense that she’d want to steer her daughter away from the precise path she’s taken, preferring instead to train Paige in the ways of “home” via movie watching and cooking. But it seems like Paige might be subconsciously drawn to that path nonetheless, if that lingering shot of her eyeing her date’s ID badge means what I think it means.

No, if I had to put money on where this season’s breaking point happens, it would be, as befits this series, within the Jennings marriage. It’s arguably already happened now that Philip has informed on Elizabeth to Oleg, telling him about her mission to get the radiation sensor — but what’s interesting about that moment is that it happens after Oleg lays out the specifics of the political divisions between Directorate S and the Centre for Philip, who flat-out admits he has no idea what’s going on in the USSR. You can see the guilt Philip is wrestling with as he assures Oleg (and himself) of Elizabeth’s loyalty, something Oleg astutely points out can be “used.”

There’s a stated recognition here of the fact that allegiance to a cause is one thing, but allegiance to the individuals who claim to embody and promote that cause is quite another. Philip is primed to accept that in a way I don’t think Elizabeth is just yet — look at how readily she accepts Claudia’s interpretation of the danger a defected Mr. and Mrs. Teacup pose and the implication that they are now therefore expendable. I think Philip is recognizing how dangerous Elizabeth’s loyalty can be when put toward certain ends, a realization that undermines whatever loyalty to their marriage remains between them.

I say “whatever remains” because of that awkward scene between Philip and Elizabeth together in bed, a place we haven’t seen them in for a while. Aside from making explicit the parental divide I’ve been yammering about the last couple of weeks — “He’s your department,” Elizabeth says of Henry — it also sets up, then pointedly deflects, the suggestion of tenderness and understanding between husband and wife, with Philip attempting to reach out to Elizabeth and her literally giving him the cold shoulder.

The close-up of Philip’s face that closes that scene feels like a moment of resolution and recognition that they are no longer a unit but two individuals increasingly working at cross-purposes, in both the political and personal realms.

What do you think, am I giving up on the Jennings marriage too soon? Is there a glimmer of hope left I’m not seeing?

Can Philip and Elizabeth’s marriage be saved? Plus: our first predictions for which characters will survive the season.

Todd: Can this marriage be saved? Maybe. What I’m really wondering about is if that strained kiss toward the end of the episode was the first time the two have kissed all season. This is a show that took great delight in the physical chemistry between its two leads, and now, without their work or their kids tying them together, they’re like premature ghosts, haunting their big American house.

Seriously, take a look at that shot of Philip and Elizabeth eying each other across their big, empty kitchen, as framed by director Roxann Dawson. We’ve seen these two in that kitchen together so many times, but Dawson pulls back and surrounds the light of the space with a ring of darkness that makes them feel further away and more isolated from each other (and, honestly, from us) than they ever have before. The season is doing such exquisite work with the deterioration of this relationship that I sometimes forget we never actually saw the three years of slowly fraying bonds between the two.

It’s also a very deliberate choice on the part of the writers to focus so tightly on the marriage, to the degree that almost everything else that happens in the series at this point seems to only matter insofar as it can somehow come to bear on the Jennings marriage. Mr. and Mrs. Teacup are now a problem for Elizabeth to deal with, even as Stan is the closest thing Philip has to a sympathetic ear, and you can just about feel Oleg being plucked out of the show by a giant claw and delivered elsewhere now that he’s no longer able to meet with Philip in person.

This sounds more critical than I intend it. The Americans has always been at its best when it eschews the big for the small. It’s about the grunt work that makes up espionage and a good marriage, about all the little steps that add up to the seemingly effortless result. Thus, telling a huge, sweeping story of geopolitics through the prism of one married couple is perhaps the ultimate expression of this idea.

And yet when Elizabeth was pinned down early in the hour, the police rushing toward her location, I was struck by the sense that if she were going to die, I would want her to die somewhere in the vicinity of her husband, instead of off on the job somewhere, in a cold basement.

If anything is going to save Philip and Elizabeth — beyond the fact that seemingly everything in their lives is telling them, “Y’know, maybe it’s time to check in on your family?” — it’s that they might have lost their passion for each other but they haven’t yet lost their tenderness. It’s frayed and scratched and cracked, but it’s not broken beyond repair.

That scene in bed near the episode’s end is one of two people who are tired of each other but not yet done with each other — and I still think if push comes to shove, they’ll choose each other over the cause. At least I hope so.

Caroline: That moment when Philip reaches out to rest his hand on Elizabeth’s arm with brief but visible hesitation is extraordinary (not least because it shows, once again, how much Matthew Rhys can do with so little). The disconnect between them is especially jarring given how we left them as such a united front at the end of season five. But three years into their new split arrangement, they barely have energy to stand on their own, let alone be there for the other to lean on.

Like Todd said, this episode makes it plain how much distance there is between the Jenningses by making it physical, looking at them from clear across a room or through an obscured window, their vision hazy and unsure. But Keri Russell and Rhys are so heartbreaking as they play Philip and Elizabeth at their most exhausted. When they’re in bed together, Philip is especially uncomfortable in his vulnerability, and so viscerally sad in his earnest desire to reach out and touch his wife instead of the chain-smoking stranger she’s become, that it literally made me flinch.

But if we’re taking bets on who might die this final season — which, let’s not, I’m incredibly competitive and don’t want to break out my own furious forehead vein — I’d say that either neither one dies or both of them do.

Either way, I also expect them to come back together. Showrunners Joe Weisberg and Joel Fields have always been very explicit that this series is more about marriage than anything else, and this final season sure feels like a last gasp of turbulence before what I’d guess — or maybe more accurately, hope — will be some kind of mutually destructive, romantic-as-hell Thelma & Louise moment.

There is one person, however, who sure seems like a goner, and the only reason I’d disagree is the show is hinting at it very hard. So hey, Genevieve, how are you feeling about Oleg’s chances this season? And more broadly, about his part in the show at the moment, weighed down as he is by his pesky moral compass?

Genevieve: He’s also weighted down by that big, bushy beard, universal TV shorthand for “I’m going through something right now.”

There’s definitely a “one last job” vibe to Oleg’s storyline this season that feels like it’s telegraphing a tragic end, especially considering the way it’s roping his family into the game. His father is playing go-between for Oleg and Arkady, seemingly with scant knowledge about what his son is actually up to stateside.

It’s not entirely clear to me how the elder Burov’s views may or may not align with those of his son and Arkady, but given the betrayal Oleg and Igor felt over the government’s refusal to acknowledge Oleg’s brother’s sacrifice with a military burial, I’m guessing he may not be quite the obedient little government official he seems.

His father is also hiding from Oleg the full truth of how his wife and child are holding up in his absence, an obfuscation that seems to be priming the pump for a heartbreaking implosion of Oleg’s happy (I think? It’s honestly hard to tell with the Russian characters sometimes) family. That would certainly be in keeping with what The Americans has been up to so far this season, and you’re right, Caroline, that the show is not being particularly subtle about hinting at it.

But despite all that, I want Oleg to live, dammit! Not only is he perhaps the most compassionate character this show has left (outside of maybe Paige, whose compassion comes with a big dose of naiveté), but he feels like the best potential embodiment of future Russian-American relations, a sort of middle ground between Elizabeth’s desire to protect her country and the pull Philip feels toward American culture. Given the course of history and The Americans’ general purview, it’s probably wildly optimistic on my part to hope for a happy end for Oleg, but I still can’t help rooting for him.

It must be the beard.Just months after the downfall of producer Harvey Weinstein and the rise of the current #MeToo movement, once-powerful men are already thinking about their comebacks.

Matt Lauer is “testing the waters,” according to Page Six, “by coming out of hiding from his Hamptons home.” Mario Batali is reportedly thinking of starting a new company. Garrison Keillor is touring again, and wants to bring back his radio shows.

Some of the comeback chatter has come from media outlets rather than directly from the men. Charlie Rose was the subject of a recent profile in the Hollywood Reporter detailing his post-firing media diet and exercise regimen (10 newspapers a day; tennis) and examining what “earning back his good name” might look like. The same publication also recently asked comedians and club owners how Louis C.K. “could return to the stage ... and the spotlight.”

Whatever the source, talk of comebacks at this early date risks replicating one of the flaws critics saw in earlier phases of the #MeToo conversation: an excessive focus on individual men to the exclusion of the systemic factors that allowed them to harass colleagues with impunity. As women came forward to report harassment and assault in recent months, “the main reaction was punishing bad actors, as though that behavior was not institutionally supported,” said Sheerine Alemzadeh, co-founder of Healing to Action, a nonprofit that helps workers advocate against gender-based violence.

It’s worthwhile to consider whether and how powerful people ousted from their jobs over sexual misconduct should be allowed to redeem themselves. But first, the companies and industries where these people operated need to think about their redemption, making sure they identify and change the practices that protected and enabled abusers for too long.

In the wake of high-profile firings, some organizations are instituting new training and policies. But experts worry that too few companies are asking the hard questions necessary for real change. And if they don’t, the abuses that led to #MeToo in the first place are likely to happen again.

For some powerful men, the comeback talk began after just a few months

Pundits have been talking about “rehabilitating” powerful men accused of sexual misconduct since at least early December — and Weinstein was talking about a “second chance” in mid-October, just days after the New York Times first reported on his legal settlements with multiple women accusing him of harassment — so it’s perhaps no surprise that some men are reportedly mulling comebacks a few months after leaving their jobs.

Matt Lauer was fired from his job as the co-host of NBC’s Today show in late November, after a female subordinate reported inappropriate sexual behavior by him. Soon, more women came forward, including one who said he sexually assaulted her in his office, causing her to pass out.

On April 16, Richard Johnson of Page Six reported that Lauer was “said to be testing the waters for a public comeback” and had been spotted at an upscale restaurant in Manhattan with Mitch Modell of Modell’s Sporting Goods. “With his marriage to Annette Roque now over, he’s ready to restart his life, pals say,” Johnson wrote.

In December of last year, Batali stepped away from his restaurants after four women told Eater that he had touched them inappropriately in incidents spanning two decades. The New York Times also reported that Batali had been seen in 2008 groping a woman who appeared to be unconscious at a party in a space at the Spotted Pig restaurant that some employees darkly called “the rape room.”

In early April, less than four months later, Kim Severson of the New York Times reported that Batali was taking meetings “to figure out how his life and career might recover from a disastrous turn.” Batali had “sketched several scenarios that put him in the driver’s seat but cede some control,” Severson reported, including creating a new company that would be led by a woman CEO, or starting a program for chefs to help displaced Rwandans. “On the other hand,” Severson wrote, “he might just move to the Amalfi Coast.”

Garrison Keillor, meanwhile, was dropped from Minnesota Public Radio in late November due, the network said, to allegations of inappropriate behavior with an employee. Keillor claimed all he had done was pat a woman on the back, but in January, an MPR investigation uncovered allegations by multiple women across many years. Keillor has been defiant in the face of allegations against him, saying that one woman who complained about his behavior “enjoyed flirtation, as many people do.”

Earlier this month, he posted on his Facebook page that he was ready to resurrect his poetry radio show, The Writer’s Almanac. “I get the idea that public radio stations will never carry it again and so we’ll need to find a way to do it through social media,” he wrote. “There are smart people who can manage this and make it easy.”

He also said he wanted to take his famous show A Prairie Home Companion on tour again. And in March, he resumed giving solo performances incorporating songs and storytelling, commenting onstage in Prescott, Arizona, about “the beauty of being disgraced.”

Charlie Rose lost his gigs at CBS This Morning, 60 Minutes, and his eponymous PBS show in November, after eight women reported that he made unwanted sexual advances toward them. One woman said that he invited her to his house, saying he was considering her for a job, then appeared naked except for a bathrobe and twice tried to put his hand down her pants.

Last week, James Oliver Cury of the Hollywood Reporter wrote that Rose had holed up for the winter at his home in Bellport, Long Island (“described as ‘the un-Hamptons’”), but made time for meals with influential people like lawyer David Boies, who has represented Harvey Weinstein. While one friend said Rose was “focusing on trying to understand, [both] events and other people’s perception of them,” another told Cury, “I don’t think he thinks he’s done anything wrong” and “he thinks he will be back on television.”

Workplaces are responding — but the work is far from done

While powerful men mull their next steps, the workplaces that dismissed them are making changes to varying degrees. CBS News, where Rose hosted CBS This Morning and was a correspondent on 60 Minutes, has instituted mandatory in-person sexual harassment training since he was let go, according to a spokesperson for the network. The two-hour trainings supplement the company’s online training, the only format required in the past.

The network has also established a working group to evaluate the workplace environment at CBS more generally and make recommendations to management, according to an internal memo sent last week. The working group is holding meetings for employees to discuss their concerns, and will offer an email address to share concerns anonymously.

Earlier this month, Page Six reported that an upcoming exposé about Rose in the Washington Post had CBS executives “panicking that they’ll be accused of turning a blind eye to his sexual misconduct.” One source told Page Six that executives had been warning employees that their nondisclosure agreements would be enforced if they talked to the Post. The spokesperson for CBS declined to comment on the Page Six report.

Meanwhile, Mette McLoughlin, senior vice president and chief human resources officer at Minnesota Public Radio, told Vox that “our anti-harassment and non-discrimination policies have been in place for many years and upon a recent review, we find they are strong policies that have served the organization and our employees well.” The review took place more than a year ago, before Keillor’s termination, according to a spokesperson.

In the past six months, the station has made an effort to ensure employees are aware of the anti-harassment policies and “where they should bring any concerns,” McLoughlin said. After the Weinstein news broke, the station hosted a series of brown-bag sessions on the policies, which gave rise to “a subgroup that is working to identify how we want to define a respectful, harassment-free environment and what that requires of all of us.”

At Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group, which manages the restaurants opened by Batali and his business partner Joe Bastianich, changes have been underway since December, when a letter to staff promised enhancements to human resources, a new anti-harassment policy, and new roles for high-profile women in the organization. Since then, the company has started an employee hotline for reporting harassment and conducted training for managers on the hotline’s use, according to David Gruber, B&B’s director of marketing.

The company has also hired a director of employee relations and is working with outside HR consultants, as well as distributing a company-wide survey, to better understand employee concerns, Gruber said. Meanwhile, chef Nancy Silverton and Lidia Bastianich, Joe Bastianich’s mother and a partner in many B&B restaurants, have assumed larger roles at the company. “Whereas historically Lidia Bastianich and Nancy Silverton have worked only with the restaurants of which they are owners, they are now working with the kitchen leadership of all 24 restaurants in the B&B portfolio,” Gruber said.

NBC News, where Lauer worked for more than 20 years, has not yet responded to a request for comment.

“How did he get away with it?”

Overall, anti-harassment advocates say that while some companies are making moves, much more change is necessary to tackle the systemic problems #MeToo helped expose. “We’re barely scratching the surface, and we need to do so much more,” said Tammy Cho, co-founder of BetterBrave, a nonprofit that offers resources and information to employees about responding to harassment. Since BetterBrave was founded in July 2017, she said, 85 percent of people who have reached out to the group have said they experienced some form of retaliation from their employer for reporting harassment.

“Companies have essentially forgotten the human aspect of human resources,” Cho said. “They too often see these individuals who report incidents of sexual harassment as legal liabilities, and they basically throw their legal team at the issue instead of trying to think about how to best resolve the situation.”

While it’s encouraging that companies are undertaking reforms, not all of them are particularly effective. Research has cast doubt on the effectiveness of sexual harassment training, for instance, though some evidence suggests that such training may have an impact when directed at managers, according to Frank Dobbin, a sociologist at Harvard who studies workplace diversity.

Anti-harassment training tends to be legalistic, said Debbie Dougherty, a professor of communication at the University of Missouri who has studied sexual harassment policies, and “the legal system is backward-looking — it’s based on precedent, things that have happened.” Companies need to protect themselves legally, she said, but to really fix the problem of harassment, training “needs to be forward-looking, based on what we need in order to change.”

Dougherty also recommended that organizations institute bystander intervention training. “With sexual harassment, people who do the behavior know they’re doing it” — but others may need help spotting it and reacting appropriately.

Gender balance is also crucial — the presence of women at every level in a company hierarchy can help protect female employees from harassment, Dobbin says. But just promoting women into leadership roles may not be enough if they have the same mindset as the men who preceded them. “There are these really deeply entrenched cultural value systems around hierarchy in the workplace, around not complaining, around being a team player and not taking things too seriously,” Alemzadeh said. “Whoever a manager or a leader is in an organization, if that’s their attitude, people aren’t going to feel comfortable coming forward and reporting.”

Many companies talk about preventing harassment by strengthening their anti-harassment policies, Alemzadeh added. However, many organizations with sexual harassment problems actually had strong policies in writing. “The problem was there was a culture in those companies that really prevented people from feeling like those were meaningful protections.”

One of the lessons of #MeToo has been the degree to which powerful harassers benefit from and even depend on others around them who actively or passively enable their behavior. Organizations with longstanding or widespread sexual harassment problems tend to have what Dougherty calls “support staff,” or “unofficial people who provide support for the predator,” she said.

To fix that problem, employers who have dismissed powerful people for harassment need to ask not just what happened but “how did he get away with it” — “what are the processes in place that allowed this individual to get away with this behavior for so long?”

Some of the recent crop of comeback stories have mentioned powerful men’s efforts at self-examination, reckoning with their pasts and contemplating their futures. Dougherty, meanwhile, calls for that kind of introspection on the part of companies and organizations, from Michigan State University to NPR, where high-profile people have been dismissed after reports of sexual misconduct. She’d like to see those employers “asking themselves, ‘What did we do to support this person’s behavior,’” she said, “which is a soul-searching at the cultural and institutional level that I don’t think these organizations have really engaged in.”The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has been trying to right some of its systemic wrongs, most notably welcoming an unusually large class of new voting members in order to diversify its ranks. But not everyone has been on board with the changes, as evidenced by producer Bill Mechanic’s recent resignation from the Academy’s Governors Board.

“I left the Board after one term, but decided to run again a couple of years ago when many of the decisions of the Board seemed to me to be reactive rather than considered,” Mechanic wrote in a letter to the board, which Variety acquired in full. “I felt I could help provide some perspective and guidance.”

But what Mechanic highlighted as the problems that ultimately led him to leave are telling.

While he has some gripes about the way the board and its priorities are organized, his most explicit complaints have to do with the Academy becoming what he calls “the Moral Police.” He writes that upping the Academy’s diversity numbers is ineffective because inclusion is “the Industry’s problem far, far more than it is the Academy’s.” He complains that the Oscar ceremony ratings are low, blaming in part the fact that “no popular film has won in over a decade.”

He registers his displeasure with how the Academy handled sexual harassment allegations against president John Bailey (allegations an academy committee investigated and dismissed), writing that “we have allowed the Academy to be blamed for things way beyond our control and then try to do things which are not in our purview (sexual harassment, discrimination in the Industry).”

It bears mentioning at this point that Mechanic had previously criticized the Academy’s response to the Harvey Weinstein allegations, again saying that “the moral police were silent” beforehand, and that “this should be left to the companies people work for and to the police.”

Also, Mechanic’s sole Oscar nomination to date is for producing the 2017 Best Picture nominee Hacksaw Ridge. The film won two Oscars (for Film Editing and Sound Mixing) and got six nominations overall — including one for Mel Gibson as Best Director.

Gibson is a particularly interesting — and telling — example of a Hollywood comeback story. He was once ostracized from the industry for the racist vitriol he spouted while drunk and, to a lesser extent, the abusive threats he lobbed at his wife and ex-girlfriend. But after some time and carefully considered responses, he made his way back into Hollywood’s good graces enough to both get an Oscar nomination and star in a wry Christmas comedy.

There very well may be, as Mechanic claims, organizational issues that keep the board and Academy from being its best, most efficient, and conscientious self. But looking at whom he’s chosen to collaborate with adds a substantial wrinkle to his narrative surrounding the Academy’s attempts at progress.The fact that Trump’s State Department is in shambles is not, at this point, debatable.

Recent data from the American Foreign Service Association (AFSA), the professional organization for America’s diplomatic corps, found that 60 percent of State’s highest-ranking career officers quit during Trump’s first year; the number of applications to join the foreign service dropped by half. Fewer than half of all top-level positions, political appointees nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, have been filled.

The question that remains is who’s to blame. A new article by journalist Ronan Farrow, published in the New Yorker on Thursday morning, sheds light on the question. The piece is deeply reported, featuring a wide-ranging interview with Tillerson conducted while he was in office. Farrow paints a damning picture of a dysfunctional State Department, brought to the brink of ruin by Trump and Tillerson in equal parts.

Trump’s management style emerges in the piece as a clear reason for State’s decline. The president’s top advisers are constantly at war with one another, struggling over influence in a pale imitation of Game of Thrones.

In the months prior to Tillerson’s ouster, there were constant rumors that he was on the verge of being ousted. Jared Kushner, who had been put in charge of Israel-Palestine negotiations, was allegedly the one spreading those rumors in a bid to expand his own influence over foreign policy.

Farrow describes an intense moment during their interview in which Tillerson reveals the depth of his anger toward the person responsible for spreading those rumors about him:

Tillerson leaned in and, for a moment, I realized that it must be unpleasant to be fired by him. “I know who it is [behind the rumor]. I know who it is. And they know I know.” According to multiple individuals who had heard Tillerson speak of the matter behind closed doors, this was a reference to Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner. Before Tillerson’s departure, tensions between the two men had been flaring regularly, often in the form of a public-relations proxy war.

The fact that there was this level of hostility and tension between Kushner and Tillerson helps explain in why Tillerson — and by extension the State Department — struggled to be a prominent player in top-level foreign policy decisions.

A second problem is the White House’s utter disinterest in — or perhaps even disdain for — the work that State Department diplomats and even lower-level officials do in running the day-to-day management of US foreign policy.

The president, according to Tillerson, put little effort into filling vacant jobs at the State Department, including vital posts like ambassadors to Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and South Korea. Tillerson complained to Farrow that he would propose names and never hear back from the White House about whether they could be formally nominated:

“They’ve not been easy,” [Tillerson] recalled, of his year of conversations with the Trump Administration about filling the open jobs. “The process over there has not been the most efficient, and they’ve changed personnel trying to improve it, I mean, many, many times. . . . It was very slow, it was very cumbersome, it was frustrating, at times, because you couldn’t get a sense of ‘What’s the issue?’ Someone seems to be kind of sitting in idle over there,” he said, sighing. “I would tell ’em, ‘Just give me a no. At least with a no, I’ll go get another name.’”

If the president doesn’t care about getting high-level appointees like ambassadors through Congress and into their jobs, then the State Department won’t function.

The third, and perhaps most important, reason for State’s collapse is that Secretary Tillerson was simply not well suited for his job. Before becoming secretary of state, Tillerson had spent years sitting at the very top of a massive multinational corporation, Exxon-Mobil. Tillerson was top dog — his office was even referred to as the “God Pod” by Exxon-Mobil employees. He was a powerful Texas oil executive who probably didn’t have his word questioned very often.

But when he became secretary of state, he suddenly had to defer to the whims of the president — a man he reportedly once described in a meeting with staffers as “a fucking moron” and who also likes to see himself as the toughest guy in the room. As Farrow explains, that dynamic didn’t exactly go so well:

“The only person that I have to worry about is the President of the United States,” Tillerson told me. But that relationship was, likewise, fraught. Tillerson’s Texas swagger, the source close to the White House said, irked Trump. “You just can’t be an arrogant alpha male all the time with Trump. You have to do what [Secretary of Defense Jim] Mattis does, which is, ‘Mr. President, you’re the President, you’re smarter than me, you won, your instincts are always right, but let me just give you the other view, sir.’ Then you have this guy coming in,” the source said, referring to Tillerson, “going ‘Well, I guess because I worked for so many years in the oil business, I have something to say. You don’t know much about the region, so let me start with that.’ I mean, honestly, condescending.”

CIA Director Mike Pompeo, Trump’s pick to replace Tillerson as secretary of state, reportedly has a much better relationship with the president. If he’s confirmed, he’ll have to keep it that way — or else the deep damage done to America’s diplomatic corps during the Tillerson era won’t be healed.Vox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world, curated by Ella Nilsen. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.

NASA gets a new administrator; North Korea says it will go forward with talks on denuclearization even if US troops stay in the South.

“I care about space”

NASA has a new administrator — one whose nomination to lead the agency was controversial, even among Republicans. [Vox / Brian Resnick]

The Senate narrowly confirmed Oklahoma Rep. Jim Bridenstine on Thursday by a 50-49 vote. His confirmation after a vacancy of three months ends the longest period of time that NASA has operated without a permanent leader. [NYT / Kenneth Chang]

Bridenstine, a former Navy pilot who once ran the Air and Space Museum in Tulsa, was nominated by President Donald Trump last fall. But his confirmation stalled over objections from members in both parties about Bridenstine’s lack of experience and what it could mean for the agency to put a politician in charge for the first time. [WSJ / Natalie Andrews and Andy Pasztor]

Bridenstine has refused to acknowledge that human activity is the primary cause of climate change, a particularly concerning issue for NASA because it provides some of the most comprehensive data on climate change in the world. [Huffington Post / Chris D’Angelo]

Democrats also criticized him for his past statements on LGBTQ rights. He once described legislation protecting the right of transgender people to use the bathroom matching their gender identity as “lawless federal bullying.” [Politico / Jacqueline Klimas]

The Senate vote faced unanimous opposition from Democrats, including Sen. Tammy Duckworth, who brought her newborn daughter with her to cast her opposing vote, becoming the first senator to bring a child onto the chamber’s floor while the Senate was in session. [The Hill / Timothy Cama]

On Wednesday, the Senate had voted to allow the babies of its members into the chamber. The vote came at Duckworth’s urging after she became the first sitting senator to give birth. (Senate rules stipulate that members must be present in order to vote.) [Chicago Tribune via AP / Laurie Kellman]

vox-mark Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

North Korea makes a major concession on nuclear weapons

South Korean President Moon Jae-in said Thursday that North Korea appears to have conceded on a major point ahead of planned talks with the US: Kim Jong Un will no longer demand that US troops leave South Korea in exchange for giving up North Korea’s nuclear program. [NYT / Choe Sang-Hun]

North Korea is demanding only security guarantees and an end to the United States’ “hostile policy,” Moon said. [Associated Press / Foster Klug]

Korean experts caution that this touted shift might be essentially meaningless because “hostile policy” could mean anything — and in the past, North Korea has claimed it comprises the presence of US troops on the Korean Peninsula. [WSJ / Jonathan Cheng]

Meanwhile, Trump said he would scrap the event altogether, or even walk out of the session while it was underway, if it looked like it wasn’t heading toward success, saying to reporters, “If I think that it’s a meeting that is not going to be fruitful, we’re not going to go. ... If the meeting when I’m there is not fruitful, I will respectfully leave the meeting.” [Axios / Jonathan Swan]

Miscellaneous

There aren’t many people in the world who can unilaterally rename a country. The King of Swaziland is one of them. And yes, he just did. [BBC]

The United Kingdon is getting serious about ocean pollution. On Monday, Prime Minister Theresa May announced a likely ban on all plastic straws, stirrers, and cotton swabs. [NPR / Laurel Wamsley]

What’s one bitcoin actually worth? Somewhere between $20 and $800,000, depending on which economist you ask. [Bloomberg / Lionel Laurent]

The future is here. And it’s arrived in the form of robots capable of assembling your Ikea furniture for you. [Science Mag / Matt Warren]

Verbatim

“It may not be so dangerous for someone to be without clothes on the bridge, but drivers can get too much of a surprise and completely forget that they are driving.” [Norway’s former traffic minister implores teens to stop running naked across bridges and having sex on roundabouts in a statement titled “No to sex on roundabouts” / Reuters]

Watch this: How Parkland student David Hogg beats his critics

Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg has some strategies for dealing with smears and conspiracy theories. [YouTube / Carlos Maza and Coleman Lowndes]

Read more

Matt Lauer, Mario Batali, and Garrison Keillor are all eyeing a return. #MeToo is at risk.

New poll shows Democrat leading in every Arizona Senate matchup

The Waco tragedy, explained

North Korea just promised a huge concession on its nuclear weapons. It’s done that before.

Britain’s emissions haven’t been this low since 1890. So why not go for zero?The controversial arrest of two black men in a Philadelphia Starbucks last week has prompted the company to announce that it would close 8,000 stores for an afternoon to give its employees racial bias training. And Starbucks is enlisting some big names to help.

The company has tapped civil rights experts like former US Attorney General Eric Holder, Bryan Stevenson of the Equal Justice Initiative, Sherrilyn Ifill of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, Heather McGhee of Demos, and Jonathan Greenblatt of the Anti-Defamation League, according to an April 17 press release. The experts will help create the training curriculum, which will then be rolled out to some 175,000 employees on May 29. The experts will also review how effective the training is after it has been completed.

The announcement comes at a crucial time for the company, which has sought to limit the fallout from the April 12 incident in which Rashon Nelson and Donte Robinson were arrested for trespassing as they waited inside a Starbucks for a business partner. During a Thursday interview with Good Morning America, the men said they had been inside the Starbucks for only two minutes before the manager called the police.

While the incident seemed extreme to some, it’s a familiar story for any black person who has been treated with suspicion while inside a store. “It’s part of a very, very long story about African-Americans and public accommodations and how we are treated in public spaces,” Ifill, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund director who will help with the training curriculum, told NPR on Wednesday.

The arrest has opened up a discussion about race in public spaces and led to calls to boycott Starbucks, as well as protests at the Philadelphia store where the men were arrested.

Experts say anti-bias training is often ineffective. Starbucks needs to get this right.

The stakes are high for Starbucks; the coffee giant has long positioned itself as a progressive company that “gets” social issues, particularly racial ones.

In 2016, the company opened its first store in Ferguson, Missouri, after the police shooting of Michael Brown and ensuing protests there. Starbucks described this as part of a larger effort to expand into low-income communities that would create jobs and provide skills training for local youth.

The company was widely mocked in 2015 for encouraging employees to write “Race Together” on coffee cups in an effort to start conversations about race. Critics said that campaign was focused more on optics than on actually addressing racism. By tapping serious and well-known civil rights experts for the May training, Starbucks may be trying to fight back against “style over substance” critiques.

Racial bias training itself is not without controversy, as Vox’s Julia Belluz explains, because these types of trainings have often been judged ineffective by experts.

“Diversity trainings are filled with good intentions and poor evidence,” Brian Nosek, a University of Virginia researcher, told Belluz. “In terms of training in general, no matter what the topic, there’s very little evidence that it on its own can change behaviors.”

Other experts agree. “We should be skeptical of the training’s ability to transform, in any meaningful way, white workers’ biases toward black customers,” Hakeem J. Jefferson, a political science PhD candidate at the University of Michigan, told Belluz.

Rather than focusing so much work on an afternoon of training, experts suggest that Starbucks and other companies looking to address bias might be better served by focusing on better integrating their workforce.

But Starbucks seems to be banking on its training, and the people it has asked to create it. The company says it plans to make the curriculum available to other companies.As Brazil battles the biggest yellow fever outbreak in modern times, researchers are warning of the risk of the virus spreading internationally.

Between July 1, 2017, and April 10 this year, a total of 1,127 confirmed cases and 331 deaths have been reported in Brazil. Travelers have also taken the virus to other countries. Since January, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported, there have been at least four deaths and 10 cases of the mosquito-borne virus among international travelers returning to Europe and South America from Brazil.

None of the travelers had been immunized for yellow fever prior to their trips, and many cases involved infections on Ilha Grande, an island off the coast of Rio de Janeiro that’s popular with tourists.

“There are more cases of imported yellow fever [from travelers] in the past two years than in the previous 20 years,” said Duane Gubler, a leading researcher of mosquito-borne diseases at Duke-NUS Medical School. “Sooner or later, we’ll have an introduction that takes — and then there’ll be chaos.”

There’s no cure for yellow fever, but there is a vaccine, and it’s highly effective. Within 10 days of receiving the shot, some 90 percent of people are immune to the disease.

But there’s a problem: Global supplies of the vaccine have been running short for years. These shortages have coincided with some of the largest yellow fever outbreaks in half a century. And a new study published in the Bulletin of the World Health Organization warned that this is a recipe for more outbreaks — even in the southern US, where the virus is not endemic but where mosquitoes that can carry the virus live.

The researchers found that America was among a handful countries with a high volume of travelers — 2.76 million people — coming from places with yellow fever. Yet the US also doesn’t require people to show a yellow fever card proving they’ve been vaccinated against the virus.

“At a time when global yellow fever vaccine supplies are diminished, an epidemic in a densely populated city could have substantial health and economic consequences,” the researchers warned. “The global community needs to carefully reexamine existing yellow fever travel vaccination policies and practices to prevent urban epidemics.” Here’s why.

Most cases of yellow fever are similar to the flu, but 15 percent of cases are severe and can be deadly

Yellow fever has plagued humanity for centuries. The virus is carried by infected mosquitoes that spread it when they bite humans or monkeys. Symptoms in most people are mild and flu-like: muscle pain, fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, and fatigue.

But 15 percent of patients experience a much more severe second phase of the illness, which brings high fever, yellowing of the skin and eyes, internal bleeding, and organ failure. Up to half of these patients die within two weeks. (This is why yellow fever is a hemorrhagic fever.)

The first yellow fever epidemic was reported in 1648, according to JAMA. In 1793, a yellow fever outbreak wiped out 10 percent of the population of Philadelphia (then the capital of the United States), “causing 17,000 people, including President Washington and other members of the federal government, to flee to the countryside,” according to the Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History. In 1878, an epidemic ”destroyed” Memphis, Tennessee, killing 5,000.

Yellow fever hasn’t spread in the US for 100 years, but it still plagues South America and sub-Saharan Africa. And the outbreaks in these areas have been growing worse in recent years.

Researchers don’t fully understand what’s behind the resurgence of yellow fever

Yellow fever had been controlled effectively in West Africa and South America for half a century.

Then in 2016, the virus showed up in urban areas of Angola and spread to the Democratic Republic of Congo as well as Uganda. All told, more than 900 people were infected, and it took 30 million vaccine doses to snuff out the outbreak.

“In 2016, we saw the most cases [of yellow fever] in decades,” Gubler said. “And that’s continuing this year.”

Researchers aren’t sure what’s behind this resurgence, but some believe factors like climate change, global travel, and urbanization are helping mosquito-borne diseases spread more easily than before.

Yellow fever typically circulates in forests or jungles, between monkeys and mosquitoes, in what’s known as a “sylvatic cycle.” But spillover into humans can happen when people enter these areas and get bitten by jungle mosquitoes, which carry the virus. If infected people return to cities, urban mosquitoes like the Aedes aegypti — which also carries dengue and Zika — can pick up the virus and spread it others, starting a chain of human-to-human transmission. (That’s what happened in Angola, but it hasn’t yet happened in Brazil.)

Human cases of yellow fever have hit their highest levels in years, said Gubler. And there are a few drivers of the trend. Cities have not kept up their mosquito control programs, allowing mosquito-spread diseases to flourish, while health officials in countries where yellow fever is common have not been routinely vaccinating their citizens, since outbreaks had become less frequent. Some countries also haven’t been looking for proof of yellow fever vaccination at borders, which can help the virus spread.

To respond to these trends, starting in 2006, the World Health Organization, with support from Gavi (an international organization focused on improving vaccine access), ramped up efforts to make sure at-risk communities got vaccinated. But the 47 countries that get support from Gavi still have yellow fever vaccine coverage rates of less than 60 percent — and that number needs to hover around 70 percent to protect the population.

The outbreaks have coincided with vaccine shortages

There’s also the vaccine supply issue. There are only four yellow fever vaccine manufacturers certified by the WHO. Because the disease had been effectively controlled for decades, and demand for the vaccine has been low, the manufacturers have not had the incentive to produce large stockpiles.

Since 2012, Gavi has been working with the four main manufacturers to modernize their production processes and ramp up stockpiles — but they were still in the midst of that push when the outbreak in Angola happened.

That outbreak depleted the WHO’s emergency stockpile of the vaccine and forced health officials to give out “fractional doses” of it — one-fifth the size of a standard dose — in the related DRC outbreak. (The fractional doses worked.) Before vaccine manufacturers could fully recover, yellow fever popped up in large numbers in Brazil.

“We are in better shape [with supplies] but it’s still fragile now,” said Seth Berkley, head of Gavi. Brazil manufactures its own yellow fever vaccine, and supplies had been short there too, particularly as health officials looked to mount the first-ever nationwide vaccination campaign.

“We now have enough vaccine for meeting the needs [of the population],” said Sylvain Aldighieri, deputy director of the emergency department at the WHO’s Pan-American Health Organization. This is, in part, because the government is giving out full vaccine doses only in the areas most at risk for yellow fever, and fractional doses in cities unaffected by yellow fever spread.

Meanwhile, stocks of the only licensed yellow fever vaccine in the US, YF-VAX, have been totally depleted in the US — the result of manufacturing problems at Sanofi Pasteur’s Pennsylvania plant. The company had been moving to a new manufacturing plant and lost a large number of doses meant to bridge their transition period. So Americans who want the vaccine may not have an easy time getting it.

The CDC has made available a searchable list of clinics that may still have some leftover YF-VAX stock, or an alternative yellow fever vaccine, Stamaril. But because of the supply shortages, only 250 clinics are currently offering yellow fever vaccines, down from the usual 400-plus. And the YF-Vax supply is only expected to return by the end of this year.

The outbreak keeps expanding

Brazil’s outbreak of yellow fever has been expanding since 2016 — and is now spreading into regions where public health experts thought vaccinations weren’t necessary.

“This wave has reached new areas on the coast of southeast Brazil where you have the biggest cities,” said Aldighieri. There’s no evidence yellow fever has popped up in Brazil’s cities, Aldighieri said, but “we are always prepared to have the emergence of human-to-human transmission through Aedes aegypti [urban mosquitoes].”

But it’s important to keep in mind the yellow fever season isn’t finished, he added. “[The season] may last until late May, early June, so we have to be very careful.”

“If Aedes aegypti mosquitoes start spreading yellow fever in Brazil, there’s a possibility that you might have an outbreak in very populous areas in Brazil, such as Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo,” Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told NPR recently. ”Whether that’s going to happen, I don’t know. But if it does, we’re going to get a lot of travel-related cases in the U.S., which means physicians here have to be aware of it.”

For now, the CDC is recommending the vaccine for people who are traveling to or living in the states of Espirito Santo state, São Paulo state, and Rio de Janeiro state as well as a number of cities in Bahia state. People who fail to get the vaccine, the CDC says, should avoid going to the affected areas.

Gubler said he’d take a more conservative approach. “If I were still at CDC, I would advise travelers to any part of Brazil to get vaccinated before they go, not just where cases are reported,” he said. “These kinds of diseases have a way of sneaking into new areas without detection and are transmitted silently for a time, and identified only after a number of cases have occurred.”On Wednesday, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos announced in a letter to shareholders that Amazon Prime, the flat-rate free shipping subscription, had surpassed 100 million subscribers. Bezos has always been extremely tight-lipped about the number of Amazon Prime subscribers, and with the announcement, Bezos added that “Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year — both worldwide and in the U.S.”

These days, Prime doesn’t just come with free shipping. The Seattle giant has a whole slew of perks, which has helped subscribers flock to the service. But it was the basics of the program that helped Prime become Amazon’s most powerful weapon in the online shopping game.

A brief history of Amazon Prime

Back in 2005, when it had only been around for 10 years, Amazon launched a flat-fee shipping program called Amazon Prime. On its website, Bezos wrote that the program was meant to “take the effort out of ordering.”

“No minimum purchase and no consolidating orders. Two-day shipping becomes an everyday experience rather than an occasional indulgence,” Bezos wrote. “We expect Amazon Prime to be expensive for Amazon.com in the short term. “In the long term, we hope to earn even more of your business, which will make it good for us too.”

The launch of Amazon Prime came at a time when Amazon was trying to persuade investors that it could strengthen customer loyalty, the tech site CNet reported at the time. Amazon was battling competing sites like eBay and already had suited up with incentives like its “Super Saver program,” which gave shoppers free shipping on $25 or more.

Initially, Amazon Prime had plenty of skeptics. Though the Seattle Times wrote that it could give the Seattle giant “a competitive advantage,” Wall Street also worried Amazon would be taking a huge hit. There were enormous expenses with the program, like the cost of free shopping and fulfilling orders, especially when the total amount of those orders would far surpass the annual membership fee of $79 (which Amazon eventually increased to $99 in 2011, and then to $156 this year).

“Skeptics thought we were crazy,” Amazon Prime vice president Greg Greeley later told the paper, 10 years after launch. “At the time, they said, ‘Why would anybody want to spend that much for shipping?’ and ‘How the heck are they going to be able to afford it?’”

When it first launched, “tens of thousands” of people signed up for Amazon Prime. Over the next five years, Amazon Prime had a “healthy growth” rate, as Greely told the Washington Post. In 2011, the service hit a pivotal moment: Amazon sweetened the deal by adding other perks to free shipping, like a lending library for those who had Amazon’s Fire Tablets and Kindles, as well as access to its own Netflix of sorts, Prime Instant Video.

Today, with its more than 100 million subscribers, Amazon Prime is seemingly unstoppable. Prime membership now comes with way more perks than it did when Amazon enhanced the subscription in 2011: It now offers members access to exclusive in-house fashion labels, discounts to Whole Foods, which it bought in 2017, and access to content from Amazon Studios, including award-winning shows like Transparent. With all its perks, Amazon Prime has helped Amazon become nothing short of a cash cow: In 2016, the company pulled in a cool $178 billion in revenue.

The real reason Amazon Prime is so valuable

What is it about Amazon Prime that makes the subscription service so valuable? A competing subscription service like Costco, which offers discounts just as steep as Amazon, has 50.4 million memberships — an honorable number but still half of Amazon Prime’s. Walmart, Amazon’s biggest rival has a membership service too: Sam’s Club, which charges $45 annually for shoppers to access wholesale deals. In January, Walmart abruptly shuttered ten percent of Sam’s Clubs locations, citing difficulties in the real estate market.

Both Costco and Sam’s Club had more than a decade head start on Amazon Prime, so why is it that Amazon Prime continues to reign supreme? Brad Stone, the author of The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon, chalks it up to its ability to completely alter shopping behavior. To put it bluntly, it turns shoppers into Amazon addicts.

“Amazon Prime is the engine that drives Amazon,” he explained to Racked last year. “It capitalizes on irrational human behavior, where people are maximizing their membership. The whole point of getting people to sign up is for them to always be on the Amazon site, buying more.”

To Amazon, it doesn’t matter that your measly $150 will come nowhere near helping the company cover its costs. Instead, it’s banking on you spending more time on the site, making it your No. 1 shopping destination, which Amazon is quickly becoming — just ask Oprah, who’s decided her eponymous Favorite Things list should now live on the site.

According to Consumer Intelligence Research Partners, which tracks data on Amazon, Prime members spend 2.5 times more money than those who don’t belong to the program. The research firm told the Seattle Times that “once a customer signs up for Prime, they start to behave differently.” It added that it strongly suspects “that an Amazon Prime member spends their first year trying to justify the $99 cost, mostly in terms of free shipping, and spends to that level.”

Amazon Prime has become so powerful it created its own holiday in 2015: Prime Day, Amazon’s very own Christmas in July. Cited as a shopping day that’s completely decimating events like Black Friday, Prime Day last summer had its sales jump a record 60 percent in the 30-hour window Amazon ran the shopping bonanza.

As Amazon marches on through the land of e-commerce, its most powerful weapon is helping it become the most forceful company in shopping. According to CNBC’s All-America Economic Survey, more than 75 percent of the country shops on Amazon “most of the time.” Amazon’s biggest competitors, like department stores and big-box chains, have even realized they can’t compete and are bowing to Bezos instead. Kohl’s now sells Amazon gadgets in stores and will even process shoppers’ Amazon returns. Best Buy, which used to be Amazon’s adversary in the tech space, announced this week it would sell Amazon’s smart TVs.

Now it seems that no one, not even the president, try as he might, can slow Amazon down.It takes 415.5 years for a comet called C/1861 G1 Thatcher to circle to sun. But every year in late April, our planet plows into the trail of dust the comet has left behind in its long journey around the sun. These bits of debris burn up in our atmosphere and stream across the night sky in bright streaks. It’s the Lyrid meteor shower. And we can watch it peak this weekend, overnight between Saturday, April 21, and Sunday, April 22.

The Lyrids are so named because they appear to radiate out from the constellation Lyra. On the night of April 21 and 22, in the Northern Hemisphere, Lyra will rise in the northeastern sky in the early evening and move nearly directly overhead during the night, like so:

Lyra is pretty easy to spot, as it includes the star Vega, which is among the brightest in the night sky. You don’t need to be looking directly at Lyra to see the show, though, because the meteors will shoot out in all directions.

The moon (which will be half full) will set for the evening around 2 am ET. (Check here for the exact moonset time in your area.) For a few hours after that, the sky will be nice and extra dark for meteor viewing.

The best time to look, the website EarthSky recommends, is right before dawn. That’s when Lyra will be nearly directly overhead. (To find out exactly where to look, I recommend trying out a GPS-enabled stargazing app like SkyGuide.)

At the meteors’ peak, NASA estimates you may be able to see up to 20 per hour. But for the best meteor hunting, be sure to find a dark patch of sky, away from bright city lights. Just lie on the ground with your feet facing east, NASA recommends, and let your eyes adjust to the darkness.

When you spot a meteor, you’re seeing a speck of space debris reach about 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit as it burns up in our atmosphere. Some will leave bright trails behind them. That’s ionized gas (i.e., energized gas, not unlike the light you see from neon lamps) glowing in the meteors’ wake.

The comet C/1861 G1 Thatcher won’t return to our neighborhood in the solar system until the year 2276. But take this as your annual chance to see some small part of it.

If you miss the Lyrids, don’t worry. There are plenty more meteor showers to spot this year.

The Eta Aquarids alight the sky on May 6 and 7. Then, the Perseids, arguably the best meteor shower of the year, will peak around August 13. After that, the Orionids appear in October, and the Leonids in November.North Korea may have just announced a major concession ahead of talks with President Donald Trump.

According to South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Thursday, North Korea is ready for “complete denuclearization,” meaning that it would stop improving its nuclear weapons and missiles that can hit America and its allies. What’s more, North Korea would do that — and the US can keep its troops in South Korea.

If North Korea is seriously considering that, it would be a marked shift from its past stance. When Pyongyang usually talks about denuclearization, US troop removal is always a sticking point. Pyongyang fears that US troops are only waiting to invade North Korea, and so it wants to keep its nuclear arsenal to deter that incursion. But now, it’s possible America’s 28,500 troops on the Korean Peninsula can stay as North Korea winds down its program.

Pyongyang’s new stance, if true, could change the tenor of Trump’s potential meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in late May or early June. Abraham Denmark, a former top Asia security official at the Pentagon, tweeted on Thursday that North Korea’s announcement could mean Trump and Kim may strike an agreement.

“Looks like a deal may actually be coming together,” Denmark said. “Shaping up to be a comprehensive package that involves a peace regime, denuclearization, and eventual normalization of relations.”

On Wednesday, Trump expressed his wishes for a good meeting with Kim — but promised not to engage if it goes awry before or during the face-to-face. “If I think that it’s a meeting that is not going to be fruitful, we’re not going to go,” Trump said at Mar-a-Lago alongside Shinzo Abe, the Japanese prime minister. “If the meeting, when I’m there, is not fruitful, I will respectfully leave the meeting.”

North Korea’s announcement, via Moon, comes just two days after CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s secret meeting with Kim over Easter weekend became public. And the policy change will surely affect Kim and Moon’s April 27 summit to discuss a formal peace treaty — which would formally end the Korean War. (Right now both sides have signed an armistice, not a peace treaty, which means the countries are technically still at war.)

Don’t get too excited about the end of North Korea’s nuclear program yet. We’ve been here before.

It would be a great thing if the US could trust North Korea’s new position. But diplomacy with North Korea is hard for one simple reason: Pyongyang promises a lot but then doesn’t follow through.

For example, as the New York Times noted, North Korea has consistently told the US and South Korea that it can live with American troops on the peninsula since the 1990s. “It is desirable that US troops stay as a peacekeeping force in Korea, instead of a hostile force against the North,” Kim Jong Il, the former leader of North Korea and Kim Jong Un’s father, reportedly said at a 2000 meeting between the two Koreas.

But then North Korean leaders usually go back to the same talking point: North Korea can’t give up its nuclear program because of the threat posed by the US military and its allies South Korea and Japan.

On top of that, the US and other countries have been trying to come to a diplomatic, negotiated agreement with North Korea over its nuclear program since 1985.

They got really close twice. In 1994, the US and North Korea signed the Agreed Framework, in which the North agreed to freeze its plutonium weapons program in exchange for two proliferation-resistant nuclear power reactors and fuel oil from the United States.

But the agreement collapsed in 2002, and by January 2003, the North had resumed its nuclear program.

Then in August 2003, the international community launched the so-called “Six Party Talks,” designed to get North Korea to halt its nuclear program through negotiations with five countries: China, the United States, South Korea, Japan, and Russia.

Two years later, in September 2005, it looked like the talks might work — North Korea formally agreed to abandon “all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs” in exchange for energy assistance from the other countries. Joseph DeTrani, who led those negotiations from the American side, told me today’s diplomatic outreach was “a positive development” and that it reminds him of the 2005 agreement.

Yet in 2009, amid disagreements over technical details related to verification, North Korea walked out on the talks. It said it would never return to the negotiations and maintains that it is no longer bound by their agreements. Pyongyang has been ramping up its nuclear and ballistic missile programs ever since.

So when I asked Harry Kazianis, an Asia security expert at the Center for the National Interest think tank, if the US should take North Korea’s reported new stance seriously, he demurred.

“Nope, we should not,” he told me. “I am hopeful, but not stupid.”This week marks the 25th anniversary of one of the strangest and most tragic incidents in American religious history: the bloody ending of the siege between FBI agents and members of the Branch Davidian religious group in Waco, Texas.

For many people, Waco is a lurid story about a cult — a story that has lent itself to decades of sensationalist media coverage (and, recently, a television miniseries). It’s the story of a maniacal and apocalypse-minded cult leader, David Koresh, whose delusional stubbornness led to the deaths of 76 people. The 1993 media coverage of the Waco massacre — which depicted Koresh as a single-minded genius exerting power over his fellow Branch Davidians via mind control — has by now become the defining story of the siege. A 1993 Texas Monthly story captures this mentality well:

For 51 days federal agents camped outside the compound, paralyzed by their own ineptitude, while this notorious liar and con man was permitted to broadcast his incoherent message to the world. The authorities must have known that it was all a sham ... but Koresh had given them no choice. The feds were the hostages, the ones who were surrounded without hope. They kept assuring [the public] that they weren’t about to be drawn into a firefight, then permitted exactly that to happen. ... What happened at Mount Carmel was not suicide; it was Holy War. Just as Koresh had prophesied.

Media coverage almost uniformly referred to the Branch Davidians as a “cult” and was unsympathetic not just to Koresh but to his followers as well. A Newsweek article published during the ongoing siege, for example, uses as its closing kicker a quote from the estranged son of one Branch Davidian suggesting that the inhabitants of the Mount Carmel compound wanted to die: ”They are waiting to get zapped up to heaven where they’ll be transformed and fight a war where they get to kill all their enemies. ... The only people that may be sorry are the parents who had to let their children be released.”

The prevailing narrative, in other words, presumed that all inhabitants of the Branch Davidian community were crazy, and that therefore, any violent means used against them would be justified.

Like the story of another so-called cult of the late 20th century — Jim Jones’s Peoples Temple, in which almost 1,000 people died by mass suicide — Waco persists in the popular imagination as a story about a group of people who brought their fate upon themselves. It shouldn’t.

The story of Waco is, without question, a tragedy. But it’s also much more complicated than a story about a cult. Indeed, some of the few survivors of the siege have expressed anger with the way they feel that official accounts of the siege removed Branch Davidians’ agency, portraying them as victims rather than believers. In his book Waco: a Survivor’s Story, David Thibodeau writes: “So many of the Davidians have been demonized by the media ... I felt it my duty to tell the true story of a group of people who were trying to live according to their religious beliefs and the teachings of a man they all considered divinely inspired.”

The story of Waco is also the story of disagreements over religious freedom, the rights and boundaries of the federal government, and what it means to be a legitimate religion.

The Branch Davidians didn’t start with David Koresh

While David Koresh is the figure most commonly associated with the Branch Davidians, the story of the group begins several decades before his ascent to leadership.

The group began as the “Davidians” (also known as “Shepherd’s Rod”), an offshoot of the Seventh-Day Adventists, a Christian religious movement that flourished in the late 19th century in America and that boasts about 19 million members worldwide today.

The Davidian movement was spearheaded in 1930 by a Bulgarian immigrant, Victor Houteff, who dissented from aspects of standard Seventh-Day Adventist theology. Houteff believed that the Messiah prophesied in the biblical book of Isaiah was not Jesus, but was yet to come. Houteff argued that he and his supporters would help bring about the future “Davidic kingdom” — mirroring the empire of the biblical King David — during the apocalypse. That apocalypse, he taught, was imminent.

It was Houteff who first purchased the compound in Waco, Texas, that he called Mount Carmel, after the biblical mountain of the same name. There, Houteff led a small Christian religious community that believed Mount Carmel would be the center of a new divine kingdom following the apocalypse.

After Houteff’s death in 1955, one of his followers, Benjamin Roden, claimed to be hearing messages from God telling him to continue Houteff’s work. Roden’s claims split the group, as did the claims of Houteff’s widow, Florence, who had prophesied that the world would end in 1959. After the world failed to end, Florence Houteff abandoned the Davidian group, leaving Roden’s followers — by now known as the Branch Davidians — to take over part of the Mount Carmel Center.

Only in 1981 did Vernon Howell — the man who would soon change his name to David Koresh — join the Branch Davidian community. A troubled child from an unstable family background, Howell had become a born-again Christian in the 1980s. He joined the Southern Baptist Church, then switched to a Seventh-Day Adventist Church, from which he was expelled after aggressively pursuing a pastor’s daughter. Only then did he encounter the Davidians. According to rumors repeated in Thibodeau’s memoir, Howell may have had an affair with Benjamin Roden’s widow, Lois, by then the de facto leader of the group.

Claiming the gift of prophecy, Howell gained increasing power within the Branch Davidian community, something that brought him into conflict with Lois and Benjamin’s son, George. When George Roden went to prison for murdering another rival, Howell — who changed his name in 1990 to commemorate biblical Kings David and Cyrus (Koresh) — assumed complete control of the group.

This is important because it contradicts a major element of what has by now become the Waco narrative: the idea that the faith of the Branch Davidians of Waco was inextricable from their relationship with Koresh. The Texas Monthly piece quoted above, for example, acknowledges the group’s history, but nevertheless places the blame for the outcome of the Waco siege squarely on Koresh’s cult of personality. As Gary Cartwright wrote:

For nine years, Koresh had relentlessly drilled his followers to prepare for Armageddon, had preached its inevitability, had forecast its imminence. This was the ending that Koresh had prayed for and staked his reputation on — the final battle, the trial by fire. It didn’t matter if the fire came from automatic rifles or a match and a can of kerosene; this was what Koresh had promised. Anything less would have been a monumental betrayal of his claim to be David Koresh, Angel Warrior of the Armageddon. Did anyone really expect the prophet of Ranch Apocalypse to meekly surrender his sheep to the enemy and come out with his hands up?

While Koresh did, ultimately, possess an extraordinary amount of power within the Branch Davidian community, he was not its only representative. A number of Branch Davidians exist today, many of whom see Koresh as a splinter leader from their own legitimate tradition. And many of the Branch Davidians who ultimately died at Waco had been longstanding members of the community, practicing their faith long before Koresh was even born.

For example, Koresh’s first (and only legal) wife, Rachel, was a second-generation Branch Davidian, and both she and her parents remained with Koresh until the end of the siege.

David Koresh may have engaged in acts of sexual abuse — but that wasn’t the source of the FBI’s main interest in the community

David Koresh taught that he was a messiah and that, furthermore, any children born of the messiah would be sacred. Because of this, he engaged in multiple “marriages” with women in the Branch Davidian community, some of whom were underage, fathering at least 13 children. In the years following the massacre, a number of additional children who had grown up among the Branch Davidian community reported that Koresh had molested them.

That said, at the time of the Waco siege, the evidence to support any sexual allegations against Koresh was far more inconclusive. Multiple probes into alleged sexual abuse at the Mount Carmel site went nowhere.

The government’s primary interest in the Branch Davidians, according to later documents, was the alleged possession of a potential illegal arms cache on the site.

On February 28, 1993, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) attempted to raid the Branch Davidian site in order to execute a search warrant. What happened next remains unclear — both surviving Branch Davidians and surviving agents claimed the other side fired first — but the raid resulted in a bitter gun battle that killed five ATF agents and five Branch Davidians, and injured an additional 16 agents.

What followed was all but unprecedented in American history: a 51-day standoff between the Branch Davidians and the FBI (which had taken over from the ATF). The FBI used a variety of tactics to breach the compound — including the playing of agonizingly loud music on speakers 24/7 in order to induce sleep deprivation in members — and participated in a full 60 hours of negotiation with Koresh in an attempt to negotiate access to the site. Malcolm Gladwell, writing on the siege for the New Yorker, captures the sheer scale of the operation:

the F.B.I. assembled what has been called probably the largest military force ever gathered against a civilian suspect in American history: ten Bradley tanks, two Abrams tanks, four combat-engineering vehicles, six hundred and sixty-eight agents in addition to six U.S. Customs officers, fifteen U.S. Army personnel, thirteen members of the Texas National Guard, thirty-one Texas Rangers, a hundred and thirty-one officers from the Texas Department of Public Safety, seventeen from the McLennan County sheriff’s office, and eighteen Waco police, for a total of eight hundred and ninety-nine people.

Finally, on April 19, the FBI raided the compound, using military-grade weaponry such as armored tanks, as well as tear gas. A fire broke out — the source of which remains disputed — and 76 of the 85 Branch Davidians, including Koresh and a number of children, were killed.

For some, the story of Waco is the story of government overreach

By and large, the public treated the ending of the siege of Waco as the story of a crazy cult that had gotten the end it deserved, similar to the mass suicide at Jonestown. Just a day after the raid, then-President Bill Clinton argued that the FBI bore no responsibility for the deaths at Waco, saying: “I do not think the United States government is responsible for the fact that a bunch of religious fanatics decided to kill themselves.”

But for some, the Waco tragedy was the foundation of a different narrative: a story of unlawful government overreach, and of the consequences of federal aggression. On the political far right in particular, Waco became something of a rallying cry for those who saw the federal government as a threat. Right-wing anti-government bomber Timothy McVeigh, for example, carried out his 1995 Oklahoma City bombings in part as a direct response to Waco, where he had been an eyewitness at the siege.

As a 2015 New York Times story looking at Waco’s influence on today’s far right put it:

For right-wing militias and so-called Patriot groups, Waco amounts to evidence of a tyrannical, illegitimate government unblinkingly prepared to kill its own people ... the specter of Waco has not faded. Right-wing extremists regularly invoke it as a defining moment, proof of Washington’s perfidy. “Waco can happen at any given time,” Mike Vanderboegh, a prominent figure in the Patriot movement, told Retro Report. He added ominously: “But the outcome will be different this time. Of that I can assure you.”

The Waco massacre challenges us to think of what it means to be a cult

The media tended to legitimized the FBI’s raid on Mount Carmel — despite its disastrous outcome for many innocent members of the Branch Davidians, including children — because Waco was a “cult.”

But all too often, notes Dr. Megan Goodwin, a visiting fellow at Northeastern University specializing in American minority religions, the term “cult” is used to delegitimize and diminish religious practices that don’t fit neatly into the American (Christian, often Protestant) mainstream, and justify violence that would not be used against more established religious groups. She notes that the term “cult” is itself controversial in scholarly circles (many prefer the more neutral term “new religious movements”).

“My standard joke is that ‘cult [equals] religion/community [you] don’t like,’” says Goodwin. But, she notes, “the political ramifications of identifying something as a cult are real and often violent.”

After all, there is no standard way to define a cult. As I’ve written elsewhere, the designation of “cult” is more often an aesthetic value judgment — a religious group that “seems weird” — rather than an academic one.

And when it comes to the experiences of the Branch Davidians, who belonged to an established religious community that predated Koresh, that designation gets even trickier.

After all, many surviving members of the Waco siege, such as David Thibodeau, report that their faith — and Koresh’s legacy — remains important to them. Does dismissing their experience as that of brainwashed cult members diminish their own agency to make free choices about faith?

“By resisting the term ‘cult,’ I’m not suggesting that David Koresh didn’t sexually exploit his community,” Goodwin told Vox, “I’m suggesting that using the term ‘cult’ to describe the Branch Davidians at Waco helped the ATF decide that the community, and Koresh specifically, were irrational or being held against their will and that they needed saving.”

It’s a point also raised by religion scholar Catherine Wessinger in a recent essay for the Conversation.

“When journalists and law enforcement agents use the term ‘cult’ to describe a religious group,” Wessinger writes, “it’s problematic. In fact, studies have shown that once the ‘cult’ label is applied, the group is more likely to be deemed illegitimate and dangerous. It’s then easier for law enforcement agents to target the group with excessive, militarized actions, and it’s easier for the public to place all blame on the supposed cult leader for any deaths.”

The fact that it was so easy to diminish Koresh and his followers as “unworthy victims,” she adds, made it that much easier for the public to accept their deaths. “Religion is a constitutionally protected category. ... And the identification of Waco’s Branch Davidians as a cult places them outside the protections of the state.”

Twenty-five years later, the complicated legacy of Waco challenges us to think about how the language we use to talk about religion — “victims,” “cult leader,” “fanatics” — affects the way we react to them. Would the FBI have used armored tanks and tear gas in an attempt to protect victims of, say, similarly institutionalize sex abuse in evangelical Christian or Catholic communities?

After all, Goodwin points out, “Americans frequently damage people we think need saving.”A viral video of two African-American men getting arrested at a Starbucks in Philadelphia — for reportedly doing nothing other than waiting for a business associate to arrive — sparked demonstrations, calls for boycotts, and an apology from the coffee giant’s chief executive, Kevin Johnson.

“What happened in the way that incident escalated, and the outcome, was nothing but reprehensible,” Johnson said in a video message. “I will fix this.”

The solution Starbucks has come up with to prevent its staff from discriminating against customers is “anti-bias training.”

On May 29, the chain’s 8,000-plus American stores will close for the afternoon and forgo profits so that employees can attend a training that will “address implicit bias, promote conscious inclusion, prevent discrimination and ensure everyone inside a Starbucks store feels safe and welcome,” according to the company. The training would be developed with expert input from the likes of Equal Justice Initiative founder Bryan Stevenson, NAACP president Sherrilyn Ifill, and former US Attorney General Eric Holder, the Washington Post reported.

But according to five social scientists I spoke to who study racial bias, a few hours of training won’t begin to solve the problem that infects corporations like Starbucks. “We should be skeptical of the training’s ability to transform, in any meaningful way, white workers’ biases toward black customers,” said Hakeem J. Jefferson, a political science PhD candidate at the University of Michigan.

That’s because the evidence we have suggests trainings generally fail to alter racial biases and behaviors in the long term — and can even backfire. So this one may do no more good than Starbucks’s failed attempt to spark conversations about race by asking baristas to write “race together” on coffee cups.

“[Starbucks] felt they needed to make a symbolic gesture,” Harvard sociologist Frank Dobbin told me. “The problem is that corporate America has been making this symbolic gesture since the 1970s.” (Disclosure: Vox Media, like many companies, has run its own anti-bias and sexual harassment trainings.)

“These efforts are just window dressing,” Dobbin added, just as corporate sexual harassment trainings have become the default response to the #MeToo movement.

Any corporation that wants to be part of the solution, rather than the problem, needs to look beyond token gestures like trainings to the other measures that can begin to truly address inequality. They might be harder and take longer, but they’re a more sincere way to avoid damaging, hurtful incidents like calling the cops on customers of color.

How implicit bias works

Before we get into the efficacy of anti-bias trainings, we need a quick primer on how bias works. The type of bias Starbucks is hoping to stamp out of its staff members is referred to as implicit bias — the idea that people unconsciously categorize others based on things like their occupation, sex, or race.

Implicit bias is about assumptions or inferences about behavior — like whether someone is friendly or threatening, caring or indifferent — and we’re not usually aware we’re even engaging in that type of thinking, University of Oregon law and psychology researcher Erik Girvan explained. These implicit associations often lead to explicitly discriminatory behaviors in our workplaces and communities.

For African Americans, the biases people hold tend to be disturbingly negative. Researchers have found, for example, that we associate black skin with evil; we see black children as older than they actually are; and we see young black men as taller, heavier, and more muscular — and more physically threatening — than young white men.

These biases can shape how we act, which the Starbucks incident demonstrated. A manager in the store reportedly said the men were trespassing and refused to leave after being asked, as Vox’s Emily Stewart reported. A swarm of police hovered over the two men, while another patron in the cafe asked, “Does anybody else think this is ridiculous?” and called the incident “absolute discrimination.”

“The manager saw the men as more threatening because they’re African American,” said Girvan. “Even if that person wouldn’t have said they were racist, and may not be consciously aware they were seeing [the Starbucks patrons] as different, [that bias] resulted in a police call.”

The bias that drives racial profiling is common and certainly not unique to Starbucks staff. It’s easy to find examples of it in the US police force — and it can lead to the unfair arrests and killings of innocent black people.

It also pervades the American workplace, where racial minorities are more likely than white people to be the victims of harassment and “exclusionary behaviors,” such as being left out of social events. While corporations have long sought to address systemic racism, as Vox’s German Lopez reported, a 2017 study reported that anti-black hiring practices are as common today as they were in the 1980s, despite the proliferation of diversity programs and anti-bias training.

Anti-bias trainings have proliferated — yet inequality persists

Given the ubiquity of prejudice, researchers have been trying to understand how to fight it. Since World War II, nearly 1,000 studies on the topic have been published. Yet one thing is now clear: A lot of the evidence on what to do about the problem isn’t very well-executed — and there’s a dearth of experimental studies that can equivocally answer the question of what works and what doesn’t when it comes to anti-discrimination efforts.

The best data we have suggests trainings often fail to fight prejudice. In a fascinating roundup of the evidence on diversity programs published in the Harvard Business Review, Dobbin and co-author Alexandra Kalev looked at 30 years of data as well as data from more than 800 US firms and interviews with hundreds of managers and executives. Here’s a quick summary of their findings on anti-bias trainings:

It turns out that while people are easily taught to respond correctly to a questionnaire about bias, they soon forget the right answers. The positive effects of diversity training rarely last beyond a day or two, and a number of studies suggest that it can activate bias or spark a backlash. Nonetheless, nearly half of midsize companies use it, as do nearly all the Fortune 500.

Diversity programs — which can include everything from hiring tests and performance reviews to ensure fair hiring and pay decisions as well as trainings — are designed to “preempt lawsuits,” they added, instead of truly stopping prejudice.

Another meta-analysis of more than 400 studies testing approaches to change implicit bias similarly found no evidence that getting people to acknowledge their implicit biases alters behavior.

“The short answer is that diversity trainings are filled with good intentions and poor evidence,” Brian Nosek, a University of Virginia researcher, summed up. “In terms of training in general, no matter what the topic, there’s very little evidence that it on its own can change behaviors that are usually what is of interest: reducing prejudice or bias that is unwanted. Implicit bias training is no different than that.”

Implicit bias trainings can even backfire

Some research suggests that trainings can even have a negative impact. “Training can bring bias to the surface,” Harvard’s Dobbin said. “It can make you think more about bias. It can activate stereotypes.”

This is especially true when the training is mandatory, researchers have found, which is exactly the approach Starbucks is taking. “People respond negatively to being forced to go and to being told that the reason they need to try to promote equality of opportunity and to advance diversity is because the law requires them to,” Dobbin said.

Starbucks’s failure to reflect this evidence in its approach prompted a tweetstorm from Nosek:

It is not impossible that implicit bias training by Starbucks would reduce unwanted bias behavior, but the available evidence does not provide reason to be sanguine about that. More importantly... — Brian Nosek (@BrianNosek) April 18, 2018

In one searing tweet, he wrote: “Spending millions to roll-out an intervention at scale within weeks is a basic violation of good practice. It provides the impression that the goal is not to change behavior but to address PR concerns.”

So how do you fight racial bias for real?

If Starbucks truly wanted to address its racial bias problem, there are a few approaches it could take. And they have nothing to do with corporate anti-bias trainings.

“We know from a lot of social science research,” Dobbin said, “the way to get people to change their stereotypes about other groups is to have them work side by side with members of other groups as equals.”

Here’s Dobbin in the Harvard Business Review again:

It’s more effective to engage managers in solving the problem, increase their on-the-job contact with female and minority workers, and promote social accountability — the desire to look fair-minded. That’s why interventions such as targeted college recruitment, mentoring programs, self-managed teams, and task forces have boosted diversity in businesses.

So instead of dedicating half a day to training, Starbucks could make the staff in its 8,000-plus stores more racially integrated and ensure there are minorities in leadership positions. “That’s going to change attitudes, it’s going to change racial animosity from all groups,” Dobbin added. “We see racial animosity goes down when [people] work with members of other groups.”

Starbucks could also couple anti-bias training with training about situations in which people are likely to make biased decisions, said Oregon’s Erik Girvan. When people are made aware of their biases and are taught to understand when those biases are impacting the decisions they make, it can change the way they approach decisions in those situations. Like, for example, thinking about whether they’d call the cops on white men lingering in a coffee shop as readily as black men.

Again, that type of training doesn’t reduce bias in the same way that anti-bias training fails to reduce bias. It just makes people more aware of their behaviors and empowers them to focus on ways to change them.

“In a nutshell, there’s not much evidence that trainings result in any long-term improvement in implicit bias,” Girvan added. “But what can work is changing policies and practices around how you make judgments and act in certain situations.”

Starbucks also has an incredible opportunity to study the effects of its program — something social scientists have been asking of the company on Twitter.

.@Starbucks, I’m a social scientist. Would you be willing to have a team of us examine the effectiveness of this “racial-bias education?” Feel free to hit the DM to chat. https://t.co/E4DYY6bu39 — Hakeem J Jefferson (@hakeemjefferson) April 17, 2018

Wow! Wish they had a social scientist involved for the measurement of effectiveness but this is big. Can I use my gift cards now because....lol



"The curriculum... https://t.co/VgrYgyX24F — Ivy Onyeador, PhD(!) (@Ivuoma) April 17, 2018

“Starbucks could contribute to science; it could contribute to policy,” said Princeton psychology professor Betsy Levy Paluck. Designing robust studies to evaluate training programs and sharing the data, Paluck said, is “what we do when we have a massive public health and political problem on our hands. And this is is also what we should be doing in response to the problem of racial bias and discrimination.”“For a long time I was a climate change denier,” says author, journalist, and war correspondent William T. Vollmann. “I didn’t want to be stressed out by something that might someday affect people after I’m dead.”

And yet for Vollmann — a brilliant, idiosyncratic writer whom some have described as a plausible candidate for the winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature — the reality of climate change has become a personal obsession. Last week, he released the first volume of a sprawling, two-volume polemic called Carbon Ideologies. Titled No Immediate Danger, it explores in more than 600 pages how our society is bound to the ideology of energy consumption. Addressed to humans living in a “hot dark future,” the book is highly technical, chock-full of tables, studies, and hundreds of Vollmann’s own photos.

Vollmann traveled the globe for years reporting for this project, going so far as to self-finance after his publisher’s patience wore thin. “I spent my own money,” he writes, “and occasionally other people’s, to hike up strip-mined mountains, sniff crude oil, and occasionally tan my face with gamma rays.”

I recently called Vollmann — who doesn’t own a cellphone or use email — at his hotel in New York City while he was on his book tour. Our conversation, lightly edited for clarity, appears below.

Eric Allen Been

No Immediate Danger is written as a letter to the future. Why did you decide to craft it this way rather than for readers in the present?

William T. Vollmann

If I were to write for the present, I would either be preaching to the converted or else wasting my time on the unconverted. Those fault lines are pretty hard, unfortunately. But since I’m writing to a future time, where I’m trying to tell readers what some of our motivations were for letting this crisis escalate, hopefully this book will still be of some value to the future.

Eric Allen Been

Do you think some Republicans sometimes deny climate change in bad faith? Maybe, perhaps, because they know if they accept that it’s real, their economic policies would need to come to an abrupt stop.

William T. Vollmann

Well, that’s certainly a possibility. But I also think it’s human nature. For a long time I was a climate change denier. I just thought, I have other things to worry about. I didn’t want to be stressed out by something that might someday affect people after I’m dead. I still want to think that it’s not a problem, because the alternative is quite miserable. I think that people can deny climate change in good faith, and that a lot of people do. It takes a certain familiarity with numbers, with the scientific method, and a trust in experts to begin to say, “All right, yeah, this is a serious problem.”

And experts have often abused their positions, you know? I’m quite thrilled to live in a state, [California], where recreational and medical marijuana is finally legal. I remember as a boy being told that the experts said marijuana was a dangerous drug and would lead to hard drugs and all the rest of it. There’s no reason not to have skepticism about any so-called experts.

People who are self-educated and look at the world from the perspective of their own experience are often very functional, competent people. I met a pastor in West Virginia who I liked and admired very much, and he said to me, “You know, Bill, when I fly over the Earth and I see all of these trees, I just have to ask myself, ‘How can man-made equipment put up enough smoke to make a difference?’” That is a very reasonable question. To answer it, it takes a lot of work, or it takes some kind of faith in experts.

If you ask the average person to prove that the Earth goes around the sun, he or she would probably say, “Well, you know, I’ve seen satellite photos or footage from NASA,” or whatever. But if there were none of those pictures, do you think that most people could do what Copernicus did, to work it all out with geometry and so forth?

I very much liked what a vice president at the Bank of Oklahoma told me. He said, “We’re all ideologues one way or another. If you attack somebody else’s ideology, he’s going to attack you or leave you. That’s human nature.” Most of the people who don’t believe in climate change are perfectly reasonable people, and I don’t blame them.

Eric Allen Been

Central to this book is what you call “carbon ideologies” — the reasons people give to continue using fossil fuels at such a large scale.

William T. Vollmann

Well, we all have beliefs, feelings, and interests. They tend to be centered around our own personal comfort and our aspirations to make tomorrow better than today. I think most of us feel, legitimately so, that if we couldn’t drive our cars wherever we wanted, or turn on the heat or air conditioning when we wanted, that our lives would be worse.

What are we going to do about that? Are we prepared to endure lives with less comfort and maybe less safety? Are we going to be hard-asses and deny people in the Third World the ability to achieve the level of comfort that we’ve achieved? These are very, very powerful inducements to continue the train of behavior that we currently follow. Those are our ideological underpinnings, if you like.

Eric Allen Been

And yet you believe those ideological underpinnings are wrongheaded?

William T. Vollmann

Unfortunately, that’s what I think. I do think that some of this stuff can be accomplished through better industrial processes. You know, in 2012, Greece emitted something like 35 times more of the dangerous greenhouse gas, nitrous oxide, per volume, when making nitric acid than the UK did. And the US emitted something like 27 times more. Well, that means it’s possible to do things better.

There are things that that can be done and maybe won’t be done if somebody says, “Well, it’s going to cost too much money to make that change.” Then what do you say? Do you say, “Well, we’re going to make you do it at a loss”? Or do we say, “All right, we’re going to give you money to help you change”? I can’t pretend to have an answer about stuff like that. All I can do is say, well, there are lots and lots of problems.

It’s not just what some consumer does at home. It’s niggling little issues that add up. In Japan, roughly 50 percent or so of all the methane emissions — and that’s one of the three most dangerous greenhouse gases — are caused by rice growing. All this stuff that seems so innocuous. It seems to me that you have to drag people into some kind of regulatory hell, unfortunately. Maybe there’s a better way to do it, but I don’t see one.

Eric Allen Been

You’ve regulated yourself, in a sense, from the conveniences of the modern world. It’s my understanding that you don’t use the internet or own a cellphone, for instance.

William T. Vollmann

To be honest, I think it’s all bullshit. I just don’t need that garbage. It’s not because I’m such a saint or something, but why on earth do I need instant communication? I see my stressed, overworked friends who are continually interrupted by some unimportant text or sent without consent some kind of nasty, targeted ad. That stuff is just not for me.

Eric Allen Been

It’s crazy to me that the FBI and the CIA once suspected that you were the Unabomber — which you discovered by suing the agencies under the Freedom of Information Act, and subsequently wrote about for Harper’s magazine. In the secret document they had on you, they correlated you with him because, they wrote, “anti-growth and anti-progress themes persist throughout each Vollmann work.” In a New Republic profile of you, you said that you first found the whole thing humorous but then became pissed about it.

William T. Vollmann

Well, you know, how are government haters made? I’m not one, and I don’t want to be one. But how do people start hating the police, for instance? When there is a pattern of what appears to be harassment.

There was a period where, whenever I would travel, the lining of my suitcase would get slit open. The next time I traveled, they’d cut it open a little bit more because it looked suspicious. My mother would send me letters from Switzerland and she’s pretty good about sealing the envelopes — and I’d get empty, unsealed envelopes. One of my Japanese translators gave up writing to me since she sent me six letters in one year and I never got one.

I believe that my mail is still delayed, intercepted, and sometimes not given to me. So that makes me feel isolated and a little bit crappy. At the same time, I don’t want to waste my time being a professional victim. And other people certainly have it more rough than I do. I’m going to get on with it and not let it ruin my life.

Eric Allen Been

You wrote that the file on you was 785 pages and yet they only gave you 294 pages of it. Do you have any idea why they didn’t release more?

William T. Vollmann

Well, maybe some of my file is still open, which would be plausible. They have to spend our tax dollars somehow. And maybe there were things that would have revealed secret searches or buggings of my house or my studio or whatever and they didn’t want me to know that.

It was quite an interesting document. I recommend to you, and everyone else, to get your file [by filing a FOIA request] and see what they say about you. You can see if you feel that they are spending your tax dollars on studying you and coming up with preposterous conclusions. It’s kind of fun.

Eric Allen Been

Speaking of absurd stuff, and back to your new book, the BBC recently was criticised for not properly challenging a climate change denier in an interview. How do you think, ideally, the media should approach telling the story of climate change?

William T. Vollmann

Well, here’s what I would say, Eric. My old physics textbook talked about the characteristics of a scientific theory, and there are two points that are relevant. One is that no theory can ever be proven; it can only be disproven. So the theory of gravity would fail if the next time I opened my hand and let a glass loose and it didn’t fall. And that’s always a possibility.

But the other aspect of a theory is that it allows you to make accurate predictions — and I feel that I can accurately predict that that glass would indeed fall to the floor if I let go of it. So let’s do stories about how accurate the predictions of the climate change model have been. From what I understand, they have been fairly accurate.

And in the meantime, it seems as if the smart thing to do, since they seem plausible, is to prepare for the worst, as we would with life insurance or flood insurance or anything else. We hope that it doesn’t happen, but we want to be ready if it does.

Eric Allen Been

Nuclear power is often seen as this leading source of almost carbon-free energy and a possible solution for combating global warming. For this book, you made five visits to Fukushima, Japan, to investigate the aftermath of the reactor failure there following the 2011 tsunami. What was your biggest takeaway from those visits?

William T. Vollmann

First of all, it is somewhat carbon-free, but not as carbon-free as people might think. The mining or the uranium, the transporting of it to the processing facility, the enrichment [needed to build new plants] — all of those things burn carbon. And then the nuclear plants need to have backup generators in case something happens to the ordinary power supply to prevent the fuel from melting down, and that’s what happened at Fukushima. Temco did not have their conventionally fueled backup generators high enough to withstand a tsunami. That’s why those fuel rods melted down.

And one thing many Americans don’t realize is that the nightmare at Fukushima is continuing right now. At tremendous effort and expense, Temco — the Tokyo-based power company — has built a wall of ice around the reactors, and of course it takes a huge amount of power to keep that thing frozen. The idea is to keep the groundwater from reaching out into the ocean. So they have reduced the flow, but there are still several tons every day of radioactive water that go into the ocean.

There are lots and lots of people who will probably never go home whose communities have been destroyed, and sometimes it’s hard for me as a Californian to understand this. Because we Californians tend to move around a lot. Maybe where you’re from, there are more people who live in their ancestral homes, but a lot of these nuclear evacuees at Fukushima can date back their family histories 100 years.

So suddenly to not be able to go back to the place where they were born, to not be able to visit their ancestors’ tombs, or to only be able to do so very briefly — it’s really, really sad.

And the cesium contamination [radioactive substance from Fukushima disaster] will take something like 300 years to get down to what it was in 2011. They’ve remediated it, so that means there are places that have been decontaminated by having leaves and downspouts and dirt stripped off, but there are plenty of places where the cesium is just in the soil. They said that any body of water that’s more than a meter deep acts as a neutron shield, so they don’t need to decontaminate that. All the hills with forest on them, what are they going to do? Cut down the trees? So it’s an ongoing nightmare.

Eric Allen Been

You also label other alternatives like solar energy and wind turbines as carbon ideologies. Why is that?

William T. Vollmann

It’s carbon that is the central environmental issue of our time. These carbon ideologies are like capitalism and communism: They are two sides of the same political debate. Nuclear, for instance, is a way of attempting to address the carbon issue. Solar is another. It’s all similar in a way based on what we have invested in each one of these fuels or ideologies.

Eric Allen Been

You say in the acknowledgments that your publisher wanted a short book and you planned to give them one. Why, in the end, couldn’t you give them one?

William T. Vollmann

Eric, have you read both volumes?

Eric Allen Been

No, just the first one, No Immediate Danger.

William T. Vollmann

Okay, if you do, tell me what you would cut. I wish that I had had the time and money to make this book longer. The publisher ran out of money and patience. I ran out of money and time. There’s only so much one person can do.

Eric Allen Been is a freelance writer who has written for the Wall Street Journal, the Boston Globe, Vice, Playboy, the New Republic, the Los Angeles Review of Books, and TheAtlantic.com.When we talk about individual countries and what they’re doing about climate change, the focus tends to be on the two big emitters, the US and China, as well as some of your sexier renewable energy leaders, your Germanys and your Denmarks.

As it happens, though, some of the most interesting climate developments in the world are unfolding in the staid old United Kingdom.

In fact, this week, the UK moved several steps closer to becoming the first G7 country to commit to net-zero carbon emissions by midcentury. Whatever one thinks of its follow-through on its goals so far, or its prospects for success, that would be a Very Big Deal — a signal that wealthy countries are actually taking the Paris climate agreement seriously.

For the UK to emerge as a global climate leader is somewhat puzzling. Like the US, it is undergoing a white rural backlash, yielding the almost-as-ignorant-as-electing-Donald-Trump Brexit vote late year. It has been under conservative rule since 2010.

And yet climate policy is moving forward in the country in what appears, to this American’s eyes, an almost surreally sensible fashion. (Admittedly, we Americans have a low bar these days.)

Let’s start with a brief primer on UK climate policy to date.

The UK is already committed to 80 percent reductions by 2050

In 2008, the UK Parliament passed the Climate Change Act, which committed the UK to reducing its emissions 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. The act created the Committee on Climate Change (CCC), an independent panel of climate change experts, to advise the government and produce regular reports and assessments. And the act required that the government establish targets (“carbon budgets”) every five years along the way.

So how’s it going so far? The short answer: great in the short term, uncertain in the long term.

The decline in coal is driving rapid emission reductions in the UK

Coal is undergoing a spectacular collapse in the UK. It’s not unlike what’s happening in the US, only even spectacular-er — consumption is down 74 percent since 2006 and fell 52 percent in 2016 alone. After another 19 percent drop in 2017, coal use in Britain is now at its lowest levels on historical record.

Fun fact: On April 21, 2017, National Grid (the UK’s grid manager) reported that the country’s energy system had gone its first full day without any use of coal since the Industrial Revolution.

National Grid can confirm that for the past 24 hours, it has supplied GB's electricity demand without the need for #coal generation. pic.twitter.com/vgyWEUYqZ4 — National Grid Control Room (@NGControlRoom) April 21, 2017

The government recently vowed to close all remaining coal power plants by 2025.

Thanks to the decline in coal, overall emission reductions in the UK averaged an annual 6 percent over the past three years, which is about as fast as any industrialized country has ever reduced emissions in the post-1990 world. British emissions are now lower than they’ve been since ... wait for it ... 1890.

As of 2017, UK emissions were 42 percent below 1990 levels — about halfway to the current 2050 target.

Nonetheless, the UK is not on track to hit its midterm targets

The collapse of coal allowed the UK to fairly easily hit its early and near-term carbon targets. But that strategy is running out of juice — there are only so many coal plants to close.

The CCC reports: “The first carbon budget (2008-12) has been met and the UK is currently on track to outperform the second (2013-17) and third (2018-22) carbon budgets, but is not on track to meet the fourth, which covers the period 2023-27.”

Speaking of the fourth carbon budget, late last year, the UK government published its long-awaited Clean Growth Strategy, a set of policies meant to cover the fourth (2023-’27) and fifth (2027-’32) carbon budgets. By the end of the fifth budget, UK emissions must be down 57 percent from 1990 levels to stay on track for the 2050 target.

CarbonBrief has a deep dive on the plan if you want details. It’s pretty ambitious, but according to the CCC, it is not enough. Even if all the policies pay off as hoped (an optimistic outlook), there remains a significant gap between policies and targets.

Some of the dispute is over flexibility. The UK government wants to bank the overdelivered emissions of the first three budgets and pay them against the fourth and fifth. The CCC says those banked reductions should instead go toward increased ambition.

And that is where things currently stand.

Meanwhile ... [cue transition music, fade]

Big move as UK becomes first country to move towards a "net zero" emissions target. The only problem is it isn't yet on track to meet the targets it already has. https://t.co/wFjqQ2e42f pic.twitter.com/li7ChsRp4m — Damian Kahya (@damiankahya) April 17, 2018

The UK acknowledges that Paris targets require net-zero emissions

In Paris, the countries of the world did not just agree to limit the rise in global average temperature to beneath 2 degrees Celsius. They also agreed to make efforts to limit temperature to 1.5 degrees, a considerably more ambitious undertaking.

The standard 80-percent-by-2050 target that most developed nations use is not going to get us to 1.5 degrees. That target is based on a model with a 50-50 chance of staying under 2 degrees.

Models designed to show a likely (66 percent) chance of hitting 1.5 degrees all show the same thing: The UK, along with the rest of the developed world, needs to reach net-zero carbon emissions by midcentury. (Net zero means carbon removed from the atmosphere balances carbon added, theoretically through the use of negative-emissions technologies, which the CCC says the UK will definitely need.)

In 2016, UK energy minister Andrea Leadsom told Parliament: “The government believes that we will need to take the step of enshrining the Paris goal for net zero emissions in UK law. The question is not whether but how we do it.”

Since then, there has been no such enshrining and David Cameron was replaced as prime minister by Theresa May, so it’s not been clear how real that commitment is.

Turns out, there’s some news on that front!

This week, the UK submitted the Clean Growth Strategy to the United Nations as part of the Paris agreement’s communication of long-term strategies program, wherein countries (26 so far) submit their strategies to reach 2050 targets.

In her cover letter with the submission, UK climate minister Claire Perry wrote: “The UK will need to legislate for a net-zero emissions target at an appropriate point in the future to provide legal certainty on where the UK is heading.”

There was no firm commitment or guarantee, nor any definition of “appropriate point in the future.” But at a side event earlier in the day, Perry said that after the IPCC releases its big report on 1.5 degrees (expected in October), the UK government plans to ask the CCC to analyze what the 1.5 degree target would mean for Britain.

.@claireperrymp :"I am pleased to announce that after the IPCC report later this year, we will be seeking advice from the UK’s independent advisers, the Committee on Climate Change, on the implications of the Paris Agreement for the UK’s long-term emissions reduction targets." pic.twitter.com/WCXHsfEtwT — Dept for BEIS (@beisgovuk) April 17, 2018

Everyone knows what the CCC is likely to find. It was previewed in a big report from the London School of Economics released last month. That report found that to bring its targets in line with the Paris agreement, i.e., to do its part in a real effort at keeping to 1.5 degrees, the UK must commit to net-zero carbon emissions by midcentury.

The UK government has typically taken the CCC’s findings and recommendations to heart, so if the CCC recommends net zero, the likelihood of it actually happening is radically increased.

The politics of net zero are complicated

It is early yet, and far from clear that the UK will actually pass the legislation necessary to revise the Climate Change Act’s target to net zero by 2050. There are many fraught steps between here and there.

But the fact that the country is considering it, openly discussing it within the UNFCCC context, is a big deal regardless. New Zealand and Sweden have committed to versions of net zero, but no G7 country has yet. And eventually, they all need to. The UK has helped start that conversation, if nothing else.

Politically, the UK has some wind at its back.

Decarbonization enjoys an extraordinary degree of political consensus in Britain. I remind my American readers that it is the conservative party doing all this. Imagine if US Republicans, instead of bailing from the Paris agreement at the first opportunity, doubled down on it. (No, I can’t imagine it either.)

Meanwhile, the center-left party is endorsing a climate damages tax that will go to nations at risk from climate change, and the Green Party wants 90 percent carbon reductions by 2030. Though they vary in their ambition and policy preferences, every major UK party supports decarbonization.

And the public does too. A recent poll found that solid majorities of Britons of every stripe, including conservatives, support a net-zero target.

New analysis by @WeAreBrightBlue shows a compelling political case for today's net zero announcement by @claireperrymp, with clear majorities of the public, including Conservative voters, in favour of a net zero target https://t.co/y7wPluOZid pic.twitter.com/UQoirIbvLT — Sam Hall (@samuelhall0) April 17, 2018

The political will is in place, but right now, net zero is just an idea. In practice, it will be extremely difficult (and contentious). It will certainly take more than coal dying.

If would require the UK to boost its near- and midterm targets, rapidly accelerate all existing decarbonization efforts, and take some politically unpopular steps like building giant carbon sequestration facilities.

It will require addressing the trickiest carbon problems: emissions from aviation, agriculture, biomass, and above all transportation, which in the UK (as in the US) is now the largest source of emissions.

“While emissions from energy supplies are down 57 per cent from [1990],” the Independent reports, “transport emissions are only down 2 per cent over the same period, making it the worst performing sector.”

According to the CCC, transportation emissions in the UK must fall 44 percent by 2030 to stay on track for long-term carbon targets. That will mean engineering a rapid electrification of the vehicle fleet — Britain has already announced it will ban diesel and gasoline cars from 2040 forward.

Suffice to say, many barriers and road bumps lie ahead for the UK as it enters the second phase of decarbonization (subtitled: Shit Gets Real). After coal fades, the country will begin the real hard work.

Even if it does defy political gravity and put a commitment to net-zero emissions into law, there’s no guarantee it will succeed.

But by acknowledging the need for net-zero emissions, the UK has opened up a long overdue conversation — one that ends, we can all hope, with humanity ridding itself of carbon fuels entirely.