Michael Cohen, Trump’s attorney and fixer, said he will plead the Fifth in the ongoing lawsuit with porn star Stormy Daniels.

Cohen cited the ongoing federal criminal investigation that he’s caught up in when invoking his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination in documents filed in federal court on Wednesday. The FBI raided Cohen’s home, office, and hotel room on April 9, seizing documents and other materials, including those related to the $130,000 hush money payment that Cohen paid Daniels in October 2016 to prevent her from speaking publicly about an alleged affair she had with Donald Trump in 2006.

Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford) is suing Trump, saying the hush agreement she signed is invalid because the president himself never signed it. Trump has denied knowing anything about the $130,000 that Cohen paid to Daniels.

Michael Avenatti, Daniels’s attorney, called Cohen’s decision to plead the Fifth a “stunning development” in a tweet.

This is a stunning development. Never before in our nation’s history has the attorney for the sitting President invoked the 5th Amend in connection with issues surrounding the President. It is esp. stunning seeing as MC served as the “fixer” for Mr. Trump for over 10 yrs. #basta — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) April 25, 2018

Cohen’s plea is not that stunning a development, considering he’s under criminal investigation, and anything said or discovered in the civil suit could potentially be used against him in the federal probe. Cohen asserted his Fifth Amendment right in backing up his petition last week to get the judge to put the Daniels lawsuit on hold because of the investigation by the FBI and the Southern District of New York.

The judge will make that decision based on whether there’s substantial overlap between the civil suit and the federal investigation. The “conundrum,” the judge said, according to CNN, is that “the scope and breadth of the criminal investigation remain a mystery.”

Cohen faces a hearing Thursday in the federal investigation, where he and his lawyers will present a plan to review documents seized by the FBI that might be protected by attorney-client privilege. According to Bloomberg, the judge in that case, Kimba Wood, has indicated she may appoint an independent party to review material Cohen or Trump say breaches that privilege.

Read Cohen’s court filing below or at this link.Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt will face a double whammy of hearings on Capitol Hill Thursday that could make or break his career at the EPA.

The hearings are intended to give Pruitt the chance to pitch his agency’s budget for the upcoming fiscal year. But members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Appropriations Committee, including some Republicans, are expected to grill Pruitt over his growing list of alleged ethical lapses.

A tsunami of accusations of improper dealings has emerged since Pruitt’s last trip to the Hill in January, from using sirens to get to dinner reservations to a sweetheart condo deal with a lobbyist to ousting staffers who questioned his luxury travel. These allegations have led to investigations from Congress, the White House, and government watchdogs. The Government Accountability Office already found that the $43,000 phone booth in Pruitt’s office broke the law.

And though his prepared statement for the Energy and Commerce Committee completely ignores the controversies around him, the New York Times reported that Pruitt is preparing for a confrontation with a set of talking points on his long list of scandals. He will argue, among other things, that he flew first class based on recommendations from his security staff and that he wasn’t involved in the decision to bypass the White House to get massive raises for two close aides.

Meanwhile, EPA employees protested outside the agency’s headquarters on Wednesday, decrying budget cuts alongside activists and lawmakers who want to “Boot Pruitt” out of office.

Yet even with all the turmoil, Pruitt is still advancing the conservative policy agenda at the EPA. Earlier this week, he started the process of limiting the science the agency can use to develop regulations. And the budget he’s defending Thursday would cut $2.58 billion from the EPA, a 23 percent reduction from its funding under the last continuing resolution.

Some Republicans in Congress are pleased with Pruitt’s steady deregulation work at the agency, but others, including longtime patrons like Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK), have expressed dismay about the mounting allegations.

Ultimately, Pruitt’s fate is in the hands President Trump, who already has a full plate with his travel ban before the Supreme Court this week, his nominee to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs Ronny Jackson foundering under various allegations, French President Emmanuel Macron in town for a visit, and his lawyer Michael Cohen getting raided by the FBI.

When asked why @EPAScottPruitt still has a job, @PressSec punted, said the WH is "evaluating these concerns and we expect the EPA administrator to answer for them" but doesn't say how he should answer, congressional hearings, etc. Simply "ongoing conversations" continue. — Hannah Northey (@HMNorthey) April 25, 2018

That means that even if Pruitt fails to convince lawmakers on Thursday that he’s fit to continue running the EPA, he could skirt the ire of the White House once again. Or not.If Ronny Jackson, President Donald Trump’s nominee to the Department of Veterans Affairs, is confirmed to the Cabinet job, he’d be charged with helping reverse an opioid epidemic that the VA fueled in the past.

But it turns out that at the White House, Jackson may have helped perpetuate a key cause of the crisis.

Nicholas Fandos at the New York Times on Wednesday reported that Jackson, who is currently the top White House doctor, had “provided ‘a large supply’ of Percocet, a prescription opioid, to a White House military office staff member, throwing his own medical staff ‘into a panic’ when the medical unit could not account for the missing drugs, according to a summary of questionable deeds compiled by the Democratic staff of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee.”

This is just the latest of many accusations against Jackson, who was accused of drinking on the job and overprescribing non-opioid sleeping medications. With the new accusation, it seems that Jackson’s alleged penchant for overprescribing extended to opioids too.

This would be bad for any doctor. But it’s particularly bad for Jackson, given the role the VA played in causing the opioid crisis in the first place — and the task it now faces in helping end the epidemic.

In the 1990s, doctors — under the urging of advocacy groups, pharmaceutical companies, and government agencies — began prescribing a tremendous amount of opioids. The proliferation of the potentially deadly, addictive drugs made opioids available not just to patients but also to friends and family with whom patients shared drugs, teenagers who rummaged through their parents’ medicine cabinets, and a black market in which excess opioids could be sold for a huge markup.

The VA, which oversees the nation’s largest integrated health care system in the Veterans Health Administration, played a big role in initially creating this crisis. It promoted the idea that pain should be treated as “the fifth vital sign,” which led doctors at veterans hospitals and elsewhere to ask patients to rate their pain — pain that was then treated with opioids.

Over time, the epidemic has expanded to other opioids, particularly heroin and fentanyl, as people addicted to the drugs have pursued a stronger high, as crackdowns on painkillers led patients to pursue alternatives, and as the general increase in demand for opioids led drug dealers and traffickers to flood the country with illicit opioids, making them more available and accessible than before.

But the root cause was the initial proliferation of opioid painkillers, which led many to misuse and get addicted to the drugs.

There was very little evidence for the prescribing push embraced by the VA and other health systems. A growing body of evidence has shown that opioids are generally not good treatments for chronic pain and at least some acute pain, although the drugs do work for some individuals. A 2006 study published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine concluded that “[r]outinely measuring pain by the 5th vital sign did not increase the quality of pain management.”

At the same time, there has long been evidence that opioids can be addictive and dangerous — which is why the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has urged doctors to be cautious and balance the negatives with the positives when prescribing opioids to patients.

As the opioid epidemic became the deadliest drug overdose crisis in US history, the VA has tried to become a leader in undoing the kinds of policies that got America into this mess to begin with. The Veterans Health Administration, for example, has an Opioid Safety Initiative that tries to get medical providers under its purview to better balance the risks and benefits of these drugs.

Sen. Jon Tester (D-MT), who’s on the Veterans Affairs Committee, released a two-page summary of the full accusations against Jackson. According to the summary, Jackson was known as the “Candyman” because “he would provide whatever prescriptions they sought without paperwork.” Although the allegations initially involved Ambien and Provigil, neither of which is an opioid, the new allegations involve “a large supply” of Percocet. Jackson also allegedly had “private stocks of controlled substances,” “wrote himself scripts,” and “prescribed medications when other physicians would not,” the allegations claim.

Jackson has denied at least some of the allegations, saying he will still pursue the top job at the VA.

But if the accusations are true, they lead to one question: If Jackson treated controlled substances like this as a doctor, how can he be trusted to curtail these drugs’ use as the head of the VA?

For more on America’s opioid epidemic, read Vox’s explainer.After former first lady Barbara Bush died on April 17, some praised her political skill or her outspoken nature.

But Randa Jarrar, an English professor at California State University Fresno, was unimpressed with the accolades.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal,” Jarrar tweeted (her account is now private). “Fuck outta here with your nice words.”

The tweet, and Jarrar’s subsequent criticisms of Bush and her family, ignited a flurry of criticism, with the New York Post calling Jarrar “cowardly” and a “looney leftist.” The president of Fresno State hinted at disciplinary action, saying on April 18 that “a professor with tenure does not have blanket protection to say and do what they wish.” On April 24, the president announced that although Jarrar’s tweets were “an embarrassment to the university,” she would not be disciplined.

Jarrar is an academic and writer who has never shied away from politically controversial topics. (I once edited a piece she wrote for Salon on belly dancing and cultural appropriation.) But the fury over her tweets is an example of a much larger debate about speech on college campuses. Conservatives have increasingly criticized liberal students for protesting speakers with whom they disagree, accusing them of taking “political correctness” to the extreme and threatening the First Amendment. Progressive students and others argue in response that protest is also a form of free speech, and that in any case, the First Amendment doesn’t guarantee the right to give a speech on a college campus.

In this case, though, the roles are reversed. Conservatives are calling on the administration to fire the professor because of something she said. Progressives, meanwhile, say that there’s nothing untrue about what Jarrar said. Bush, despite the warm tone of many of her obituaries, was known during life not just for her “sharp” tongue but also for disturbing remarks, as when she said being trapped in the Houston Astrodome was “working very well” for victims of Hurricane Katrina.

Jarrar took issue with Bush’s comments about Anita Hill

After Barbara Bush’s death at the age of 92, some obituaries mentioned her opposition to segregation or her pro-choice views. But Bush had also drawn criticism for some of her comments long before Jarrar tweeted about her. In 2005, she implied that the 25,000 people evacuated from New Orleans to the Houston Astrodome due to Hurricane Katrina — many of them poor and black — were actually better off after being forced from their homes. “So many of the people in the arena here, you know, were underprivileged anyway,” she said in a radio interview at the time, “so this is working very well for them.”

Bush also wrote in her 1994 memoir that Clarence Thomas was “a good man” who had been “smeared” by reports that he sexually harassed Anita Hill. “Is this woman telling the truth?” Bush wrote. “I do not mean to sit in judgment, but I will never believe that she, a Yale Law School graduate, a woman of the 80s, would put up with harassment for one moment, much less follow the harasser from job to job, call him when she came back to town and later invite him to speak to her students at Oral Roberts University.”

“It also makes no sense to me that this was all publicly aired on television,” she added.

Jarrar, who has not yet responded to Vox’s request for comment, referenced this history in a follow-up tweet, linking to NewsOne coverage of Bush’s comments on Hill and writing, “What this woman did and said to and about Black women is unforgivable.”

Jarrar also tweeted, “I’m happy the witch is dead. can’t wait for the rest of her family to fall to their demise the way 1.5 million iraqis have,” and, in response to criticism, posted the phone number of a suicide hotline, apparently portraying it as her own, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education.

Critics responded with insults and calls for her firing

Within days, Jarrar had received multiple death threats in response to her comments, she tweeted. Bob Fredericks of the New York Post picked up the story, writing that “the would-be egghead’s hateful tweets took the internet by storm” and that “the looney leftist remained defiant, gloating that she was untouchable because she had tenure, which in most cases provides college professors with lifetime job security regardless of their idiotic behavior.”

A local TV station interviewed Jarrar’s ex-husband, who said he was disgusted by her tweets and accused her of lying about him in the past; Jarrar has written that he was abusive. Meanwhile, alumni and others tweeted criticism of Jarrar at Fresno State’s accounts, and some have called for her to be fired.

“We share the deep concerns expressed by others over the personal comments made today by Professor Randa Jarrar,” university president Joseph Castro said in a statement on April 17. “Her statements were made as a private citizen, not as a representative of Fresno State.”

In an interview with the Fresno Bee, Castro added that the university was reviewing the case as well as its collective bargaining agreement with faculty. “We are all held accountable for our actions,” he said.

“This was beyond free speech,” Castro said of Jarrar’s tweets. “This was disrespectful.”

A spokesperson for Fresno State told Vox in an email that “the University is treating the matter seriously by reviewing it within University policies and agreements.” She added that since it is a personnel matter, the university “cannot comment on the status of the review nor its outcome.”

On April 24, Castro announced that the university would not discipline Jarrar for her tweets. “Professor Jarrar’s conduct was insensitive, inappropriate and an embarrassment to the university,” he said in a statement. However, “we have concluded that Professor Jarrar did not violate any CSU or university policies and that she was acting in a private capacity and speaking about a public matter on her personal Twitter account. Her comments, although disgraceful, are protected free speech under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.”

The reaction to Jarrar’s tweets is part of a bigger debate about speech on college campuses

The controversy over Jarrar’s tweets comes at a time of larger debates around speech on college campuses, though these have typically taken a different form. Conservative New York Times columnists Bret Stephens and David Brooks, among others, have written with disapproval when college students protest comments by professors or appearances by conservative speakers.

In October, Stephens wrote that today, “professors live in fear of accidentally offending their own students and a governor needs to declare a countywide state of emergency so that white supremacist Richard Spencer can speak at the University of Florida.” But, he wrote, “free speech is what makes educational excellence possible.”

“If you can’t speak freely, you’ll quickly lose the ability to think clearly,” he added. “You will be unable to test an original thought for fear that it might be labeled an offensive one. You will succumb to a form of Orwellian double-think without even having the excuse of living in physical terror of doing otherwise.”

Brooks, meanwhile, wrote in March that “students across the country continue to attack and shut down speakers at a steady pace, from Christina Hoff Sommers to Jordan Peterson.”

“My gut reaction is that these student mobbists manage to combine snowflake fragility and lynch mob irrationalism into one perfectly poisonous cocktail,” he said.

Jarrar, meanwhile, got criticism, not defense, from some conservative writers. At the right-wing site the Daily Wire, Ryan Saavedra wrote that Castro’s statement signaled that “the university is not going to take a hard stand over the hateful remarks from this professor who mocked the death of an American icon and rejoiced in the suffering of her family.”

Jarrar has some defenders in libertarian circles — Robby Soave at Reason wrote that “students, other professors, and the broader Twitter community should feel free to vocalize their disapproval of her comments, but Jarrar shouldn’t lose her job or be formally sanctioned by Fresno officials.” After this story first ran, I also saw some conservatives defending Jarrar on free speech grounds.

But at least initially, some on the right reacted to her speech with the kinds of outrage and calls for removal conservatives traditionally criticize. On April 17, Jarrar tweeted, “who’s the snowflake now?”Drinking too much on the job. Overseeing a “toxic” work environment. Overprescribing medication. Wrecking a government vehicle. Knocking on a female colleague’s door loudly enough to attract Secret Service attention.

Those are serious allegations against any physician — but it’s worse when they’re leveled against Dr. Ronny Jackson, the top White House doctor and President Donald Trump’s pick to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. And now, new details are emerging that could further imperil his chances of making it through what could be a bruising Senate confirmation fight.

Jackson’s woes began on Monday night when lawmakers said there were issues with his job performance (besides serving as Trump’s personal physician, Jackson is also an active-duty Navy admiral). Hours later, reporters learned of the drinking, work environment, and medication dispensation allegations.

Things got tougher for Jackson on Wednesday when the New York Times published details from a memo alleging that the doctor had a pattern of substance abuse and careless prescribing of drugs. Democratic staffers working for the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee compiled the document as part of their background investigation of Jackson ahead of potential confirmation hearings.

According to the memo, which was later published in full by the Washington Post, Jackson wrote himself prescriptions before getting caught, provided a “large supply” of the opioid Percocet to a White House military aide without filling out paperwork, and destroyed a government vehicle while drunk.

The memo also alludes to an incident from a 2015 overseas trip where Jackson allegedly banged so loudly on a female colleague’s door while drunk that the Secret Service stepped in so he wouldn’t wake the president.

If any of the allegations are true, he could lose not only the chance to lead the VA but also much of his sterling reputation.

It was already not looking good for Jackson, whose surprise nomination in late March had prompted immediate concerns about whether he had the proper level of experience to run the sprawling VA. Jackson currently manages a staff of 70; the VA employs 375,000 people and has a budget of more than $185 billion.

On Tuesday morning, the two leaders of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee — Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Jon Tester (D-MT) — indefinitely postponed Jackson’s hearing, which was previously scheduled for Wednesday. They also sent a letter to the White House asking for any documents “regarding allegations or incidents involving Rear Admiral Jackson from 2006 to present.” During that time, Jackson led the White House Medical Unit and served as the physician to three presidents — George W. Bush, Barack Obama, and Trump.

It’s unclear if Jackson, who met with Isakson on April 16, disclosed any information about his alleged misconduct to the committee chair. But Isakson has reportedly called the White House in recent days to let them know about growing concerns on the Hill over the allegations.

Jackson is already on the defensive. In a Tuesday meeting with Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS) — a Veterans Affairs committee member — Jackson stated he never drank while on duty, the senator said.

And during a press conference alongside French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday, Trump said he was unaware of any allegations against Jackson, but that “it’s totally his decision” whether to remove himself from consideration. “I don’t want to put a man through a process like this,” he added. “It’s too ugly, and it’s too disgusting.” Those comments potentially provide cover for Jackson to withdraw himself and save the White House from having to pull the nomination or see it defeated.

If that happens, it would be a startling change of fate for a nominee who days ago seemed bound to become the next veterans affairs secretary. And while Jackson is the only one to blame for his alleged misconduct, this is also very much a crisis of Trump’s own making.

How Jackson got the VA secretary nomination

Trump isn’t the only president to have had warm feelings for Jackson, who often went the extra mile for his patients. An April 19 Washington Post profile of Jackson noted:

He helped George W. Bush clear brush at his Texas ranch. He supplied Barack Obama with Nicorette gum even as he urged him to quit the nicotine substitute. He once was so eager to deliver a sling to Vice President Richard B. Cheney for a sore arm that his sprint toward the presidential helicopter caught the attention of Secret Service agents, a friend said.

Jackson seemingly got the nomination because he went the extra mile for Trump too. He spent more than an hour last January answering questions about the president’s mental and physical health. During that press conference, the Navy doctor famously said “if [Trump] had a healthier diet over the last 20 years, he might live to be 200 years old.”

Jackson already had a good rapport with Trump — as the top White House doctor, he has to travel and spend time with the president — but his performance at this press conference made him a star in Trump’s eyes.

On March 28, Trump tweeted his intent to nominate Jackson to lead the VA after reportedly pushing out former Secretary David Shulkin over disagreements about how best to provide medical care for veterans. (Basically, Trump wants to privatize that care; Shulkin wanted to reform the way the government provides services. They battled over that issue for months until Trump finally removed him.)

But it turns out that Jackson received almost no vetting before Trump’s tweet. Had he gone through the normal vetting process, it’s likely the administration would have gotten at least some warning signs about his possible misconduct before making the pick.

Jackson was seen as a strange choice from the start. Before joining the White House, he was a top combat surgeon, at one point overseeing dozens of staffers in Iraq. Now he leads a small office of around 70 employees with a minimal budget and a simple mission: treat the president, the first family, and others at the White House.

Leading the Department of Veterans Affairs, though, is an entirely different job. It employs around 375,000 people with a budget surpassing $185 billion. Only the Defense Department is a bigger US government agency. Senate Republicans quietly grumbled that Jackson didn’t have the management experience required to run such a large bureaucracy.

Trump acknowledged Tuesday that “I know there’s an experience problem” with Jackson. Whether that means Trump will pull the nomination is a very different story since he appears to value two things above all: loyalty and sycophancy. Jackson’s chumminess with the president, and the praise the doctor lavished on him in January, could persuade Trump to try to push him through what would almost certainly be bruising Senate confirmation hearings.

Back in March, I asked Anthony Principi, the veterans affairs secretary from 2001 to 2005, how Jackson could best lead the VA. “He has to command the respect and restore morale and leadership to the department. That’s the most important challenge ahead of him,” he told me.

Should Jackson get through the confirmation process, he’ll start with a disadvantage on that front. But at this point, even getting a confirmation hearing will be hard enough.

Correction: Sen. Johnny Isakson called the White House to express concerns mounting on the Hill over the allegations against Jackson. A previous version said he suggested the White House might need to consider withdrawing Jackson’s nomination on the call.The story of Randa Jarrar, a professor at California State University Fresno, is different from the one we’ve seen play out again and again recently. Instead of a white, male conservative professor or guest speaker saying something controversial, leading to a social media feud over whether conservative speech is under attack, Jarrar is a liberal woman of color who became the object of attack for criticizing a conservative.

Unlike the men (and sometimes women) who have challenged “political correctness” and been deemed brave by the right for their unique intellectual courage, Jarrar is a Muslim woman who called out Barbara Bush, a beloved conservative figure who had just died, for racism. In response, her mentions quickly filled up with racist and sexist harassment, her university hinted at a possible firing, and the media coverage became bizarrely personal. Jarrar said she also received death threats.

Some conservatives and libertarians have since stepped in to defend Jarrar on free speech grounds. And on April 24, Fresno State announced that it would not, in fact, be disciplining Jarrar. But her case is a reminder that when a woman of color speaks out on her views about race, she faces unique dangers that aren’t shared by white pundits who take controversial positions. And her speech isn’t always seen as courageous — even though women of color who call out prejudice, especially online, are virtually guaranteed to receive racist and sexist abuse.

The furor started on Twitter

After Jarrar tweeted that the recently deceased Barbara Bush “was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal,” her mentions filled up with racist comments and insults about her weight. One Twitter user opined that she should be “fired because she’s a bitch.”

On April 17, Jarrar, whose Twitter account is now private, tweeted, “If you’d like to know what it’s like to be an arab american muslim american woman with some clout online expressing an opinion, look at the racists going crazy in my mentions right now.” The replies to that tweet were full of sexist slurs and racist remarks.

The response was indicative of something women, and especially women of color, deal with every day — when they voice their opinions online, they’re liable to receive torrents of racist and sexist hate.

A Pew survey from 2017 offers one measure of this problem — while men were more likely to experience some forms of online harassment, like name-calling, women were more likely to experience sexual harassment, and people of color were more likely than white people to experience harassment based on their race. Meanwhile, a full 78 percent of women in a 2016 Amnesty International survey felt they couldn’t express an opinion on Twitter without receiving threats or abuse.

As the Pew data shows, men do get harassed online. But Jarrar’s experience is a reminder that to speak on the internet as a woman, and especially as a woman of color, often means being attacked not just for your views but for who you are.

University officials spoke out against her

When the social media firestorm around Jarrar’s tweet reached the door of Cal State Fresno, where she teaches, officials were outspoken. “A professor with tenure does not have blanket protection to say and do what they wish,” said university president Joseph Castro. “We are all held accountable for our actions.”

“This was beyond free speech,” he added. “This was disrespectful.”

At a news conference, university provost Lynnette Zelezny explained that a tenured professor can be fired.

While it’s true that tenure isn’t a blanket protection, universities have often been loath to dismiss tenured professors, even those with a history of racism or anti-Semitism. Tenure provides professors with an added layer of job security and is intended in part to protect their academic freedom, as attorney Ken White pointed out to the Fresno Bee. The intent is to allow professors to do controversial work without fear of being fired by their universities.

In 2006, Northwestern University electrical engineering professor Arthur Butz praised Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, then the president of Iran, for saying the Holocaust was a myth. Butz is a longtime Holocaust denier, having published a book called The Hoax of the Twentieth Century: The Case Against the Presumed Extermination of European Jewry in 1976.

After the Ahmadinejad comments, Northwestern’s president said in a statement that “Butz has made clear that his opinions are his own and at no time has he discussed those views in class or made them part of his class curriculum. Therefore, we cannot take action based on the content of what Butz says regarding the Holocaust — however odious it may be — without undermining the vital principle of intellectual freedom that all academic institutions serve to protect.”

Butz still teaches at Northwestern, though students have called for his firing as recently as last year.

In August 2017, University of Pennsylvania Law School professor Amy Wax co-wrote an op-ed extolling the values of the mid-20th century and criticizing “the anti-‘acting white’ rap culture of inner-city blacks” and “the anti-assimilation ideas gaining ground among some Hispanic immigrants.” She then told the Penn student newspaper that Anglo-Protestant cultural norms were superior to others and that “everyone wants to go to countries ruled by white Europeans.” Later that year, she said, “I don’t think I’ve ever seen a black student graduate in the top quarter of the class, and rarely, rarely, in the top half.”

That comment in particular drew condemnation from students and alumni, and Penn announced earlier this year that Wax would be barred from teaching first-year law school courses but would continue teaching electives. Even this action caused an emeritus member of the university’s board of trustees to resign in protest, writing that in preventing Wax from teaching first-year students, “you are suppressing what is crucial to the liberal educational project: open, robust and critical debate over differing views of important social issues.”

Universities have also kept on professors who have committed violent crimes — like the UT Austin professor who pleaded guilty to strangling his then-girlfriend until she “saw stars” — or who have been accused of sexual misconduct. Last year, a social work graduate student at USC reported that her adviser had made an unwanted advance and then told her not to report it — a university investigation supported her allegation, but the school suspended the professor without pay for a semester, rather than firing him.

It’s impossible to know for sure whether Jarrar’s identity, or the fact that she criticized a conservative matriarch, factored into her university’s vigorous response to her comments. In a new statement issued on April 19, Castro was more measured, saying: “People will have different opinions on the proper balance between freedom of expression and the responsibility to exercise it in a way that promotes constructive dialogue. We are constantly striving to get that balance right.”

And on April 24, Castro announced that the university would not be taking disciplinary action against Jarrar after all. “Professor Jarrar’s conduct was insensitive, inappropriate and an embarrassment to the university,” he said in a statement. However, “we have concluded that Professor Jarrar did not violate any CSU or university policies and that she was acting in a private capacity and speaking about a public matter on her personal Twitter account.”

But the president’s swift and forceful initial response certainly felt unusual in a climate where university officials are often reticent and hyper-careful in discussions of personnel matters, especially when politics are involved. The president’s April 19 statement about “different opinions” and “balance” was more typical of official university responses on controversial matters — his earlier allegation that Jarrar’s “disrespectful” comments went “beyond free speech” felt like a departure from the tightly circumscribed norms of academic institutions, especially because he was talking about a university employee.

Media coverage was strikingly personal

Even the prospect of Jarrar’s firing, though, seemed to produce some glee in media circles. Media outlets quickly seized on the Fresno State provost’s comment that a tenured professor can be fired. Headlines hyped the possibility. At the Visalia Times-Delta: “Tenure may not save professor who called Barbara Bush an ‘amazing racist.’” At Fox News: “Fresno State says Barbara Bush-bashing professor can be fired despite tenure.”

Meanwhile, coverage of Jarrar’s tweets went in an oddly personal direction. Networks scrambled to interview her ex-husband, who accused her of lying about him and said he was disgusted by her tweets, and her former sister-in-law, who said, “she was not this way when we knew her.” And as the writer V.V. Ganeshananthan noted, other media coverage about Jarrar used loaded language, as when Cleve R. Wootson Jr. and Herman Wong of the Washington Post wrote that critics “were upset at what they viewed as her incivility about a woman widely regarded as genteel.”

“I *wonder* who gets to be genteel!” Ganeshananthan tweeted.

As Jarrar’s story has unfolded, a number of conservatives and libertarians have argued that her speech should be protected, even if they may not like it. Conservative columnist Ben Shapiro initially tweeted that Jarrar would not have to see Barbara Bush “when she’s in heaven and you’re burning in hell.” But on April 18, he wrote at the Daily Wire, where he is editor-in-chief, that “Jarrar has a right to speak, and setting the precedent that professors should be fired for saying gross, atrocious or impolitic things seems like a serious problem.”

At the Washington Post, Megan McArdle wrote that “Jarrar has behaved like an ill-bred adolescent with an underdeveloped vocabulary, an overdeveloped ego and an entirely atrophied sense of empathy” but that “Fresno State is wrong to investigate her private speech, and conservatives who are tempted to support the school should think again.”

Infantilizing language aside, it’s encouraging to see conservative and libertarian writers defending speech of which they disapprove, especially because much of the recent rhetoric around free speech on college campuses has tended to assume that it’s conservative speech that’s most at risk.

Still, the personal and bigoted vitriol Jarrar has gotten — and her university’s initial willingness to respond to that vitriol by punishing her — are a reminder that in America, some people’s speech is more protected than others’.

One recent darling of conservative free speech advocates is writer Kevin Williamson, who was fired from the Atlantic after his comments about hanging women for abortions became too numerous to ignore. In response to a recent Wall Street Journal essay by Williamson (titled “When the Twitter Mob Came for Me”), Commentary associate editor Noah Rothman tweeted that Williamson’s experience had helped clarify “what true courage in writing really is. The kind with personal and professional consequences.”

Jarrar’s experience is a reminder that progressives, not just conservatives, routinely face such consequences, and that they’re often magnified for people from marginalized groups. And for women and especially women of color, speaking out online requires true courage every single day.Dr. Ronny Jackson’s nomination to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs has come under fire, with new allegations that the White House physician drank on the job and improperly prescribed pills to White House staff.

The New York Times reported earlier today that Jackson, who also served under Presidents Obama and George W. Bush, had previously “distributed Ambien, a prescription sleep aid, which is not a narcotic, to White House staff and members of the news media flying on long overseas trips, as well as Provigil, a prescription drug for promoting wakefulness.”

And Democratic Senate aides shared with the Times one account of an incident when Jackson allegedly got drunk while on the job: “On one trip during Barack Obama’s presidency, White House staff needed to reach Dr. Jackson for medical reasons and found him passed out in his hotel room after a night of drinking.”

This is, quite obviously, not the type of résumé you’d want to put forward for any medical job — especially not one in the president’s Cabinet.

But I want to expand a bit on a point that Matt Yglesias made earlier today at Vox: All this scandal swirling around Johnson masks how unqualified he is to run the country’s largest hospital system. Here’s Matt:

The VA employs around 375,000 people with a budget surpassing $185 billion. Only the Defense Department is a bigger US government agency. Jackson was a successful combat surgeon who oversaw a few dozen staffers at the peak of his wartime service and now supervises a small staff of about 70 people in the White House medical office. He appears to struggle with the (modest) management aspects of the job but has succeeded nonetheless due to his strong personal rapport with a series of presidents. Trump likes him, in particular, because of his virtuoso press conference defending Trump’s health (including a height and weight estimate that registered him as officially non-obese), but this has nothing to do with the VA’s work. Even if the charges against Jackson are entirely false, “wasn’t drunk on the job” and “the president likes him” is not an appropriate bar for an important substantive position that requires considerable management skill and subject matter expertise.

As Matt points out, Veterans Affairs is a huge federal bureaucracy. The last person confirmed to this position was David Shulkin, who stepped down from the position in March. Before Shulkin came into office, he held C-suite-level positions in three hospital systems, including working as president of Beth Israel Medical Center, a major hospital in New York City.

Others have come from different parts of the health care system, like Robert McDonald, who served under President Obama and previously ran Procter & Gamble, a company with 95,000 employees.

And still others have come from inside the department, serving, for example, as a deputy administrator before stepping into the top role.

This type of experience is primarily important in running the country’s largest health care system. But even beyond that, whatever happens at the VA can ripple out to the rest of the American health care system.

VA hospitals are big enough to help popularize certain policy approaches and steer other hospitals in similar directions.

A good example of this is the role Veterans Affairs appears to have played in the opioid epidemic, by encouraging doctors to more aggressively question patients about their pain levels at each visit.

In 1999, the VA was one of the first health care systems to start considering pain the “fifth vital sign,” after blood pressure, temperature, respiration rate, and pulse.

Doctors who trained around that time remember hearing that they too should treat pain as a vital sign — after all, the country’s largest health care system had decided this was a good policy to implement.

Looking back, experts I’ve interviewed now worry that this “pain as a vital sign” movement may have only exacerbated the opioid epidemic. It seemed well-intentioned at the time, but it didn’t actually seem to improve pain treatment among veterans. It did, though, appear to increase opioid prescribing — once doctors asked patients about pain, after all, they felt like they needed to offer some sort of solution.

This is one example of Veterans Affairs being a large enough health care system to guide the rest of American hospitals. If it plants a flag and implements a new policy, it doesn’t do so in a vacuum; other health systems take note when the largest one starts doing something differently.

This all means that the future of Veterans Affairs is not just about one large health care system — it’s about the rest of the American health care system too.

This story appears in VoxCare, a newsletter from Vox on the latest twists and turns in America’s health care debate. Sign up to get VoxCare in your inbox along with more health care stats and news.

vox-mark VoxCare Vox's email explaining the biggest news in health care, edited by Sarah Kliff Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

Join the conversation

Are you interested in more discussions around health care policy? Join our Facebook community for conversation and updates.Kanye West, the music producer and rapper and author of some of the most influential records of the 21st century, returned to Twitter after almost a full year away, where he’s now posting so many tweets that it’s genuinely hard to keep up with his seemingly insatiable pace.

At first, it seemed like he was just back on Twitter to announce a pair of new albums (one solo, one with longtime collaborator Kid Cudi). But it didn’t take long before he set off a firestorm of controversy that expanded to encompass a series of right-wing pundits; the creator of Dilbert; his wife, Kim Kardashian West; and the president of the United States.

Many of Kanye’s tweets have been harmless or border on impenetrable (“I no longer have a manager. I can’t be managed” and then “decentralize”). But the hip-hop star immediately kicked up outcry when he professed his admiration for several right-wing speakers — and, as he had before, President Donald Trump.

You don't have to agree with trump but the mob can't make me not love him. We are both dragon energy. He is my brother. I love everyone. I don't agree with everything anyone does. That's what makes us individuals. And we have the right to independent thought. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

President Trump returned the love on Wednesday afternoon.

Thank you Kanye, very cool! https://t.co/vRIC87M21X — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2018

And it just kept going.

my MAGA hat is signed pic.twitter.com/DrDHJybS8V — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

Kanye has always been an iconoclast, but it has still been jarring to see the man who once said that “George Bush doesn’t care about black people” after the disastrous response to Hurricane Katrina shower love on a president who called African nations “shitholes.”

As Kanye’s tweets rapidly took over the news cycle and then spun into a news cyclone, his wife, Kardashian, a reality star and lifestyle mogul who publicly supported Hillary Clinton in 2016, stepped in.

my wife just called me and she wanted me to make this clear to everyone. I don't agree with everything Trump does. I don't agree 100% with anyone but myself. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

Kanye will never run in the race of popular opinion and we know that and that’s why I love him and respect him and in a few years when someone else says the same exact thing but they aren’t labeled the way he is and you will all praise them! Kanye is years ahead of his time — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) April 25, 2018

Explaining exactly what’s going on here might be beyond our or anyone’s abilities. By his own design, Kanye West has become something of an inexplicable quantity. His refusal to filter himself is both one of his greatest artistic strengths and an endless source of frustration for fans who love his music as much as they’re stumped by his persona.

There is a long history at play here between Kanye’s obsession with celebrity, his sense of kinship with bombastic figures like Trump, and his very public struggles with his mother’s death in 2007, his mental health, and his recently disclosed opioid addiction. He’s an artist who’s always trying to put his finger on the culture’s pulse — or, preferably, define it.

So in 2018, tweets like “I leave my emojis bart Simpson color” roll by without much notice. But a little love for Donald Trump seems to stop Twitter on its axis. Kanye being Kanye just demands your attention. We might not know what to make of it — let alone his “Kanye 2024” declarations — but we can’t look away.

Kanye already had a history of buddying up to Trump. Now he’s embracing other right-wing figures.

As Vox’s Constance Grady wrote back in December 2016, the mutual fascination between Kanye and Trump has been around for a long time:

Kanye has referenced Trump three times in his lyrics, primarily as a shorthand for the idea of wealth, luxury, and the ability to fire people. The first reference came in 2005 when Kanye freestyled on the YouTube channel Tim Westwood TV (“I ain’t no clown like Ronald / Uh, more like Donald / Trump, with the way I get it crunk”), then in 2009’s “Flashing Lights (Remix)” (“You fired mothafucka Donald Trump ni**a”), and then in 2010’s “So Appalled”(“Balding Donald Trump taking dollars from y’all / Baby, you’re fired, your girlfriend hired”). He also featured a naked depiction of Trump in the bed tableau that appears in the video for his song “Famous,” which debuted earlier this year. All of that adds up to four Trump references in seven years. (For comparison’s sake, that’s more than Kanye has referenced, say, Givenchy, but less than the 12 times he’s mentioned Gucci in his lyrics.) In Kanye’s songs, Trump is a symbol of the kind of wealth and power that American culture generally withholds from black men: He has the kind of decadent wealth that you can use to party with, but he can also control other people’s employment, hiring and firing them at will.

What feels new now is that Kanye isn’t just embracing Trump. He has had kind words to say about Candace Owens, a leader of the right-wing group Turning Point USA, who has criticized Black Lives Matter, downplayed the problem of police violence against black Americans, and expressed a downright messianic view of the president:

I truly believe that @realDonaldTrump isn’t just the leader of the free world, but the savior of it as well.



May God bless America— the last stand for western civilization. — Candace Owens (@RealCandaceO) April 17, 2018

Apparently, Kanye digs her.

I love the way Candace Owens thinks — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 21, 2018

He has also tweeted out videos from Dilbert cartoon creator Scott Adams, who has become something of an alt-right icon for his alleged mind meld with Trump.

What exactly does Kanye love about the way Owens and Adams think? Who knows. He gives us little to go on. Maybe there isn’t anything more to it than an affinity for anybody else who is willing to buck “political correctness.” This is not unlike Shania Twain saying (to her later regret) that she would have voted for Trump because “he seemed honest.”

Some performers seem to identify with our most theatrical president. Kanye has been fixated in his Twitter comeback on “thought police” and the idea of suppressing unconventional thoughts — some notions that come right out of the Trump/Owens/Adams playbook.

The thought police want to suppress freedom of thought — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 22, 2018

Overall, the throughline of Kanye’s recent Twitter return, such as it is, seems to be freethinking mixed with a genuine hopefulness. That is the context for these tweets. He loves Hillary Clinton too, folks.

I love when people have their own ideas. You don't have to be allowed anymore. Just be.



Love who you want to love. That's free thought. I'm not even political. I'm not a democrat or a republican — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

As always with Kanye, it’s hard to know what exactly to make of this. Looking back at his career, words, actions, and the way he’s curated them all, Kanye has always represented himself as a chronically curious person who hates being told what he can or can’t speak out about. The more people push back against him wanting to speak to conservative figureheads like Owens or Adams, the more likely he is to want to do it.

But he’s also something of a provocateur by nature. The line, with Kanye, between eccentricity, performance art, and any actual underlying insecurities is never clear — which is exactly how he likes it.

On Twitter and beyond, Kanye is a celebrity-obsessed celebrity who knows how to not just get attention but hold it

Kanye’s entire career has hinged on presenting himself as a mercurial genius. Once a brilliant behind-the-scenes producer, he burst out on his own musically with his 2003 album The College Dropout.

As a celebrity, however, Kanye arguably made his biggest public impression with that 2005 proclamation that “George Bush doesn’t care about black people,” a line he dropped during a Hurricane Katrina fundraiser with such casual bluntness that comedian Mike Myers, standing next to him, visibly struggled to process it. (Bush would later describe it as the worst moment of his presidency.)

Kanye, for his part, knew exactly how much attention going off script would get — which was, of course, the point.

Though he got huge pushback for the moment, Kanye understood the power of grabbing people’s notice like that. “If I was more complacent and I let things slide, my life would be easier, but you all wouldn’t be as entertained,” he told Rolling Stone in 2006, when the publication had him on the cover in a Jesus-esque crown of thorns. “My misery is your pleasure.”

Not only did Kanye want to draw people’s attention to what he understood to be a huge injustice in New Orleans, but he knew that doing so out of the blue would be the way to do it.

Doing things seemingly “out of the blue” has pretty always much been Kanye’s go-to technique — or at the very least, the one that’s attracted the most notice.

At this point, we should note that Kanye has been more open recently about his struggles with mental health, going so far as to rap about his complicated feelings about the antidepressant Lexapro on his most recent album, The Life of Pablo. It’s possible Kanye’s mental health might have contributed to some of his most shocking moments, but we simply can’t know if that’s true or, if so, to what extent — a point Kardashian West made on Twitter amid her husband’s Twitter binge:

He’s a free thinker, is that not allowed in America? Because some of his ideas differ from yours you have to throw in the mental health card? That’s just not fair. He’s actually out of the sunken place when he’s being himself which is very expressive — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) April 25, 2018

Whatever its roots, Kanye’s unpredictability is a huge part of his public persona. It’s what makes moments like him storming the stage at the 2009 Video Music Awards to declare that Beyoncé should’ve won Best Female Video instead of Taylor Swift so indelible. When Kanye decides he’s got something to say, he’s going to find a way to make you listen.

Kanye has also always been aware of and fascinated by his own celebrity. (It matters, for instance, that he married someone like Kim Kardashian, whose entire success hinges on her uncanny ability to attract the spotlight.)

Maybe the best example of how Kanye sees himself and the world around him is the video for “Famous,” which features a sleeping tableau of naked celebrities who are all related to Kanye in some way — which, again, included Trump. You might think that this unflattering portrait wouldn’t appeal to the reportedly image-obsessed Trump, but as Grady outlined, Trump seems to have recognized a kindred spirit in Kanye, another celebrity-obsessed celebrity who understands himself to be the center of attention no matter what.

So even if the “Famous” video was hugely controversial, it’s also a perfect way to understand how Kanye understands his own place in pop culture. Everyone is in bed together, but no one except Kanye ever wakes up.The time for hugs and kisses was over.

After a day of schmoozing with President Donald Trump at the White House, French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a joint address to Congress on Wednesday that was a clear rebuke to the Trump agenda.

In his speech in front of a full House and Senate, as well as Trump’s Cabinet, Macron laid out a vision of leadership at direct odds with Trump’s. He boldly repudiated several Trumpist themes, warning against the president’s brand of nationalism (think “America First”), saying America and France must be united against the threat of climate change, and urging lawmakers to support the Iran nuclear deal — something Trump has wavered on.

Democrats ate it up. Several times during Macron’s speech, Democratic lawmakers leaped to their feet in unison and cheered, while most Republicans stayed seated. Some lawmakers raised their fists in the air in seeming solidarity with the French president; at one point, Chair of the House Democratic Caucus Joe Crowley (NY) shouted, “Vive la France!”

Later, on Twitter, Crowley underscored his enthusiasm for the French president by saying Macron showed more leadership in one speech “than any of the addresses [Trump] has given in a year and a half.”

President @EmmanuelMacron’s speech today showed more leadership than any of the addresses @realdonaldTrump has given in a year and half. — Rep. Joe Crowley (@repjoecrowley) April 25, 2018

Here are five times that Macron split with Trump and congressional Republicans.

The word “science” is apparently partisan

Democrats were particularly enthusiastic about the lengthy section of Macron’s speech that focused on science and climate change, two issues President Trump and his administration have taken aim at. Macron beseeched the United States to reenter the Paris climate agreement, which Trump pulled out of in June 2017.

But he also took aim at the underlying ideology behind climate science denial, saying it was rooted in “ignorance.” As Macron spoke, there was a stark divide between Democratic and Republican lawmakers; Democrats stood and cheered. They were joined by some Republicans, including moderates such as Reps. Carlos Curbelo (FL) and Mike Gallagher (WI).

Macron said:

I believe in this rights and values. I believe that against ignorance we have education. Against inequalities, development. Against cynicism, trust and good faith. Against fanaticism, culture. Against disease, medicine. Against the threats on the planet, science.

One of Trump’s first major acts in office was to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement, a worldwide accord negotiated in Paris to reduce carbon emissions.

Macron spoke at length about the threat climate change poses to the globe. (He sees it as both an environmental and security threat.) He said he hoped the United States would come back into the fold, committing to lower its carbon emissions along with the rest of the world. The United States is literally the only country opposed to the accord; Syria joined the agreement in November:

Some people think that securing current industries and their jobs is more urgent than transforming our economies to meet the global challenge of climate change. I hear these concerns. But we must find a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy. Because what is the meaning of our life, really, if we work and live destroying the planet, one sacrifice things for the future of our children. What is the meaning of our life if our decision, our conscious decision, is to reduce the opportunities for our children and grandchildren. By polluting the oceans, not mitigating CO2 emissions, and destroying our biodiversity — we are killing our planet. Let us face it. There is no planet B.

The rebuke of the GOP’s climate agenda was tied together with a remix of a famous Trump saying. “Let us work together in order to make our planet great again,” Macron said, prompting a laugh from Democratic lawmakers.

Macron defined “fake news” as actual misinformation — not just stuff Trump doesn’t like

The French president has also been the target of fake news websites circulating false stories about him, which surfaced a lot during his presidential campaign against far-right candidate Marine Le Pen. After Macron was elected, he vowed to introduce a law to ban fake news during elections, saying it represented an attack on democracy.

Trump has also been very outspoken about “fake news,” but his definition of the term seems to be whichever stories he doesn’t like. Many of the news stories Trump has labeled fake news come from legitimate outlets like the New York Times, the Washington Post, and CNN. Macron spoke of fighting back against misinformation as fundamental to protecting democracy.

“To protect our democracies, we have to fight against the ever-growing virus of fake news, which exposes our people to irrational fear and imaginary risk,” he said. He continued:

Without reason, without truth, there is no real democracy, because democracy is about true choices and rational decisions. The corruption of information is an attempt to corrode the very spirit of our democracies.

The speech was a rebuke of Trump’s nationalistic agenda

Macron made clear that he recognizes how Trump’s America First agenda runs deeper than his oppositions to big trade deals. It’s been a moniker for xenophobic, angry, and fearmongering rhetoric that’s pitted white majorities against marginalized communities. It’s inspired Trump’s proposal for a southern border wall, an immigration proposal that would gut the nation’s legal immigration system and the travel ban, stoking fear and anger about immigrants taking American jobs.

Macron delivered a clear rebuke to these policies.

“Anger only freezes and weakens us,” he said, to applause. “And as Roosevelt said, the only thing we have to fear it is fear itself.”

He went on to decry extreme nationalism and isolationism:

Therefore, let me say we have two possible ways ahead. We can choose isolationism, withdrawal, and nationalism. This is an option. It can be tempting to us as a temporary relief to our fears. But closing the door to the world will not stop the evolution of the world. It will not douse but enflame the fears of our citizens. We have to keep our eyes wide open to the new risks right in front of us. I’m convinced that if we decide to open our eyes wider, we will be stronger. We will overcome the dangers. We will not let the rampaging work of extreme nationalism shake a world full of hopes for greater prosperity.

It was a message that received overwhelming Democratic support, and a less than tepid response from the Republican side of the aisle.

Macron supported the Iran deal

Macron’s opening statement on Iran received a standing ovation from both sides of the aisle: “As for Iran, our objective is clear. Iran shall never possess any nuclear weapons. Not now. Not in five years. Not in 10 years. Never.”

He then reiterated France’s support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), more commonly known as the Iran deal, which the Trump administration has repeatedly threatened to break and Republicans have long derided.

Macron said keeping nuclear weapons from Iran should “never lead us to war in the Middle East.” He continued:

We must ensure stability and respect sovereignty of the nations, including that one of Iran, which represents a great civilization. Let us not replicate past mistakes in the region. Let us not be naive on one side. Let us not create new walls ourselves on the other side. There is an existing framework called the JCPOA to control the nuclear activity of Iran. We signed it at the initiative of the United States. We signed it, both the United States and France. That is why we cannot say we should get rid of it like that.

And Macron said it with Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR) — who penned an open letter signed by 46 other Republican senators to Iranian leaders, warning them that Congress or a future president could revoke or alter any agreement reached under the Obama administration — sitting in the front row.

Macron believes in “regulated economies”

Among the biggest breaks with Trump’s agenda was Macron’s stand for “regulated economies.”

Where Trump decries globalization as a force of evil, Macron said the world is “experiencing the positive impact of globalization with innovations, with job creations.” Where the Trump administration and the Republican Congress have gone to great lengths to deregulate industries, from banking to the environment, Macron said the economy needs the “opposite of massive deregulation.”

He said he recognizes the challenges of a rapidly changing world, but his vision for how to address those shifts in the economy is the diametric opposite of the Trump administration’s vision:

I believe facing these challenges requires the opposite of massive deregulation and extreme nationalism. Commercial war is not the proper answer to this evolution. We need a free and fair trade for sure. ... At the end of the day, it will destroy jobs, increase prices, and the middle class will have to pay for it. I believe we can build the right answers to legitimate concerns regarding trade imbalances, excesses, and overcapacities by negotiating through the world trade organization and building cooperative solutions.

The French president may have spent Tuesday praising his strong relationship with Trump, but in his speech before Congress, he made it clear that the two do not see the world the same way.In October 2017, NFL executives, owners, and players met behind closed doors to discuss the many criticisms from President Donald Trump of the national anthem protests.

The conversation was supposed to be secret, but Ken Belson and Mark Leibovich at the New York Times obtained a recording of the three-hour meeting. Belson and Leibovich described the meeting as “extraordinary” — a reaction to Trump’s remarks sparking “a level of public hostility that the N.F.L. had never experienced.”

This goes back to protests that took off last year, when more and more NFL players began kneeling during the national anthem to protest police brutality and systemic racism. Trump responded to the protests on social media, tweeting “#StandForOurAnthem” and that NFL players “should not be allowed to disrespect … our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.” Trump’s tweets in particular elevated the protests to a bigger spotlight, polarizing the issue between Trump’s supporters and his critics.

At the meeting, Belson and Leibovich reported, players were largely focused on what they saw as the blackballing of Colin Kaepernick, who launched the protests and has not been signed by another team since he left the San Francisco 49ers.

“I feel like he was hung out to dry,” Eric Reid, Kaepernick’s former teammate, said. “Everyone in here is talking about how much they support us. … Nobody stepped up and said we support Colin’s right to do this. We all let him become Public Enemy No. 1 in this country, and he still doesn’t have a job.”

But team owners and executives were more focused on responding to the public criticisms and how they were hurting the league’s bottom line — meaning jersey sales and TV ratings.

“This kneeling,” New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft said. “The problem we have is, we have a president who will use that as fodder to do his mission that I don’t feel is in the best interests of America. It’s divisive and it’s horrible.”

Philadelphia Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie also chimed in, calling Trump’s presidency “disastrous.” He said, “We’ve got to be careful not to be baited by Trump or whomever else. We have to find a way to not be divided and not get baited.”

Houston Texans owner Bob McNair, meanwhile, told the players that the protests have to stop: “You fellas need to ask your compadres, fellas, stop that other business, let’s go out and do something that really produces positive results, and we’ll help you.”

Some of the participants in the meeting were very ambitious, characterizing the protests and the attention to them as a chance for the NFL to do something big. By the end of the meeting, Belson and Leibovich reported, “owners had quoted Thomas Paine (the Falcons owner Arthur Blank), invoked Martin Luther King Jr.’s Selma march ([Stephen] Ross of the Dolphins) and expressed great hope for what they all could accomplish together (‘We have a chance to do something monumental,’ declared the Giants owner John Mara).”

The furor around the protests has died down since last fall, as the demonstrations themselves have dwindled and Trump has stopped commenting on them. But at least for the moment, the protests led the general public — and NFL leaders — to focus on some of the issues initially raised by Kaepernick.

For more on the NFL protests, read Vox’s explainer.Wednesday morning’s Supreme Court oral arguments in Trump v. Hawaii — the case over President Donald Trump’s third version of the “travel ban” on immigrants and temporary visitors from several countries, most of which are majority Muslim — didn’t make the Court’s job in deciding the legality and constitutionality of the ban any easier.

Solicitor General Noel Francisco, arguing (for the government) that the ban should be allowed to continue, gave a strong performance that stuck to his side’s strongest arguments. So did Neal Katyal, arguing (for the state of Hawaii and other organizations suing the administration) that the Supreme Court should uphold a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that would have stopped the ban from being enforced. (The Supreme Court ruled in December that the ban should remain in effect until it weighed in more fully this spring.)

If any of the nine justices were on the fence and looking to Wednesday to give them a clear answer, they were probably out of luck.

In Trump v. Hawaii, the Court is looking to answer four questions when it issues its ruling near the end of June. It’s trying to answer whether the ban is legal via a provision of immigration law that allows the president to “suspend” the entry of “any class of aliens,” and whether it’s constitutional in light of the First Amendment’s ban on a government establishment of religion. (There are also two procedural questions that the justices didn’t spend much time on, about whether the Court can hear this case at all and about whether the ban should have been stopped nationwide by lower courts.) The Court will have to answer yes to both main questions to let the ban stand.

Of course, it’s impossible to tell when the justices have made up their minds — at least until they release their opinion in a case. (Because this case was heard on the last day for oral argument before the Supreme Court takes its summer recess, and because it’s such a big deal, it probably will not be released until the last week of June.)

Reading tea leaves from oral argument is usually foolish. But the Supreme Court has been more favorable to the administration than lower courts have been in the past. And the two likely swing votes in the case — Justice Anthony Kennedy and Chief Justice John Roberts — seemed more worried about the precedent they would set by voting against the ban than the precedent they’d set by voting for it.

The pro-ban argument: the president has latitude on national security and foreign policy, and the ban involves both

The federal government’s argument, as presented by Francisco, was a new variation on a theme the Trump administration has pushed for the entire 15-month court battle over the travel ban: that this is a matter of national security, and on national security, the executive branch has a lot of power over both Congress and the courts.

The government argues the ban is covered by a provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act that allows the president to suspend entry of “any aliens, or any class of aliens,” if he finds they could be a threat to the US.

Francisco argued that the government was only targeting countries that didn’t give the United States enough information for US officials to judge whether someone ought to be admitted to the country under existing law — so the ban was needed to enforce the rest of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

More importantly, he argued, the point of the ban was to exert “diplomatic pressure” on targeted countries, to force their governments to start providing that information.

The courts give the executive branch a ton of leeway when it comes to foreign policy, so this argument seemed designed to lead the court to find that the ban was within the president’s power.

The anti-ban argument: the president is trying to solve a problem Congress already solved

Katyal, arguing against the ban, also focused on the legality of the ban rather than its constitutionality. But he argued that the justification for the ban — insufficient information sharing and state tolerance of terrorism — was already a problem Congress knew about, and that it passed laws to address the problem that weren’t as blunt as country-based bans.

Because the president isn’t supposed to usurp Congress’s functions, Katyal argued, the executive can’t present an additional solution to a problem Congress already solved and pretend it’s a new problem.

Kennedy and Roberts did not appear particularly persuaded by this argument. They raised concerns that ruling against the ban would make it impossible for the president to stop terrorists from entering the US in other cases — presenting “ticking time bomb” scenarios in which a ban might be justified, or changes to foreign policy that might lead the president to act unilaterally.

The anti-ban argument: the president could have disavowed his Islamophobia, but instead he embraced it

When it came to the constitutionality of the travel ban — in particular, whether it violates the First Amendment’s prohibition on a state establishment of religion — both sides agreed (or conceded) that the original “Muslim ban” proposed in December 2015 would have been unconstitutional, and that if the current ban from September 2017 had been Trump’s only activity on the matter, it would be constitutional. The question is how to judge the current ban given the existence of the past bans (real and proposed).

For Katyal and the liberal justices, the obviousness of Trump’s initial “animus” against Muslims makes it irresponsible to pretend that the current ban exists in a vacuum. Justice Kagan asked a powerful hypothetical about an anti-Semitic president who ordered his Cabinet secretaries to find a way to ban Jews and ultimately banned Israelis; when Francisco protested that Israel was an ally, she quipped, “This is an ... out-of-the-box president, in my hypothetical.”

Katyal agreed that there were cases in which a president could wash his hands of the statements he made before the election. He argued that Trump and his advisers didn’t do that — explicitly mentioning one tweet in which Trump promised to come back with a stronger version of the ban that wasn’t “politically correct.”

The pro-ban argument: after the inauguration, the ban wasn’t about Muslims

For Francisco, arguing for the government, there was a bright line at inauguration. Before taking the oath of office, Trump was a private citizen; afterward, he was bound by the Constitution. And since none of the actual bans signed were explicitly religious — and the current ban was preceded by an interagency review process — that washes it of any Islamophobic “taint.”

The government relied on the idea that because the Cabinet had conducted the review process that led to the current ban, it wasn’t just about the president — it was about the entire executive branch.

Perhaps most importantly, at the end of his rebuttal, Francisco argued that President Trump did deny the latest ban was a “Muslim ban” when he signed it in September, a challenge the critics didn’t get the chance to answer.

The Court might be more concerned with the implications of a ruling for the future than it is with the present — and the president

It’s notoriously easy to misjudge how the Supreme Court will rule based on oral arguments. That said, the liberal justices — Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan — were clearly more skeptical of the government than they were of the ban’s critics.

Conservative Justice Samuel Alito was clearly more supportive of the government. Trump appointee Neil Gorsuch appeared to side with the government as well. (Clarence Thomas didn’t speak, as usual, but he can safely be assumed to side with the conservatives.)

Kennedy and Roberts asked questions of both sides. They didn’t tip their hand as readily as the liberal justices or Alito did. But they appeared most worried about the national security implications of striking down the ban — with the idea that this would limit some future president from doing what needed to be done to keep America safe.

In other words, they were not primarily concerned with what this president, Donald Trump, might be doing now or might do in future.

Trump has often inspired the question of whether it’s a good idea for a president to have this much power, if this president might use it this way. If a majority of the Supreme Court shares that worry, they didn’t show it Wednesday.In an unusual address to a joint session of Congress Wednesday, French President Emmanuel Macron laid out a sweeping indictment of President Trump’s worldview — all without mentioning Trump by name.

Macron, widely considered to be Trump’s favorite European leader, laid out positions sharply at odds with Trump’s positions on the Iran nuclear deal (Macron said the US should stay in it), climate change (Macron said it was real and needed to be fought), free trade (Macron warned against protectionism), and international cooperation more broadly.

“We can choose isolationism, withdrawal, and nationalism. This is an option. It can be tempting to us as a temporary remedy to our fears,” Macron said. “But closing the door to the world will not stop the evolution of the world.”

Macron’s thinly veiled criticism of his host stood in stark contrast to the chummy rapport he displayed with Trump on Tuesday, when the two leaders hugged, kissed, held hands and praised each other effusively during public appearances. In one moment that immediately went viral, Trump even brushed dandruff off Macron’s suit.

The French leader’s decision to go after Trump’s positions — even though his remarks were draped in repeated praise for the US president — was an especially audacious gesture in light of the fact that Macron is in Washington for a “state visit,” a reception that includes elaborate ceremonies and signals a special relationship between the US and another country.

Macron got some of his loudest rounds of applause when he took Trump to task over his decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement.

“Let us face it, there is no planet B,” he said to laughter and clapping. Then, in a moment that could represent wish projection as much as reality, Macron said that he was “sure one day the United States will come back and join the Paris agreement.”

In potentially the most momentous part of his speech, Macron cautioned the US against pulling out of the Iran nuclear deal and pledged that France would not withdraw from it.

“We should not abandon it without having something substantial and more substantial instead,” he said. “France will not leave the [Iran deal], because we signed it.”

Trump has threatened to reimpose sanctions on Iran — effectively pulling out of the deal — on May 12 unless Europe helps “fix the terrible flaws” in the agreement. The Trump administration is in talks with the Europeans, who are desperate to make sure Trump doesn’t pull out.

Macron also signaled that he was open to working with the US on making the deal stronger to accommodate Trump’s concerns about Iran’s behavior throughout the Middle East and continued development of ballistic missiles.

“What I want to do, and what we decided together with your president, is that we can work on a more comprehensive deal addressing all the concerns,” Macron said.

He expressed concerns that a worldwide rise in nationalism meant that “international institutions, including the United Nations and NATO, will no longer be able to exercise a mandate.”

Macron also warned that the weakening of those institutions will allow other rising powers that don’t share values with the US and Europe to step into the vacuum. He didn’t mention those powers by name, but it was clear he was talking about China.

In what might’ve been the most personal jab at Trump, Macron subtly made clear that he didn’t care for the president’s public affection for authoritarian leaders like Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“Personally, if you ask me, I do not share the fascination for new strong powers, the abandonment of freedom, and the illusion of nationalism,” Macron said.

How real was the Trump-Macron bromance?

Macron’s address to Congress came after spending two days with Trump during which the two men have been remarkably affectionate and touchy-feely with each other in their public appearances.

In one particularly striking moment during a joint press conference on Tuesday, Macron pulled Trump in for an awkward kiss on the cheek, and Trump went along with it. “This guy!” Trump gushed. “I like him a lot.”

Trump on French President Emmanuel Macron after they kissed on the cheek: "I like him a lot."

Their bromance is somewhere between tragedy and farce, @RinZaleski argues https://t.co/cbbYlDHO6K pic.twitter.com/qDGaSiD2ie — The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast) April 24, 2018

At other times, the intimate moments also seemed to be power plays. In the Oval Office, Trump said he was brushing “a little piece of dandruff” off of Macron’s suit, causing Macron to look slightly uncomfortable and then laugh.

Body language experts say they saw Trump and Macron’s interactions as a blend of playfulness and subtle attempts to assert dominance over each other. Macron seemed willing to play second fiddle to Trump in most of their public appearances. His speech to Congress, though, showed that he was fully prepared to stand up for himself and his beliefs.Democrats didn’t win Tuesday’s special election for Arizona’s Eighth Congressional District, but the party’s nominee put in a surprisingly strong showing in a district where she had no business being competitive, losing by just 5 percentage points in a district Donald Trump won by 21.

And though the outcome itself wasn’t as dramatic as the upset victories of Doug Jones in Alabama and Conor Lamb in Pennsylvania, the news should be deeply worrying for the GOP’s hopes for holding control of the House this fall.

The Democratic nominee, Hiral Tipirneni, wasn’t thought by the party to be a top-tier recruit. She was a first-time candidate who heavily emphasized her past experience as an ER doctor in ads, but it turned out she’s been out of practice for 10 years and had been sued for malpractice. However, hundreds of thousands of dollars in grassroots money poured in for her anyway, spurring worried Republican and conservative groups to spend more than $1 million to protect the seat for Debbie Lesko (a standard conservative Republican who ran on conservative themes).

Despite Lesko’s relatively narrow victory, the New York Times’s Nate Cohn wrote on Twitter that “this is the arguably the worst special congressional election result yet for the GOP,” because “there just aren’t any excuses” for the race being so close (as there were in, say, the Roy Moore race). Indeed, the result raises questions about just how many other Republican-held House seats will be closer contests than we currently expect.

Democrats need to pick up, on net, 23 seats to regain control of the chamber. Currently, the Cook Political Report estimates that 56 Republican-held districts already have “competitive” races at this point. (They view eight as Democrat-favored, 21 as toss-ups, and 27 as Republican favored.)

Yet I’ve currently been combing through Federal Election Commission fundraising reports, and I’ve counted at least 95 Republican-held districts in which a Democratic challenger has raised more than $250,000 this cycle. In addition to helping challengers have the cash to get their message on the airwaves, fundraising is also a sign of candidate strength. It’s an imperfect one, but if you can manage to raise a quarter-million dollars for your House campaign, you’re probably exciting somebody (whether that’s wealthy donors, locals, or the national grassroots).

Now, many of these impressive fundraising performances came in districts Trump won handily that we wouldn’t expect to be competitive. But of course, that’s just as true for the district Tipirneni ran in, which Trump won by 21 points. And in 85 of these 95 districts where Democrats have a strong fundraiser, Trump performed worse than he did in Arizona’s Eighth District in 2016.

Tipirneni did lose by about 5 points in the end. But if we narrow our data set to only districts Trump won by 16 points or less, where Democrats have at least one challenger who raised $250,000, that still leaves us with 77 districts. That’s far more districts than Democrats need to retake the House, and many of those races have gotten little or no national attention so far.

For instance, Democrats vying for the respective nominations to face Reps. Mark Sanford (R-SC), Scott Tipton (R-CO), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Steve Russell (R-OK), Don Young (R-AK), and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) have all raised more than a quarter-million each. None of these races are currently marked even as potentially competitive on Cook’s site. But if these candidates matched Tipirneni’s improvement relative to Hillary Clinton’s margin in their districts, they’d win. And indeed, Cook’s US House editor Dave Wasserman suggested on Twitter that he’s thinking about expanding his list of competitive races:

There are 147 GOP-held House seats less Republican than #AZ08. It's time to start rethinking how many of those are truly safe in November. — Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) April 25, 2018

Generic ballot polling for Republicans has stabilized a bit of late (Democrats are leading by 7 points on average), as has Trump’s approval rating (around 40 percent). But the special election results have been positively dismal, showing widespread Democratic overperformance. The House (and Senate) fundraising numbers have been grim for the GOP as well. Perhaps that helps explain why Speaker Paul Ryan is calling it quits.Eighty percent of the farm bill’s spending is on nutrition programs — but House Republicans want to start making work requirements harsher to benefit from these programs.

The first draft of House Republicans’ farm bill, a $100 billion legislative package that subsidizes agriculture and food assistance programs, was written behind closed doors and without Democratic input. The bill has already passed out of the House Committee on Agriculture using only Republican votes. This is somewhat unusual — the farm bill has historically been bipartisan but has been plagued by a polarizing push over food assistance in recent years.

Rep. Collin Peterson, a conservative Minnesota Democrat and the Agricultural Committee’s ranking member, gave an impassioned statement just ahead of the partisan vote, saying, “We were pushed away by an ideological fight I repeatedly warned the chairman not to start.”

The bill is expected to be debated on the House floor in early May, and it’s still not clear whether it has the support to pass.

The Republican proposal to impose stricter work requirements and anti-fraud measures on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program — commonly known as food stamps — is estimated to slash $20 billion from the program over the next 10 years. More than 2 million people could be pushed off the program, according to an analysis by the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

Republicans say their proposal is aimed at reducing poverty and promoting self-sufficiency.

“We believe that breaking this poverty cycle is really important,” Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), the chair of the Agriculture Committee, told reporters in early April — a continuation of President Donald Trump’s executive order this month charging his Cabinet secretaries to review their agencies’ welfare programs and institute work requirements wherever possible.

But poverty experts argue these stricter work requirements will add onerous paperwork to the program, cut off millions from necessary aid, and ultimately have dire public health consequences, like increasing food insecurity.

“My own sense is that this is a cost-cutting push, period,” James Ziliak, the director of University of Kentucky’s Center for Poverty Research, said. “The disconnect is that some people don’t want to acknowledge that there are people in need.”

The House’s farm bill would make it harder to be eligible for food aid

There are already work requirements for able-bodied adults ages 18 through 49 without dependents to receive food stamps; recipients have to work at least 20 hours per week in order to receive food aid for more than three months in a 36-month period. On average, a SNAP recipient usually receives $126.39 per month, and an average household receives $256.11 monthly — about $1.40 per meal.

States often waive those requirements when the economy is doing poorly and reinstate them in healthier job markets, designed to offer stability during the ebbs and flows of the economic cycle. It’s seen as an “important macroeconomic stabilizer.”

The House farm bill would make the work requirements stricter. Able-bodied adults between the ages of 18 and 59 without dependents would have to work at least 20 hours per week or be part of a job training program to be eligible for benefits, beginning in 2021 — and prove that they did so monthly. That minimum work requirement would be increased to 25 hours by 2026. Those who violate the requirements would be cut off from benefits for an entire year. If they violate the requirements repeatedly, recipients could be cut off from benefits for up to three years.

The impact of these reforms is clear: The Congressional Budget Office expects it would cut around $20 billion in costs from the program over the next 10 years, derived directly from reducing the benefits. Instead, the reforms would increase administrative costs by requiring beneficiaries to file more paperwork to maintain eligibility.

There are currently about 42 million Americans living below the poverty line, almost half of whom are children, who rely on SNAP to purchase food. It’s expected that roughly 2 million would be pushed off the rolls altogether, or see reductions in already meager stipends.

There are some investments in the benefits, with funding for the Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive Program, which would double SNAP benefits when buying fruits and vegetables. But those improvements largely pale in comparison to the cuts low-income families would experience.

“This bill as it is written kicks people off the SNAP program,” ranking member Peterson said at the bill’s mark up hearing. “The chairman calls it self-selection. Call it whatever you want, it’s reducing the SNAP rolls.”

SNAP is considered to be a very efficiently run program

SNAP is a program without much fraud, waste, or abuse.

For the greater part of the past decade, the payment error rate in the SNAP program — how the government measures the accuracy of who benefits from the program — has sat around 4 percent, a marker of an efficient program.

“It’s a very efficiently run program,” Ziliak said. “The evidence shows that the program actually works. Not all programs work. But SNAP actually is one of those that does what it is supposed to be doing.”

Since 2000, farm bills have made efforts to streamline the eligibility process for SNAP and pilot programs to connect recipients with job training programs. It greatly expanded the program and increased the number of recipients. Conservatives decried the numbers as a product of a bloated welfare state. Poverty experts say it’s just a sign the program has become better at reaching people who need it.

Ironically, these proposed reforms — the expansion of the work requirements across a wider cross-section of the population, and the severity of the consequences for failing to meet those requirements — are “converting the program to be much more TANF like than ever in the past,” Ziliak said, referring to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, a highly inefficient program that aims to give poor families financial aid.

In 1996, President Bill Clinton reformed TANF to add work requirements and fundamentally adjust how the program’s funding worked, giving money to states in a lump sum — reforms that poverty experts agree deteriorated the program on the whole. It’s served fewer and fewer people over the years.

The majority of people on food stamps are children or elderly. Among the others, most work.

Food stamp recipients are mostly children and elderly or disabled people — 76 percent of SNAP benefits go to households with children. In 2013, SNAP recipients were roughly 40 percent white, 26 percent black, and 10 percent Hispanic. Overall, the number of able-bodied adults without dependents is small.

And among the able-bodied adults without dependents — the contingent of the population subject to work requirements — most already work or are seeking work. They’re going in and out of low-paying jobs that have a lot of turnaround, are on SNAP on a temporary basis, and rely on the program when they’re unemployed.

As CBPP researchers Brynne Keith-Jennings and Raheem Chaudhry write, there are a lot of factors that make strict work requirements difficult for SNAP recipients:

Millions of workers are in jobs that provide low pay, can have shifting schedules, and often lack key benefits such as paid sick leave. These features can contribute to income volatility and job turnover: low-wage workers, including many who participate in SNAP, are more likely than other workers to experience periods when they are out of work or when their monthly earnings drop, at least temporarily.

This can be due to caretaking responsibilities, undiagnosed mental illness, or a lack of skills. Some of the reforms in the House farm bill would exacerbate these disadvantages. For example, the need to prove SNAP eligibility on a monthly basis could ironically force recipients to leave inflexible jobs.

Lawmakers drafting the bill are expecting this will push people off the rolls; the proposal is expected to cut $9 billion in costs just by reducing individual recipients.

There is strong evidence that SNAP reduces food insecurity especially when the economy takes a downward turn. A paper from Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach, Lauren Bauer, and Greg Nantz at the Hamilton Project, an economic think tank within the Brookings Institution, found that “SNAP improves health outcomes and households’ financial well-being, and even improves the later-life outcomes of individuals who had access to the program as children.”At a barely publicized event Tuesday with no reporters present, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt signed a new directive aimed at increasing transparency in science.

The announcement poses a fundamental challenge to the agency’s work as a regulator by instituting new restrictions on the scientific findings used by the EPA.

“It’s reducing the pool of science the agency can use,” said Christopher Zarba, who retired earlier this year from the EPA as the coordinator of the agency’s science advisory boards.

The move comes as Pruitt faces an avalanche of questions about alleged ethics violations — involving his 24-hour security detail, his $43,000 phone booth, and his luxury travel — as well as open calls from some Republicans to resign and reports that Trump will fire him “soon.” On Thursday, he will go before the House Energy & Commerce Committee as well as the House Appropriations Committee, ostensibly to talk about the EPA’s budget for the upcoming fiscal year.

But even as Pruitt fights for his job, with the new directive he is dramatically changing the role of research at the EPA and may in turn bring about outcomes that favor the very industries the agency is supposed to regulate.

Pruitt says he wants to eliminate “secret science”

Pruitt has steadily eroded environmental regulations from all sides. He is already rolling back rules on limiting air pollution. He is halting implementation of greenhouse gas restrictions. He is weakening enforcement against polluters. And he is stalling for time on many other responsibilities.

At the same time, he has also taken unprecedented steps to oust the agency’s science advisers and replace them with researchers from industry and from states that have previously sued to block environmental regulations.

In the new directive, Pruitt wants regulations modeled on the HONEST Act, a bill championed by outgoing House Science Committee Chair Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX) to eliminate “secret science.” (Smith is one of the few Republicans reaffirming support for Pruitt as others have distanced themselves, praising Pruitt as “courageous” at the announcement.)

The idea is to exclude studies that aren’t reproducible or don’t make their underlying data public, standards that would bar research based on one-off events like toxic chemical leaks or experiments involving confidential patient data.

“The ability to test, authenticate, and reproduce scientific findings is vital for the integrity of [the] rulemaking process,” Pruitt said in a statement. “Americans deserve to assess the legitimacy of the science underpinning EPA decisions that may impact their lives.”

However, documents released to various news organizations under Freedom of Information Act requests also show that Smith’s office coordinated with the EPA to carve out exemptions to allow industry-backed research to still be considered by the agency.

Which means industry-friendly science could weaken the case for developing new rules and undermine the rationale for existing regulations. For instance, stricter limits on pollutants like ozone may not go into effect and the EPA may not have the foundations to tackle emerging environmental health threats like the harm from newly introduced chemicals.

Science is the foundation of the EPA’s work, and it’s being eroded

As an agency that protects public health, the EPA draws on a wide body of research to inform regulations like how much lead is safe in drinking water (less than 15 parts per billion, in case you were wondering).

Congress has mandated that the agency use the best available science when it comes up with limits for hazardous chemicals or evaluates the effectiveness of its own regulations.

The Clean Air Act, for example, directs the EPA to “conduct, and promote the coordination and acceleration of, research, investigations, experiments, demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the causes, effects (including health and welfare effects), extent, prevention, and control of air pollution.”

This is a constant, ongoing process, with new scientific findings trickling in and new gaps in knowledge being uncovered. That’s why the EPA maintains a stable of science advisers who are up to date on the latest research to help evaluate scientific findings on their merits.

Most of these scientists come from universities and fund their academic research with grants from the EPA. But in his first big attempt to shape the science, Pruitt said last October that getting an EPA grant and advising the agency is a conflict of interest, and removed scientists from advisory boards who were getting EPA money for their work.

Yet many of their replacements have come from state environmental agencies that also get funding from the EPA, which, according to Pruitt, isn’t an unbearable conflict of interest. Nor is it a conflict of interest to advise the EPA if you work for a state agency that is suing the agency to block its rules. It’s also not a conflict if you’re a science adviser also working for a chemical manufacturer or an oil company, industries the EPA regulates.

Betsy Southerland, who led EPA’s Office of Science and Technology in the water division before resigning in protest in July, told Vox that the EPA historically did give industry scientists a seat at the table, provided they passed the same ethics reviews that academic scientists faced and they recused themselves from issues that would affect their employers or industries.

Some of the new additions, however, have long campaigned against environmental regulations and are coming to the advisory board with an agenda. The new chair of the Science Advisory Board, Michael Honeycutt, spent much of his career arguing against the EPA’s ozone restrictions.

“Now they’re adding people who were very vocal and articulated in public opposition to environmental rules,” Southerland said. “It will be difficult to separate out. That is my great fear.”

More than 900 scientists signed a letter to the EPA this week opposing the new standards.

Pruitt’s latest move sets a restrictive standard for public health research

When Vox asked EPA for an example of where this new regulation would be effective, a spokesperson cited the request it received in 2007 to remove tolerance limits for the pesticide chlorpyrifos, potentially leading to a ban.

The proposal was based on a study from the Columbia Center for Children’s Environmental Health. Since the study was so important to making the case for banning the pesticide, the EPA asked CCCEH for its raw data in 2010 to vet its findings.

In response, Linda Fried, senior vice president of the Columbia University medical center, wrote in a letter to the EPA that “we believe we cannot submit this extensive individual level data to EPA in a way that ensures the confidentiality of the children and mothers who are our research subjects.”

Earlier this year, the EPA agreed to examine a “de-identified dataset.” The discussions are still ongoing, but in 2017 the EPA denied the petition to revoke tolerances for chlorpyrifos.

If the raw data were made available at the outset, perhaps the agency could have avoided years of tedious deliberation and come to a conclusion sooner. But opponents see cases like this as an example of how the new rules create a back door to limiting the EPA’s work as a regulator.

According to Southerland, much of the raw data from older foundational research is simply not available anymore (and some of the people involved are dead). In addition to confidential patient information, many industry-led environmental health studies have proprietary details about companies. That would take a large body of work out of consideration for rulemaking.

Indeed, deliberations among EPA political appointees showed that the agency was concerned about revealing industry trade secrets under the directive.

And the raw data that would be posted could be easily cherry-picked or misread, clouding the policy discussion, Southerland noted. As for reproducibility, many key environmental findings stem from one-off events, like the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, so those results can’t be repeated.

Putting these rules into effect — which could take a while — would therefore cull the number of scientific studies available to the EPA, and it would cost $250 million a year to implement, according to a Congressional Budget Office analysis.

Environmental advocates and groups like the Union of Concerned Scientists are readying legal challenges should the rules go into effect, but Pruitt said he intends for the directive to be durable even as his position at the agency seems to crumble.What’s the next shoe that will drop in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation?

Mueller’s team won’t say publicly, and they don’t seem to be leaking about it either. But the people they’ve been questioning have been leaking quite a lot to reporters in recent months. And the resulting stories, considered together, suggest several intriguing possibilities for where Mueller is going.

Mueller’s investigators have recently asked about hacked and leaked emails from 2016, foreign money trails, the Trump campaign’s digital operation, President Donald Trump’s business dealings in Russia and Michael Cohen’s role in them, secret meetings in the Seychelles, and Jared Kushner’s foreign business dealings. The special counsel is even still investigating Paul Manafort, whom he’s already charged on 23 counts in two different venues.

Plus, three former Trump aides have already agreed to plea deals and are cooperating with Mueller, though we haven’t seen the fruits of that cooperation yet. We also recently learned that George Nader, an adviser to the United Arab Emirates’ crown prince, has testified to Mueller’s grand jury in return for immunity. And there’s the forthcoming report on whether President Trump obstructed justice while in office.

We don’t yet know whether any of these investigatory trails will lead to charges. It’s entirely possible that many or even most of them won’t. But it seems like a safe bet that some will. So here are the leading possibilities for where Mueller’s going next.

Robert Mueller’s investigation could go in a lot of different directions

1) The email hacking and leaks: The theft of John Podesta’s, the DNC’s, and other political figures’ (mainly Democrats’) emails is a crime that we know happened in 2016. Mueller has reportedly taken charge of the investigation of this crime. And the Daily Beast recently wrote that investigators have identified a specific Russian intelligence officer behind “Guccifer 2.0,” a leading online persona in the hacks.

So charges here seem likely — but of whom? Particular Russians involved with the hacks are one possibility. There’s Julian Assange of WikiLeaks, who posted the DNC and Podesta emails. Then there are the questions of how, exactly, those emails got to Assange, and of whether anyone in Trump’s camp coordinated in the effort.

For instance, longtime Trump adviser Roger Stone was in contact with both Guccifer and WikiLeaks. Former campaign aide Sam Nunberg, who was recently called before Mueller’s grand jury, has said, “They want me to testify against Roger. They want me to say that Roger was going around telling people he was colluding with Julian Assange.” Stone has vociferously denied wrongdoing. But it’s safe to say we haven’t heard the last of the email matter.

2) Trump’s business dealings in Russia and other countries: In mid-March, the New York Times reported that Mueller had recently subpoenaed the Trump Organization for documents “related to Russia and other topics he is investigating,” in the clearest sign yet that Trump’s business has come under Mueller’s scrutiny.

Furthermore, McClatchy reported that Mueller’s investigators “showed up unannounced” at a Trump business associate’s home in early April and questioned him or her about the company’s overseas dealings — with a particular focus on Michael Cohen’s role in those dealings. (This questioning came just days before Cohen’s residence and office were raided in a separate investigation.)

Among other things, Cohen was trying to move forward a planned Trump Tower in Moscow while Trump was running for president, and even asked Vladimir Putin’s spokesperson for help. He’s also been involved in exploring previous Trump Organization projects potential in both Georgia and Kazakhstan. (The New Yorker’s Adam Davidson, who has covered Trump’s business extensively, has predicted that investigations of its foreign practices will expose such “criminality” that it will mean the “endgame” of his presidency.)

3) Russian oligarchs’ money flowing into politics: An eyebrow-raising pair of reports from CNN and the New York Times earlier in April revealed that Mueller’s team had questioned at least two Russian oligarchs when they visited the United States — and even seized and searched one’s electronic devices. Per CNN, investigators asked “whether wealthy Russians illegally funneled cash donations directly or indirectly into Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and inauguration.” We’re still lacking details on this, but the line of inquiry could well flow from Rick Gates’s cooperation, since he was involved with Trump’s inaugural fundraising.

4) The Seychelles meetings and Emirati money: Mueller’s Russia investigation took a surprising turn this year with a spate of stories suggesting it was increasingly focused on a different foreign country: the United Arab Emirates.

Investigators served George Nader, an adviser to the UAE’s crown prince (the de facto ruler of the country), with a grand jury subpoena when he landed at Dulles airport this January. Nader has since reportedly been granted immunity in return for his cooperation and testimony. According to the New York Times, Mueller’s team has “pressed witnesses for information about any possible attempts by the Emiratis to buy political influence by directing money” to support Trump.

Yet there’s a connection to Russia here too. Nader and the UAE crown prince arranged a secret meeting in Seychelles in January 2017, between private security company CEO Erik Prince and Russian fund manager Kirill Dmitriev. Reports have long suggested this meeting was a back-channel way for Trump to communicate with Putin. Prince has denied this, but Nader has reportedly testified that it was. That would raise the questions of just what was discussed there, and why Prince seemed so eager to keep it secret.

This Mueller line of inquiry seems to have kicked into high gear at the beginning of this year. That suggests it could be related to Michael Flynn’s cooperation, which began in December; Flynn was, after all, a major player in the Trump transition.

5) The Trump campaign’s digital operation: Given the well-documented Russian digital effort to boost Trump’s chances, there have long been broader questions about whether Trump’s digital operation collaborated in this effort in some way. However, when Mueller charged 13 Russian individuals and three Russian companies with crimes related to a propaganda effort designed to interfere with the 2016 campaign, he did not allege any “witting” participation from Trump’s team.

This line of inquiry still appears to be active, though. In March, ABC News reported that Mueller had recently called in “several digital experts who worked in support of Trump’s bid” for closed-door questioning. Mueller also reportedly asked the controversial company Cambridge Analytica to turn over the emails of any of its employees who worked on Trump’s campaign.

6) The Steele dossier’s claims: The major specific claims in Christopher Steele’s infamous document — that Trump is vulnerable to sexual blackmail by the Russian government, that the Trump campaign and Russia conspired about the hacked DNC emails, that Carter Page was involved in collusion, and that Michael Cohen traveled to Prague to meet with Russians about paying hackers — still remain largely uncorroborated and heatedly denied by all parties.

But Mueller’s team has, at the very least, been asking about them. At the end of February, CNN reported that they’ve asked witnesses about “the possibility of compromising information that Russians may have or claim to have about Trump,” including about the 2013 Miss Universe pageant.

Furthermore, McClatchy recently reported that Mueller “has evidence” that Cohen did in fact travel to Prague. However, Cohen continues to vociferously deny this, and no other media outlet has yet confirmed McClatchy’s report.

7) Other potential charges against Paul Manafort: Mueller has already charged Manafort with a combined 23 counts of conspiracy, money laundering, false statements, tax fraud, bank fraud, and other charges — but he may not be done with the former Trump campaign chair yet.

In a recent court filing, Mueller’s team revealed that they had obtained a new search warrant covering five phones associated with Manafort on March 9 of this year. This warrant, they said, was related to “ongoing investigations that are not the subject of either of the current prosecutions involving Manafort.”

So Manafort is still under investigation. But for what? One obvious possibility is collusion with Russian officials to interfere with the 2016 election, which is not related to any of the charges against Manafort so far — indeed, Mueller’s team has already confirmed they were investigating Manafort for just that topic. Manafort participated in the infamous Trump Tower meeting with a Russian-tied delegation arranged by Donald Trump Jr., and also tried to communicate with a Russian oligarch during the campaign.

Another possibility is further charges related to Manafort’s Ukraine work. Plea deals from his longtime business partner Rick Gates and a lawyer who’d worked with them, Alex van der Zwaan, bring up other topics that aren’t mentioned in the charges against Manafort so far, such as a meeting Manafort held with Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) and a report he helped orchestrate that alleged corrupt behavior from a leading opposition politician in Ukraine (which also may implicate the now-defunct lobbying firm the Podesta Group).

8) Jared Kushner’s business and foreign policy (and Russia): There have long been questions about whether presidential son-in-law and senior White House adviser Jared Kushner has inappropriately mixed the concerns of his family real estate business with his high-level foreign policy job.

And in recent months, two reports have claimed Mueller was keenly interested in the same question. “Mueller’s investigators have been asking questions, including during interviews in January and February, about Kushner’s conversations during the transition to shore up financing for 666 Fifth Avenue,” which Kushner Companie owns, CNN reported. And per NBC News, Kushner’s talks with Qatar, Turkey, Russia, China, and the UAE have all been the subject of questioning.

Several months back, there were also reports that the FBI was keenly interested in whether Kushner sought a back channel to communicate with the Russian government during the transition. It is unclear whether Mueller is still pursuing that angle.

9) The obstruction report/Trump interview: Last but certainly not least, it’s long been known that Mueller has been investigating whether President Trump obstructed justice while in office — by discouraging an FBI investigation into Michael Flynn, by firing FBI Director James Comey, by pressuring Attorney General Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself, by dictating a highly misleading story about Don Jr.’s Trump Tower meeting, and by floating pardons for witnesses.

Mueller’s team has reportedly suggested to Trump’s legal team that the obstruction probe is nearing an end — and that an interview with the president himself would help bring it to a close. And the Washington Post’s Robert Costa reports that Mueller’s team has suggested they aim to finish a report on the obstruction matter this summer.

If that’s accurate, it’s not entirely clear what Mueller would do with that report. It seems that it would be submitted to his boss, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. But it’s unclear whether it would then be sent to Congress (as, depending on the findings, a prelude to potential impeachment), released publicly, or just kept secret.

Regardless, it certainly seems that something is coming.President Trump’s defense of Ronny Jackson, chief White House physician and his nominee to serve as secretary of veterans affairs, against serious charges of drinking on the job, overprescribing medicine, and contributing to a “toxic” work environment among his relatively small team is not the lowest moment of his presidency. For that, you’d have to look to something truly egregious like the both-sidesing of the Charlottesville white supremacist rally or the betrayal of all his campaign promises on health care.

But it is the stupidest.

When Trump tried to defend alleged domestic abuser Rob Porter, his former staff secretary, he at least had the reason that Porter’s presence was integral to the smooth operation of the White House staff. Trump defends guys like scandal-plagued Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt because he’s a favorite of the conservative donor class.

Jackson, by contrast, is wildly unqualified for the job over and above any misconduct issues. Despite the misconduct allegations, he was well-liked by both Trump and his predecessors Barack Obama and George W. Bush — three presidents who have massive disagreements on policy and style between them. But I like my doctor too. And he definitely doesn’t overprescribe medicine, and I’m pretty sure he doesn’t drink on the job or harass subordinates either. Still, I wouldn’t propose putting him in charge of a large federal agency, because he’s, you know, a doctor rather than someone with vast administrative experience.

Jackson wasn’t vetted at all before Trump announced on Twitter that he would lead the VA, and he no particular connection to conservative politics (or, indeed, politics of any kind).

He’s just an unsuitable impulse pick who turns out to also have some issues. It’s borderline preposterous that Senate Republicans are spending any time indulging Trump in this whimsical selection. And the fact that nobody on the White House staff or in congressional GOP leadership seems capable of imposing a rational decision-making process on the president has scary implications for a huge range of issues.

The VA is a big deal

Veterans affairs secretary is undoubtedly something of an also-ran post in a presidential Cabinet. But that’s because the issues the VA deals with are far from the central axis of partisan political debate, not because the job is trivial.

The VA employs around 375,000 people with a budget surpassing $185 billion. Only the Defense Department is a bigger US government agency.

Jackson was a successful combat surgeon who oversaw a few dozen staffers at the peak of his wartime service and now supervises a small staff of about 70 people in the White House medical office. He appears to struggle with the (modest) management aspects of the job but has succeeded nonetheless due to his strong personal rapport with a series of presidents. Trump likes him, in particular, because of his virtuoso press conference defending Trump’s health (including a height and weight estimate that registered him as officially non-obese), but this has nothing to do with the VA’s work.

Even if the charges against Jackson are entirely false, “wasn’t drunk on the job” and “the president likes him” is not an appropriate bar for an important substantive position that requires considerable management skill and subject matter expertise. On some level, there’s no need to vet Jackson or look into these charges in a serious way because the idea of installing him should be rejected out of hand.

Jackson running the second-largest Cabinet agency is moderately less absurd than Jared Kushner spearheading the Middle East peace process, but unlike Kushner, Jackson needs Senate confirmation, and the Veterans Affairs Committee both could and should just reject him and suggest some plausible candidates in his place. That the whole Jackson concept is being taken seriously at all merely shows how far we’ve fallen as a country.

America continues to be at risk

It is, of course, not all that far out of the ordinary for Trump to make a terrible Cabinet selection.

Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson, like Jackson, is a skilled medical doctor whom Trump happens to like and who has no business running the agency he’s been appointed to. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos proved unable to answer rudimentary questions about education policy at her confirmation hearings.

None of this is any good, but a neutral observer could at least console himself that Republicans were deliberately trying to destroy HUD and the Department of Education since they don’t actually care about the missions of those agencies.

Veterans, by contrast, are a politically relevant constituency for Republicans. Conservatives may want, in some sense, to wreck the VA as part of a larger program of privatization. But they also genuinely don’t want to anger veterans or be seen as shitting on their interests. Like the military itself, which has been in good hands under James Mattis’s leadership (so much so that even Democrats don’t want to talk about his own serious scandal), a GOP administration should sincerely want a solid pick to lead the VA.

That Trump simply can’t bring himself to run a disciplined process and make a reasonable pick — and nobody in his circle can make him do it — is a reminder that the country continues to be led on an ongoing basis by a man who fundamentally has no idea what he’s doing.

Trump’s selection for both the Pentagon and the Federal Reserve have been reasonably solid, so we’ve avoided true catastrophe on either the military or economic front. But there’s no real rhyme or reason to anything he does, even on issues that are close to his heart. And no number of electoral warning signs from down-ballot races seems to inspire congressional Republicans to try to do anything about it. All we can do is buckle up and hope for the best.The polling evidence is piling up: The 2018 Tennessee Senate race to replace outgoing Republican Sen. Bob Corker looks like it’s going to be a genuinely competitive campaign with a real opportunity for Democrats to win.

Democrats have a top-notch recruit in former Gov. Phil Bredesen, who won reelection in the state with 69 percent of the vote 12 years ago. On the Republican side, the favored candidate is Rep. Marsha Blackburn, who has President Trump’s key endorsement and a relatively clear path to the nomination.

The surveys paint a tight race: The Washington Examiner reported on Wednesday that new polling showed Bredesen leading Blackburn by 3 points, 46 percent to 43 percent, in a two-way race. This is in Tennessee, a state that Trump won with 61 percent of the vote in 2016.

That poll isn’t necessarily an outlier either. A survey from late last month found Bredesen with a 10-point lead over Blackburn. Based on the polling we do have, RealClearPolitics has Bredesen with a 5-point advantage in the aggregate.

There is plenty of reason to be skeptical. Bredesen could be coasting on strong name recognition and rose-tinted memories of his time as governor, advantages that might erode as Blackburn hits the campaign trail and the Democrat faces concentrated attacks from the GOP. As of January, 50 percent of Tennessee voters approved of Trump, and the president is all in on the Blackburn candidacy.

But the Cook Political Report rates the Tennessee Senate race as a toss-up — just like these poll numbers.President Donald Trump isn’t popular in the state of Nevada — and it looks like it’s going to be a problem for Sen. Dean Heller, the most vulnerable Republican senator up for reelection in 2018.

A new independent poll shows Heller neck and neck with his Democratic challenger Rep. Jacky Rosen; 39.7 percent of voters support Heller compared to 39.3 percent who support Rosen, according to a mid-April survey from the Mellman Group, the Nevada Independent reported. Twenty-one percent of voters say they are still undecided. The poll surveyed 600 likely voters from April 12 to 19 and has a 4 percent margin of error.

Trump could be a real problem for Heller. After a year of White House scandals, and legislative flubs on health care and immigration, Trump has a 39 percent favorability rating in the state. Almost 56 percent of respondents said they had an unfavorable opinion of the president. As Vox’s Andrew Prokop explained, the incumbent president’s party historically has been disadvantaged in midterm elections. And Trump’s historic unpopularity is already signaling a possible blue wave in 2018.

Heller is the only Republican senator running for reelection in a state Hillary Clinton won in 2016. Since Trump took office, Heller, who is known in the Capitol for evading the press, hasn’t tried to distance himself from the White House much at all. He has voted with Trump 91 percent of the time and has only broken with him on trade and guns.

“I’m not going to sit here and criticize him,” Heller told Politico when asked about Trump’s fleeting bipartisan push for gun control. “Because everything else he’s touched, like this economy, has been just incredible. So, I don’t want to get too far in front of some of these policies.”

To be sure, Rosen still has a lot of work to do to be competitive in November. The April poll found that she lags Heller substantially in name recognition. Only 8 percent of respondents said they’d never heard of Heller, whereas 34.2 percent were unfamiliar with Rosen. And Heller is still polling better with independents in the state.

However, it’s clear Democrats are enthusiastic to come out and vote — an energy that has made Heller’s bid for reelection the most difficult Republican campaign this year.A new viral video shows police at a Waffle House in Saraland, Alabama, throwing a black woman on the ground on Sunday, exposing her breasts and suggesting they might “break” her arm after she didn’t cooperate.

According to CBS News, the woman, Chikesia Clemons, was waiting for a waitress to give her the district manager’s phone number after she refused to pay for plastic utensils that she had asked for with her order. Clemons’s waitress canceled the order after Clemons said that she and her friend didn’t have to pay for utensils at the same Waffle House the previous night, Chiquitta Clemons-Howard, Clemons’s mother, told AL.com.

As Clemons waited for the district manager’s card to file a complaint, the officers arrived. The video, filmed by Clemons’s friend Canita Adams, shows the officers grabbing Clemons and throwing her to the floor.

“What are you doing?” Clemons asked.

“I’m about to break your arm — that’s what I’m about to do,” one officer responded.

The officers proceeded to arrest her. She was booked on charges of disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, according to Clemons-Howard.

The Saraland Police Department released the results of its investigation into the incident at a Monday press conference. According to investigators, a Waffle House employee called 911 complaining that two women — Clemons and Adams — and a man were acting “drunk and disorderly” after arriving at the restaurant with alcohol. Video from security cameras showed the three sitting down at the restaurant and soon after getting in an argument with Waffle House staff. Witnesses reportedly told police that Clemons and Adams were profane and threatened staff.

Waffle House arrest update Warning: Video contains graphic language. Saraland Police discussing the arrest of Chikesia Clemons at Waffle House. Video of her being wrestled to the ground by a police officer early Sunday morning went viral and has been shared across social media. Posted by FOX10 News on Monday, April 23, 2018

Police came in after the 911 call. A Waffle House spokesperson told the New York Times that the “police intervention was appropriate.”

Investigators also confirmed that Waffle House has a policy to charge diners for plastic utensils if they dine in.

Video of the incident went viral, drawing comparisons to another incident at a Starbucks in Philadelphia in which an employee called the police on two black men who were reportedly waiting for a business associate.

The escalation of the arrest once again puts a spotlight on police use of force in America, particularly against black Americans. There are vast racial disparities in how police use force. And these kinds of incidents, in which a dispute over plastic utensils can escalate into a violent arrest, are a major reason that police have lost so much trust and legitimacy within the black community.

The racial disparities in police use of force

Consider the use of deadly force: Based on nationwide data collected by the Guardian, black Americans are more than twice as likely as their white counterparts to be killed by police when accounting for population. In 2016, police killed black Americans at a rate of 6.7 per 1 million people, compared to 2.9 per 1 million for white Americans.

There have also been several high-profile police killings since 2014 involving black suspects. In Baltimore, Freddie Gray died while in police custody — leading to protests and riots. In North Charleston, South Carolina, Michael Slager shot Walter Scott, who was fleeing and unarmed at the time. In Ferguson, Missouri, Darren Wilson killed unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown. In New York City, NYPD officer Daniel Pantaleo killed Eric Garner by putting the unarmed 43-year-old black man in a chokehold.

One possible explanation for the racial disparities: Police tend to patrol high-crime neighborhoods, which are disproportionately black. That means they’re going to be more likely to initiate a policing action, from traffic stops to more serious arrests, against a black person who lives in these areas. And all of these policing actions carry a chance, however small, to escalate into a violent confrontation.

That’s not to say that higher crime rates in black communities explain the entire racial disparity in police shootings. A 2015 study by researcher Cody Ross found “There is no relationship between county-level racial bias in police shootings and crime rates (even race-specific crime rates), meaning that the racial bias observed in police shootings in this data set is not explainable as a response to local-level crime rates.” That suggests something else — such as, potentially, racial bias — is going on.

One reason to believe racial bias is a factor: Studies show officers are quicker to shoot black suspects in video game simulations. Josh Correll, a University of Colorado Boulder psychology professor who conducted the research, said it’s possible the bias could lead to even more skewed outcomes in the field. “In the very situation in which [officers] most need their training,” he previously told me, “we have some reason to believe that their training will be most likely to fail them.”

Police need to own up to these problems to do their jobs

It’s these type of statistics, along with cases like Clemons’s, that explain the distrust between police and minority communities. But more than simple distrust, these issues also make it more difficult for police to do their jobs and stop crime.

There’s a longstanding criminological concept at play: “legal cynicism.” The idea is that the government will have a much harder time enforcing the law when large segments of the population don’t trust the government, the police, or the laws.

This is a major explanation for why predominantly minority communities tend to have more crime than other communities: After centuries of neglect and abuse, black and brown Americans are simply much less likely to turn to police for help — and that may lead a small but significant segment of these communities to resort to its own means, including violence, to solve interpersonal conflicts.

There’s research to back this up. A 2016 study, from sociologists Matthew Desmond of Harvard, Andrew Papachristos of Yale, and David Kirk of Oxford, looked at 911 calls in Milwaukee after incidents of police brutality hit the news.

They found that after the 2004 police beating of Frank Jude, 17 percent fewer 911 calls were made in the following year compared with the number of calls that would have been made had the Jude beating never happened. More than half of the effect came from fewer calls in black neighborhoods. And the effect persisted for more than a year, even after the officers involved in the beating were punished. Researchers found similar impacts on local 911 calls after other high-profile incidents of police violence.

But crime still happened in these neighborhoods. As 911 calls dropped, researchers also found a rise in homicides. They noted that “the spring and summer that followed Jude’s story were the deadliest in the seven years observed in our study.”

That suggests that people were simply dealing with crime themselves. And although the researchers couldn’t definitively prove it, that might mean civilians took to their own, sometimes violent, means to protect themselves when they couldn’t trust police to stop crime and violence.

“An important implication of this finding is that publicized cases of police violence not only threaten the legitimacy and reputation of law enforcement,” the researchers wrote, but “they also — by driving down 911 calls — thwart the suppression of law breaking, obstruct the application of justice, and ultimately make cities as a whole, and the black community in particular, less safe.”

That’s why, especially in the context of racial disparities in police use of force, experts say it’s important that police own up to their mistakes and take transparent steps to fix them.

“This is what folks who rail against the focus on police violence — and pull up against that, community violence — get wrong,” David Kennedy, a criminologist at John Jay College, previously told me. “What those folks simply don’t understand is that when communities don’t trust the police and are afraid of the police, then they will not and cannot work with police and within the law around issues in their own community. And then those issues within the community become issues the community needs to deal with on their own — and that leads to violence.”

Cases like Clemons’s feed into the distrust — by signaling to black communities that police aren’t there to protect them but are instead likely to harass them and use excessive force. In that way, these cases make it a lot harder for police to achieve the basic roles they’re meant to fulfill.

For more on American policing’s problems and how to fix them, read Vox’s explainer.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will take up the travel ban again.

But in the year since the Court first examined the Trump administration’s efforts to bar people from certain countries, most of them majority-Muslim, from entering the US, the ban and the landscape both look very different.

We’re now on the third version of Trump’s travel ban — the first was scuttled after it got thwarted by lower courts, and the second, allowed to go partially into effect by the Supreme Court last year, expired in September. The current version, which prevents some (or all) immigrants, refugees, and visa holders from Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria, Venezuela, and Yemen from entering the US, is designed to be permanent. The travel ban has been in effect in full since early December.

The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals had ruled against the current version of the ban (as it applies to the majority-Muslim countries) last November, but that ruling was put on hold by the Supreme Court until it had examined the case. Unless the Supreme Court acts to stop it, the ban will remain in effect indefinitely.

The widespread outrage and massive airport protests of the administration’s first attempt at a travel ban back in January 2017 are long gone. In most respects, the current version of the ban, at this point, looks like a normal policy put in place by a normal president.

In the eyes of the Trump administration’s critics, of course, that’s exactly the wrong way to look at the travel ban. They believe it’s obvious that this is just another attempt to satisfy Trump’s 2015 campaign promise of a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the United States. And they see every evolution the ban has undergone since then, as a campaign proposal and then a presidential policy, as coat after coat of whitewash: putting a veneer of legality over a patently discriminatory idea.

A year ago, the Supreme Court reversed a tide of defeats for the Trump administration by allowing an earlier version of the ban to go into effect in part. Now, it has the chance to hand the president his final victory — if the Court thinks he deserves it.

The travel ban court battle has slowly turned in Trump’s favor

It’s been easy to get lost in the thicket of court cases around the travel ban. For one thing, there have been three different iterations of the ban. Additionally, there have been cases in two different circuits — the Fourth Circuit on the East Coast and the Ninth Circuit on the West Coast.

Most importantly, no lawsuit has gotten to the point of ruling on the legality or constitutionality of the ban itself. Instead, judges have been issuing preliminary injunctions to prevent the ban from going into effect while the case is pending, then having those injunctions upheld or stayed on appeal.

The best way to understand all this back-and-forth is to look at what policies the Trump administration has actually been allowed to put in place. From that perspective, the travel ban saga breaks down pretty easily into four distinct periods.

A full ban for seven countries and all refugees: January 28, 2017, to February 3, 2017. On January 27, 2017, Trump signed the first travel ban executive order, banning all people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Sudan, and Yemen for 90 days and nearly all refugees for 120 days. It went into effect (with little preparation or input from within the government) several hours later. This was the period of massive airport chaos and giant spontaneous protests, as the Trump administration struggled to figure out how to implement the ban as it went along.

No ban: February 3, 2017, to June 27, 2017. On February 3, a federal judge in Washington state issued a preliminary injunction to stop enforcement of the ban while he weighed the merits of the case. The 9inth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld his ruling the next week.

The Trump administration, all but admitting defeat (even as they protested that the ban was still legal), quietly moved to write a new executive order to replace the old one. That order, which dropped Iraq off the list of banned countries, was signed on March 6, 2017; its 90-day country-based ban and 120-day refugee ban were set to go into effect March 16, 2017.

But on the eve of its enactment, judges in Hawaii and Maryland ruled that it should be put on hold too, because it hadn’t done enough to assuage the legal and constitutional concerns that the first version raised. Those holds were kept in place by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals and ultimately appealed to the Supreme Court.

A ban — but only for people who lack a “bona fide relationship” to the United States: June 27, 2017, to October 17, 2017; November 13, 2017, to December 4, 2017. The Supreme Court partly overruled lower courts in June 2017. It let the government start implementing the second version of the travel ban — but exempted anyone who had a “bona fide relationship” with a person or business in the United States. (In practice, this meant that most visa applicants from the countries named in the ban were allowed to enter, but most refugees were blocked.)

In September, with the 90-day country ban about to expire, the Trump administration rolled out a third iteration of the policy: an indefinite ban on some or all people trying to come to the US from Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria, Venezuela, and Yemen. Which categories of people were banned varied by country: for some countries (like Syria) the ban applied to all would-be immigrants and visa holders, while for others (like Somalia) it only banned people seeking to immigrate to the US for good.

Initially, the third version of the travel ban was blocked completely (at least for the majority-Muslim countries) by a judge on the eve of its enactment. In November, the Ninth Circuit (and the Fourth) decided to treat it the same way the Supreme Court had treated the second ban: to allow it to go into effect but to exempt people who had bona fide relationships in the US. (The bans on people from Venezuela and North Korea have been allowed to go into effect as planned.)

A full ban for several countries: December 4, 2017, to ??? In December, the Supreme Court ruled that the ban could go into effect in its entirety — with no automatic exemption for people with a “bona fide relationship” — until the Court itself got a chance to more fully consider the third version.

Since early December, the US has blocked an unknown number of people from Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Syria, Somalia, Yemen, and Venezuela from entering the US. (It dropped Chad from the list in March.) Individuals from banned countries are theoretically eligible for waivers, but in practice, waivers are few and far between. After one month of the full ban, according to a Reuters report, 8,400 people had applied for waivers; after three months, about 100 waivers had been granted.

The Supreme Court can kick the can down the road on the travel ban one last time, by ruling on the preliminary injunctions but letting the lower court cases play out afterward. But it could just as easily rule directly on the legality and constitutionality of the travel ban once and for all.

And because this version of the travel ban is written to last indefinitely — with review by the executive branch but not Congress or the courts — if the Court sides with Trump in this case, the travel ban will probably be around for as long as Trump is in office or longer.

This isn’t the travel ban you remember from the airport protests of 2017

It’s not a coincidence that the Trump administration has been more successful in court with each successive version of the ban. Each ruling against the first version of the ban was, in a way, a guide to what to avoid in the second; each ruling against the second offered tips for what to avoid in the third.

The list of countries whose nationals are currently banned from entering the US was determined, the government claims, after an interagency review of three things: whether IDs issued by the government met security standards; whether the government shared enough data with the US on suspected terrorists and safety threats; and whether the country was generally safe enough for the US to trust the people it sent. (Each of these broad factors was broken down into separate subfactors to check.)

Countries can be removed from the list if they demonstrate improvement (like Chad). Countries can, theoretically, be added. And individual waivers are theoretically available.

This policy has been in place for months, with very little public outcry. It’s hard to deny that the Trump administration enters the Supreme Court on stronger footing with the ban than it ever has before. There’s just one problem: Donald Trump.

The best argument against the travel ban’s legality is Donald Trump’s tweets

Whenever the courts decide whether a policy is unconstitutionally prejudiced or discriminatory, there’s a meta-question of what a judge is allowed to consider when making that decision: whether she’s confined to the “four corners” of the policy as written, or allowed to “look behind” it to its history and the rhetoric of its supporters and critics.

Normally, that’s a really difficult question — especially in areas, like immigration, where precedent says the courts need to defer to the executive branch. But normally, the chief executive didn’t make an explicit campaign promise to discriminate based on religion and characterize his first version of the ban as doing just that. Looking at Trump’s statements and tweets isn’t necessarily “looking behind” the policy — they’re right there in the open.

As much as the Trump administration has worked to differentiate each version of the travel ban, the president himself has kind of undermined its case. When the second version of the ban was struggling in court, he complained that he never should have changed the first one. When his administration challenged the use of “ban” to describe the 90-day pause, he proudly called it a ban.

That makes it very easy to see the third version of the travel ban as a descendant of the second and first. Indeed, it certainly seems curious that the interagency review ended up singling out almost the exact same countries that the Trump administration chose after only a few days in office, and that one of those countries — Somalia — actually passed the test but was added to the ban anyway because of general terrorism concerns.

But the genealogy goes further: from the travel bans Trump has signed in office to his promise on the campaign trail in summer 2016 to ban people from countries with a “proven history of terrorism against the United States or our allies” — and from there backward to the December 2015 statement that promised “a total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the United States.

The whole point of changing the “Muslim ban” to a ban on immigrants from specific countries was to make it more constitutionally defensible. But just as the policy language used to describe the ban changed, the president and his allies kept signaling that this was the same policy in different clothing — at one point admitting that this was the Muslim ban made legal.

The establishment clause of the Constitution doesn’t let people off the hook if they don’t explicitly mention religion. But the court doesn’t, as a matter of course, take campaign rhetoric into account when evaluating the constitutionality of a policy. Trump’s defenders are right that doing so in this case could set a radical precedent. But the Supreme Court, as the Washington Post’s Robert Barnes notes, may be torn between what it would do for a normal president — give him the benefit of the doubt — and the plain fact that this president has not shown he’s capable of handling it.

The four questions the Supreme Court is trying to answer about the travel ban

When the Supreme Court agrees to take a case, it sets out questions for each side to answer in their briefs. Wednesday’s oral argument won’t follow this structure, and it might not even address all of these questions, but this is how the justices will have to approach the case when they’re writing their opinions.

1) Can a court even rule on this policy?

The Trump administration argues that it shouldn’t even be in court defending the travel ban because it’s not something courts are allowed to litigate. That’s not as authoritarian as it might sound: There are specific rules for who is allowed to challenge the constitutionality of a policy and when they can do it.

Indeed, as a general rule, people aren’t allowed to sue the government over visa denials at all. The government argues that rule applies to this case. The critics argue it’s an exception.

Even when the Supreme Court has made exceptions and examined government visa decisions, though, it’s said they can only be reviewed if the government can’t offer a “facially legitimate and bona fide” reason for the decision it made.

The Trump administration says that its concerns about security are a facially legitimate and bona fide reason; both appeals courts have strongly disagreed. But where you fall on this, of course, depends on whether you think the current version of the travel ban is a policy that should be seen on its own or as the latest iteration of a proposal first floated in December 2015.

2) Is the travel ban legal?

Section 1182(f) of the US Code (passed as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act) gives the executive branch the authority to suspend the entry of a class of aliens if the executive “finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.”

From the Trump administration’s perspective, that’s exactly what they’ve done with the travel ban.

The critics, and lower courts, think it’s not that simple. In particular, they point to a later addition to the Immigration and Nationality Act — section 1152(a)(1)(A) — that prohibits the government from discriminating in immigration law on the basis of several traits, including nationality. The question of which clause trumps the other is central to the legality argument.

Lower courts have offered up plenty of other reasons why the travel ban isn’t actually a legitimate use of the power to suspend entry: It’s too broad and too indefinite; it is supposed to be reserved for emergencies; the bar for “finding” that a group’s entry would undermine security is higher than just saying that it would.

If the Supreme Court agrees with any of these, it doesn’t need to get to the constitutional question to put the ban back on hold. But any argument based on illegality under the Immigration and Nationality Act is just going to allow the government to try a fourth time.

3) Is the travel ban constitutional?

Because the travel ban is still referred to by its critics (and occasionally by its supporters) as a “Muslim ban,” it might sound like an obvious violation of the First Amendment’s guarantee of free expression of religion and its ban on the establishment of a state religion. Legally speaking, though, it is much more complicated.

For one thing, this question comes back to the “facially legitimate and bona fide” standard — the government argues that since it has offered a national security rationale for the ban, the courts don’t have the power to scrutinize the policy’s constitutionality.

But the reason Trump’s critics think the ban isn’t facially legitimate and bona fide is the same reason they think it violates the establishment clause to begin with: They believe that even though the ban doesn’t explicitly target Muslims and even though it now includes two non-Muslim countries, it was motivated by anti-Muslim animus and therefore is unconstitutional.

4) Can one judge put the ban on hold everywhere?

Even if the Supreme Court decides that the ban is illegal and/or unconstitutional, it still might chide the Ninth Circuit for putting it on hold everywhere, rather than just within the states governed by the Ninth Circuit itself.

There’s a growing concern among some legal scholars, particularly on the right, about the growing use of nationwide injunctions by federal judges asked to rule on the legality of federal programs. Because preliminary injunctions aren’t as thorough as final rulings, it seems like a lot of power to grant one judge in Hawaii or Washington (or Texas) the ability to control federal policy in all 50 states.

Even if the Supreme Court is wary of nationwide injunctions in general, though, it might not choose this case to make a stand. Immigration is notoriously a federal issue, and it’s really hard to argue that people from specific countries can be banned from entering the US via certain states but not others.

We won’t get a ruling until June, but assume the administration has the upper hand

Wednesday’s oral arguments might give the public a few hints about what legal angles the Court finds most important. But Supreme Court oral arguments are a notoriously bad guide to how the court will actually vote in the end.

The only way to know that is to wait until the Court issues its ruling in the case, which will almost certainly be during its last week of the session — the last week in June.

In a way, though, the Court has already tipped its hand. As conservative law professor Josh Blackman of South Texas College of Law has noted, when the Roberts Court has stopped a lower court’s injunction from going into effect — as it did here with the Ninth Circuit — it’s ended up overturning the injunction in every case but one.

Throughout the travel ban cases, the Supreme Court has been a little more deferential to the administration than lower courts. While it’s by no means a sure thing that the Court’s four conservative justices and occasional swing vote Anthony Kennedy will all side with the Trump administration, there certainly isn’t much visible evidence they’ll side against it.

But while the Supreme Court frequently makes its decisions along obvious ideological lines, it often does not. The question facing the Court right now is which of the stakes it’s most worried about: the legality of the policy as it’s written; the precedent of extending the court’s jurisdiction over immigration; or the prospect of endorsing the signature policy of Donald J. Trump.Want a favor from a member of Congress? Give him money. That was the advice Mick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and head of the Office of Management and Budget, gave to a group of some 1,300 bankers and lending industry professionals at a conference in Washington, DC.

Mulvaney, a former South Carolina representative, said he would only meet with lobbyists who had donated to his campaign while speaking at the American Bankers Association conference on Tuesday, the New York Times reported. “We had a hierarchy in my office in Congress,” Mulvaney said. “If you’re a lobbyist who never gave us money, I didn’t talk to you. If you’re a lobbyist who gave us money, I might talk to you.”

He did emphasize that at the top of the whom-he’d-talk-to ladder were his constituents — regardless of financial contributions — but lobbyists had to pay up.

John Czwartacki, a spokesperson for Mulvaney, tried to clean up on his boss’s eyebrow-raising remarks, telling the Times that Mulvaney was simply “making a point that hearing from people back home is vital to our democratic process and the most important thing our representatives can do.” He said that’s “more important than lobbyists and it’s more important than money.”

A CFPB spokesperson did not respond to further request for comment or clarification from Vox.

The payday lending industry donated more than $60,000 to Mulvaney’s past congressional campaigns.

Since Mulvaney took over at the CFPB, the government’s consumer watchdog, the bureau dropped sanctions against the online payday lender NDG Financial Corp., which was accused of running a “cross-border online payday lending scheme.” It scrapped another lawsuit against four Kansas-based payday lenders that allegedly stole millions of dollars from consumers’ bank accounts to pay debts they didn’t owe. The agency shut down a probe into World Acceptance Corp, which donated at least $4,500 to Mulvaney’s congressional campaigns. And the CFPB is reconsidering a rule that would have imposed restrictions on payday and short-term lenders, such as making sure borrowers would be able to pay them back.

Mulvaney also thought the government shutdown was “kind of cool” and wants to change the name of the CFPB

This is not the first time Mulvaney, whose name has been floated as a potential chief of staff (in case he needs a third Trump administration job), has sort of said the quiet part out loud. When the federal government shut down in January after Republicans and Democrats failed to reach a deal on funding the government, Mulvaney said he thought it was pretty neat that as OMB director, he got to do the honors. “I found out for the first time last night that the person who technically shuts the government down is me, which is kind of cool,” he said in an interview with Sean Hannity.

Mulvaney, who once described the CFPB as a “sick, sad” joke, has since taking over the agency sought to scale it back and undermine it. He has reportedly scaled back an investigation into the Equifax data breach, which left the information of more than 145 million Americans exposed, and stripped enforcement powers from the Office of Fair Lending and Equal Opportunity, the unit responsible for pursuing discrimination cases. Until last week’s $1 billion Wells Fargo fine, the CFPB hadn’t taken a single enforcement action since Mulvaney took over in November.

At the same American Bankers Association conference where he made the lobbyist comments on Tuesday, Mulvaney also said he wants to end public access to the bureau’s consumer complaint portal. Financial companies say that letting the public see complaints against it damages its reputation — in other words, outing their alleged bad behavior makes them look bad. “I don’t see anything in here that says I have to run a Yelp for financial services sponsored by the federal government,” Mulvaney said, holding up a copy of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, according to the Wall Street Journal.

Beyond the policy and enforcement measures that threaten to roll back important protections for consumers, some of what Mulvaney has done at the CFPB has been symbolic, if not to say petty. In December, the CFPB renamed a fellowship program for law students and recent graduates that had honored Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis, who was known in the early 20th century as the “people’s lawyer” for taking on major moneyed interests, including J.P. Morgan’s railroad monopoly.

The fellowship is now named after Joseph Story, a 19th-century Supreme Court justice known for his defense of property rights and economic liberty. Story was a staunch opponent of President Andrew Jackson, of whom Trump is a professed fan, so it’s not clear exactly what Mulvaney was going for in all of this.

His latest crusade in the land of things that don’t matter: the acronym of the CFPB. He says it actually should be BCFP, for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, its official name in Dodd-Frank. He wants to emphasize the bureaucratic part of it. “I’m trying to get in the habit of now saying the ‘BCFP.’ It’s really, really hard to do that when you’ve said the CFPB for so long,” Mulvaney said at the Tuesday ABA conference.

According to the Associated Press, the bureau has rolled out a new logo and requested that its entry in the AP Stylebook be changed to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. If Mulvaney does get the change, the entire agency would have to change email addresses — right now, they’re @cfpb.gov. But he’s a man on a mission. “The CFPB doesn’t exist,” he said on Tuesday.When we think of space, we often think of the vast emptiness of the next frontier. Unfortunately, that’s starting to change. There are more than 500,000 pieces of man-made trash floating above the Earth making “the next frontier” more of a hostile obstacle course for astronauts and satellites. The more we launch up there, the more difficult space travel becomes.

Objects as small as paint flecks and as large as defunct satellites can sometimes move in unpredictable patterns at speeds up to 17,500 mph. This debris poses a massive risk to working satellites, spacecraft, and even astronauts. Coming in contact with a single rogue piece can cause immense damage. In 2009, for example, a defunct Russian satellite collided with an operating US satellite. The result was billions of dollars in damage and hundreds of pieces of potentially dangerous debris.

Organizations like NASA scrambled to quickly track the pieces and avoid future collisions. So far, there haven’t been any human casualties. But as lower Earth orbit gets more and more crowded, the risk of a collision increases, making tracking the locations of this space junk vitally important for space exploration.

When 15-year-old space enthusiast Amber Yang first heard about the increasingly dangerous environment in lower earth orbit, she decided to take action. During her winter break at school, she spent time learning the ins and outs of astrophysics, coding, and space junk. Her final product was Seer Tracking, an AI-based orbital debris tracking program that she says may be the most accurate in the world.

Now, 19 and a physics major at Stanford University, she’s continually developing and perfecting Seer in hopes of protecting the future of space exploration.

Check out the video above to learn more about space debris, Amber, and Seer tracking. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe for the latest.A federal judge in Washington, DC, has just reopened the door a crack to young unauthorized immigrants who qualified for relief from deportation and work permits under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which the Trump administration wound down in September.

But the administration has 90 days to shut that door again.

In a ruling released Tuesday night in the case NAACP v. Trump (combined with the case Trustees of Princeton University v. Trump), DC District Judge John Bates continued a streak of legal defeats the Trump administration has suffered in their attempts to end the DACA program.

Two federal judges had already issued preliminary injunctions against the administration, forcing the government to allow immigrants who already have work permits under DACA to apply for two-year renewals.

Judge Bates went further. His ruling would force the Trump administration to allow immigrants who qualify for DACA — by being between the ages of 15 and 31, having arrived in the US before 2007, being enrolled in school or having a degree, and not having a significant criminal record — to apply for work permits even if they never applied before September 2017.

Crucially, though, Bates’s ruling doesn’t go into effect for 90 days. In the meantime, the judge is giving the Trump administration a chance to redeem itself. If Trump’s Department of Homeland Security issues a new memo in the next 90 days that offers a stronger legal argument for ending DACA than the one it’s provided so far, it can avoid having to grant new DACA permits.

The ruling could end up reanimating DACA in full, against the administration’s wishes. Or it could give the administration a lifeline that will help it persuade appeals courts to overturn the defeats it’s already suffered. It all depends on what happens in the next 90 days.

This ruling changes nothing immediately. But it’s potentially good news for people who qualify for DACA.

Immigrants who currently have a valid work permit under DACA — or who had one as of September 5, 2016, which has since expired — are currently allowed to apply for a two-year renewal of their work permit and protection from deportation. That’s the result of a January court ruling from a federal judge in California, in another lawsuit against the administration. (A judge in New York, in yet another lawsuit, has subsequently ruled the same way, meaning that the Trump administration will have to overturn both rulings to stop processing renewals again.)

If Judge Bates’s new ruling goes into effect in late July, though, it would go further than that. It would allow people who qualified for DACA but didn’t apply for it the opportunity to apply for a two-year work permit for the first time.

And it would allow DACA recipients to apply for permission to leave the country and be allowed in when they return — allowing some DACA recipients to clear a hurdle blocking their path to full legal status they’d otherwise qualify for.

Potentially, this could affect hundreds of thousands of people — estimates indicate that as many as 1 million people qualified for DACA while it was in place but never applied for it. White House Chief of Staff John Kelly characterized them as “too lazy to get off their asses”; more likely, they couldn’t afford the $495 application fee or were afraid to give the government their information. Even if the door were opened for them to apply now, those things might still be true, so it’s not clear how many of the people who didn’t apply before would apply now.

It might be more meaningful for the thousands of immigrants who have turned 15 since September 5 — they were too young to apply for DACA while it was in place, and because the Trump administration stopped accepting new applications immediately in September, they weren’t allowed to apply once they qualified. The Center for American Progress estimated that as of March 5, 23,000 immigrants had become DACA-eligible after the administration shut the door on them.

But DACA hasn’t reopened yet. Bates delayed his ruling for 90 days to give the Trump administration a second chance. If the administration takes it, the ruling might never go into effect.

The Trump administration has 90 days to come up with a better reason DACA should end

The heart of Bates’s legal argument is that the Trump administration claimed it had to end DACA because it was unconstitutional — but “that legal judgment was virtually unexplained,” the judge wrote, “and so it cannot support the agency’s decision.”

For one thing, the Trump administration passed judgment on DACA’s unconstitutionality before any federal judge had actually said so themselves. Federal courts put a later and broader deferred action program, one for parents of US citizens and green card holders, on ice in 2015 — but DACA was explicitly not included in that ruling. And the only legal challenge against DACA itself, back in 2012 when the program was first started, was thrown out of court.

Additionally, in the lawsuits against the end of DACA, the administration is now claiming that the courts don’t even have the authority to rule over its decision to rescind the program. For Bates, the fact that the administration ended DACA because it was unconstitutional but is now telling the courts that ending DACA is outside the scope of constitutional review set off red flags.

This is important because Bates isn’t just rejecting the reason the Trump administration gave him. He’s giving the Trump administration 90 days to come up with a better one: “The Court will stay its order of vacatur for 90 days, however, to afford DHS an opportunity to better explain its view that DACA is unlawful.”

Whether the court would accept that alternate rationale is an open question — the ruling doesn’t exactly set out a checklist for what an acceptable DACA rescission would look like. (This bears a resemblance to the Supreme Court case over the travel ban, which also raises questions about when, and how closely, the federal courts can scrutinize executive branch policy.)

Even if Bates did rule that the Trump administration’s new argument was strong enough to let the end of DACA go forward, it wouldn’t overrule the federal judges in New York and California who have forced the administration to start accepting renewals again. But it might strengthen the administration’s hand as it appeals those rulings. Neither of the previous opinions relied on the argument that you can’t presume something is unconstitutional, like Bates just did, but they both noted it, and it appears to have factored into their general judgments that the administration ended DACA in a rash and capricious way.

Armed with a stronger legal grounding for killing DACA due to the DC ruling, the Trump administration might force appeals courts on the coasts to take a second look at the case for ending DACA, and to consider whether the person acting rashly was not the administration but the judges who ordered renewals to start up again.

The Trump administration has another chance to try to kill DACA, and it will almost certainly take it

If the Trump administration finds a new reason that DACA shouldn’t go back into effect, it will be incontrovertibly clear that the administration is responsible for killing the program.

In September, Trump was able to muddy the waters of political blame: While Attorney General Jeff Sessions took the “bad cop” role of formally announcing DACA’s sunset, Trump tweeted false reassurances to immigrants. The president was willing to pull the trigger on ending DACA when it looked like Congress would either step in to fix it or take the blame by failing to do so.

If it were up to Trump now, maybe the Department of Homeland Security wouldn’t bother to argue that DACA should be put on hold.

But it’s probably not up to Trump.

Technically, the decision rests with Kirstjen Nielsen, Trump’s homeland security secretary and a protégé of predecessor John Kelly (now Trump’s chief of staff); like Kelly, Nielsen has gotten more comfortable in the role of immigration enforcer as she’s been in the job.

Because the judge is asking specifically for a legal argument, though, the role of killing DACA again might fall to the same person who announced its death the first time: Sessions. Nielsen may not have a strong preexisting opinion that DACA needed to die. Sessions absolutely does.

Judge Bates just gave them another 90 days to make their best case, and they are all but guaranteed to take it. The question is what comes next.TEL AVIV — In the early hours of April 9, Israeli fighter jets bombed the Tiyas air force base in central Syria, killing at least seven military personnel.

Israel wasn’t targeting Syria’s chemical weapons program, as the US would do four days later in response to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical attack on civilians in the Syrian town of Douma.

Israel was instead going after a very different enemy: Iran. And the dead troops weren’t Syrian; they were Iranian.

It was far from the first time Israel has hit Iran and its various allied groups in Syria. Iran has alarmed Israeli and American officials by steadily expanding its military presence across Israel’s northern border with Syria in recent years, and Israel has responded numerous times. Some senior US and Israeli officials also worry that Tehran might restart its nuclear program if the Trump administration pulls out of the Iran nuclear deal, which President Trump has threatened to do by a self-imposed May 12 deadline.

But this latest strike was the most direct and brazen yet. Tehran has threatened to retaliate, and Israel has made clear that it’s prepared to keep fighting.

The Iranian response — considered now not a question of if, but when — could take many forms, ranging from missiles launched from Iran, Lebanon, or Syria against Israeli cities to cross-border raids from Syria or Lebanon to terror attacks against Israeli or Jewish targets abroad.

Israel, for its part, has promised an even stronger response if this happens, threatening all of Iran’s soldiers in Syria and even the Assad regime itself.

The tough talk reflects Jerusalem’s insistence that it won’t allow Tehran to turn Syria into a forward operating base for it and its proxies to attack Israel.

All of which points to a frightening and little-understood new reality: What was previously a shadow conflict inside Syria between Israel and Iran is now threatening to explode into all-out war between the two bitter Middle East foes.

The Syrian civil war turned a relatively quiet border into a war zone

Israel and Syria have technically been in a state of war since Israel’s founding in 1948. But as hard as it is to imagine now, for more than three decades, Syria was Israel’s least worrisome border.

The Assad family ruled the country with an iron hand but largely abided by a de facto ceasefire with Israel, preferring that its terrorist allies do the direct fighting.

As one senior Israeli military officer told me late last year, “it was comfortable to have [the Assad family] in control … it was our quietest front.”

That all changed with the outbreak of the Syrian civil war in 2011.

In the initial stages of the fighting, Sunni rebels with close ties to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries dealt Assad a string of battlefield defeats, and there was a real prospect of the strongman resigning or being forced from power.

That was unacceptable to Iran, which views Syria as its closest Arab ally. So Tehran went all in to bail out Assad.

Iran initially sent money, arms, and other logistical support — and then, when that wasn’t enough, military advisers from the elite Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) and Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shia militia that has long been funded, armed, and trained by Iran.

In the early years of the Syrian civil war, Israel largely kept to the sidelines. The exception was with regard to what Israel considered its two red lines: Iran sending newer and more advanced weapons to Hezbollah through Syria, and the establishment of a pro-Iranian terror network on the Syrian border with Israel along the Golan Heights.

This first phase of the Israel-Iran showdown in Syria was thus conducted largely in the shadows and followed a well-worn pattern: An explosion would take place someplace in Syria, with later reports confirming that the target was a weapons convoy, an arms depot, or senior Iranian or Hezbollah operatives.

Israel wouldn’t take credit for the strike, but everyone in the region, including Syrian and Iranian leaders, knew who was responsible.

“We act when we need to act, including here across the border, with dozens of strikes meant to prevent Hezbollah [from obtaining] game-changing weaponry,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed in April 2016 on a tour of the Golan Heights.

Last year, Israel’s outgoing Air Force chief said that Israel had carried out close to 100 airstrikes on weapons convoys bound for Hezbollah, a staggering number.

Israel’s second red line — preventing the establishment of a terrorist network on the Golan Heights frontier — was upheld by Jerusalem just as ruthlessly, if at times with slightly more nuance.

The Golan Heights is a strategic area of elevated land situated along Israel’s northern border with Syria. For decades it was part of Syria, allowing Arab forces to shell Israelis on the ground beneath them.

Israel conquered the region during the 1967 war and later annexed it in a move not recognized by the international community. Israel and Syria had in past years discussed land-for-peace deals that called for Israel to withdraw from the territory in exchange for a comprehensive agreement.

But the prospects for such a pact disappeared right around the time the Syrian state disintegrated and went up in flames. Iran and its proxies have viewed the ensuing chaos as an opportunity to open a new front from which to attack Israel, and sporadic mortar shelling and small-arms fire were a feature of the early years of the Syrian civil war.

There was also at least one anti-tank missile attack and an improvised explosive device (IED) ambush on the border fence in 2014, killing an Israeli civilian and seriously injuring several Israeli army personnel, respectively.

Israel responded to these attacks with force, allegedly launching a series of attacks throughout 2015 and 2016 that killed several top Hezbollah operatives and IRGC commanders, including a brigadier general.

Israel never acknowledged playing a role in any of the strikes; indeed, one Israeli security official once told me, with a smile, that “every time one of their guys gets killed, it helps” — as if their deaths were due to a random bolt of lightning and not precision-guided munitions.

But it hasn’t been all targeted airstrikes and mystery explosions. In June 2016, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) launched what they called the “Good Neighbor” policy. This was a program to provide Syrians across the border with medical assistance, humanitarian aid, food, and basic infrastructure like fuel generators and water piping.

It had a moral component: helping provide injured Syrians arriving at the border with medical care, often at Israeli hospitals. But it also had a harder-edged goal: to win the “hearts and minds” of the local Syrian population and dissuade them from cooperating with Iran and its allies.

“If we weren’t doing this, someone else would be,” the IDF officer commanding the “Good Neighbor” initiative told me last year, alluding to the yellow-and-green flag of Hezbollah. “There’s no such thing as a vacuum in this region.”

By late 2017, more than 4,000 Syrians had received medical care in Israeli hospitals, with the IDF running several hundred missions across the border into Syria.

Israel also reportedly began arming and funding various anti-Assad rebel groups in southern Syria. That was done to help offset the huge and growing battlefield advantage Assad had, and as a hedge against Iran and Hezbollah in the area. (Israeli military officials consistently deny the reports they arm and fund rebels, claiming their aid is strictly nonlethal.)

Israel’s newest red line: the establishment of a permanent Iranian military presence in Syria

So long as the Syrian civil war ground on and took a toll on Iranian forces, Israel appeared to be willing to stick to its prior, limited red lines.

The turning point likely came in December 2016, when the Syrian city of Aleppo fell to the Assad regime and Iranian-backed forces. (Russian warplanes had also bombarded the city.)

Israeli intelligence officials told me at the time that they feared Assad and his backers were going to win the civil war and then at some point turn their sights south, to the Golan Heights and Israel.

“We will simply not allow for Shia consolidation and Iranian entrenchment in Syria, nor will we allow Syria to become a forward operating base against the State of Israel,” Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman said last year.

Tehran didn’t appear to be hiding the fact that that was exactly what it intended to establish. In November 2017, reports emerged about the construction of an alleged Iranian compound at a Syrian military base south of Damascus. Israeli jets bombed the site weeks later.

It does look like Iran has longer-term designs on Syria. At the height of the fighting, several thousand IRGC personnel, 8,000 Hezbollah fighters, and 30,000 other Shia militiamen from places like Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan were committed to the fray.

After pouring billions of dollars into its Syrian project, buttressing the Assad regime and bankrolling Hezbollah and other Shia militias — and losing 1,000 of its own soldiers —Iran was not about to simply pack up and go home.

It was time to cash in on its hard-fought victory. Iranian companies have signed contracts to enter the Syrian market for everything from telecommunications to phosphates, agriculture, and academia.

More ominously (at least for Israel), Iran has raised the idea of establishing a naval outpost on Syria’s Mediterranean coast as well as permanent deployments at various Syrian airfields — primarily as bases for the IRGC’s drone, missile, and air defense units.

Israeli intelligence recently leaked five such locations to the press, signaling that it knew what Iran was doing and tacitly acknowledging that its third red line had been severely violated.

As Yossi Kuperwasser, a retired senior Israeli military intelligence officer, recently told me, “It’s true that Israel was more successful in preventing the delivery of weapons to Hezbollah and Iran from building an infrastructure for terrorism on the border than it was preventing Iran from building the basic infrastructure in Syria.”

An IRGC drone that crossed into Israel last February took off from one of those airbases, Tiyas (also called T-4); the IDF later claimed that the drone had been armed. An Israeli attack helicopter shot the drone down, and Israeli jets attacked its control caravan at the Tiyas airbase.

In the ensuing bombing raid, Syrian anti-aircraft missiles managed to down one of the Israeli F-16s (it crashed inside Israel, with the two pilots ejecting safely). It marked the first time since the early 1980s that an Israeli fighter jet had been shot down.

It also marked a major escalation in the Israeli-Iranian conflict — and a real step toward open conflict.

“This is the first time we saw Iran do something against Israel — not by proxy,” an Israeli military source told the New York Times. “This opened a new period.”

The Tiyas airbase was back in the news in early April when Israeli jets bombed it again, setting off the current crisis. Seven IRGC officers, including the colonel responsible for its drone program, were reported killed. Subsequent reports claimed that an additional target was an advanced anti-aircraft system that had just arrived from Iran.

The shadow war has now become a direct conflict between Iran and Israel

“Israel will get the necessary response sooner or later,” an Iranian foreign ministry spokesperson promised on April 16, adding that “the days of hit and run are over.”

Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah went further, saying on April 13, “the Israelis need to know that they are in a face to face confrontation with Iran.”

Israel, for its part, shows no inclination of backing down. As one former IDF spokesperson told Israel’s Army Radio in mid-April, “We’re in open warfare with the IRGC in an ongoing campaign.”

Netanyahu, among many other Israeli officials, has threatened not only Iran’s military forces in Syria but also the Assad regime itself if the situation spirals out of control.

“The fighters of the IDF and security services are prepared for any development,” the Israeli premier said on the occasion of Israel’s 70th independence celebration on April 20. “We will not be deterred by the cost and we will exact a price from those who week our lives.”

The truly ominous problem is that each side has laid out positions that leave them little strategic wiggle room.

“I’m not saying no Iranians in Syria. They can have an Iranian embassy in Damascus,” Yaakov Nagel, a former national security adviser to Netanyahu, told me in mid-April. “[But] no military forces in Syria. Israel will not tolerate it.”

Iran, though, is unlikely to simply surrender its hard-won gains in Syria, and it has continued to issue bombastic threats of its own. “If Israel gives us an excuse — Tel Aviv and Haifa will be destroyed,” Ali Shirazi, an aide to the Iranian supreme leader, declared around the same time.

All of which means one very scary thing: The war between Israel and Iran in Syria that began seven years ago has now decidedly moved out of the shadows, hurtling toward its third — and potentially most destructive — phase.

The entire Middle East is perched on a knife’s edge.

Neri Zilber is a journalist based in Tel Aviv and an adjunct fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Find him on Twitter @NeriZilber.When climate hawks fantasize about climate policy, they tend to imagine a sweeping, economy-wide carbon tax, set at a high and rising rate. But as a political strategy, this hasn’t much worked; political restraints have meant that no such tax has emerged in the real world.

But there is another political strategy, far more popular among actual policymakers. It goes something like this: The wise course is to start with a relatively low carbon price, targeted at sectors amenable to carbon reductions, and spend the revenue from it on things that clearly benefit the public. Set up that system, show that it can work, and then ratchet up its ambition until it is adequate to the task.

This more incremental strategy is less sexy, but unlike the perpetual craving for revolution, it has gotten the ball rolling. According to the Carbon Pricing Leadership Initiative, some 42 countries and 25 subnational jurisdictions now price carbon.

None of these carbon-pricing systems is reducing enough carbon fast enough. We still don’t know if it’s politically possible to get a price high enough to drive radical carbon reductions.

What we do know, what has been amply demonstrated, is that it’s possible to set up a transparent, well-run carbon-pricing system that economically benefits the jurisdictions where it’s implemented and is politically resilient.

Exhibit A is right here in the United States: the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cap-and-trade system covering the power sector in 10 Northeastern states, including Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont. (New Jersey recently rejoined after Democrat Phil Murphy was elected governor; Virginia may also join in the wake of the election of Democrat Ralph Northam.)

I wrote a longer post about RGGI here if you want to dig into the details; for now, let’s just look at the benefits accruing to the states involved. Perhaps if more jurisdictions are convinced that carbon pricing is a net benefit, some of the political resistance to higher carbon pricing can be eroded.

The RGGI cap is not driving most of the electricity-sector emission reductions

Since RGGI started in 2009, the Analysis Group has periodically assessed its economic impact on participating states. Its latest report, out last week, is of particular interest, as it covers the three-year compliance period from 2015 to 2017, a period that saw quite a bit of change.

The economics of renewable energy changed, pollution control regulations changed, and some of the rules that govern regional energy markets changed, but most significantly, in December 2017, RGGI states completed their second mandatory Program Review, which resulted in a number of revisions to the program. Most notably, the regional carbon cap between 2020 and 2030 was reduced by 30 percent.

That last part is important because the dirty secret of RGGI is that, so far, the carbon cap on the electricity sector (the dotted line) has been far above the sector’s actual emissions (the solid line):

The way-too-high cap was the result of two things: one, the overweening caution of policymakers pioneering one of the first carbon-trading systems, and two, the fact that electricity-sector emissions have fallen much faster than expected, all over the US.

It is only with the 2014 revisions to RGGI that the cap even got close to actual emissions, and only with the 2017 revisions that the cap threatens to actually start pushing them down faster than their “natural” rate in the long term.

For now, emissions are still falling faster than the cap is declining. The cap is not driving that, for the most part. At least not yet. But the program is still working, thanks to three clever features built in from the beginning.

RGGI is paying economic dividends to participating states

First, the pollution permits distributed under the cap are not given out for free; they are auctioned. That guarantees that each state receives a stream of revenue.

Second, no matter how little pressure the cap puts on emissions, the price of permits never falls below a set reserve price (just over $2 in 2017), so there’s always at least some revenue.

And third, much of the revenue goes to “consumer-benefit programs,” including energy-efficiency programs and direct bill assistance. By agreement, 25 percent of the revenue is to go to such programs, but in practice, the total has been much larger.

“As in the prior years,” Analysis Group writes, “during the 2015-2017 period [RGGI] states received and spent the roughly $1.0 billion in auction proceeds primarily on energy efficiency measures, community-based renewable energy projects, customer bill assistance, other GHG-emission reduction measures, and on research, education and job training programs.”

The best way to think of RGGI, then, is as a relatively low carbon tax that transfers money from the owners of fossil fuel power plants to consumer-benefit programs.

According to Analysis Group, it’s a pretty good deal for the states involved — the benefits of the investments outweigh the costs to consumers in higher electricity prices. In the 2015 to 2017 period, “the RGGI program led to $1.4 billion (net present value) of net positive economic activity in the nine-state region.” Every participating state’s economy and electricity consumers benefited.

Here’s how the economic impacts break down by energy market:

Spending money on efficiency and renewable energy programs is also good for jobs. Over the 2015 to 2017 period, taking into account gains and losses, Analysis Group estimates that RGGI led to “over 14,500 new job-years, cumulative over the study period, with each of the nine states experiencing net job-year additions.”

Most RGGI states are not big fossil fuel producers, but most of the region’s power comes from fossil fuels, so fossil fuel imports are an enormous expense. Over the study period, Analysis Group estimates that RGGI states reduced spending on imported fossil fuels by $1.37 billion.

For RGGI states, carbon policy has not been a sacrifice.

What can be learned from RGGI

As Analysis Group emphasizes, RGGI was not intended or designed to be an economic development policy. Ultimately, it should be judged by its success in gradually ratcheting down emissions from the power sector.

Power sector emissions are down and the program is operating smoothly. That RGGI accomplished both while imposing no economic sacrifice (the opposite, actually) has to do with the fact that emissions were already on their way down — and that energy-efficiency investments are smart because the savings compound over time. Diverting money from fossil fuels to energy efficiency would produce a net economic benefit for any state, using almost any policy mechanism.

But right now, RGGI amounts to a small carbon price on a small portion of the region’s emissions. It remains an open question how a program like RGGI would fare if it expanded into sectors less amenable to carbon reductions, like transportation or industry (sectors it is becoming increasingly urgent to address).

Really interesting concept for an RGGI type program for transportation. After the success of RGGI on energy production, some think its time to give it a shot in the transportation sector and see if it can solve two of MA's biggest transpo problems... https://t.co/1vCHblf3gS — William Rurode (@werurode21) April 24, 2018

Theoretically, a rising price on carbon could eventually make gasoline vehicles so expensive that consumers are forced en masse to EVs. But they might not be so sanguine about that as they are about small bumps in their electricity bills. When it comes to more stubborn sectors, progress is unlikely to unfold in the benign, orderly way that RGGI has proceeded so far.

Basically, we don’t know what it looks like for a price on carbon to get high enough to emerge as a primary driver of rapid emission reductions. What we do know, thanks to RGGI and other systems, is that carbon-pricing systems can get established, nudge emission reductions along, and build some political capital.

For the incrementalist political strategy to pay off, though, RGGI has to spend some of that capital and keep ratcheting up. Its true test will only come when its reach gets broader and its prices get higher.In a remarkable twist of karma, health care could defeat Republicans at the polls this November.

Opposition to the Affordable Care Act helped sweep the GOP into power eight years ago. But after they spent the last year failing to repeal it while the Trump administration waged a quiet administrative war against the law, Republicans in Congress are facing the very real possibility that health care could animate the backlash that could force them out of power next year.

That was the subtext of the recent fight in Congress over whether to include stabilizing the health care law in the government spending bill. Republicans who support stabilization cite reducing premiums as their top priority: Outside experts projected a 40 percent drop in premiums for ACA plans if stabilization measures were put in place, though estimates from the Congressional Budget Office were not quite as rosy. Those lawmakers hadn’t fallen in love with Obamacare or anything, but they saw the political utility of lowering premiums.

Democrats, meanwhile, know they have a winning issue on their hands. Progressive operatives note that 2019 premiums are supposed to be announced in October — just a few weeks before the election. Given that last year’s premium increases were rightly attributed to Trump’s sabotage — and that voters tend to blame the party in power anyway for what is right or wrong with their health care — that could provide more ammunition for the Democrats in their final attacks right before voters head to the polls.

From special elections over the past year, we know health care has been a powerful motivator for Democratic voters. In his razor-thin win in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District, Democrat Conor Lamb decisively won the health care vote. Then in this week’s Arizona special House election, Democrat Hiral Tipirneni made health care her signature issue — and, while she didn’t win, she lost to Republican Debbie Lesko by just five points in a district that Donald Trump won by 21.

Polling uniformly shows Americans trust the minority party in Congress over the majority on health care.

Republicans can’t undo all of the damage of the past year. They have already voted for various unpopular repeal bills that would have left 20 million fewer Americans with health insurance and that would have unwound protections for people with preexisting conditions. Their Obamacare stabilization plans have now failed too.

The question we can’t answer yet is: Just how big a blue wave can health care create?

Obamacare stabilization was really about the midterms

If you read between the lines, the impetus for Republicans who have spent eight years demonizing Obamacare deciding they would try to help it was pretty clear: Premiums are going up, they will keep going up without new federal funding, and Americans will blame the people in power if they do.

“Rates will go up. The individual market will probably collapse,” Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN), who has led the stabilization talks over the last year, said on the Senate floor last month, describing what would happen without a stabilization plan. “There will be 11 million people who are between jobs, who are self-employed, who are working, who literally cannot afford insurance, and they’re not going to be very happy. And they’re going to blame every one of us, and they should.”

The polling bears this out — specifically that Republicans will take the blame for the state of Obamacare, even if they hate the law. The Kaiser Family Foundation recently found that 60 percent of Americans believe Republicans are responsible for the ACA going forward. And nothing matters more to voters on health care than its cost.

Republicans already have a mess on their hands of their own making. The Trump administration’s multifaceted crusade against the health care law — slashing outreach budgets and pulling the law’s cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers — were already to blame for a 20 percent premium hike this year. Then Congress repealed the individual mandate in their tax bill, a huge political victory given the GOP’s vehement opposition to the mandate but one that insurers have said would drive up premiums even more next year.

The Republican solution to these problems that they have created was $30 billion in reinsurance funding, proposed by Alexander, Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chair Greg Walden (R-OR). They wanted to pass the funding as part of the government spending bill that was passed in late last month.

Alexander clung to evidence that the plan would drive down premiums: 40 percent, according to the consulting firm Oliver Wyman, or a more modest 10 to 20 percent drop, according to the Congressional Budget Office. In either case, the stabilization bill would have helped avert a round of damning October headlines about skyrocketing insurance costs on the GOP’s watch. (The CBO also projected a slight rise in the uninsured rate because the proposal would end up making insurance more expensive for some people who receive ACA subsidies. But that would not have happened immediately.)

But the stabilization plan failed in March amid partisan squabbles. The Trump White House demanded anti-abortion riders be attached to the plan and by trying to codify an administration proposal that would unwind the ACA’s protections for preexisting conditions.

Democrats were therefore able to oppose the stabilization bill on solid policy ground while at the same time denying Republicans a win that would soften the electoral environment for the GOP.

What we’ve learned from the special elections

From the Republican perspective, shoring up the insurance markets would at best stop the bleeding. Because the early returns in the midterm elections, and in the public debate over health care, have been brutal for the majority party.

At the macro level, Americans clearly trust Democrats more than Republicans on the issue. A Politico/Morning Consult poll from November found that 44 percent of voters trusted Democrats more, compared to 34 percent who trusted Republicans more. (USA Today and Suffolk found a similar breakdown: 43 percent trusted Democrats the most, 15 percent said they trusted Trump, and 10 percent trust Republicans in Congress — harsh numbers for the GOP any way you cut them.)

On top of that, the ACA — the Republican policy boogeyman for the past decade — has never been more popular than it is today, after withstanding a year of GOP attacks.

So it should come as no surprise that Democrats are already landing substantial wins on health care in this cycle’s special elections thus far.

It started last summer, with Jon Ossoff’s unexpectedly strong showing to replace Georgia Rep. Tom Price. As Jeff Stein documented at the time for Vox, voters in that red district were overwhelming motivated by the health care debate raging on Capitol Hill over a GOP plan projected to increase the ranks of the insured by 20 million or so people.

“It’s the No. 1 issue,” Ossoff supporter Gopi Nath, 48, told Stein. Three-quarters of voters, even in that red-tinted district, opposed the Republican repeal bill.

A few months later, in Alabama, Doug Jones surged to his shocking upset in another deep-red state by dismissing the GOP’s “repeal and replace” promises as a political slogan and by fiercely advocating for a funding extension for the Children’s Health Insurance Program.

The most decisive win for Democrats — and for health care — was in the Pennsylvania 18th, where Trump won by 20 points just a year ago, a district Republicans had held for 15 years. The Democratic candidate, Lamb, won by less than 1,000 votes, and health care could make a compelling case it put him over the top.

From a Public Policy Polling exit poll, taken the day after Pennsylvania’s special election:

Health care was a top issue for 52 percent of voters: 15 percent said it was the most important issue for them, and another 37 percent said that it was very important.

of voters: said it was the most important issue for them, and another said that it was very important. The health care voters broke hard toward Lamb: 64 percent of those who said it was their No. 1 issue backed the Democrat, and 62 percent of the people who said it was very important supported him.

of those who said it was their No. 1 issue backed the Democrat, and of the people who said it was very important supported him. Obamacare broke even in a district that Donald Trump won by 20 percentage points in 2016: 44 percent of voters supported the law, and 42 percent opposed it.

of voters supported the law, and 42 percent opposed it. Meanwhile, 52 percent of PA-18 voters said they opposed the Republican plans to repeal the health care law, and only 39 percent approved.

Another exit poll from the left-leaning PPP found a similar story in the Arizona special election.

These candidates have settled on a playbook that Democrats should be able to deploy in the most Republican-leaning states and districts across the country: slam Republicans for trying to take health insurance away from 20 million people and for trying to take away the ACA’s protections for people with preexisting conditions.

Take a look at Wisconsin, a reddening state that should be a battleground in 2018. There, Democratic Sen. Tammy Baldwin — up for her first reelection, with constituents feeling either ambivalent or uninformed about her — has made health care her signature issue. Baldwin had a preexisting condition when she was a child, and she has spent the past few weeks slamming the Trump administration for undermining the ACA.

“Her signature issue right now is health care. Every alternative that the Republicans are offering activates progressives, and the independents are like, ‘I’m not sure about this one, gang,’” Scot Ross, a progressive activist in the state, told me. “I think that is a feather in Sen. Baldwin’s cap.”

So a Democratic candidate struggling to build an identity, up for reelection in a state that Republicans have slowly conquered since 2010, turned to health care as her best bet for the fall. There is no better evidence of how health care politics have changed.Republicans in Washington — having funded the government for six months, passed their tax law, and failed to repeal Obamacare — have an opening ahead of the 2018 midterm elections for another top priority: deregulating the administrative state.

They appear to have found a clever tool to achieve that goal: a novel use of the Congressional Review Act, the 1996 law that gives Congress extensive power to invalidate rules established by federal agencies and, in doing so, making it more difficult for any future administrations to resurrect the policies that lawmakers have struck down.

Republicans already worked overtime to undo the Obama administration’s last-minute regulations during the first 60 legislative days of the Trump administration. That was under the more conventional understanding of the CRA, which states that Congress has 60 days after a rule takes effect to pass a resolution disapproving it.

But GOP lawmakers are now using a new wrinkle in the CRA, one that would allow them to go back much further and nix much older federal rules — some of which have been in place for decades. Under the law, in order for a rule to be considered in effect, it must have been submitted to Congress for review. If a rule hasn’t been submitted, then it isn’t technically in effect for the CRA’s purposes — which means the Trump administration could submit it now and start the 60-day clock for Congress to pass a resolution invalidating it.

“Any rule that was not submitted since this act became law in 1996 can be nullified now,” Paul Larkin, a senior legal fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation, who wrote a Harvard Journal of Law and Public policy article outlining how the CRA could be used this way, told me. Hundreds or thousands of existing federal rules could be vulnerable, per the best available estimates.

Larkin and Republican aides on Capitol Hill say the primary goal here is to hold the executive branch accountable: The point of the CRA is to give Congress oversight of the rules that an administration puts into effect. “If the agency didn’t submit it to Congress, the agency acted unlawfully,” Larkin said.

But GOP aides and law experts also acknowledge a secondary effect: If a federal rule is invalidated under the CRA, future administrations are barred from creating a new rule that is “substantially similar” to the one that was disapproved of. So for the rest of time, agencies will be limited if they try to create new regulations on the same subject.

“It’s another way of throwing sand into the gears of the administrative state,” Nicholas Bagley, a law professor at the University of Michigan, told me. “It’s a backdoor way for Congress to circumscribe agencies’ substantive power in the future.”

The Senate approved its first CRA of a years-old federal rule last week, overturning a guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau related to racial discrimination in auto lending from 2013. The question now is: Was that a one-and-done? Or was it the start of a bigger crusade while Republicans still control all three branches of government? There is only so much time available on the Senate floor, after all.

Because some Republicans and outside conservatives are already entertaining plans to overturn even more federal rules with this shiny new tool they have at their disposal.

The Congressional Review Act, explained in brief

The CRA passed in 1996, about a decade after the legislative veto — the broad right of Congress to overturn actions taken by the executive branch — was found unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. Once a new federal rule, which could be either a formal regulation or a more general “policy guidance,” a distinction that will prove important, is published in the federal registrar and submitted to Congress, lawmakers have 60 legislative days to pass a resolution overturning it under the law.

The resolution needs only a bare majority in both chambers of Congress, meaning it is not subject to a 60-vote filibuster in the Senate.

“Why did Congress want the legislative veto and the CRA? They thought there were times agencies took actions that were unlawful or unwise,” Larkin told me, “and they wanted to be able to act before those actions started to injure people.”

For a long time, there wasn’t much use for the CRA. As Vox’s Brad Plumer wrote last year, the only successful CRA resolution before 2017 was in 2001. You would need a change of power in the White House and the same party to control both the executive branch and Congress for the CRA to be of much use — and the party in power would probably need to be Republican, whose members are much more fixated on deregulation.

That moment came in 2017. Republicans used the CRA to overturn 14 regulations that the Obama administration approved in its final weeks, with a particular emphasis on the Environmental Protection Agency’s regulations.

Most people thought there was a hard deadline on that effort, given the 60-day restriction. But some conservative scholars like Larkin and Republicans in the Senate saw the opening for an even more aggressive campaign to roll back federal rules.

How Republicans can use the CRA to repeal decades-old federal rules

The wrinkle lies in the CRA and the law’s requirement that federal rules be submitted to Congress in order for the 60-day clock to start. If a rule isn’t submitted to Congress, then it isn’t actually in effect as far as the CRA is concerned, even if it is for all intents and purposes being enforced in the real world.

This is also where the distinction between regulations and policy guidances is important. Regulations go through a formal rulemaking process, and once the 60-day window closes, the Trump administration would need to go through its own rulemaking process to overturn a regulation enacted by the Obama administration.

Policy guidances are less formal: They are simply a statement of an administration’s policy positions and how its agencies will enforce the law. They do often have the same effect on the industries being regulated, who want to comply with their regulators — which can be grating to some conservatives who think liberal administrations like Obama’s have used the policy guidances to create regulations without going through formal rulemaking.

Conservatives would also note that guidances are also not subject to litigation by the regulated industries in the same way that official regulations would be.

“What agencies are trying to do, in some instances, is empire build and do it in a way that keeps a private party that could be hurt from going to court,” Larkin said.

But most importantly, policy guidances are often not submitted to Congress by the executive branch. Which means that for them, the CRA clock hasn’t started yet — and if they were submitted by the Trump administration, Congress would have an opportunity to overturn them.

Even if they had been in effect for years or even decades, all the way back to 1996 when the CRA passed.

“It’s an adventurous use of it,” Bagley told me.

But nobody I talked to really disputed that this was a valid interpretation of the CRA. The Government Accountability Office, the arbiter of this issue for Congress’s purposes, agreed with Republican Sen. Pat Toomey’s office that the auto lending guidance that Congress has now invalidated had not been properly submitted and could therefore be subject to a CRA resolution. There is also evidence that the Democrats in Congress who helped pass the law thought it could be used this way.

There were some questions, though, about how appropriate it is. There is a public interest, a few legal experts argued to me, in having agencies publicly state their policy positions. If this use of the CRA discourages that, it is a loss for transparency in government.

“It’s a tricky way of exploiting some ambiguity in the law to ram some things through with their majority in Congress right now,” Jeff Lubbers, a law professor at American University, told me. “I think it’s really bad policy and bad government.”

The counter from conservatives: This is what agencies are supposed to do, to give Congress its chance to oversee the rules being promulgated by the executive branch. If they didn’t follow the proper procedures, then too bad. They hope passing a CRA resolution in these circumstances will encourage compliance by federal agencies in the future.

The real impact of Congress overturning federal rules under the CRA

There is one other bit of weirdness that we haven’t covered yet: Because policy guidances aren’t official regulations, they can be withdrawn at any time without going through the arduous rulemaking process that you must endure to reverse an official regulation. If Mick Mulvaney, currently leading the CFPB, wanted to end the auto lending rule, he could have done it all on his own.

“From a lawyer’s perspective, they never had any effect to begin with anyhow,” Bagley said. Sure, policy guidances usually induce compliance — because industries don’t want to run afoul of the federal government — but they don’t technically have any legal effect. Ever.

So why have Congress pass a CRA resolution? Legal experts searching for an explanation spotted the law’s “salt the earth” provision. Once a rule is disapproved of, agencies are forever barred from passing a similar regulation.

“The CRA has this provision that salts the earth. It says that no substantially similar rule can ever be adopted again. I take it that is what the real stakes are here,” one legal scholar who asked not to be quoted by name told me. “It’s really that in any future administration, when and if Elizabeth Warren is president, they’re still not going to be able to adopt any rule that is substantially similar to this guidance.”

Now, nobody knows exactly what “substantially similar” means. It probably wouldn’t make it impossible for a Warren or Sanders administration to craft a federal regulation barring racial discrimination in auto lending, even after the Senate approved last week’s CRA resolution.

But it will make the rulemaking process more cumbersome. Regulators will have to take pains to avoid those substantially similar criteria. As Bagley put it, it throws sand in the gears of the administrative state — which is certainly in line with conservative ideology.

Now we wait and see whether more CRA resolutions to overturn old policy guidances are brought forward. Larkin told me he was preparing a list of suggestions for Republicans in Congress and the Trump administration: rules that would hinder the economy and should be thrown out, rules that should be kept but should be submitted to comply with the CRA, etc. and so forth.

“It may be true now that the Senate has taken this approach, other senators will go forward with a challenge to rules that have a greater effect in their state,” he said. “It wouldn’t surprise me to see the staffs of the White House, House speaker, and Senate majority leader put a list together. ‘Here are rules that people have said we should consider.’”

Politico reported that Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) has already inquired whether a 2016 Bureau of Land Management plan could still be subject to the CRA. Conservative health wonk Chris Jacobs put together a list of Obamacare rules that could potentially fall under this use of the CRA.

In the ongoing battle over how rigorously American industries should be regulated, Republicans have a found a powerful new weapon.There was palpable relief in US foreign policy circles this month when the US launched missiles at Syria. Many observers welcomed it as evidence that the US remains willing to use its military to send messages to foreign leaders and defend international norms.

Some welcomed it as a sign that President Trump, despite his bluster, could be persuaded to act in line with standard American practices. And the fact that many people had both reactions at once shows how deeply entrenched the idea of military intervention is in conventional US foreign policy thinking.

A remarkable coalition emerged to tweet and write op-eds in support of the strikes. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer found himself on the same side as House Speaker Paul Ryan, sharing company with both Sean Hannity from Fox News and Ana Navarro on CNN. This is remarkable not only because it included members of both parties, many of whom are normally appalled by Trump and his intuitions, but also because it brought together people who under other circumstances are stalwart defenders of international law.

The mix of law, politics, and American exceptionalism that motivates US military intervention abroad has evolved to the point where it unites neocons and liberals, Republicans and Democrats. It forms the taken-for-granted common sense that animates US foreign policy. But this “common sense” has not served the US well.

For liberals and conservatives alike, the appeal of using the US military to respond to mass killing outweighs concerns about breaking the UN Charter’s rules on war (which outlaw wars except as authorized by the Security Council or are justified by individual or collective self-defense, neither of which fit this case).

Anne-Marie Slaughter neatly encapsulated the tension when she said the US attack “is illegal under international law” and at the same time the US “did the right thing” by attacking. Slaughter, a foreign policy expert, adviser to Hillary Clinton, and frequent Trump critic, likens the situation to civil disobedience where law-breaking is justified — perhaps even demanded — by a higher principle.

The liberal view: we should respect international law, except when it stands in the way of loftier goals

The analogy to civil disobedience rests on the insight that the law, whether domestic or international, can lead to unjust outcomes and establish unjust structures of power. When it does, it may be more morally and politically justifiable to violate the law than to obey it. If the law on sovereignty — the principle that nations control what happens within their borders — and nonintervention protects President Bashar al-Assad’s capacity to kill civilians with chemical gas, then breaking that law to stop him may be excusable.

Paradoxically, Slaughter and other liberal internationalists see this kind of rule-breaking as a defense of the rules-based international order rather than its opposite. The international legal system remains the centerpiece of global affairs, in their eyes, and it coexists with the possibility (indeed, the necessity) of making exceptions when the law gets the wrong answer to a policy question.

This attitude toward international law might well be called Trumpian: It aligns well with Trump’s personal history of treating rules as things that apply only to other people. It counsels that when faced with a situation in which the rules forbid what you want to do, the path forward is to do it anyway and loudly proclaim that there are special circumstances that should allow you to do what the rules were clearly designed to prevent.

This looks like the principle by which Trump lives his personal and professional life, from taxes to contracts to emoluments to interpersonal relations.

And so it is with US military interventions — and not only under Trump. It may be illegal to use force against other countries, but when backed by the right motivations, military attacks sit in the exceptional space, a curious and productive gray zone in which they simultaneously flout and support the rules-based international order. Rules are made to be broken when you live simultaneously within and above the law.

The neoconservative view: international law is impotent parchment

Neither party lines nor views on international law cleave the pro-intervention coalition. It brings together Slaughter and John McCain with Trump and his maverick National Security Adviser John Bolton. The foreign policy establishment is now merged with the self-professed foreign policy radicals. To both camps, the fact that the attack violated international law seems to heighten its utility as a political message — if in slightly different ways.

It helps Bolton and Trump show that they are unconcerned about the constraints of international law, and it helps Slaughter and McCain demonstrate that higher principles may sometimes justify setting aside those constraints.

If illegality is excusable when important countervailing principles are at stake, who is to decide which principles and which stakes? In 1945, the UN Security Council was given this authority, and it has deployed it on rare occasions, notably in Kuwait in 1990. Today, the US government sees this as its own prerogative and claims for itself the power to decide on exceptions to the rules.

The lesson from the Syria episode is not that more faithful adherence is the way to go in foreign policy. Anne-Marie Slaughter is right that international law is a poor guide to appropriate foreign policy and rule-following is no guarantee of good choices or good outcomes.

Our attention can then turn away from debating the legality of military action and toward assessing the effects of military action. We should be asking what kind of world foreign policy produces, and whether it’s better or worse than the alternative — and on what scale and for whom? It is heartening to see an emerging, though odd, coalition in Washington that’s beginning to ask such questions.

If the unification of Trump with liberal internationalists comes as a surprise, then consider the pairing of Bernie Sanders and Charles Koch. The vision of foreign policy that Sanders laid out during the 2016 campaign has strong echoes in recent foreign policy activism by the Charles Koch Foundation. The views from these two sources converge on both the diagnosis of the problem and the prescription for a remedy.

Can you tell which of these statements comes from Sanders, and which from the Koch Foundation? One says that after “… years of ill-conceived and disastrous military engagements in the Middle East, it is time for a new approach. We must move away from policies that favor unilateral military action and preemptive war, and that make the United States the de facto policeman of the world.”

The other says, “America needs a sensible foreign policy. But in recent decades, our actions and decisions have failed to make us safer. Debates in Washington are often rooted in past conflicts and framed by insiders who demand ever-expanding military budgets and support few options beyond costly intervention.”

Strange bedfellows among the anti-intervention minority

Koch and Sanders hold antithetical intuitions about pretty much everything in domestic society, from inequality to taxes to corporate privilege. But they find common ground in the view that a militarized foreign policy has not served the US well. Military spending is the main driver of the federal deficit and crowds out domestic priorities, and both the socialist and the free market libertarian see scant evidence that American military intervention abroad has produced a better world for Americans or anyone else.

To be sure, Koch sees a less militarized foreign policy as one step toward a radical contraction of US government overall, in line with his desire that firms and private agencies take the place of state power. This is radically different from Sanders’s social democratic vision. But their shared skepticism of the payoff to military interventions — a mirror version of the Slaughter-Bolton coalition — is a useful reminder that the left-right spectrum is fairly useless for understanding foreign policy differences.

American foreign policy thinking sometimes looks like hawks as far as the eye can see. The myth that Democrats tend toward dovishness and Republicans toward hawkishness is not true; across Democrats and Republicans, liberals and neocons, it’s hawks all the way down.

To see beyond this mindset begins with an honest assessment of the effects of US militarism at home and abroad, in the economy and in society. When we do this, we are likely to find that the real problem with missile strikes in defense of international norms is not that they are illegal.

The real problem is that such strikes’ main accomplishments may be to produce the opposition to US policy that will then be used to justify the next round of missiles.

Ian Hurd is an associate professor of political science at Northwestern University. His most recent book is How to Do Things with International Law. Find him on Twitter @ian_hurd.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.In the summer of 2016, then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick decided to protest police brutality and racial injustice by taking a knee during the national anthem before games.

Kaepernick’s protest, initially overlooked, ballooned into a massive national story. Soon, other players followed his lead and it became a weekly drama for the NFL. Conservative media pounced on the story, ignoring Kaepernick’s stated intentions and instead accusing him of being unpatriotic and disrespectful of the American flag.

The controversy exploded when President Donald Trump weighed in at a rally for Alabama Senate candidate Luther Strange. Before a crowd of (mostly white) Southerners, Trump fantasized about firing the protesting players. “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners ... say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. He’s fired!’”

The NFL protests were always about race in America; Trump’s remarks turned them into a full-blown culture war. Since then, I’ve wondered if there’s something unique about football and the NFL that makes it a hotbed for this kind of racial tension. There’s nothing new about race and politics overlapping with sports, but football seems to be the source of the most controversy today.

I reached out to Ben Carrington, a professor of sociology and journalism at the University of Southern California and the author of Race, Sport and Politics. I asked him why NFL owners (virtually all of whom are white) are so scared of Kaepernick, and why he considers sports the “most racially tinged spectacle in modern society.”

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

Were you surprised that the Seattle Seahawks, arguably the most progressive team in the NFL, recently canceled its workout with Colin Kaepernick after he refused to say he’d stand for the anthem?

Ben Carrington

Nope, and it’ll be interesting to see if Seattle can hold on to its reputation as the most “woke” NFL team. My understanding is that the team asked Kaepernick to confirm that he wouldn’t kneel anymore. So they weren’t asking if he was actually planning to protest; they wanted a guarantee that he wouldn’t.

This is extraordinary if you think about it. The team is saying, “We’re going to restrict your rights to speech and your rights to protest, and we need you to confirm ahead of time that you’re not going to speak out on any issues as you have before.”

And this gets to the crux of the matter: It’s about power. Kaepernick has shown agency and power in speaking about political issues, which is far rarer in the NFL than it is, say, in the NBA. So this was about an organization trying to reassert its power over the player.

Sean Illing

Race and sports and politics have always overlapped, but, as you just alluded to, there seems to be something unique about football and the NFL that produces this sort of racial tension.

Ben Carrington

Well, there’s a lot going on here. NBA players have always had more power than NFL players, and there are reasons for that that we probably don’t want to go into here. But it’s worth noting that black NFL players have less collective power than black players in other sports, so that’s obviously a factor here.

But I think football also embodies certain ideals of American masculinity in a way other sports don’t. It’s a violent sport, a physical sport. And it’s replete with all these military metaphors: It’s played on a “gridiron” and there are “blitzes” and “bombs thrown into the end zone” while teams “march” down the field to conquer one another.

So it signifies, in a weird but real way, a certain notion of American militarism, American patriotism, American strength and violence, in a way that a skill game like basketball doesn’t.

“People like to talk about sports as a post-racial space in American society, but it’s probably the most racially tinged spectacle in modern society”

Sean Illing

There’s also the fact that the NBA is accepted as “black sport” in a way that the NFL isn’t. Both sports are dominated by black athletes, but the cultural significance of the NFL for white Americans is just different.

Ben Carrington

Absolutely, and it’s such a crucial point. Roughly 75 percent of the players in the NBA are black, and there are very few prominent white American males in the NBA. The NFL has a majority of black players, but it’s not the same as the NBA. And the quarterback position, which Kaepernick plays, has sort of become the last great position of the “Great White Hope.”

Going all the way back to the early 20th century with the famous black heavyweight champion boxer, there’s always been this element of the American sports world that has longed for a white person to reclaim the mantle of masculinity from black athletes.

Quarterbacks are today’s last Great White Hope. It’s a position that the average white American male can identify with to show some type of sporting supremacy in a landscape where, as that atrocious 1997 Sports Illustrated cover story said, “Whatever happened to the white athlete?”

Sean Illing

And no doubt this is something that NFL team owners are acutely aware of.

Ben Carrington

Unquestionably, and the owners still wield almost all of the power in the NFL. To circle back to your point, the real threat that Kaepernick posed isn’t that he’ll bring more attention to police brutality or racial injustice; it’s that he’ll mobilize players and encourage them to assert their rights in a way that’s similar to the NBA. That’s what really scares the NFL.

Sean Illing

I’ve often wondered how different the reaction would have been a few years ago if it were predominantly white players taking a knee to protest something President Barack Obama was doing.

Ben Carrington

But we kind of know, right? Sean Hannity would be praising them with long monologues about how brave the players are for speaking out. He’d make comparisons to Jackie Robinson, saying this is exactly what America is about. People like him would reverse the narrative and claim that soldiers die on the battlefield so that Americans can exercise their First Amendment rights.

What’s interesting to me is you have people like Laura Ingraham on Fox News telling LeBron James to “shut up and dribble,” and yet Fox News is littered with B-list actors and country singers who are posing as political experts and I don’t hear anyone telling them to “shut up and sing.”

Sean Illing

The Fox News audience is attuned to this deeper message, and so I doubt that the hypocrisy is a problem. These are the same people who hear Trump dismiss black NFL players as “sons of bitches” and know exactly what he means.

Ben Carrington

A big part of the history of US sports is this idea that sports in America are preserved for white men. That this is how sports were founded; this is how they were understood. Anyone who has gained entry into sports who aren’t white men, and that includes women, that includes people of color, had to do so with a kind of deference. And they had to be grateful that they were allowed onto our parks, onto our pitches, onto our courts, because these are our spaces.

And so when Trump says, “Wouldn’t you love to fire those sons of bitches?” he’s imagining a kind of re-segregation. He’s telling people to imagine that they’re one of these owners, that they could fire these “sons of bitches.” You don’t need to understand a ton of American history to recognize the racial politics of this moment.

People like to talk about sports as a post-racial space in American society, but it’s probably the most racially tinged spectacle in modern society.

“People like Laura Ingraham [are] on Fox News telling LeBron James to ‘shut up and dribble,’ and yet Fox News is littered with B-list actors and country singers who are posing as political experts and I don’t hear anyone telling them to ‘shut up and sing’”

Sean Illing

Something that I’ve noticed as a white guy who watches a lot of sports is the language commentators and analysts use to talk about white and black athletes. Race is always there, always looming. People call white quarterbacks “heady” or “hard-working” or “coach on the field,” and black quarterbacks are “mobile” or “athletic” or “explosive.” We’ve got all these stereotypes that are constantly reinforced with this coded language.

Ben Carrington

Yeah, and it’s powerful precisely because we deny that it’s there. We have this strange paradox in which we deny the existence of something which we know is there, and then we enjoy it partly because it’s there.

There’s a great bit by the comedian Bill Burr from a few years ago where he talks about how frustrating it is as a white guy watching how good black athletes are, and the inability of white guys to stay in the NBA. He’s like, “I just want the white guys to get out the way when the black guys are dunking on them.”

I think he taps into something real. He talks about watching the Olympics and just hoping the one token white sprinter can at least come in third. It’s hilarious, obviously, and Bill’s a great comic, but it’s a quite honest reflection of white emasculation on the one hand and loving sports on the other.

And this is part of the reason I think sports concerns and confirms the notion of racial difference more than any other cultural medium.

Sean Illing

I assume that’s a big reason why you think we should take sports more seriously as a cultural object and as a space where politics happens.

Ben Carrington

Yeah, that’s right. I think we have to expand what we mean by politics, because we tend to define it too narrowly. Politics is about Democrats and Republicans and Congress and all that, but it’s also about how we live our lives. It’s about identity.

In that sense, sports and popular culture is inherently political. I remember when Trump made his “sons of bitches” comment, I kept hearing cable news pundits say, “Why can’t we get back to speaking about politics? Why are we talking about the NFL?” I thought they were completely misunderstanding what politics is.

Trump was elected to shore up a lot of anxieties that white people have about the state and direction of the country, and that’s why the issues around Kaepernick and sports are so important. It’s part of who we are as Americans.

The games we play aren’t simply games. They’re also about identity, which is why they’re so popular. And if they didn’t tap into identity, they wouldn’t be so popular.Arizona teachers are planning a walkout on Thursday if the governor and state legislature don’t increase teacher pay, restore education funding, and promise not to implement more tax cuts. They would join a wave of teacher groups striking across the nation, from West Virginia to Oklahoma to Kentucky.

Help our reporting on teacher salaries Are you a teacher who has seen your pay stagnate or go down over the years? Fill out this form.

Their list of complaints is long: tattered textbooks, falling wages, and rising health care costs, among others.

Republican Gov. Doug Ducey promised to give in to some of the teachers’ demands by promising a 20 percent raise over the next three years — a promise that some say is tied to overly optimistic growth projections. But Arizona teachers aren’t happy with just a raise. The state still has some of the most poorly funded public schools in the nation.

And in each of the states that have been roiled by teacher unrest, we have to reckon with the underlying reason why schools are being suffocated: Over the past several decades, state lawmakers have systematically divested from public education.

The root of these education cuts started decades ago, when state legislators gave tax cuts to the wealthy and corporations during times of economic prosperity. The hope was that it would spur economic growth — but that growth never came. When the economy turned south, states needed to raise more revenue.

But conservative lawmakers refused to raise taxes; they just cut spending. And because education often takes up the largest portion of state budgets, schools were hit especially hard.

Lather, rinse, repeat.

This trend has been a threat to public education. More affluent families can find their way to a well-funded school — but that leaves everyone else with a second-class education. It’s a betrayal of the ideal of public education.

Here’s how it’s playing out in Arizona, the most recent state where teachers have voted to strike.

“An ideological aversion to taxes”

It’s been nearly 30 years since Arizona’s state legislature approved a tax increase.

The individual tax rates have tumbled downward, and exemptions have increased:

In more recent years, corporate tax cuts have drastically reduced the revenue collected from businesses:

These tax cuts have cost the state about $4 billion in revenue in today’s dollars:

And this tax structure now puts the most financial pressure on the poorest residents.

“It’s an ideological aversion to taxes,” Arizona State business professor Tom Rex told me. “It’s a governor and legislature who have not only said they will never raise taxes but cut taxes every year. And we’ve done that for 25 years.”

Because education is a large portion of the state’s budget, these cuts have hurt schools quite a bit.

Arizona schools were already poorly funded — and then the recession hit

Before the recession, Arizona schools were already some of the most poorly funded. But the recession hit the state hard, and state lawmakers have refused to restore education funding to pre-recession levels:

Tax hikes require a two-thirds majority in both chambers of the legislature, and Rex said it’s been so unlikely that the issue hasn’t been broached seriously.

This has led to Arizona teacher salaries either staying static or going down:

Gov. Ducey has proposed a 20 percent raise for teacher compensation by 2020, including a 10 percent boost by next year. Rex said the state could likely pay for that next year with its surplus and by cutting funding elsewhere. But teachers, economists, and even Republicans in the state legislature have said Ducey’s growth projections are overly optimistic, and he doesn’t actually have the money to pay for these raises.

Plus, even with the raises, the drastic cuts in education have left schools without the funding to buy necessities.

A petition to state lawmakers, signed by nearly 28,000 educators, says: “Our classrooms go without updated textbooks, basic supplies, and technology. We have among the highest class sizes and school counselor loads in the nation, making it difficult to meet the individual needs of our students.”

One Arizona teacher told KJZZ, “We have classrooms where students sit on countertops because there aren’t enough desks or seats in the room.”

Teacher are defending the ideals of public education

When states underfund education at the state level, two things can happen.

If you live in an affluent town, the town can raise revenue, cover the shortfall, and support the schools. If not, the schools would need to figure out ways to deliver as much education as possible with less money. Maybe that means eliminating art and music programs. Or maybe that means prohibiting students from taking home textbooks because they are so old and fragile.

This stratification of schools is what education reformer Horace Mann worried about in the 19th century. He said that if the wealthy could essentially buy their way to a better school, then the poor would end up with an inferior education. He believed that “there should be a free school, sufficiently safe, and sufficiently good, for all the children.” This would align the incentives of the rich and the poor.

We clearly fall short of that standard, along lines of race and class. By cutting school funding, state lawmakers are encouraging exactly what Mann feared — an “every person for themselves” attitude toward education. In Arizona, it is hitting less affluent, rural areas hard.

It’s often difficult to draw a line from statewide economic policy to the classroom, but the story that’s emerging from these teacher strikes is clear: Ideologues are suffocating public education — and teachers have had enough.

Help our reporting on teacher salaries

Are you a teacher who has seen your pay stagnate or go down over the years? Fill out this form.Republican Debbie Lesko won the election against Democrat Hiral Tipirneni in the special election for Arizona’s Eighth Congressional District. Decision Desk HQ called the race at 12:39 am Eastern time on Wednesday.

More than 151,000 ballots were cast before election day, and registered Republicans are outvoting Democrats 49 percent to 28 percent, with a median voter age of 67, according to the Cook Political Report’s Dave Wasserman. That margin shrunk significantly as the night went on, with Lesko up by about 6 points as the final tally was coming in.

When Republican Rep. Trent Franks resigned amid reports that he had offered a female staffer $5 million to be his baby surrogate, no one thought his deeply red Arizona district could be competitive. It encompasses the suburbs north and west of Phoenix in Maricopa County — the stomping grounds of infamous former Sheriff Joe Arpaio and home to the reliably conservative Sun City retirement community. Donald Trump won the district by 21 points. But polls showed some tightening in recent weeks, and Democrats are watching closely to see if they can weaken Republicans’ stronghold in the district.

Most election observers zeroed in on the margin by which Trump and Franks won compared with Lesko. That margin worried the GOP — especially after they saw Democrats win a Trump +20 district in Pennsylvania only last month.

Outside groups have poured more than $700,000 into Lesko’s campaign and sent some of the party’s biggest fundraising names — from House Speaker Paul Ryan to Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy — to stump for her. It’s clear Republicans aren’t taking any chances.

This race is about enthusiasm

It’s difficult to see how Democrats could replicate their success in Pennsylvania in Arizona’s Eighth. Republicans have strong roots in the region and make up 41 percent of registered voters — a clear advantage over Democrats, who only make up 24 percent of registered voters. It’s home to Maricopa County and Arpaio, who as sheriff was known for infringing on the constitutional rights of residents by assuming immigration status.

Despite Arizona’s fast-growing Latino population statewide, this district is nearly 90 percent white. Almost half the population is 55 or older. It includes the Sun City retirement community, a massive chunk of the district that consistently votes Republican.

And almost three-quarters of the voters submitted their ballots by mail. The county the district is in has a permanent early voting list, which many in Sun City residents are on. In other words, there isn’t as much potential for a drop-off of Republican voters.

Franks, who represented the vast majority of these constituents in the House of Representatives since 2003, was a clear reflection of these deeply red roots. He was considered to be one of the most conservative members of the House of Representatives — he’s a House Freedom Caucus member and ardent Trump defender, and is staunchly anti-abortion (he once tried to pass a 20-week abortion ban in the District of Columbia, even though he does not represent it).

Republicans are mounting a run-of-the-mill pro-tax cuts, “tough on immigration,” pro-Trump campaign. Meanwhile, the Democrat, Tipirneni, a former doctor, has almost exclusively focused on health care and Social Security.

Put together, this race is much less about the possibility of an upset Democratic win than it is a litmus test of party enthusiasm.

The question going into election day is: Can Democrats tighten the margin of Republican victory?

Correction: Polls close at 10 pm Eastern, as Arizona does not do Daylight Savings Time.Republican Debbie Lesko has defeated Democrat Hiral Tipirneni in the special election for Arizona’s Eighth Congressional District. But Tuesday night’s race should still give Republicans pause.

In a deeply conservative district, Tipirneni was able to substantially narrow Lesko’s margin of victory over Donald Trump’s in 2016. And the national Republican Party and outside GOP groups poured more than $1 million into winning the seat that will be up again this November.

By all measures, Arizona 8 is deeply red; it encompasses the suburbs north and west of Phoenix in Maricopa County — the stomping grounds of infamous former Sheriff Joe Arpaio and home to the reliably conservative Sun City retirement community. Trump won the district by 21 points. It’s currently rated R+13. Lesko is expected to win by a substantially smaller margin.

Lesko will replace the very conservative Trent Franks, who resigned early this year amid reports that he’d offered to pay female staffers to be his baby surrogate (possible through natural conception). When Franks resigned, no one thought the seat would be competitive.

There’s no question that the race in Arizona was a clear win for the Republican Party, which will maintain a very conservative seat in the House until November. But Tipirneni ran a campaign focused almost exclusively on health care that dozens of other Democratic candidates are looking to replicate in more competitive districts across the country.

And even in a deeply red district like this one, Arizona Democrats showed they are enthusiastic to come out and vote, which could have huge implications for the state’s House and Senate races this November.

Debbie Lesko ran a traditional Republican campaign, and it underperformed

Lesko’s political profile seems like a traditional fit for a conservative district.

A former state House and Senate lawmaker whose district overlaps with Arizona’s Eighth, Lesko is anti-abortion and has run on a “tough on immigration” platform, saying she will work with Trump to bring the border wall to Arizona. She supports the president but says she doesn’t approve of all his antics, celebrated the Republican tax cuts, and was quick to paint her Democratic opponent, Tipirneni, as a “Bernie Sanders, Medicare-for-all” liberal (Tipirneni supports a public option). Lesko will be sworn in to the House with the support of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, a group that her predecessor Franks was a part of.

Among notable moments in her career, she was among the 36 Republican lawmakers in Arizona who signed on to the unsuccessful lawsuit against then-Gov. Jan Brewer (R) for supporting Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act. And in the district, she’s known for something much more close to home for an aging retirement population: She pushed for state legislation to make it legal for people to drive golf carts alongside the road.

In all, Lesko ran as close to the Republican Party’s 2018 playbook as possible. She was pro-tax cuts, pro-border wall, anti-Obamacare. But put together, it wasn’t as easy a sell in a year that has seen an incredible surge in Democratic enthusiasm.

Democrats closed the gap in a deep-red district

Arizona’s Eighth District is red and was always expected to stay red.

It’s Trump country; the president carried the district by 20 points in 2016. And while Democrats recently saw success in a Trump +20 district, clinching the special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th last month, it was difficult to see how they could replicate that success in Arizona’s Eighth. It is a district that has “no Democratic heritage,” as Dave Wasserman of the Cook Political Report told Vox — like labor unions.

Republicans have strong roots in the region and make up 41 percent of registered voters — a clear advantage over Democrats, who only make up 24 percent of registered voters. It’s home to Maricopa County and Arpaio, who as sheriff was known for infringing on the constitutional rights of residents by assuming immigration status.

Despite Arizona’s fast-growing Latino population statewide, this district is nearly 90 percent white. Almost half the population is 55 or older. It includes the Sun City retirement community, a massive chunk of the district that consistently votes Republican. Roughly three-fourths of the constituents in the district voted early, the majority for Lesko.

In other words, there wasn’t as much potential for a drop-off of Republican voters. But there was room for a surge in Democratic turnout, and it’s clear that Tipirneni ran on a campaign that energized the base.

It’s looking like health care is going to be a big vulnerability for Republicans

Tipirneni, a former emergency room doctor and cancer research advocate, zeroed in on what Democrats think will be a winning message in 2018: health care.

And as deeply red as this district is, that message seems to show promise — especially in the home state of Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) who famously voted down Republicans’ efforts to repeal Obamacare.

As Vox’s Dylan Scott explained, Republicans set themselves up for relentless progressive attacks on health care. They spent the majority of their first year in control of Congress and the White House trying to repeal the increasingly popular Affordable Care Act. When that didn’t work, they shifted back to sabotaging the health care system and talking about making cuts to even more popular programs like Medicare and Social Security.

As Scott writes:

Republicans already have a mess on their hands of their own making. The Trump administration’s multifaceted crusade against the health care law — slashing outreach budgets and pulling the law’s cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers — were already to blame for a 20 percent premium hike this year. Then Congress repealed the individual mandate in their tax bill, a huge political victory given the GOP’s vehement opposition to the mandate but one that insurers have said would drive up premiums even more next year.

That message might not have been enough to offset Democrats’ structural disadvantages in AZ-8, but it could prove more fruitful in the more than 30 competitive Republican districts that Democrats are hoping to turn blue this November, and in Arizona’s possibly two open Senate seats.

As one Democratic operative told Vox, Tipirneni isn’t unique in her campaign message. And it could make all the difference in a district with more of a Democratic heritage, or statewide where the demographics are much more in Democrats’ favor.In a Tuesday night special election race on Long Island, Democrats flipped a long-Republican State Assembly district to mark their 40th Trump-era takeover of a GOP-held seat. The seat had been held by a Republican since 1978.

The New York State Assembly is firmly in Democratic hands, and control of the New York state Senate is caught up in intra-caucus weirdness, so the flip has no particular concrete result. But it does serve as a further sign of the strong wind at Democrats’ backs downballot in the Trump era, with their candidate Steve Stern running 11 points ahead of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 margin in the seat and 15 points ahead of Barack Obama’s 2012 margin.

The race was also notable as yet another example of the GOP trying and failing to make the Salvadoran street gang MS-13 into the Democratic candidate’s running mate.

More failed scare tactics for the GOP. They ran mailers like this against the Dem in a suburban NY swing Assembly District. But Dem Steve Stern won big: 59%-41% in a seat long held by the GOP. pic.twitter.com/Q2MApwUZT1 — Nick Gourevitch (@nickgourevitch) April 25, 2018

Unlike in some other races where the GOP has played the MS-13 card, the gang really does have a substantial presence in Suffolk County, and it’s not a totally unreasonable issue for candidates to talk about. But in practice, the issue seems to be falling flat here as elsewhere.

Democrats are cleaning up in special elections

According to an extremely useful comprehensive spreadsheet compiled by Daily Kos, across 70 special elections in 2017, Democrats ran 10 points ahead of Clinton and 7 points ahead of Obama’s 2012 results. Those numbers have accelerated into 2018. Across 27 races, Democrats are running 21 points ahead of Clinton and 10 points ahead of Barack Obama.

Historically speaking, special election results usually are somewhat predictive of midterm general election outcomes, though I don’t think anyone believes it’s realistic for Democrats to obtain a nationwide 45-point swing relative to Clinton’s numbers.A special election Tuesday in New York decided the fates of 11 open seats in the state legislature — including two key Democratic victories in the state Senate.

Democrat Luis Sepulveda easily won his race in the 32nd District in the Bronx, where he was heavily favored.

Democrat Shelley Mayer also defeated Republican Julie Killian in a closely watched contest in the 37th District in part of Westchester, New York’s northern suburbs. Mayer’s victory in the swing district is a reassuring sign for Democrats as they try to take full control of the state Senate in the fall.

The results for the two state Senate races are below:

Democrats had hoped that that they might be able to take full control of state government with this special election — but the balance of power in Albany will remain unchanged. Democrats have power in the Assembly and the governorship, but Republicans will maintain their one-vote majority in the state Senate.

That’s because state Sen. Simcha Felder, a Democrat who votes with the Republicans, decided as voters were headed to the polls that he would stick with the GOP.

Democrats had hoped that their two victories might convince Felder to unify with the rest of his party. But Felder put an end to the speculation with his Tuesday afternoon announcement, pledging loyalty to the Republicans, at least through the legislative session, which ends in June.

Felder hasn’t totally spoiled election night for the Democrats. Victories in these Senate races — including in the critical swing district, the 37th — are good omen as the party tries for state control in 2018. Every senator is up for reelection in November, and progressives are hoping Democratic enthusiasm nationwide will finally, and officially, turn New York blue.Democrats won a bittersweet victory in two key state Senate races in Tuesday’s special election.

Democrat Luis Sepulveda handily defeated Republican Patrick Delices and Reform Party candidate Pamela Stewart-Martinez in the 32nd District in the Bronx, and Democrat Shelley Mayer bested GOP candidate Julie Killian in a closely watched race in the 37th District in New York’s northern suburbs of Westchester.

But none of it matters. Democrats have a numerical majority of 32 to 31 in the state Senate, but they won’t regain power because of one breakaway Democratic senator who said Tuesday he would continue to caucus with the Republicans, at least through this legislative term, which ends mid-June.

The senator, Simcha Felder, made his decision Tuesday before the polls even closed, dampening Democrats’ victories.

“I believe it is my obligation to prevent an unprecedented and uncertain late-session political battle that will only hurt my constituents and New Yorkers,” Felder said in a statement, according to the New York Times. “Political gamesmanship must not be allowed to jeopardize the leadership, committee structure and staff of the New York State Senate and push this institution into turmoil.”

There was some speculation that if Democrats won the two open Senate seats, Felder would return to the fold, transforming the party’s numerical majority into an actual one. This could have given the Democrats control of the state government, with an overwhelming Democratic majority in the Assembly and a Democratic governor, Andrew Cuomo. (Nine seats in the state Assembly are also up for grabs, but the outcomes won’t significantly alter the lower chamber’s makeup.)

Instead, Felder’s decision to stay with the Republicans puts a truly blue New York frustratingly out of reach for progressives.

Meet Simcha Felder, the rogue Democrat who just spoiled the special elections

Felder was one of several rogue Democrats who for years played a weird game of caucusing with the GOP, leaving Democrats in the minority and stymieing opportunities to bring some legislation to the floor.

Some, like Felder, had distinct ideological differences. But the overwhelming reason for this strange marriage was power — being in the minority is not a fun place to be as a politician. It also came with some pretty good perks for the Democratic breakaways, including higher salaries.

But a recent deal with breakaway Democrats in the Independent Democratic Conference — brokered with help from Cuomo — brought most of the runaways back into the mainline fold. All of them, that is, except Felder.

Felder said he would wait until after the April 24 election to make his decision — but he preempted any election night celebrations by announcing his decision Tuesday afternoon.

A Democratic victory in New York’s 37th District can’t flip the state Senate

Two Senate vacancies were filled on Tuesday. One, in the 32nd District, covered a swath of the Bronx and leans heavily Democratic. Sepulveda, a Democratic Assembly member from the Bronx, was overwhelmingly favored.

That left the 37th District, a swing district that covers part of Westchester County. The race pit Democrat Mayer, a state Assembly member, against Republican Julie Killian, a member of a local city council who ran unsuccessfully for state Senate in 2016 against the Democratic incumbent.

If Killian had won, Republicans would have maintained the majority outright, and Felder wouldn’t have budged. But there were signs that Felder would reunite with the Democrats if Mayer won the race. As Doug Muzzio, a professor of political science at Baruch College, told Vox, Felder was the ultimate “wild card.”

Democrats would have eagerly welcome Felder back without question, and would have offered him some very favorable to concessions to secure that loyalty.

Felder also had something to gain by returning to the Democratic fold. The party is in a favorable position to take full control of the state Senate in November, when everyone is up for reelection. Any Democratic majority will be slim — but it might be just big enough that the party wouldn’t have needed Felder in the same way.

But Felder is a savvy politician, and effectively delivering the Republicans the majority probably won’t go unrewarded. It’s possible he’s also returning a big favor. As WXXI, Rochester’s public radio points out, Republicans helped ease restrictions on curriculum for Yeshiva religious schools — a key issue for Felder — in the recent state budget.

Still, at least one person with a lot of sway in Albany says it’s not over: Andrew Cuomo. A spokesperson for the governor said after Felder’s announcement: “The Governor’s position is clear: the Democrats must unify to take back the majority. This conversation will continue in the morning.”

It’s not clear if there’s a legitimate opening for the Democrats, or if Cuomo’s just trying to give himself cover in his primary race against Cynthia Nixon. The Independent Democratic Conference formed shortly after 2010, and the governor’s critics said the Republican-controlled state Senate gave him cover to govern down the middle. But a surprising challenge from Nixon in the gubernatorial primary suddenly made Democratic unity a top priority for Cuomo.

Felder’s decision won’t mean much in practical terms. The Albany legislative session is over in about two months. But the Democratic win on Tuesday put them in an even better position to retake the state Senate in November — with or without Felder. Felder does have a long-shot primary Democratic challenger. He’s not likely to lose, but Felder’s defection might motivate progressives across the state.Monday is Confederate Memorial Day in Alabama, one of three states that still set aside a state holiday — meaning government offices are closed — to honor those who fought for the Confederacy during the American Civil War. The others are Mississippi, which will celebrate Confederate Memorial Day on April 30; and South Carolina, which celebrates on May 10.

In addition, other states, such as Florida (which will celebrate Confederate Memorial Day on Thursday) and Texas (which celebrated Confederate Heroes Day on January 19), honor the legacy of the Confederacy without closing government offices.

And in several states — including Alabama — Confederate figures like President Jefferson Davis and Gen. Robert E. Lee are also honored with their own holidays, with supporters arguing that doing so is important to preserve Southern history.

Now, 157 years after the first shots were fired at Fort Sumter — marking the beginning of the Civil War — Americans still debate its causes. But the underlying reasoning for the secession of Southern states from the Union, and the launching point for the bloodiest conflict in American history, couldn’t be more clear. In fact, the instigators themselves explained them.

The Confederacy was built on slavery and created to save slavery

The Confederacy, or the Confederate States of America, was established with the purpose of preserving the institution of slavery. This is now viewed as a controversial take in 2018, but it is, in fact, true. Alabama seceded from the Union on January 11, 1861, in the belief, as stated during the Alabama Secession Convention held that month, that “the institution of African slavery now existing in the slaveholding states” was “a moral, social, and political blessing.”

A few weeks earlier, in December 1860, Stephen F. Hale, Alabama’s commissioner to the state of Kentucky, wrote the following to Kentucky Gov. Beriah Magoffin regarding Alabama’s reasonings for exiting the Union (emphasis added):

What Southern man, be he slave-holder or non-slave-holder, can without indignation and horror contemplate the triumph of negro equality, and see his own sons and daughters in the not distant future associating with free negroes upon terms of political and social equality, and the white man stripped by the heaven-daring hand of fanaticism of that title to superiority over the black race which God himself has bestowed? In the Northern States, where free negroes are so few as to form no appreciable part of the community, in spite of all the legislation for their protection, they still remain a degraded caste, excluded by the ban of society from social association with all but the lowest and most degraded of the white race. but in the South, where in many places the African race largely predominates, and as a consequence the two races would be continually pressing together, amalgamation or the extermination of the one or the other would be inevitable. Can Southern men submit to such degradation and ruin? God forbid that they should.

He added:

If we triumph, vindicate our rights, and maintain our institutions, a bright and joyous future lies before us. We can clothe the world with our staple, give wings to her commerce, and supply with bread the starving operative in other lands, and at the same time preserve an institution that has done more to civilize and Christianize the heathen than all human agencies besides-an institution alike beneficial to both races, ameliorating the moral, physical, and intellectual condition of the one and giving wealth and happiness to the other.

(The “institution” to which he was referring was the institution of slavery.)

In 1860, 45 percent of people in Alabama were slaves.

Mississippi seceded from the Union on January 9, 1861. As written in its articles of secession (“A Declaration of the Immediate Causes which Induce and Justify the Secession of the State of Mississippi from the Federal Union”):

Our position is thoroughly identified with the institution of slavery — the greatest material interest of the world. Its labor supplies the product which constitutes by far the largest and most important portions of commerce of the earth. These products are peculiar to the climate verging on the tropical regions, and by an imperious law of nature, none but the black race can bear exposure to the tropical sun. These products have become necessities of the world, and a blow at slavery is a blow at commerce and civilization. That blow has been long aimed at the institution, and was at the point of reaching its consummation. There was no choice left us but submission to the mandates of abolition, or a dissolution of the Union, whose principles had been subverted to work out our ruin.

Among the reasons for the state to exit the United States were the following:

[The United States] advocates negro equality, socially and politically, and promotes insurrection and incendiarism in our midst. [The United States] has enlisted its press, its pulpit and its schools against us, until the whole popular mind of the North is excited and inflamed with prejudice. [The United States] has made combinations and formed associations to carry out its schemes of emancipation in the States and wherever else slavery exists.

In the Census of 1860, roughly 55 percent of people in Mississippi were slaves, and 49 percent of white Mississippians owned slaves.

We are still relitigating the Civil War

Last summer, white nationalists rallied in Charlottesville, Virginia, purportedly to stop Charlottesville’s government from taking down a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. But that statue wasn’t put in place in the aftermath of the Civil War — it was dedicated in 1924, 59 years after the war ended.

And many of the holidays honoring Confederate soldiers were similarly delayed — in Florida, Confederate Memorial Day was first celebrated in 1895, years after the end of the Civil War but coinciding exactly with the height of Jim Crow racism. These holidays and memorials weren’t intended to honor the dead; they were meant to terrify the living — especially black Americans, already subjected to rampant discrimination and violence across the South (and throughout the North too).

As my colleague Libby Nelson wrote in 2015:

The Confederacy itself was founded to preserve slavery and promote white supremacy (see, for example ... the speech from the Confederacy’s vice president that declared the Confederacy’s cornerstone “rests upon the great truth that the Negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery — subordination to the superior race — is his natural and normal condition”).

Corrected to show that Confederate Memorial Day is a state holiday in South Carolina.Democrats hoped Tuesday’s special election could finally give them control of the state’s upper chamber — and full control of the state government. But one New York state senator determined the balance of power in Albany before the polls even closed.

Victories in two state Senate districts — one in a deep blue area, the other in a swing suburban district — would have handed Democrats a 32-31 numerical majority in the 63-seat Senate. But real power depended on the decision of a rogue Democratic state senator, Simcha Felder.

Felder is a Democrat who caucuses with the Republicans — and there was some speculation that if Democrats won those two open Senate seats, he would return to the fold, transforming the party’s numerical majority into an actual one.

But Felder said Tuesday he would remain a Democrat in name, but continue caucusing with the Republicans, no matter the election results, at least through this legislative term, which ends mid-June.

“I believe it is my obligation to prevent an unprecedented and uncertain late-session political battle that will only hurt my constituents and New Yorkers,” Felder said in a statement, according to the New York Times. “Political gamesmanship must not be allowed to jeopardize the leadership, committee structure and staff of the New York State Senate and push this institution into turmoil.”

Felder’s announcement shatters Democratic hopes of retaking the state Senate, something that’s eluded them for all but two years since World War II. If Democrats won on Tuesday, and Felder reunited with Democrats, the party might have taken control of the state government, with an overwhelming Democratic majority in the Assembly and a Democratic governor, Andrew Cuomo. (Nine seats in the overwhelmingly Democratic state Assembly are also up for grabs, but the outcomes won’t significantly alter the lower chamber’s makeup.)

Instead, Felder’s decision to stay with the Republicans puts a truly blue New York frustratingly out of reach for progressives.

Meet Simcha Felder, the rogue Democrat who just spoiled the special elections

Felder was one of several rogue Democrats who for years played a weird game of caucusing with the GOP, leaving Democrats in the minority and stymieing opportunities to bring some legislation to the floor.

Some, like Felder, had distinct ideological differences. But the overwhelming reason for this strange marriage was power — being in the minority is not a fun place to be as a politician. It also came with some pretty good perks for the Democratic breakaways, including higher salaries.

But a recent deal with renegade Democrats in the Independent Democratic Conference — brokered with help from Cuomo — brought most of the runaways back into the mainline fold. All of them, that is, except Felder.

Felder said he would wait until after the April 24 election to make his decision — but he preempted any election night celebrations by announcing his decision Tuesday afternoon.

New York’s 37th Senate District just got a little less pivotal

Two Senate vacancies are up at the polls today. One is in the 32nd District, which covers a large swath of the Bronx and heavily leans Democratic. Luis Sepulveda, a Democratic Assembly member from the Bronx, is practically guaranteed to win.

So all eyes were on the 37th District, a swing district which covers part of Westchester County, suburbs north of New York City. The race pits Democrat Shelley Mayer, a state Assembly member, against Republican Julie Killian, a member of a local city council who ran unsuccessfully for state Senate in 2016 against the Democratic incumbent.

If Killian won, Republicans would have maintained the majority outright, and Felder wouldn’t have budged. But there were signs that Felder would reunite with the Democrats if Mayer won the race. As Doug Muzzio, professor of political science at Baruch College, told Vox, Felder was the ultimate “wild card.”

Democrats would have eagerly welcome Felder back without question, and would have offered him some very favorable to concessions to secure that loyalty.

Felder also had something to gain by returning to the Democratic fold. The party is in a favorable position to take full control of the state Senate November, when everyone is up for reelection. Any Democratic majority will be slim — but it might be just big enough that the party wouldn’t have needed Felder in the same way.

But Felder is a savvy politician, and effectively delivering the Republicans the majority probably won’t go unrewarded. It’s possible he’s also returning a big favor. As WXXI, Rochester’s public radio points out, Republicans helped ease restrictions on curriculum for Yeshiva religious schools — a key issue for Felder — in the recent state budget. (Whether Felder’s announcement will depress an already low turnout — polls close at 9 pm — and tamp down Democratic enthusiasm is another question entirely.)

Still, at least one person with a lot of sway in Albany says it’s not over: Andrew Cuomo. A spokesperson for the governor said after Felder’s announcement: “The Governor’s position is clear: the Democrats must unify to take back the majority. This conversation will continue in the morning.”

It’s not clear if there’s a legitimate opening for the Democrats, or Cuomo’s just trying to give himself cover in his primary race against Cynthia Nixon. The Independent Democratic Conference formed shortly after 2010, and the governor’s critics said the Republican-controlled state Senate gave him cover to govern down the middle. But a surprising challenge from Nixon in the gubernatorial primary suddenly made Democratic unity a top priority for Cuomo.

Felder’s decision won’t mean much in practical terms. The Albany legislative session is over in about two months. But if the Democrats win Tuesday, they are in an even better position to retake the state Senate in November — with or without Felder. Felder does have a long-shot primary Democratic challenger. He’s not likely to lose, but his continued defection might motivate progressives across the state.George H.W. Bush was admitted to a hospital Sunday for a blood infection, and the 93-year-old former president is now in intensive care. The timing is unsettling: It happened the day after the funeral of his wife, former first lady Barbara Bush, who died at 92 of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and congestive heart failure.

But could the first event really have caused the other?

It’s long been known that widowhood can increase the risk of hospitalization and dying. In one nationally representative study of the “widowhood effect,” researchers found the death of a wife was linked with an 18 percent increase in mortality for men, and the death of a husband was linked with a 16 percent boost in mortality for women.

The reasons for this are complicated and still mysterious. There is a condition called “broken heart syndrome,” also known as stress or Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Yes, you can literally die from a broken heart.

In these cases, taxing events — even joyous ones — cause stress hormones to surge in a way that can lead to an abnormal heart contraction. “This can cause chest pain in the acute setting and lead to heart failure in both the short and long term,” explained Julie Clary, chief cardiology fellow at the Krannert Institute of Cardiology at Indiana University.

Other scientific research has repeatedly shown that our health is incredibly fragile after we’ve endured an emotional upheaval, especially the death of a loved one. Losing a loved one can mean losing the routines we depend on for stable health.

But not all causes of death affect widows equally, and different groups seem to be disproportionately affected by the phenomenon. As scientists have tried to tease out these associations, they’ve learned that the widowhood effect is a lot more complicated than they originally thought.

The death of a spouse can hurt health. But the phenomenon is not universal.

Yale University professor Nicholas Christakis had a great Twitter thread on the nuances of the science:

Almost instantly after a man's wife dies, his risk of hospitalization spikes (and other health quality indicators also show problems). This is illustrated by the case with President Bush at the moment. https://t.co/FOUinpEFla 7/ pic.twitter.com/baKCDNr3Ay — Nicholas A. Christakis (@NAChristakis) April 24, 2018

In one of his papers, published in 2008 in the American Journal of Public Health, he and his co-authors wrote that the way a spouse dies can change the surviving partner’s mortality risk. Interestingly, the highest risk of death for widowed men is a wife who dies from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD — one of Barbara Bush’s causes of death. A surviving husband is also at a high risk of dying from sepsis — what H.W. Bush has been diagnosed with — after the loss of a wife.

But it’s not just death: Widows are at a higher risk of being hospitalized after losing their partners. Interestingly, losing an ex-wife isn’t as deadly as losing a current wife, and “white couples have a much higher widowhood effect than black couples, for complex reasons,” Christakis tweeted. Men are also more susceptible to the widowhood effect than women.

We can’t pretend to know what exactly is behind Bush’s poor health this week. As John Mandrola, electrophysiologist and chief cardiology correspondent for Medscape, said, “It’s important to say in the case of [Bush] that the most likely cause is probably frailty induced infection — dying of old age.” But it wouldn’t be unusual at all if the stress from his wife’s death was accelerating the process. The couple had been married for 73 years.

The bright side: Our relationships with people deeply matter for our health. They can also protect us.

If there’s an upshot to these studies, it’s this: The relationships we have with loved ones matter deeply to our health.

And strong bonds with others are associated with a great many positive things. The fortitude of social connections is a predictor of resistance to Alzheimer’s and overall mental health. Studies find people with strong social bonds tend to live longer than others. In contrast, some experts say loneliness is as bad for the heart as smoking.

Humans are social creatures; our entire psychology is built on coexisting with one another. Social relationships guide our decisions to join groups, go to war, gain status, empathize, punish, marry, and mate. Having evolved this way means we can suffer without the companionship of others — and thrive when we have it.Arizona special election: Hiral Tipirneni and Debbie Lesko face off A guide to the race to replace Trent Franks.

Democrat Hiral Tipirneni and Republican Debbie Lesko face off Tuesday in the special election for Arizona’s 8th Congressional District.

The district is deeply red — President Donald Trump won the district by 20 points in 2016 — but the race could test the strength of the Republican base in a scandal-plagued year. Republican Rep. Trent Franks resigned in December amid allegations that he had offered a female staffer $5 million to be a surrogate for him and his wife. Franks was considered one of the most conservative members of the House.

Tipirneni is a former emergency room doctor and has made this race all about health care, deriding Republican attacks on the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security. Lesko is anti-abortion, has run on a “tough on immigration” platform, and says she supports Trump but doesn’t approve all of his antics.

Polls showed the race appeared to be tightening leading up to Election Day. Even if Lesko wins, a close race in safe Republican territory could raise red flags for the GOP.If Democrats have any hope of keeping Ohio competitive and rebuilding the Midwestern blue wall that fell to Donald Trump in 2016, Sherrod Brown needs to win reelection this fall.

“The worry for Brown is that the state has taken a turn toward the Republicans and won’t turn back,” Kyle Kondik, part of the University of Virginia’s Crystal Ball team who quite literally wrote the book on Ohio, told me. “If Brown loses, it’s hard to see how Democrats can really contest the state in 2020 — in fact, they likely wouldn’t even try.”

Ohio swung dramatically toward Republicans in 2016: After President Obama won by 3 percentage points in 2012, Trump beat Hillary Clinton by 8 points. Brown is currently the only Democrat holding statewide elected office in the Buckeye State.

The two-term senator, who was first elected to the Senate in 2006, remains popular in Ohio and might have the right kind of populist persona to play well in this newly minted Trump Country. Brown is still considered a slight favorite to win this November: The UVA Crystal Ball rates the race “Lean Democrat,” as does the Cook Political Report.

Brown’s opponent will be determined in a May 8 primary. Jim Renacci, a Republican congressman looking to capitalize on Trump’s 2016 playbook, and Cleveland businessman Mike Gibbons, who’s running as a political outsider (sound familiar?), are the contestants.

On Tuesday, Renacci got the all-important Trump endorsement.

.@JimRenacci has worked so hard on Tax Reductions, Illegal Immigration, the Border and Crime. I need Jim very badly to help our agenda and to keep MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! He will be a fantastic Senator for the Great State of Ohio, and has my full endorsement! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2018

Whichever Republican emerges to challenge Brown, the stakes in Ohio are ginormous on several levels. First and foremost, if Democrats are to have any hope of taking over the Senate next year, Brown needs to keep his seat. Democrats are defending seats in 10 states that Trump won; Ohio is a big one, a step below the challenges that the party will face in Indiana and Missouri.

On a more fundamental level, the Ohio Senate race will be an important test case of whether Democrats can still contend in the Midwestern, mostly-white states that Obama had won but that fell out from under them in 2016, handing Trump an Electoral College win even as he lost the popular vote.

Why Sherrod Brown has to be considered the favorite in Ohio

The biggest thing Brown has going for him, Kondik said, is Trump.

The backlash against the party currently occupying the White House is one of the bedrocks of American politics. It (almost) always happens. Democrats are already starting midterms (in theory) with an advantage.

Helping matters for Brown is Trump’s deep unpopularity nationwide and his relative unpopularity in Brown’s state (this October post by FiveThirtyEight compiling state approval ratings had Trump five points underwater in Ohio).

“It may sound overly simplistic, but Trump being in the White House is the biggest reason why Brown is favored,” Kondik said. “There’s just a frequent midterm drag that hurts the presidential party and helps the non-presidential one, and that’s exacerbated when the president is unpopular.”

Kondik pointed to data that show Senate incumbents in the out-of-power party have won reelection 91 percent of the time since 1914, when popular elections for Senate seats began.

On the other hand, Ohio presents some natural challenges for Brown, even in the favorable national environment. The Ohio Democratic Party has struggled to build a bench in recent years, with Republicans still favored in the governor’s race despite the national headwinds. The midterm electorate is usually older and whiter — and Trump won big here. A Democrat can’t simply coast to victory in Ohio on an anti-Trump wave.

In the eyes of Ohio Democrats, the 2016 election offered two lessons: First, yes, you have to turn out the Democratic base. But you also have to win over some number of independent voters or Republican-leaning voters, people who voted for Barack Obama in 2012 and Donald Trump in 2016. That is just the Buckeye state’s makeup now.

“Sherrod wins here because Ohioans know that he works hard, he cares about them, and he approaches every issue carefully, intelligently, and with an eye on what’s best for working families. That’s more important to Ohioans than any partisan loyalty,” Justin Barasky, Brown’s campaign manager, said. “He’s got an ability to appeal to voters of all stripes, even a Republican who voted for Trump and may disagree with him on health care because they see him fighting against bad trade deals that have cost our state jobs.”

Brown is the kind of Democrat who could still play well with an electorate that is otherwise turning Trump-y. He is seen as populist, with a blue-collar tinge despite his Yale bachelor’s degree. He has real credibility with the progressive grassroots.

“In terms of his record, progressives nationally and in Ohio have always respected Senator Brown. He usually says and does what he thinks is right,” said Murshed Zaheed, the political director at CREDO Action, a leading grassroots group. “Unlike Donald Trump, Senator Brown is a real populist. He has a record of speaking out against the big banks and Wall Street when it matters.”

Brown, as this Washington Post profile documented, wanted a bigger stimulus package in 2009 and he wants to reinstate the Glass-Steagall Act (a popular progressive litmus test). He has opposed free trade agreements, previously serving as one of the foremost Democratic critics, along with Bernie Sanders, of the Obama administration’s plans for the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.

He flirted briefly after Trump’s election with working with the new president on renegotiating NAFTA and he praised the decision by the Trump administration to impose tariffs on solar panels, washing machines and steel.

It adds up to a candidate, Kondik said, who should fare better in the white, working-class, exurban parts of the state where support for Democrats fell off precipitously in the 2016 election.

“Brown probably has more appeal in eastern Ohio than Hillary Clinton did,” Kondik explained, “and clawing back voters in Youngstown, Warren, Steubenville, etc. is crucial for a Democrat to win statewide.”

Even Republicans in the state (begrudgingly) respect Brown’s deftness with his populist message.

“He presents himself as this populist in the state. It’s very effective,” one top GOP operative in the state, who requested anonymity to speak candidly about the race, said. “He’ll have this message that’s populist and appeals to the Trump/Bernie voters.”

Brown doesn’t quite have a blank check from progressive activists, however, to do whatever he needs to do in a reddening state.

The first 2018 government shutdown sent up a red flag for the national grassroots. After Senate Democrats shuttered the federal government to force a resolution to the fight over the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, they stood down a few days later without, in the eyes of the grassroots, making any substantive progress, in a sacrifice of the moral high ground from which the shutdown started.

It was a capitulation, as the progressives sees it, and Brown voted for it. (He told reporters afterward that Democrats hadn’t caved and that he would never cave.)

“I think what he did yesterday was a mistake. To go along with Senator Schumer’s sellout was confusing and disappointing,” Zaheed said. “We just hope yesterday’s vote was an aberration and not an indication that Brown will be tacking to the center this year to win a general election.”

The messy Ohio Republican Senate primary, explained

Brown seemed set for a rematch of his 2012 race against state treasurer Josh Mandel. But the campaign changed dramatically when the Ohio treasurer said in January that he would drop out of the race because of his wife’s health problems. While Brown had already beaten the Republican by six points in 2012, Mandel was a candidate who had won statewide races twice.

Without him, the Republican cupboard was suddenly bare. The best candidates have congregated in the governor’s race, where the current Lt. Gov Mary Taylor and state Attorney General Mike DeWine are the top GOP contenders. The only other announced Senate candidate at the time of Mandel’s withdrawal was Mike Gibbons, a Cleveland-area investment banker who has never held political office. The Washington Examiner described Gibbons as running as “an ideologically flexible political outsider in the mold of President Trump.”

The conservative outlet portrayed the Gibbons campaign’s outlook this way: “Trump proved that there was a market for an outsider who spoke bluntly against the system and prioritized reform over fidelity to conservatism.” The businessman can also afford to bankroll a substantial part of his part of his campaign if need be.

“I’ve actually hired people, I’ve actually started businesses, and I’ve taken the risks that businessmen take,” Gibbons told the Cleveland Plainer Dealer when announcing his candidacy. “Everyone’s yelling ‘jobs, jobs, jobs,’ and they don’t have the foggiest idea of how to create jobs.”

As an outsider candidate pretty explicitly in the Trump mold, in a state where Trump just cruised to victory, Gibbons can’t be ruled out.

“Do not write off Gibbons, either — he was making headway before Mandel dropped out,” Kondik told me, “and the idea of a conservative businessman and political rookie winning a GOP statewide nomination is far from unprecedented.”

The rest of the Republican Party hasn’t been content to let Gibbons simply take the GOP nomination by default, though.

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell reportedly discussed a bid with J.D. Vance, who wrote the part-memoir, part-sociological text Hillbilly Elegy which described his upbringing in Appalachian Ohio. The book became a cultural touchstone, particularly among political professionals in Washington from both parties, after Trump’s unexpected victory.

McConnell would have made Ohio a priority if Vance ran, Politico reported, but the author announced, however, that he would not run for the Senate, dashing the hopes of the DC intelligentsia.

That leaves Renacci, who announced after Mandel dropped out he would enter the Senate campaign rather than pursuing the governor’s house. He has served in a district covering northeastern Ohio since 2011.

Renacci is explicitly tying himself to Trump. He said the White House called him shortly before he jumped into the Senate, urging him to run. He is already noting that he endorsed Trump over Kasich during the 2016 Republican presidential primary.

“The president knows that I’ve supported his agenda from then all the way through today,” he said recently on Fox News. ”The president wants to help me with this race.”

He faced an early test in that same interview, the day after Trump called African nations “shithole” countries during an immigration meeting with a bipartisan group of senators. Renacci found a way to explain away the president’s comments in a preview of the race he is likely to run.

“I’ve said all along, the president says what many people are thinking. ... That’s a business guy going into a political career. It’s difficult. I know it’s difficult for the president,” he said. “Judge the president after four years, after what we’ve done. Let’s not judge the president by what he says.”

Renacci has also faced questions since he became the presumptive GOP frontrunner about some political contributions that he made as a registered lobbyist. But he still has Trump’s backing, after the president’s tweet on Tuesday.

So that is the Republican primary shaping up: The House conservative who wants to embrace Trump and the political outsider who actually is a lot like Trump. It’s too soon to say who will prevail or who would pose the biggest challenge for Brown.

“Depending on who emerges, it’s possible that person would give Brown more trouble than Mandel would have, but it’s also possible that Brown could coast if Republicans decide they have better options elsewhere on a big map,” Kondik said. “So I’d say the Mandel move widened the range of possibilities for the race while not really improving or hurting Brown’s overall chances, at least in the short term.”

As the race heads into November, Sherrod Brown will hold Democratic hopes for keeping the Buckeye state competitive in his hands.As allegations of professional misconduct swirl around Adm. Ronny Jackson, President Donald Trump’s pick to head the Department of Veterans Affairs, Trump seems to be admitting the drama probably isn’t worth it — for Jackson.

“I said to Dr. Jackson, what do you need it for?” Trump said of the White House doctor during a joint press conference with French President Emmanuel Macron Tuesday.

“I don’t want to put a man through a process like this,” Trump said. “It’s too ugly, and it’s too disgusting.”

As Vox’s Jen Kirby explained, the Senate has postponed Jackson’s confirmation hearing indefinitely after lawmakers on the Veterans Affairs Committee were informed of his possible professional misconduct in the military and on the White House’s medical staff related to allegations that he drank on the job, overprescribed medication, and created a “hostile workplace environment.” Senators are currently reviewing allegations “related to improper conduct in various stages of his career,” according to CNN.

Jackson’s nomination to replace former VA Secretary David Shulkin, whom Trump abruptly fired in March, had already been met with skepticism from industry watchers. He has no management experience and was seemingly picked for the job because of his good personal relationship with Trump, who was pleased with the clean bill of health Jackson gave him. Before the nomination, Jackson was widely respected on both sides of the aisle; now he faces a difficult Senate confirmation hearing.

Jackson told reporters Tuesday he has every intention of moving forward with the nomination. But Trump says he is advising Jackson to drop out of contention altogether.

Given the volatility of the Trump administration and the instability of the top Cabinet positions (four Cabinet secretaries were fired in four weeks in March), maybe he should listen to Trump, who appears to recognize that even the opportunity to run a $200 billion federal agency isn’t worth the current political mess in his Washington.

Jackson isn’t the first person to make it through the Trump administration’s “vetting” process only to be more thoroughly and publicly investigated down the line — and he likely won’t be the last.The first thing you need to know when listening to this week’s Ezra Klein Show is that the terms “liberal” and “democratic” are being used in their classical definitions, not as they relate to the Democratic Party of the United States. Three-time guest Yascha Mounk returns to talk about his latest book, The People vs. Democracy: Why Our Freedom Is in Danger and How to Save It, which argues that liberal democracy is breaking down globally and being replaced with “illiberal democracy” and “undemocratic liberalism.”

Buy The People vs. Democracy here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

Since the 2016 election, many books have been published that cause alarm over the fragility of our political institutions. The People vs. Democracy is the latest in this genre, but How Democracies Die by Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt and Political Tribes by Amy Chua, both published this year, come up in this conversation as well.

How Democracies Die is a terrifying look at the ways authoritarianism infiltrates supposedly democratic political systems. Levitsky and Ziblatt point out the warning signs that Donald Trump’s presidency displays and offers solutions for how to get us back on track.

Buy How Democracies Die here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

In Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations, Amy Chua covers the rampant tribalism that has thrived both in American politics and globally. She argues that the way to save our democracy is with an inclusive national identity that “acknowledges the reality of group differences and fights the deep inequities that divide us.”

Buy Political Tribes here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

Because Mounk has been on the show before, we’ve already heard his recommendations for books he thinks everyone should read. (The books were The Subjection of Women by John Stuart Mill, A House for Mr. Biswas by V.S. Naipaul, and The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa if you’re interested.) Over the course of this episode, however, Ezra brings up a few books that relate to the idea that liberal democracy is in danger.

Finite and Infinite Games by James P. Carse, a book about game theory written by a religious scholar, is admittedly very weird. The book posits that there are two types of games: finite and infinite. The point of finite games is to win, while the point of infinite games is that everyone gets to keep playing. In the context of this conversation, Ezra brings it up to point out that many of our politicians are playing a finite game (passing a bill at all costs) rather than an infinite game more concerned with preserving American institutions than racking up short-term wins.

Buy Finite and Infinite Games here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

According to Ezra, the thesis of the book Stealth Democracy: Americans’ Beliefs About How Government Should Work, by John R. Hibbing and Elizabeth Theiss-Morse, is that “people don’t have strong and stable views on policy ... but they have strong views on process.” Hibbing and Theiss-Morse found that there is an instinctual feeling among American citizens that disagreement, a fundamental part of democratic governance, is a sign that things aren’t working the way they should. They draw the frightening conclusion that people don’t actually want to see how government works, which can lead to decreased transparency and increased corruption.

Buy Stealth Democracy here: Amazon | Barnes & Noble

You can listen to the full conversation with Yascha Mounk on The Ezra Klein Show by subscribing on Apple Podcasts or wherever you get your podcasts, or by streaming the episode here:Every week, some of Vox’s writers gather to discuss the latest episode of FX’s spy drama The Americans. This week, critic at large Todd VanDerWerff, news editor Libby Nelson, and culture writer Caroline Framke offer their takes on “The Great Patriotic War,” the fifth episode of the final season. Needless to say, spoilers follow!

Todd VanDerWerff: In some ways, the most important character on The Americans is Paige Jennings. Born of Soviet spy parents, but an American citizen, she straddles every single demarcating line at or near the show’s center. And in “The Great Patriotic War” — the title refers to World War II and everything the Soviets endured therein — so much of what happens hinges on her, whether she knows it or not.

The extra-long (but extra-good) episode is obsessed with parents and children. From the young son of “Mr. and Mrs. Teacup” to Philip’s surrogate daughter Kimmy (whom he plots to kidnap, then sleeps with, then warns in a fashion that all but outs him as a spy to her) to Paige herself, this is an episode about the ways generational trauma filters down to our children, almost without our being able to help it. Elizabeth reminisces about how, during the war, the Soviets had to eat rats to survive, then kills a kid’s parents, all the better to send him into the massive American foster care system. Her trauma has become his trauma, and on and on.

This makes the episode’s centerpiece scene — in which Philip invites Paige to spar with him, then shows her how easily he could choke her to death — the sort of subversive moment this show does so well. Truth be told, it made me want to throw up, due to its insistence on going scorched earth on a relationship that might have shifted to the back burner in this season but had always been a fundamentally solid one. Instead, Philip, powerless, feeling like he has no say over his daughter’s future, takes what little power he has left, in a way that leaves both of them feeling awful.

It is perhaps worth looking at this scene and noticing the ways several of the shots mirror Elizabeth’s rape from the series’ pilot — something she suffered at a similar age to Paige. Here, again, we have the young woman feeling like she might be in control of her destiny, and the older man who is meant to protect her (in this case, Paige’s literal father), who violates that protection swiftly and brutally. Philip doesn’t sexually assault his daughter, and it’s under the guise of a “fair fight,” but the mirroring of the earlier sequence by director Thomas Schlamme feels intentional to me: History repeats itself. Your parents will make sure of that.

Even though there’s no single sequence where a line is irreparably crossed in this episode (Elizabeth, after all, doesn’t kill the little boy), there are so many smaller lines tiptoed over, in hopes nobody will notice. Philip telling Kimmy to stay out of communist countries, say, or Elizabeth having to kill the Teacup duo after he spots her — or even Tatiana encouraging the chief of the Rezidentura to send back a message claiming Oleg is disloyal.

We are the sum total of all the lines we cross, sure. But we’re also the total of the lines others cross for us, rarely after asking, and it’s hard not to visit that pain upon the world.

Did any of you conclude that episode by thinking, “Brilliant. Now I have to go throw up”?

Yeah, let’s talk about that Paige-Philip sparring match

Libby Nelson: The fight between Philip and Paige immediately makes the list of The Americans’ most indelible scenes, one that will stick with me for years. Nearly all of the most memorable moments, to me, feature violent death — the dismemberment of Annalise; Elizabeth choking Lucia, the young spy she was training in season two; the dream sequence that preceded Nina’s execution — or great empathy and tenderness: Martha seeing “Clark” without his disguise for the first time; Philip and Elizabeth’s secret wedding.

The fight between Philip and Paige somehow contains both. It was brutal and hard to watch. But while you can argue against Philip’s techniques, the necessity of a wake-up call seemed clear. “The Great Patriotic War” hammered home that Paige is out of her depth and that Elizabeth is too blinkered or simply too busy to see it.

I think you’re right, Todd, that Paige is the fulcrum at the heart of The Americans. But — to horribly mangle a physics metaphor — what drives her? Elizabeth sees herself as a soldier in another great patriotic war (one racking up a serious body count). Philip has clearly decided that there are some things no cause is worth.

Paige, meanwhile, is an upper-middle-class American kid who remains, despite learning the traumatizing truth about her parents, very sheltered. Her most stunning display of naiveté wasn’t letting her friends leave her behind while a strange guy bought her a drink, or the crowd-pleasing (at least for this crowd) but unwise choice to go beyond self-defense and annihilate a creep who was trying to stop her from leaving. It was her astonished, half-laughing reaction to the revelation that Claudia had once been so hungry that she traded sex for food.

Elizabeth’s trajectory makes clear that a life of clandestine secrets and lies can destroy even true believers who were conditioned to kill. What does Paige think she’s doing there in the first place?

Caroline Framke: Interestingly enough, I seem to have had a totally different read on the Philip-Paige scene than either of you. (Not that it wasn’t horrifying, because watching his stung disbelief metastasize into disdain was definitely chilling.)

To me, it felt like Philip was letting Paige know exactly what kind of training he — and by proxy, Elizabeth — got, and therefore, the kinds of things they have always been prepared to do. In that terrible minute where he had her in a headlock, he was making it clear that not only could he do this, but it was far from his first time.

In that moment, I remembered him trying to guide Paige toward the truth of what happened in the park with the general — and the kind of blood Elizabeth has on her hands. Ever since that disastrous night, Philip has clearly been itching to tell Paige the ugly truth of the job, hoping it might disgust her as it finally did him. As he told Elizabeth, it’s not that he thought Paige couldn’t be a spy, but that she shouldn’t, because it’s a job that will grind whatever morals she’s got into dust. (That scene in which Philip confronts Elizabeth is very good, not least because Schlamme opts for more of a handheld tracking shot approach following them storming off, which is unusual enough for The Americans that it felt exactly as jarring as it should’ve.)

What Philip didn’t count on is that Paige might, as she told him, truly be more aligned with Elizabeth’s way of seeing things than he thought. She’s the one who cocked a wary eyebrow when Elizabeth told her they don’t use sex to get information, before going rogue to pull off her own honeypot scheme. And while she’s shaken after sparring with her dad, she’s certainly not put off the job forever. It doesn’t hurt that when she goes to see Elizabeth and Claudia after, they’re waiting for her with a shot of olive oil to pregame a drinking lesson.

But here, as Libby said, is where Paige’s naiveté — or at least inability to grasp the gravity of the stakes around her — truly reveals itself. The thing is, for as smart as Paige is, I’m not sure she quite appreciates why Claudia and Elizabeth are so devoted to their cause. (At the very least, Holly Taylor sure played the moment after Claudia tells her how many Russians died in World War II as more of a “yikes” shrug than a real moment of truth.)

And as much fun as I’m having watching Paige blossom into a tiny powerhouse, I’m with her parents in being concerned that she’s currently seeing espionage as a thrilling kind of game. She didn’t grow up fueled by desperation and patriotic outrage; she grew up in an America that loves itself a black-and-white, good-versus-bad story. Now she gets to be the good guy, and she’s going in with (figurative) guns a-blazin’. But as Elizabeth tries to tell her when Paige comes clean about the bar fight, her inattention to subtlety won’t fly for long.

For as frustrated as Elizabeth is with her, though, Philip has now realized that he’s pretty much lost any ounce of control over what Paige will or won’t do anymore. I was unsurprised — and relieved — that this revelation led him to cut ties with Kimmy and warn her away from Elizabeth’s (frankly ridiculous) kidnapping plan. It’ll probably make his life a whole lot more complicated, but as he told Kimmy, he’s trying his best.

Todd: I think the “Philip fights Paige” scene can sustain all of our readings, precisely because it’s one of the richest in the show’s history. And it weirdly dovetails with something else I keep thinking about. One thing I’m constantly struck by this season is how knowing the history of this moment is helping us understand the characters, just a little bit.

We know, for instance, that the START treaty is going to happen, which lets us know that Elizabeth, Claudia, and Paige must fail, or lose their nerve, or something like that. What’s more, tying these big, historical events to our fictional characters allows us to observe a secret history of the world we already know — what if Gorbachev’s enemies failed to bring him down because of Oleg, or Philip telling Kimmy to stay in Greece, or any of a number of other options?

That’s what makes this final season so fascinating. We know just enough to feel the dread of where this has to be going, while knowing so little that the show can still outguess us. The Americans has always been, first and foremost, a beautifully constructed show, and this final season is driving that home with each and every new episode.

Plus, finally, Stan gets back in the action! The deaths of Sofia and Gennadi seem as if they’ve spurred something in him that might lead him toward finally zeroing in on his neighbors. (If nothing else, the scene where Elizabeth passes right by the FBI agent assigned to watch over Gennadi is the fewest degrees of separation she’s had from him out in the field in quite some time.) The longer the show runs, the more it has to work to keep Stan from seeming like a chump — something that will be doubly true if Renee turns out to be a spy, which the show really needs to declare one way or the other soon — a problem it’s mostly solved by keeping Stan sidelined. But it’ll be good to have him back near the series’ center, at long last.

Are either of you fascinated by the way this season is playing with history? It almost feels like a Charles McCarry novel.

What’s it gonna take to get Stan a plot of his very own?

Libby Nelson: By mixing up the usual alliances among protagonists, making the central conflict not between Russians and Americans but between the hardliners who want the summit to fail and those who want it to succeed, this season has lengthened the horizon for dramatic irony to the post-1991 world.

In the short term, Elizabeth will lose. The 1987 summit will succeed. The US and USSR will agree on the first-ever reduction of their nuclear arsenals. Reagan and Gorbachev will engage in high-profile bonhomie; the Russian leader will even ditch his motorcade to spontaneously mingle in downtown DC. The Stan-Oleg model of international relations — mutual respect and shared interests overcoming a lot of complicated history — will carry the day. The Doomsday Clock, which measures how close humanity is to destroying itself, will even move its hands back.

But in the long term, Philip won’t exactly win either. There will be a McDonald’s in Moscow, but the sudden transition to capitalism will replace apparatchiks with oligarchs and leave ordinary Russians adrift in a country they no longer recognize. The New York Times article on Gorbachev’s spontaneous 1987 meet-and-greet in DC concludes with (really) a quote from one Donald J. Trump about the ultimate promise of Russian capitalism: a Trump hotel in Moscow.

Jokes about The Americans’ sudden timeliness have always struck me as cheap: It’s so much more than a show about meddling Russians that happens to air at a time when the biggest story is Russian meddling. But this season is richer for gesturing at the future after 1991. For the first time, I’m very glad I’m watching it in 2018.

Anyway … Stan! He sure could use some plot!

Caroline: Poor Stan. I really thought that this final season would have more for him to do. I’m sure he has a role to play going forward, but as it stands now, he’s just been a cog in other people’s more fascinating story machines, whether it’s the ill-fated Teacups, Oleg’s “one last ride” mission, or Elizabeth’s missions bringing her ever closer to the brink of discovery. Now he’s offering Renee a spot in the bureau just because she asked nicely? Stan. Buddy. Come on.

It’s also not super flattering to him that he didn’t notice he was getting tailed. Obviously the Soviets are good at what they do, but Stan is supposed to be too, and he just keeps getting outplayed. That the Teacups ended up dead in their own safe house is an embarrassing failure.

It’s also a particularly harrowing series of scenes in a show that specializes in them. In particular, it was awful to watch Elizabeth realize at two separate stages that she might have to inflict more damage than she was already prepared to do. First, she hears Sofia, and knows that if she kills Gennadi as planned, she’ll have to kill his wife too. Second, she cranes her neck over Sofia’s bloodied body to see their son Ilya transfixed by a TV, takes a deep breath, and slowly tiptoes away.

That moment is especially horrifying not just because she’s killed a tiny boy’s parents but because I knew that her sneaking away wasn’t just so she wouldn’t get seen. She was sneaking away because if Ilya saw her, she’d have to kill him too. We’re a long way from that awful season two scene in which Philip and Elizabeth discover a fellow Directorate S couple murdered in their hotel room with their daughter — another episode directed by Schlamme— but I thought of it here all the same. So much collateral damage, so many people in the wrong place at the wrong time. And as both of you noted (with historical footnotes and everything!), there is a very good chance that the ends won’t justify the means.One of the most famous unsolved serial killer cases in the US may finally be on its way to being closed.

Authorities have confirmed the arrest of 72-year-old Joseph James DeAngelo in connection with the 1978 murder of Sgt. Brian Maggiore and his wife, Katie, in Rancho Cordova, California — an attack that’s believed to be part of a cold case that spanned two decades and multiple cities.

For years, an unknown assailant terrorized suburban Californians. He was known by several media-assigned names, including the East Area Rapist, the Original Night Stalker — usually shorthanded together as EARONS — the Diamond Knot Killer, and, most recently, the Golden State Killer.

Between 1976 and 1986, EARONS is believed to have burglarized hundreds of homes, raped as many as 50 people, and killed at least 12, often while family members were bound and gagged. His attacks were meticulously planned, and his assaults canvassed the state, ranging from as far north as Sacramento and San Francisco to as far south as Anaheim and Irvine. After 1981, following a five-year period of inactivity, EARONS committed only one more confirmed crime — and then apparently disappeared. However, he allegedly continued to taunt at least one of his previous victims with a series of phone calls.

The details, frustration, and terrifying circumstances of the case have made EARONS one of the most well-known cold cases in modern true crime culture, which has inspired a crop of grassroots web sleuths and cold-case aficionados.

Authorities arrested DeAngelo at his longtime home in Citrus Heights early Wednesday morning. Citrus Heights was the scene of six of EARONS’s confirmed attacks between 1976 and 1977. Authorities indicated that DeAngelo was also being investigated for the Visalia Ransacker crimes, which took place in 1974 and 1975, before the East Area Rapist attacks.

DeAngelo was arrested on a warrant from Ventura County and is reportedly being held without bail in Sacramento County Jail. Sheriff Scott Jones stated that DeAngelo was “very surprised” by the arrest and was apprehended quickly.

“For over 40 years, countless victims have waited for justice,” said Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert at a Wednesday press conference. “Over these years, hundreds of individuals have sought justice for victims and their families. Many have dedicated their virtual entire professions to seeking this answer.”

When asked if DeAngelo’s name had ever come up in the investigation before now, Schubert responded, “The answer is no.”

What we know about DeAngelo and EARONS

Details of DeAngelo’s past are sketchy, but they paint a picture of a trusted member of law enforcement who used his status within the community as a disguise.

DeAngelo was born in Bath, New York, but grew up near Sacramento. He attended Folsom High School in Folsom, California, and later earned a BA in criminal justice from California State University Sacramento. He ultimately settled in Citrus Heights, where he lived for more than 30 years. Local news reporters spoke to neighbors who described DeAngelo as “relatively nice” but prone to loud outbursts of cursing.

DeAngelo served in Vietnam as a member of the US Navy. Police had long suspected that EARONS had military experience that would have taught him to tie the sophisticated knots he was known to use when binding his victims.

In 1973, after serving as an intern with the Roseville Police Department, DeAngelo became a policeman in the small town of Exeter. Nearby Visalia was where EARONS committed the crimes that led to his first moniker, the Visalia Ransacker. Though investigators had long suspected a connection between the Ransacker and EARONS, no connection was confirmed until Wednesday.

Later on, DeAngelo moved to Auburn, California, and continued working as a police officer. He remained a member of law enforcement throughout most of the 1970s, receiving praise from the community for various services performed while on duty.

In 1979, however, DeAngelo was fired after being caught shoplifting a hammer and dog repellent. True crime reporter Billy Jensen theorized on Twitter that DeAngelo accepted his punishment and quietly left the force in order to prevent any deeper digging into why he needed these items. He was later fined $100 for the incident and sentenced to six months of probation.

Throughout DeAngelo’s stint as a cop, EARONS escalated from burglary to assault to murder. EARONS was suspected in the murders of 11 people between 1979 and 1981; his final known attack was the rape and murder of Janelle Lisa Cruz in 1986. Public records indicate that DeAngelo may have had a daughter during that five-year gap.

The EARONS case has been cold for decades, but it’s been the subject of renewed attention in recent years

During Wednesday’s press conference, Diana Becton, the Contra Costa County district attorney, made a point of praising the foremost investigator on the EARONS case — Paul Holes, a noted forensics expert who devoted nearly a quarter-century of his career to working the case until his retirement earlier this year.

Yet despite the sheer number of victims, eyewitnesses, and manpower devoted to investigating him, the EARONS case remained cold for decades — until noted true crime blogger Michelle McNamara made it her mission to reinvestigate and renew interest in the case. McNamara’s website, True Crime Diary, was a vibrant and beloved part of the internet’s burgeoning true crime community. For years she worked the case, tracking down lost evidence, pursuing new leads, and revisiting the story.

McNamara’s unexpected death in 2016 lent a new sense of urgency to the case; her book on the subject, I’ll Be Gone in the Dark, was published posthumously in February and promptly became a best-seller. In it, she details her obsession with the case as she revisits the stories of survivors and victims and pursues the killer across his likely Northern Californian origins.

Following the news of DeAngelo’s arrest, McNamara’s widower, comedian Patton Oswalt, tweeted, “If they’ve really caught the #GoldenStateKiller I hope I get to visit him. Not to gloat or gawk — to ask him the questions that @TrueCrimeDiary wanted answered.” McNamara’s fans also flooded social media with remembrances.

News of DeAngelo’s arrest was greeted with shock and jubilation by members of the true crime community, who have long seen this case as something of a white whale.

News is coming out of the US that EARONS has just been arrested!!! Not much information available at the moment. We will update when we know more. We are speechless. — Casefile (@case_file) April 25, 2018

THEY THINK THEY CAUGHT THE EAST AREA RAPIST WHICH MEANS THEY CAUGHT THE GOLDEN STATE KILLER!!! https://t.co/a39JW7qsn7 — Karen Kilgariff (@KarenKilgariff) April 25, 2018

In Wednesday’s press conference, however, Sheriff Jones made it clear that while McNamara’s book had generated renewed public interest in the case, it had not turned up new leads. Rather, a discarded DNA sample, apparently generated as a result of a public tip, led police to DeAngelo.

“The answer was and always was going to be in the DNA,” Schubert, the DA, said, noting that the case came to fruition within the past week in Sacramento’s crime lab. The arrest, coincidentally, took place on National DNA Day, which commemorates the discovery of the DNA double helix.

“We found the needle in the haystack,” Schubert said, “and it was right here in Sacramento.”Sitting down to watch The Handmaid’s Tale means giving in to a slow, bruising nightmare.

No matter how beautifully rendered it can be, The Handmaid’s Tale makes for my least favorite TV viewing experience maybe ever. It’s not just bleak — plenty of shows are bleak — but also determined to impress upon its viewers that its imagined dystopian future of fertile women being kept as breeding sows and ritualized rape reimagined as patriotic duty isn’t too far off from our reality.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

Every episode takes such pains to point out exactly how much the pre-Gilead world was like our current world that it’s hard not to look around after finishing an episode to wonder if you, too, might be taking your fancy coffee breaks for granted. (Spoiler: You almost definitely are.) Flashback June (Elisabeth Moss) unwinds at yoga; flashback Emily (Alexis Bledel) scoffs at the idea that her generation might get forced back into the closet; flashback Serena (Yvonne Strahovski) gets shouted off a college campus and sets Twitter aflame. Margaret Atwood’s novel may have been published in 1985, but the show’s flashbacks to how Gilead came to be are entirely 2018, and far more terrifying for it.

So when I had to review the second season, premiering April 25 with two episodes on Hulu, I was horrified to realize that I had six advance episodes to watch in a relatively short period of time. Especially given the fact that season two progresses beyond the confines of the novel that inspired it, I knew I was in for six episodes of grueling devastation — and I’d have no idea what was coming.

Those two fears, as it turns out, quickly prove themselves to be the driving forces of this second season — for better and for worse.

(Some mild spoilers follow.)

Expanding The Handmaid’s Tale universe beyond Atwood’s source material lets the show get more imaginative

At the end of season one, central Handmaid June is shoved into the back of a van shortly after she finds out she’s pregnant. This is the point at which Atwood’s novel ends; she deliberately leaves the question of whether June is getting rescued or arrested ambiguous, before flashing forward decades to an epilogue, framed as a collegiate talk on the terrible blip in history that was Gilead. In the show, however, it’s quickly revealed that this is a punishment, which tells you all you need to know about just how dark it’s willing to go.

As my colleague Constance Grady details, the fact that the first season ended with the end of the book doesn’t mean The Handmaid’s Tale already covered everything that Atwood did. In particular, she notes, the first season barely touched on the backstory of June’s activist mother, nor did it wade into the horrors of the Colonies, the radioactive wasteland where undesirable or uncooperative people get shipped off to “work and die.”

So it’s unsurprising — and even exciting, in its own perverse way — that season two fleshes out both these areas. June’s mother (played with dry determination by Cherry Jones) was a passionate activist who implored her daughter not to close her eyes to the regressive evils of the world, a warning June rolled her eyes at until she got to reflect on it from her bare bedroom as a Handmaid.

When the show actually takes us to the Colonies in the second episode, it’s not an exaggeration to say it’s exactly the dusty hellscape that formidable Aunt Lydia (Ann Dowd) advertised. As we see through the weary eyes of Emily, the Colonies are a painful layover on the way to death. Women there spend every day striking shovels into the ground, the earth hissing with almost as much resentment as them, waiting to cough themselves into oblivion.

At first, it seems like there’s only so much story the show could wring out of a literal death trap. But the show makes a smart choice to contextualize just how awful this place is by letting us get better acquainted with Emily, her pre-Gilead life as a biology professor, and her furious misery in the Colonies. (It helps that Bledel continues to do the best work she’s probably ever done here, lacing Emily’s anger with such palpable pain that it practically burns the screen.)

In fact, season two’s best successes come when it finds a way to broaden the scope of the world beyond June’s limited perspective, finding more personal ways in. While June is still the main character, being in Gilead as long as she has means she’s now gotten over the initial shock of it all to become more attuned to other people’s experiences. Even the camerawork reflects this, relying less and less frequently on the kinds of close-ups that director Reed Morano perfected in the series’ first three episodes as a way to make the horror that much more intimate.

Even when June gets tantalizingly close to escaping, she looks closer at the world around her, sees exactly how much this new world order has plundered, and mourns the loss of her entire world rather than simply her own life.

More often than not, these moments are devastating in exactly the way The Handmaid’s Tale needs them to be. Other times, they reveal the show’s weakest points instead.

The show’s continued insistence that it’s Timely proves to be both its best and worst asset

The Handmaid’s Tale was produced before the 2016 presidential election. It nonetheless tapped into a vein of progressive fear that everything could come crashing down at any moment, so explicitly that it could be hard to look at for too long without wincing.

Season two, which was written and produced after the election, understandably leans into that impulse even harder by weaving in details from our new reality. Flashbacks are now littered with “#RESIST” graffiti and protest signs; warring factions sneer at each other’s “bubbles”; Twitter mobs become actual mobs. (This is a good show, but a subtle show? Not so much.) In one gorgeous, harrowing sequence, we see a warehouse scattered with personal belongings — a Red Sox hat here, a child’s craft project there — only to discover it’s the Boston Globe offices turned, as the show puts it, into “a slaughterhouse.”

Just as in the first season, the most confident of these moments are the ones that outline exactly how grinding, humiliating, condescending, and horrifying the experience of being a Handmaid truly is. The way a Wife like Serena Joy sees Handmaids versus how Handmaids understand and resent their role illustrates the frightening gap between perception and reality, how one group sees progress at the expense of another.

But also, just as in the first season, The Handmaid’s Tale’s biggest blind spots come whenever it tries — or doesn’t try — to leave the perspective of a furious white feminist like June or Emily.

An episode that dives into Serena’s pre-Gilead life as a conservative advocate for women carrying out their “biological duty” tries to draw parallels to the current debates over free speech on college campuses. To do that, however, it paints a broad picture of college liberals as shrieking, violent monsters that feels more like a right-wing nightmare scenario than true life.

Then there’s the fact that the show’s insistence that it’s timely and relevant continues to clash with its hands-off approach to race. If The Handmaid’s Tale is supposed to be a cautionary tale about the way our world could disintegrate if powerful people decide their rights are more important, it’s frankly bizarre that race isn’t addressed as a possible factor. If the show wanted to imagine some kind of post-racial future, it shouldn’t have rooted itself so firmly in our decidedly racist present.

In season two, The Handmaid’s Tale continues to be an angry, searing piece of work. When it forces you to hold its infuriated gaze, it makes it clear that your inability to do so for long is exactly the point. But as it continues to broaden its world, the show needs to find a way to get more comfortable with the perspectives that make it most uncomfortable, or risk losing itself in its own myopic tragedy.

The first two episodes of The Handmaid’s Tale season two premiere April 25 at midnight EST on Hulu.Hank Azaria has voiced dozens of characters on The Simpsons for almost 30 years. Now he’s acknowledging that one of them — the convenience store owner Apu — is controversial for a reason.

“Do you understand why some Indian-American or South Asian–American actors are offended by that character?” Stephen Colbert asked Azaria on Tuesday night’s Late Show, in a vague but pointed reference to comedian Hari Kondabolu and his 2017 documentary The Problem With Apu, which interviewed a variety of South Asian actors about their complex feelings on Apu.

“Yeah, not just actors,” Azaria clarified, correctly. “Of course I understand.”

He continued that while he was surprised when he “first” heard about people’s discomfort with Apu — an Indian character he voiced in the style of Peter Sellers, another white guy doing an impression of an Indian person, in the 1968 comedy The Party — he understood “over time” what proved upsetting. What’s more, Azaria told Colbert, he’d be “perfectly willing and happy to step aside or help transition it into something new.”

“It has come to my attention more and more ... that people in the South Asian community in this country have been fairly upset by the voice and characterization of Apu,” Azaria said, choosing his words with obvious care. He continued to say that “the idea that anybody who is young or old, past or present, was bullied or teased based on the character of Apu, it just really makes me sad. It was certainly not my intention. I wanted to bring laughter and joy with this character. The idea that it’s brought pain and suffering — in any way — [or] that it’s used to marginalize people, it is upsetting. Genuinely.”

The truly noteworthy moment of this interview, however, came when Azaria admitted that “it’s sparked a lot of conversation about what should be done with the character moving forward, which is not so easy to answer.”

The Simpsons said its own piece just a couple of weeks ago, with a resigned shrug of an episode that chalked up people’s frustration to a renewed need to be politically correct.(Never mind that some have been uncomfortable with Apu from the beginning.)

“Something that started decades ago and was applauded and inoffensive is now politically incorrect,” Lisa Simpson says in the episode, her eyes flicking over to a framed picture of Apu on her nightstand. “What can you do?”

While the show made glancing attempts to say it understood, the fact that showrunner Al Jean spent the week after the episode aired retweeting people assuring him that they didn’t care and that the controversy was overblown wasn’t especially convincing on that front.

Azaria, for his (and/or his publicist’s) part, had a bit more of a considered response.

“My eyes have been opened,” he said, “and I think the most important thing is we have to listen to South Asian people, Indian people in this country when they talk about what they feel and how they think about this character, and what their American experience of it has been.”

He also took pains to point out that Apu doesn’t speak in the aforementioned episode, calling the scene “a later addition” that he says he didn’t see until “right around the same time that everyone else in America did.”

Azaria then said he’d like to see more “inclusion in the writers’ room” of those voices in particular, and that he thinks finding a way for him to step aside or transition the character into something new is “the right thing to do.”

In fairness, Azaria does so many voices on The Simpsons that the Simpsons Wiki page listing his characters spans a stunning 25 pages. So knocking one character off that list wouldn’t have that big of an impact on his job. But as he acknowledged, the impact it could have on so many other people has the potential to be much bigger.Not every summer release will hit the multiplex with hundreds of millions of dollars of marketing and various fast-food tie-ins behind it. Many won’t even hit enough screens to qualify as a “wide release.”

But summer is a big season at your local arthouse theater too, where the race to find a movie that successfully counterprograms superhero bombast and lures in an audience that wants something a little more down-to-earth is already on in earnest. (After all, the arthouse megahit My Big Fat Greek Wedding broke out over the summer of 2002 but actually debuted in April.)

These dramas and comedies are typically lacking in effects budgets and other frippery, and many of them will sink without a trace. But if past summers are any indication, at least a couple of these will break out — if only among the sorts of folks who patronize your local Landmark. And if we’re lucky, some of them will be among the best movies of the year. Check out these 17 smaller, under-the-radar releases if you want a break from the summer heat and the blockbuster shenanigans.

For Tully, director Jason Reitman and screenwriter Diablo Cody teamed up for the third time (their other two projects were Juno and Young Adult) to tell the story of Marlo (Charlize Theron), who’s exhausted after the birth of her third child, and the night nurse, Tully (Mackenzie Davis), who seems like an angel sent straight from heaven. Things, of course, do not go as planned. —Alissa Wilkinson

Based on Ian McEwan’s novel of the same name, On Chesil Beach stars Saoirse Ronan and Billy Howle as newly married virgins in 1962 who find their wedding night complicated by their romance colliding with their personal and societal mores around sex. The film’s narrative structure doesn’t totally work (there are a lot of flashbacks), but it’s funny, heartbreaking, and candid in ways that feel very authentic. —AW

The Tale (May 26 on HBO)

Jennifer Fox is best known as a documentarian, but for The Tale she goes scripted to transform her own harrowing story of being molested as a 13-year-old into a sensitive, beautiful feature that cuts across the most difficult conversations we’re having as a country. Laura Dern plays the grown-up version of Fox as she’s slowly forced to grapple with the fact that the relationship she once had with her 40-year-old swim coach wasn’t a relationship between two consenting adults; the film is about her struggle to find her place in her own story. Is she a victim? A survivor? A heroine? The Tale isn’t a film that wears its importance on its sleeve. But it feels prescient, almost prophetic. —AW

This movie — a documentary look at the life of Fred Rogers, better known as Mister Rogers — promises to be the sleeper hit of the summer, with critics showering it with praise and audiences weeping at its festival screenings all winter. Won’t You Be My Neighbor? is a long look at a man who meant so much to so many children, and whose power has continued long past his death in 2003. —AW

Ethan Hawke stars in a meditative and unnerving movie from director Paul Schrader about a former military chaplain, Pastor Toller, having a crisis of faith while trying to lead a tiny, shrinking flock in upstate New York. One day, a young couple knock at Toller’s door; the husband, a radical environmentalist, engages Toller in conversation about the inevitability of a man-made apocalypse and his despair. As the story unfolds, Toller’s own state of mind shifts and changes, with him questioning the very shreds of faith that are his lifeblood.

Stark and haunting, First Reformed deeply understands how doubt is the companion to, rather than the enemy of, faith — and it’s one of the strongest, clearest depictions of that contrast in modern cinema. —AW

David Robert Mitchell’s 2015 horror movie It Follows was one of the best entries in the recent boomlet of low-budget, indie horror films. Now his follow-up — a dark mystery about a young man (Andrew Garfield) who grows more and more paranoid as he becomes obsessed with solving a billionaire’s murder and a girl’s disappearance — is opening at the Cannes Film Festival. If nothing else, the movie boasts a wonderfully eclectic cast, including Topher Grace, Riley Keough, Riki Lindhome, and many others. —Todd VanDerWerff

Director Debra Granik’s latest didn’t receive the ecstatic reviews out of the Sundance Film Festival that her last movie did. But that last movie was 2010’s Winter’s Bone, a Best Picture nominee that also launched Jennifer Lawrence’s career and earned Granik a lot of room to experiment. That it’s taken this long for a new Granik film to hit theaters is a shame, so here’s hoping this tale of a hardcore survivalist and his daughter living way off the grid is worth the wait. —TV

The bad news: The sequel to Denis Villeneuve’s 2015 hit drug-war thriller Sicario features the involvement of neither Villeneuve nor Emily Blunt, who starred in the first film. (Nor does it feature the reliably incredible camerawork of master cinematographer Roger Deakins.) The good news(?) is that Benicio del Toro and Josh Brolin are both back on board for a “more severe” story penned by Taylor Sheridan, responsible for writing the first Sicario as well as 2016’s excellent Hell or High Water.

The X-factor here is Italian director Stefano Sollima, who del Toro says brings a more “European sensibility” to Soldado — whatever that means for a film about drug smuggling between the US and Mexico. This one could go either way, but hey, the first Sicario was a bit of an unexpected hit itself, so we’ll keep an open mind. —Genevieve Koski

It’s hard to believe Three Identical Strangers is a true story: Three young men who look shockingly similar discover that they are, in fact, triplets separated at birth. But that’s just the very first part. The documentary starts off like a comedy, but as the story spirals out into something much larger, it ends up feeling like a dystopian tragedy. —AW

Director Gus Van Sant returns with a kind of biopic about depression and addiction, starring Joaquin Phoenix as John Callahan, the cartoonist on whose memoir the film is based. After an accident that left him largely paralyzed, Callahan was forced onto the path to sobriety, a journey that takes him to places he was certainly not expecting. Phoenix co-stars alongside Jonah Hill and Rooney Mara. —AW

Blindspotting was Sundance’s selection to open the 2018 festival in January, and it was in many ways an ideal choice. Starring Hamilton alums Daveed Diggs and Jasmine Cephas Jones alongside Rafael Casal, the film feels shaky at times, but the authenticity and passion of its characters are unmistakable. First-time director Carlos López Estrada works from an often very funny screenplay by Diggs and Casal to tell a story about two Oakland natives navigating their gentrifying hometown, neighborhood violence, police brutality, probation, and ordinary life. The movie takes some bold chances, and it succeeds enough to make it worth watching. (And yes, Diggs raps.) —AW

Winner of the Grand Jury Prize at this year’s Sundance Film Festival, Cameron Post follows the titular teenage girl (played by Chloë Grace Moretz) after she’s sent to a gay conversion therapy program in 1993. The film is the second for writer-director Desiree Akhavan, whose 2014 family comedy Appropriate Behavior suggested a director with an eye for the divide between traditionalism and the modern world. And with Sasha Lane and Jennifer Ehle in the cast, this one might just live up to Akhavan’s considerable promise. —TV

For Oscar obsessives, the matter of whether Glenn Close might finally win the big prize after six prior nominations (with five in seven years between 1983 and 1989) is one of those questions that float back into discussion every couple of years. And after this movie (and Close especially) received warm reviews at the 2017 Toronto Film Festival — then saw its release delayed to this year, rather than have Close compete in the ultra-competitive 2017 lineup — it seems Close is in it to win it. (And by “it,” we mean another nomination, but maybe she’ll win the Oscar finally!) In the role of a supportive wife who struggles to deal with her husband’s infidelities and secrets in the wake of his Nobel Prize win, she’ll surely have plenty of meaty moments. —TV

Adapting the true story of a black police officer in Colorado who went undercover to infiltrate the Ku Klux Klan in 1978, Spike Lee’s latest feature will hit theaters timed to the one-year anniversary of the protests against white nationalist demonstrators in Charlottesville, Virginia. Given the subject matter, timing, and Lee writing and directing (not to mention, you know, that title), BlacKkKlansman has all the makings of a provocative, discussion-stoking film, just the sort of thing that can thrive in the late days of summer, when blockbuster fatigue has set in and audiences are primed for something a little less expected and mass-produced.

In Lee’s reliably idiosyncratic hands, there’s really no telling at this point exactly what shape BlacKkKlansman will take, but it’s all but guaranteed to be profoundly interesting. —GK

Madeline’s Madeline, which premiered earlier this year at Sundance, is the story of a teenager named Madeline (the outstanding Helena Howard, in what’s sure to be a breakout role) who, after spending time under medical supervision for mental health issues, is finding new life and a community away from her obsessive, codependent mother (Miranda July). She finds solace in a theater group even though the woman who leads the group (Molly Parker) may be less supportive than she appears.

Writer-director Josephine Decker forgoes a straightforward telling, opting instead for something that feels woozy and original from the start, drawing us into Madeline’s muddled and sometimes overheated headspace in a way that feels more governed by dream logic than reality. —AW

Crystal Moselle’s last film was the documentary The Wolfpack, but for Skate Kitchen, she moves to narrative to tell the story of a group of teenage girls who are skateboarders in New York City. It’s a coming-of-age story that’s based on a real group of girls, and it earned some praise at its Sundance debut earlier this year. —AW

Director Andrew Bujalski is responsible for some of the most enjoyable comedies of the millennium, from 2002’s Funny Ha Ha to 2013’s Computer Chess and 2015’s Results. His latest is set during one long day at a Hooters-style restaurant full of scantily clad waitresses, but if Bujalski’s success with the gym-set Results is any indication, he’s great at exploring the soul-sucking nature of corporate work. And the cast — from Regina Hall to Haley Lu Richardson — is great too. —TVWith most good movies, you can walk into the theater without knowing anything about the subject and enjoy yourself just fine. But that doesn’t mean they can’t be even better if you know a little before you walk in the door. Here are nine movies coming out this summer, paired with something to read, watch, or listen to before you head for the theater.

Before Mary Shelley (May 25) ...

Mary Shelley is a lush and diverting biopic covering the author’s youthful whirlwind romance with the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley — events that eventually led her to write her masterpiece, Frankenstein — but the movie doesn’t fully capture how remarkable Shelley’s life and story was.

For that and more, you can turn to Charlotte Gordon’s dual biography Romantic Outlaws, which shows the remarkable parallels between Shelley’s life and her mother’s. Shelley’s mother, of course, was the remarkable Mary Wollstonecraft, the pioneering feminist and author, who died 11 days after her equally extraordinary daughter was born. —Alissa Wilkinson

Before Won’t You Be My Neighbor (June 8) ...

Morgan Spurlock’s documentary about Fred (a.k.a. Mister) Rogers, Won’t You Be My Neighbor, is already garnering raves from critics and reducing festival audiences to tears. But if you want to get choked up before you even get to the theater, read Esquire’s 1998 profile of the television personality, which shows just how much he has meant to generations of children. And as a bonus, check out Vox’s own Todd VanDerWerff (in his A.V. Club days) arguing that Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood was the greatest television show of all time. —AW

Before Tag (June 15) ...

Tag is a comedy about a group of friends who’ve been playing a month-long game of tag every year for decades — a game so elaborate that people fly across the country and spend lots of money just to tag someone. The twist is that it’s a true story, based on a Wall Street Journal story about the game. The paper also published a follow-up examining how the game’s newfound fame has affected its players. (You’ll need a WSJ subscription to read.) —AW

Before Sorry to Bother You (July 6) ...

Sorry to Bother You is the directorial debut of Boots Riley, whose career as a rapper has been marked by the same activist impulses and radical political consciousness as the film he’s made. You can get a great sense of what you’re in for (and enjoy it immensely) by listening to the Coup, the group Riley has fronted since 1991. (And if you really want to prepare for the film’s intricate, kooky aesthetic sense, tack on a rewatch of Michel Gondry’s 2006 movie The Science of Sleep, from which Sorry to Bother You draws some inspiration.) —AW

Before Eighth Grade (July 13) ...

Eighth Grade mixes the agony of being in eighth grade with the ecstasy of great filmmaking for a story that feels a little too real at times. Writer-director Bo Burnham is a comedian who got his start on YouTube, writing and performing musical comedy. Catch his mega-popular YouTube videos to get a sense of his aesthetic before you head to the movie theater. —AW

Before Teen Titans Go! to the Movies (July 27) ...

Teen Titans Go! is technically a descendant of the much-loved early-2000s cartoon Teen Titans, and features the same superhero team (and voice cast) of that series: Cyborg, Beast Boy, Raven, Starfire, and leader Robin. But it was more directly inspired by the success of the New Teen Titans series of shorts that ran during Cartoon Network’s DC Nation block in 2011 and 2012, which gave the Teen Titans a more cartoon-y visual style and a much wackier sense of humor.

Teen Titans Go! maintains both of those, in particular the humor, which has evolved over five seasons into some of the most delightfully meta, referential, and fourth-wall-breaking comedy in the entire superhero realm. (Given the enduring love for the relatively serious original Teen Titans series, this shift has made Go! a target of loathing for some purists.) Teen Titans Go! is a great contrast to the extended DC entertainment universe, a markedly different and fun-loving cousin to its big-screen live-action counterparts. —Genevieve Koski

Before Crazy Rich Asians (August 17) ...

The best-selling 2013 novel is turning into a movie starring Constance Wu as an NYU professor who goes to visit her boyfriend’s family Singapore and discovers, to her shock, just how wealthy his family really is. The novel was so popular that it spawned two sequels (China Rich Girlfriend and Rich People Problems) and is well worth a read before the movie hits theaters. —AW

Before Slender Man (August 24) ...

Before getting scared out of your wits by Slender Man, get a primer on the mythological online character by watching the Marble Hornets on YouTube. The series follows a group of college students as they’re stalked by the (hopefully) fictional supernatural character. Acquainting yourself with Slender Man and the wide-ranging online following that’s cropped up around him is an internet rabbit hole worth falling into, and Marble Hornets is a great place to start. —AW

Before The Little Stranger (August 31) ...

Sarah Waters’s historical fiction taps into genre elements to explore the social inequalities and hypocrisies of the past (and sometimes the present as well), all rendered in immersive, captivating prose that all but forces you to keep turning pages. Several of her novels have been made into British miniseries, and her book The Fingersmith was turned into the gorgeously rollicking 2016 film The Handmaiden.

Her gothic ghost story The Little Stranger, however, distinguishes itself in her bibliography on a couple fronts: It features a male protagonist and eschews the themes of lesbian romance that pervade many of her books. But that doesn’t mean it avoids Waters’s other literary preoccupations, in particular questions of class and financial insecurity, explored here through the story of a country doctor in postwar Britain who insinuates himself into a family of landed gentry struggling to maintain their way of life and ward off an increasingly unsettling (and heavily symbolic) supernatural presence in their dilapidated home. —GKIn the summer, movie theaters are often devoted to the fictional and fantastical — but those who are looking to sink their teeth into great nonfiction filmmaking will find plenty to love this summer.

Ranging far beyond the customary “issue” documentaries, this summer’s documentary offerings include unconventional biographies of artists and fashion designers, a road trip with Elvis across the country, true stories that play more like dystopian thrillers, and even a tearjerking portrait of everyone’s favorite public television program host.

Here are 15 documentaries you won’t want to miss this summer.

Bobby Kennedy for President (April 27 on Netflix)

Bobby Kennedy for President is technically a docuseries, in which director Dawn Porter uses archival footage and interviews to build the story of Robert F. Kennedy’s life, presidential run, and assassination. The series’ most interesting episode is the fourth, which examines the aftermath of the assassination and the difficulty of serving justice in a case with such national prominence. The entire series will be available on Netflix.

Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who was appointed as an associate justice of the US Supreme Court in 1993, has also of late become something of an icon, particularly to young, progressive women who see her as a hero. RBG is a romping biographical documentary about her, outlining her life’s history, her long and fruitful marriage, her career, and her reputation as a dissenter with a bit of an attitude. RBG herself appears in the film to talk about her life — and do a mean plank at the gym.

Boom For Real brings to life the early years of legendary artist Jean-Michel Basquiat, using interviews with his friends and mostly previously unseen archival footage. Director Sara Driver knew Basquiat, which means there’s an unusually personal touch to the film; it works best as a tribute to the artist from his friends, one that illuminates the time before he became an art-world icon.

Leon Vitali had a promising acting career of his own, but he gave it up to become Stanley Kubrick’s right-hand man — a choice that shaped his life and the history of cinema in innumerable ways. Filmworker is Vitali’s story, and besides being a fascinating look into his life, it helps show how Kubrick, infamous for his exacting, perfectionist filmmaking, put together his own work.

Veteran director Wim Wenders worked directly with the Vatican to make this documentary about Pope Francis, which will premiere at the Cannes Film Festival in May. The film follows the pope as he travels and answers questions from around the world about matters of justice, the environment, immigration, and more. Though the Vatican’s involvement in the production virtually guarantees it won’t be a critical take, it will likely be a very illuminating one.

It’s hard to think of the world of high fashion without André Leon Talley, who was best known to many through his work at Vogue as news director, editorial director, and editor at large. The Gospel According to André delves into the life of the fashion-world icon, from his early years in North Carolina during Jim Crow to his life today.

This movie promises to be the sleeper hit of the summer, with critics showering it with praise and audiences weeping at its festival screenings all winter. Won’t You Be My Neighbor? is a documentary look at the life and work of Fred Rogers, a.k.a. Mister Rogers, a man who meant so much to so many children and whose power has continued long past his death in 2003.

Vivienne Westwood, the British fashion designer, is well known for both her clothing and the way her life dovetailed with the punk scene. In Westwood, she proves to be an obstinate and unpredictable subject and interviewee, which is a shot in the arm for an otherwise workmanlike biographical documentary, giving a look at both her life and her personality.

For The King, director Eugene Jarecki and his crew somehow acquire Elvis Presley’s car (the film doesn’t explain how) and start driving all over America, beginning in Tupelo, Mississippi. Along the way, they revisit major points of interest from Elvis’s life and call in a wide variety of people (sometimes planned, sometimes not) to explain and contextualize them. The King is not really a film about Elvis; he’s a proxy for examining postwar America and how the country arrived at its present state of the eroded American dream.

When their paths unexpectedly cross, three young men who look shockingly similar discover that they are, in fact, triplets, separated at birth. But that’s just the very first part of this wild but true story. Three Identical Strangers starts off like a comedy, but as the story spirals out into something much larger, it ends up feeling like a dystopian tragedy.

Whitney isn’t the first documentary about Whitney Houston, but it is the first one authorized by the late singer’s estate. That has its upsides and downsides, of course, but it also guarantees unprecedented access into her life, which should make fans very happy.

Dark Money is more thriller than straight-ahead documentary, positing that what most keenly threatens our democracy is all the untraceable money funneled into the American political system. The movie, which follows a journalist seeking to uncover the way elections are influenced by donors, picked up the producing award at its Sundance premiere and was nominated for the festival’s Grand Jury Prize.

McQueen leans on archival footage of the late, legendary fashion designer Alexander McQueen and his early shows for an intimate look at his life and career. McQueen was most recently memorialized in a legendary 2011 show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute, but this documentary uses his various collections as jumping-off points to examine his life and the inspirations behind his work.

The documentary photographer and filmmaker Lauren Greenfield has spent her career looking at slices of America’s strangest and most unsettling subcultures, especially among the super wealthy. Generation Wealth (which has an accompanying book) functions best as a retrospective of her work; unfortunately, the narrative about wealth in America that the film tries to fashion never really coheres. But the images it puts onscreen are often startling and hard to forget.

Tennis legend John McEnroe is having a cinematic moment, particularly in the release of Borg vs. McEnroe earlier in the year. But while that movie focused mainly on his opponent (and eventual friend) Björn Borg, John McEnroe: In the Realm of Perfection is an unconventional documentary that turns out to be less of a biographical documentary and more of a meditative look at time, images, and memory through the lens of McEnroe’s stunning 1984 tennis season.The summer movie season may keep getting longer, but there’s an upside: more summer movies!

Sure, “summer movie” may scream loud, ’splodey blockbusters to some people, but there’s more variety to the season’s offerings than meets the eyes. This summer’s premieres range from hotly anticipated comic book movies to political documentaries to long-awaited sequels (Incredibles, anyone?). There’s something for every taste, whether you want to see the scariest horror movies of the year, revel in a very weird social issues comedy, or bask in the glory of a bunch of kick-ass ladies rocking a heist.

And so the Vox culture staff has rounded up 29 films to get excited about this summer, regardless of genre or scale. We’ll see you at the movies.

April

This is it. Avengers: Infinity War is what 10 years of Marvel moviemaking has been building toward, and now Earth’s Mightiest Heroes face off against the biggest, baddest villain they’ve ever seen. All of Marvel’s A-list superheroes are in Infinity War, but there’s no promise they’ll all make it out alive. —Alex Abad-Santos

May

Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who was appointed to be an associate justice of the US Supreme Court in 1993, has also of late become something of an icon, particularly to young, progressive women who see her as a hero. RBG is a romping biographical documentary that outlines her history, her long and fruitful marriage, her career, and her reputation as a dissenter with a bit of an attitude. And RBG herself appears in the film to talk about her life — and do a mean plank at the gym. —Alissa Wilkinson

For this comedy, Melissa McCarthy once again teamed up with her husband, Ben Falcone — the pair previously worked on movies like Tammy and The Boss — to write a movie about a woman who gets dumped by her husband, goes back to school, and winds up in the same college class as her displeased daughter. Falcone also directed the movie, which co-stars Gillian Jacobs, Debby Ryan, Julie Bowen, Adria Arjona, and Maya Rudolph, among others (including, apparently, Christina Aguilera as ... herself). —AW

Here we have a kick-ass thriller starring Gabrielle Union taking matters into her own hands when a home invasion threatens her kids. Its tagline is “Payback is a mother.” Chances are this either doesn’t interest you or it is extremely your shit. —Caroline Framke

If you enjoy butts and murder, there’s a high probability that you will enjoy Deadpool 2, the sequel to the 2016’s anti-superhero superhero hit. This time, Deadpool, the Merc with a Mouth, is joined by some superpowered individuals to help stop another superpowered individual named Cable. But as with the first movie, don’t expect this superpower business to get in the way of the butts and the murder. —AAS

2018 marks the 200th anniversary of the publication of Frankenstein, and Mary Shelley comes just in time to celebrate. It tells the story of 19-year-old Mary — here played by Elle Fanning — getting stuck at a house party with her much-older husband Percy Shelley (Douglas Booth, coiffed to the nines) and his threatening friend Lord Byron, and, in the midst of the ensuing tension and boredom, writing the book that would define a genre. The trailer promises something thoroughly dark, gothic, and twisty, which we hope the film makes good on. —Constance Grady

The production process surrounding the latest Star Wars film, centered on the adventures of a young Han Solo, could not have been more troubled. The original directors (Phil Lord and Chris Miller of 21 Jump Street and The Lego Movie fame) were fired late in production and subsequently replaced by Ron Howard, an Oscar winner but not the first guy you’d think of for a Star Wars movie. But all of that aside, the trailers have been fun, and the cast (including Alden Ehrenreich, Donald Glover, Woody Harrelson, and Chewbacca) is stacked. —Todd VanDerWerff

June

Mix the real and the constructed and you get American Animals, a kind of a heist film and one that I’m still not sure shouldn’t be categorized as a documentary. (In fact, it showed up at the documentary-focused True/False Film Festival a few months after its Sundance premiere.) Directed by Bart Layton, American Animals tells the story of four young men who decide they’re going to pull off one of wildest heists in American history. Why bother? They’d like the money, of course. But basically, they’re just bored and frustrated with their seemingly dead-end lives. Pulling off a heist will make them feel like they’re living in a movie — and that’s got to be better than their ordinary existence. —AW

Hotel Artemis sure looks a lot like a John Wick rip-off, with a concept (hospital for criminals) and style that resembles that action film. But that’s not entirely a bad thing! Besides, this has a great setup: Jodie Foster plays a woman who runs an exclusive hospital for criminals hidden away in an old hotel, and discovers that one of them wants to assassinate another. With a great cast that includes Sterling K. Brown, Sofia Boutella, Jenny Slate, Zachary Quinto, Charlie Day, Dave Bautista, and, gloriously, Jeff Goldblum, this movie has a lot of potential to be awesome. —AW

Finally, the lady heist movie we both need and deserve is upon us. The Ocean’s Eleven spinoff stars Sandra Bullock as Debbie Ocean (yes, she’s related to George Clooney’s Danny Ocean) and an all-star cast including Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Mindy Kaling, and, just in case you weren’t already on board, Rihanna. Who knows if it’ll be good, but at the very least, it should be incredibly fun. —CF

Hereditary is creepy and terrifying, fixated on the supernatural and uncanny as hell. With Toni Collette in an unforgettable, no-holds-barred leading role, Hereditary is best when it leans on unsettling images (like a home rendered at first as a dollhouse, or a frozen, terrifying expression on a face) to make it feel like icy fingers are at your back. Even when it runs off the rails, it’s a hard film to shake, and as with recent films like It Comes at Night and Green Room, it’s destined to be the arthouse horror hit of the year. —AW

It’s been a long wait for the sequel to Pixar’s electric 2004 animated superhero tale The Incredibles. While we’ve all aged 14 years, the Parr family, a.k.a. the Incredibles, are where we last left them: adjusting to the world of superheroing, learning to do it all while being a family, and taking care of Jack-Jack, the superpowered Parr baby. It’s impossible to tell which one will be the most difficult task. —AAS

A Wall Street Journal article was the basis for this movie, which is not a thing you can say all that often. The article (and the movie) tells a story of a group of friends who have been playing an elaborate game of tag for decades. The resulting movie looks like it could be very fun (or at least entertaining), with a cast that includes Jeremy Renner, Jon Hamm, Ed Helms, Jake Johnson, Isla Fisher, Annabelle Wallis, Rashida Jones, Leslie Bibb, and Hannibal Buress. —AW

The 2015 release Jurassic World was a pretty junky movie, but boy did it make a ton of money. So here’s a sequel in which the director — crackerjack Spanish lenser J.A. Bayona, of The Orphanage and A Monster Calls — is a pretty significant upgrade from the first film’s Colin Trevorrow, but the storyline appears to be yet another variation on “What if dinosaurs, but wandering around modern civilization?” So it could really go either way. —TV

July

The unexpected relevance of the Purge franchise, which rapidly evolved from a standard home invasion one-off into an eerily prescient harbinger of our current political landscape, has always been undermined by its gleeful nihilism. Its vision of a near future in which Americans’ hyperviolent extremes are unleashed for one night a year has occasionally issued scathing indictments on racism, sexism, and especially classism. But to keep up its surprisingly okay social commentary game in the Trump era, its latest offering, a prequel that seems to paint the Purge’s beginnings as a truly American genocide, will have to do what none of its predecessors has quite managed: resist the temptation to revel in its own violence. —Aja Romano

Careening from office comedy to something like horror, Sorry to Bother You is a weird and funny and unsettling debut feature from rapper Boots Riley. It’s a bonkers satirical comedy starring Lakeith Stanfield, who plays an Oakland native in desperate need of a job; ultimately, he winds up at a telemarketing firm, where he finds success by using his “white voice.”

It’s a live-wire comedy with a social conscience — a commentary on race, labor, and American capitalism (also starring Tessa Thompson and Armie Hammer) that veers in so many directions that it’s best to just strap in and let it take you where it wants you to go. It’s about exploitation and profit, it’s about the fetishization of black bodies and the indignities of code switching, and it’s about giving up your dignity and trying to find love, all in a vaguely dystopian, magical-realist packaging. —AW

Just as it did in 2015, Marvel Studios follows up a big ol’ Avengers blowout with the smaller-scale (literally) capers of the Ant-Man. Only this time, the ever-charming Paul Rudd is joined in superheroics by the Wasp, played by Evangeline Lilly (who was in the first Ant-Man but mostly to roll her eyes when that Ant-Man got in over his head!!!). The film’s secret weapon might just be underrated comedy director Peyton Reed, who actually got to build this one from the ground up, instead of coming in at the last minute to take over from another director (as he did when replacing Edgar Wright on the first film). —TV

Frankly, I have no idea why Eighth Grade is as good as it is. YouTube personality and comedian Bo Burnham has never, to my knowledge, been an eighth-grade girl, but he nails the experience in this film, which he wrote and directed. Elsie Fisher stars as Kayla, who’s in the final days of her hormonal eighth-grade year and desperate to have some friends and not feel like such a loser. Her story yields an understated film that doesn’t patronize Kayla’s interior life, but man does it know what it’s like to feel like the weird one in the room, with no idea how to fit in. And as a bonus, if you didn’t attend middle school in the age of YouTube, Eighth Grade’s portrayal of adolescence in the digital era will send you into fits of gratefulness. —AW

Don’t laugh! The first Hotel Transylvania is a lot of fun, thanks to director Genndy Tartakovsky’s effervescent skill with cartoon physics and animated action, as well as some solid gags. The second wasn’t quite at that level, but it was still a lot of fun. And this third film promises to send a bunch of your favorite monsters on summer vacation, which is just enough of a premise on which to hang a bunch of Tartakovsky’s perfectly paced gags. —TV

The Rock? And Neve Campbell? In a pseudo-remake of both The Towering Inferno and Die Hard? You might ask, “Why?” to that question. But we ask, “Why not?” —TV

My my, how can we resist Cher? —CF

The best summer action franchise is back with its sixth installment, once again starring the indefatigable Tom Cruise doing all sorts of ridiculous stunts (hanging out of a helicopter in this one) as Ethan Hunt, trying to outrace the CIA. Most of the cast is back, including Rebecca Ferguson and Simon Pegg, and if the series’ winning streak holds, this will be one of the summer’s most gloriously fun movies. —AW

The Cartoon Network series Teen Titans Go! is a raucous, unabashedly wacky animated DC spinoff that leans hard into comedy, particularly of the meta and self-referential variety (which has made it a surprisingly controversial series among some DC die-hards). That makes it an exciting prospect for the big-screen treatment, and what we’ve seen of Teen Titans Go! to the Movies indicates a refreshing willingness to color (with really, really bright crayons) outside the lines of the live-action DC cinematic universe. After realizing all the other DC heroes (including Superman, voiced by Nicolas Cage in a characteristically meta bit of casting) have their own films, the Teen Titans set out to make their own big-screen debut — and shatter the fourth wall in the process. —Genevieve Koski

August

The real Christopher Robin Milne struggled his whole life to separate himself from the fictional little boy who bore his name, in the famed Winnie the Pooh books by Milne’s father, A.A. Milne. Does that complicated history inform Disney’s take on an adult Christopher Robin being visited again by that silly old bear? Of course not — and Milne always felt a slight discomfort at the commercialization of his father’s books. But try not to tear up when you hear Pooh’s familiar voice in the trailer above! You got us again, Disney corporation! —TV

Mila Kunis and Kate McKinnon team up as best friends who find themselves in serious danger when one’s ex (Justin Theroux) turns out to have been a spy all along. With a cast and concept like that, it seems about as good a late summer shot of fun as any. —CF

Steve Alten’s book Meg was published in 1997, and its “man versus giant prehistoric shark” premise had many speculating a film version might be the next Jurassic Park. Well, 21 years after publication, the book is finally a movie, and it’s safe to say that with Jason Statham as that man and a computer-generated giant prehistoric shark as the giant prehistoric shark, we have a new frontrunner for Best Picture at the Oscars. —TV

Based on a novel by Kevin Kwan, Crazy Rich Asians is a glimpse into the life of luxury without the crippling fear of debt or economic depression (think: the best parts of The Devil Wears Prada or Sex and the City) that puts all that wealth and lavishness in the hands of Asian people — people that American cinema has often failed to include, let alone imagined as rich, cosmopolitan, and materialistic. The book this movie is based on has no qualms about diving into the sudsy, gossipy, melodramatic world of filthy rich Chinese families and the young woman unlucky enough to find herself in the middle of it all. —AAS

The internet’s grandest collective myth, the Slender Man has inspired arson, been turned into a major web series phenomenon, been obliquely referenced in numerous horror films like The Tall Man, and profiled in an HBO documentary, Beware the Slenderman, about two real-life teens who famously attempted murder in his name. Incredibly, it’s taken a full decade for Slendy to make it into the title of his own horror film — a weirdly late take on our spindly-armed pied piper that might end up revealing how patchy the Slender Man mythos is. Still, for any Slender Man completists out there, here’s a thing you can pay to look at. —AR

Not much is yet known about The Little Stranger outside of its enticing cast, which includes Domhnall Gleeson, Ruth Wilson, and Will Poulter. What is known is that it’s adapting Sarah Waters’s extraordinarily compelling 2009 gothic novel of the same name. Waters knows her way around period-set genre stories (her novel Fingersmith was adapted into the irresistible 2016 erotic thriller The Handmaiden), and The Little Stranger wraps fascinating ideas about class, gender, and the nature of evil into a ghost story set in postwar Britain; in the hands of director Lenny Abrahamson, who directed 2015’s Room, it could be something really special. —GKR. Kelly’s time may have finally come.

R. Kelly has been accused of sexual relationships with minors going back to 1994, when he married 15-year-old pop star Aaliyah. (The marriage was annulled.) In the 24 years since then, he has been sued multiple times for inappropriate sexual contact with a minor (he settled out of court every time), and he was eventually charged with creating child pornography. (A jury found him not guilty on the grounds that they could not conclusively identify the other figure in his infamous sex tape as a child.)

Last summer, he was accused of creating an abusive “sex cult” of very young women, whom he allegedly isolates, brainwashes, and abuses physically and emotionally. Since the story broke, multiple women have added their own testimonies of abuse at R. Kelly’s hands. (Through a lawyer, Kelly denied all accusations, saying he would “work diligently and forcibly to pursue his accusers and clear his name.”)

And just last week, another woman accused Kelly of “knowingly and intentionally infecting her with an STD.” Her lawyers say they are currently preparing a federal civil lawsuit. Through a spokesperson, Kelly issued a statement to the Washington Post in which he “categorically denies all claims and allegations.”

As man after man has fallen to the #MeToo reckoning, losing jobs and retiring from public life after being accused of sexual harassment and assault, there’s been a recurring whisper: What about R. Kelly?

Despite decades of lawsuits and allegations, Kelly’s career has marched steadily on. Last year, he finished an arena tour with a few cancellations. This year, he’s touring with singer Charlie Wilson (some protests are planned). His music appeared in Pitch Perfect 3.

At this year’s Coachella, rapper Vince Staples repeatedly referred to Kelly as a “child molester” in an interview with Complex, insisting, “He pees on people.” In our post-#MeToo, post-Time’s Up, post-Harvey Weinstein world, and given the sheer volume of allegations against Kelly, it seems reasonable to raise the question of why he continues to work as much as he does. But Staples’s interviewer only giggled nervously and protested, “We can’t ever talk about this guy. ... You’re about to get me fired from Coachella. It’s my first time here.” Later, Staples tweeted that “R. Kelly people is looking for me.”

ladies and gentlemen, vince staples on r kelly pic.twitter.com/SmZdYu9PNJ — andy (@aboynamedandy) April 16, 2018

That stasis may be starting to change. Most of the claims against Kelly were reiterated in a recent BBC Three documentary, R Kelly: Sex, Girls & Videotapes. (The documentary has not yet been released in the US.) And following the documentary’s release, at least three members of Kelly’s inner circle have left him. His assistant, his lawyer, and his rep have all said that they no longer work for him, although none of them have gone into detail about their departures and all have been supportive and complimentary toward Kelly in their statements.

It’s possible that these three departures mean things are changing for Kelly, and that he’s about to face lasting consequences for those accusations. But if that’s the case, those consequences took more than two decades to reach him.

There is a persistent vagueness to the way we talk about R. Kelly that makes it possible to forget exactly what he’s been accused of, how often he’s been accused, and how much proof there is against him. And most likely, that’s because his alleged victims are overwhelmingly young black women and hence apparently easy for America to ignore.

“The saddest fact I’ve learned is: Nobody matters less to our society than young black women,” says Jim DeRogatis, the reporter who broke the R. Kelly story. “Nobody.”

To try to combat that vagueness and the erasure that it makes possible, here is a timeline of all of the accusations of sexual misconduct against R. Kelly.

Much of the chronology here is drawn from DeRogatis’s invaluable coverage of the R. Kelly accusations, including his own immensely thorough timeline. DeRogatis’s timeline covers the entire span of Kelly’s life, including his major career milestones and unrelated legal issues, but I’ve narrowed the focus of this timeline to specifically the sexual misconduct accusations against Kelly.

Over the 24-year span of this timeline, a consistent pattern emerges. Over and over again, Kelly is accused of the same behavior: of targeting girls and very young women, isolating them, and controlling and abusing them. And after the dust from the accusation settles, Kelly goes on living his life with very few changes.

Here, from Aaliyah to the alleged sex cult, are all the R. Kelly accusations.

August 30, 1994: 27-year-old R. Kelly marries 15-year-old Aaliyah

The ’90s music sensation Aaliyah was Kelly’s protégé. They met when she was 12 years old, and Kelly wrote and produced her first album in 1993. It was titled Age Ain’t Nothing but a Number. In 1995, Vibe magazine published a copy of their marriage license, with 15-year-old Aaliyah falsely listing her age as 18.

“Family members say Aaliyah thought it was all an elaborate ‘game,’ and she just went along with it,” the Chicago Sun-Times later reported, adding that the marriage license was reportedly obtained by Kelly’s assistant, using a fake ID. “Within hours, she realized what had happened, and she went to her family and sought their help.”

The marriage was annulled in 1994, just months after the ceremony. In the settlement, according to documents obtained by the Sun-Times, Aaliyah promises not to pursue further legal action because of “emotional distress caused by any aspect of her business or personal relationship with Robert” or for “physical injury or emotional pain and suffering arising from any assault or battery perpetrated by Robert against her person.”

December 24, 1996: the first of the known lawsuits accusing Kelly of sex with underage girls is filed

Tiffany Hawkins filed suit against Kelly and his record, publishing, and management companies on Christmas Eve of 1996. The suit alleged that he initiated a sexual relationship with her when she was when he was 24 and she was 15, and that he pushed her to participate in group sex with him and other underage girls. Kelly allegedly met Hawkins at his old Chicago high school, Kenwood Academy, when he visited the school to reminisce about having gotten his start there and to inspire current students to follow their dreams.

Hawkins sought $10 million in damages, but Kelly countersued, claiming that Hawkins was attempting to blackmail him with a false paternity claim. (There is no paternity claim in Hawkins’s lawsuit.) Hawkins settled for $250,000, and her suit went largely unnoticed until 2000, when Jim DeRogatis began to investigate the R. Kelly case for the Chicago Sun-Times.

December 21, 2000: the Chicago Sun-Times publishes the first newspaper article investigating Kelly’s alleged sex crimes

In a lengthy and thoroughly reported story, the Chicago Sun-Times outlined the facts of the Tiffany Hawkins lawsuit and Kelly’s marriage to Aaliyah. “Chicago police twice have investigated allegations that Kelly was having sex with an underage female but dropped the investigations because the girl would not cooperate,” the story noted. No one from Kelly’s camp provided comment for the article.

January 2001: the first R. Kelly sex tape emerges

An anonymous source sent a videotape of what appeared to be Kelly having sex with a very young woman to Jim DeRogatis at the Sun-Times. DeRogatis handed the tape over to the Chicago police, but the police, unable to identify the woman in the tape, did not charge Kelly. Bootleg copies of the tape circulated throughout Chicago. As far as we can tell, Kelly has not publicly commented on this tape.

August 2001: the second R. Kelly lawsuit is filed

Tracy Sampson, a former intern at Epic Records, filed a lawsuit against Kelly, claiming that he initiated a sexual relationship with her when she was 17. DeRogatis quotes at length from her lawsuit:

I was lied to by him. … I was coerced into receiving oral sex from a girl I did not want to have sex with. I was often treated as his personal sex object and cast aside. He would tell me to come to his studio and have sex with him, then tell me to go. He often tried to control every aspect of my life including who I would see and where I would go.

The suit was settled out of court. The size of the settlement is unknown. Kelly denied all wrongdoing.

February 8, 2002: the second R. Kelly tape emerges

An anonymous source sent another videotape to the Chicago Police Department, this one showing Kelly engaging in sex acts with and urinating on what appears to be a young girl, while instructing her to call him “Daddy.” A witness identified the girl and said she would have been 14 at the time the videotape was made.

Kelly, who was scheduled to perform at the Winter Olympics the same month that the tape emerged, denied in a radio interview that the tape showed him having sex with a minor. “It’s crap, and that’s how we’re going to treat it,” he said. “The reason these things are happening I really do believe is because of the fact that I didn’t fall back as far as blackmail was concerned. I didn’t give them any money.”

Bootleg copies of the tape circulated across the country, and police eventually indicted Kelly on 21 counts of child pornography.

April 29, 2002: Kelly is sued by a third woman …

Patrice Jones said in her lawsuit that Kelly had sex with her when she was 16 years old, and that when she became pregnant, he coerced her into having an abortion. Kelly settled the lawsuit out of court for an unknown sum. His lawyer described the suit as “a collection of half-truths, distortions and outright lies.”

May 4, 2002: … and a fourth

Thirty-three-year-old Montina Woods said that Kelly taped their sexual encounter without her knowledge and then distributed the tapes. Kelly, once again, settled out of court for an unknown sum. A spokesperson from his camp described the suit as “ridiculous” and “nonsensical.”

2005: Kelly’s second wife, Andrea Lee, files a restraining order against him alleging abuse

Kelly married dancer Andrea Lee in 1996. In 2005, she petitioned for and received an emergency restraining order against him, citing physical abuse, harassment, stalking, and interfering with her personal liberty.

In her petition, Lee wrote that when she asked for a divorce, Kelly pinned her down and hit her repeatedly, yelling, “Don’t you leave me! Why are you leaving me?” She added that he repeatedly “snapped” at her when she was near a man, including the time a man showed up in the background of a picture she took with her kids.

“My wife and I had a heated argument, and we are now in the process of working it out,” R. Kelly said in a public statement. “We hope that the press and public will give us the time and privacy we need to resolve this very personal situation.”

Once the emergency order expired, Lee asked for it to be dismissed, and she refused to comment on the incident in the press, referring to it only as “old news.”

But the restraining order incident wasn’t the only suggestion that Lee and Kelly’s marriage had some dark secrets.

In 2003, Lee’s mother Gerri Cruz told journalists that she feared that R. Kelly was brainwashing her daughter. “The last time I talked to her was over two years ago on the phone,” Cruz said. “She was crying hysterically and violently.”

Cruz said she asked the police to check out Kelly’s house to make sure that Lee was all right, but nothing came of it.

“I don’t know if my child is under the influence. I don’t know if she is being controlled. I don’t know if people are watching her. I don’t know if she is being brainwashed,” Cruz said.

Lee denied that she was being kept away from her family. “We live right here in Chicago. How could you not know where I am? It’s not as if I am overseas,” she said in an interview with Essence.

Earlier reports in the Chicago Sun-Times said that Kelly’s associates referred to Lee as “Puppydog,” and that Lee was “required” to knock before entering a room in the couple’s shared house.

Lee and Kelly divorced in 2009.

October 4, 2006: Kelly is sued by his mentor and associate

Longtime Kelly associate Henry “Love” Vaughn said in a lawsuit that Kelly attacked him at a party at his house, and backed out of paying Vaughan for his work on a song as well. In an interview with the Sun-Times, Vaughn claimed Kelly attacked him after he remarked that Kelly’s 7-year-old daughter was dancing “grown-up style,” saying, “She was all dressed up with tight jeans and makeup on, a seven-year-old girl, dancing on top of the pool table. It was ridiculous. She told my lady, ‘I’m having a show next week; when you come, bring $100.’”

Kelly’s lawyer once again described the lawsuit as “a pathetic collection of half-truths, distortions and outright lies.”

May 2008: the trial of R. Kelly

More than five years after the news of the alleged child sex tape broke, Kelly faced trial for 14 counts of child pornography. (In the years since he was indicted, Kelly’s lawyers had successfully knocked out seven of the original charges.) The trial lasted for just over a month, and neither Kelly nor the girl on the tape testified. Although 15 witnesses for the prosecution took the stand to identify the girl in question, the jury concluded that they could not be positive of the girl’s identity and thus could not be sure that she was underage. After one day of deliberations, the jury found Kelly not guilty. Kelly broke down in tears in the courtroom.

After the trial, Kelly spent nearly 10 years tending to his career, headlining musical festivals and staying away from scandal. And then …

July 2017: news of the alleged sex cult breaks

Last summer, BuzzFeed News reported that R. Kelly was allegedly holding multiple young women in compounds on his properties across the country, controlling their every move. According to BuzzFeed’s sources, the women were required to call Kelly “Daddy”; ask his permission before going anywhere, including the bathroom; wear jogging suits so that other men could not see their bodies; and turn and face the wall when other men entered the room. BuzzFeed further reported that Kelly allegedly coerced the women into group sex, videotaped them, and beat them when they disobeyed him.

But the women currently living with Kelly have repeatedly said that they are happy and that they are with him of their own free will. And because they are all 18 years old or older, police have not intervened.

Through a lawyer, Kelly issued a statement denying the BuzzFeed report. “Mr. Robert Kelly is both alarmed and disturbed at the recent revelations attributed to him,” the statement reads. “Mr. Kelly unequivocally denies such allegations and will work diligently and forcibly to pursue his accusers and clear his name.”

August 2017: one of R. Kelly’s accusers breaks her nondisclosure agreement to speak out

Jerhonda Pace says that she began a relationship with Kelly in 2009, when she was 16, and that the details of their relationship match the details reported about Kelly’s alleged “sex cult”: At first Kelly courted her, she said, and then he isolated her, and then he began to abuse her. After their relationship ended, she sued Kelly for damages, and says that he settled with her out of court in exchange for her signing an NDA. Pace said she decided to break the terms of her settlement last summer in order to help the women still with Kelly. “If I can speak out and I can help them get out of that situation, that’s what I will do,” she said.

A representative for Kelly denied the accusations, saying, “The allegations against Mr. Kelly are false, and are being made by individuals known to be dishonest. It is clear these continuing stories are the result of the effort of those with personal agendas who are working in concert to interfere with and damage his career. Mr. Kelly again denies any and all wrongdoing and is taking appropriate legal action to protect himself from ongoing defamation.”

October 2017: another alleged Kelly victim backs up the sex cult story

Kitti Jones says her relationship with Kelly also mirrors the accounts of the sex cult story. Kelly got her to quit her job and move in with him, Jones said last October, and then he began to control her, and then he began to abuse her. Kelly denied all the accusations.

April 9, 2018: an unnamed woman files a criminal complaint against Kelly

An unnamed woman says she spent eight months in a relationship with Kelly when she was 19, and that he was grooming her to join his sex cult, the Huffington Post reports. According to the woman’s lawyer, at one point Kelly told her that “she would have to sign a contract and offer collateral information about herself and her family for Kelly’s protection.”

The woman says that Kelly intentionally infected her with an STD over the course of their relationship. She’s filed a criminal complaint against him, citing charges of “unlawful restraint, furnishing alcohol and illegal drugs to a minor, and aggravated assault (via the referenced intentional STD infection).” Her lawyer says she is preparing a federal civil lawsuit against Kelly. Kelly denied the accusations.

The sheer volume of accusations Kelly has fielded since 1994 is astonishing, and perhaps it offers its own answer as to why he’s been able to live his life with few consequences. In a sense, his fans have been inoculated. They’ve been listening to accusations against Kelly for 24 years — nearly a quarter-century — and they’ve been listening to Kelly maintain his innocence for just as long. In 2018, ignoring the persistent allegations against Kelly is just part of being an R. Kelly fan.Every week, a few members of the Vox Culture team gathered to talk out the latest episode of The Handmaid’s Tale, Hulu’s adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s 1985 novel. This week, critic at large Todd VanDerWerff and staff writers Constance Grady and Caroline Framke discuss “Unwomen,” the second episode of the show’s second season.

Todd VanDerWerff: It’s gonna be weird when Alexis Bledel has two Emmys. That’s my primary reaction to this season of The Handmaid’s Tale so far.

Bledel, who plays Emily, now sent off to the environmentally devastated Colonies, presumably to work until she dies, manages to help the episode land a story structure of which I’m not typically a huge fan.

The structure goes something like this: One of the regular characters needs to do a big, big thing, which some people will consider a moral transgression, and then the show works backward from that big thing in order to create a story that will force the character into a corner where they have no other choice. (Another example of an episode like this that works — at least for me, as it’s a controversial one — is Mad Men’s “The Other Woman,” a.k.a. the one where Joan sleeps with a guy to land the Jaguar account.)

Now, Emily murdering Marisa Tomei’s character (a Commander’s wife, sent to the Colonies for a “sin of the flesh”) isn’t a radical break from who her character was before. After all, as the “previously on” was happy to remind us, she exited the series in season one by running over a couple of people in a car. But that was different. They were firing on her. Here, she just poisons a woman because she has the opportunity and the motive of hating everything that’s been done to her in the name of the God Tomei’s character still so fervently worships. (Which ... fair.)

But the story structure works because Bledel makes us feel the full weight of those last few moments with her son, who escapes to Canada alongside Emily’s wife Sylvia (Clea DuVall, who seems to only act these days when playing the wife of more famous performers, which is too bad because she’s great), then makes us feel the tiny respite the Commander’s wife feels with Emily, before ultimately making us realize just how little Emily has left to lose.

Living in Gilead has shattered her, and even if she could escape to Canada, there’s no real guarantee she would be able to get back to the woman who watched her wife and son rise away from her on an escalator.

But I do have a question for you both: I totally buy the idea of non-state-sanctioned sex as a transgressive, maybe even fulfilling, maybe even life-affirming act in this show’s world. But do any of us buy that sex with Nick in particular would be any of the above?

Caroline Framke: No. No we do not.

But okay, to use a little less snark: This episode makes for a forceful reminder that Max Minghella has always been out of his depth acting opposite Elisabeth Moss. Nick isn’t a particularly rewarding part — even when he’s busting Handmaids out of hospitals — but I can’t help but think about what the part might have looked like if someone with a bit more obvious fire in him were cast instead.

For as devastating as the ravaged Boston Globe offices are, and as startling as June’s desperate, hungry appetite for Nick is, though, this episode belongs to Emily.

Getting to see Emily in her life before Gilead took over makes her life in the Colonies that much more stark, horrifying, and terrifyingly real. Before Emily got separated from her family, she was a respected biology professor. Her impatience with condescending men was already a prominent feature of her personality, which we see as she pushes back against both a cocky student and her supervisor.

But Emily’s conflict with her supervisor (played by the ever-reliable John Carroll Lynch) is a complicated one that — surprise! — ends in tragedy. After a student sees a picture of her (gay) family on her phone, he tells her that she should stop teaching classes until things calm down, much to her gobsmacked disdain. But it turns out that he’s also gay — and terrified that the struggles he had when he was younger are coming back tenfold.

When Emily scoffs that “they can’t force us back into the closet,” his sad shrug tells us all we need to know. When he ends up dead, hanging from a window with the word “FAGGOT” spray-painted on the ground, the message couldn’t be clearer. “They” can force people back into the closet — or worse.

The first season touched on the fact that Gilead sees queer people as “gender traitors,” through both Emily’s trauma and Moira’s resigned pain at becoming a prostitute for hypocritical men. But “Unwomen” is the most explicit The Handmaid’s Tale has ever been about how fraught life became for queer people — and just how quickly their degradation became the norm.

Now that I’m even more attached to Emily, she seems pretty much doomed in the Colonies, because wow, that place is about as bleak as they come. Are the Colonies what you expected, Constance? I’m also curious as to what you think regarding story possibilities in this setting, because from where I’m standing, there’s only so much they can do here.

The Emily storyline is “Unwomen’s” strongest

Constance Grady: I agree that the Colony plot line was this week’s strongest, but I have to admit I was a little distracted by how the blue of those dingy Colony uniforms exactly matches the blue of Alexis Bledel’s eyes. Emily might be toiling to her death in unspeakably bleak conditions, but dammit, the show will never let us forget those giant blue Rory Gilmore eyes!

But in all seriousness, Bledel and her eyes are doing lovely work on this show. As you pointed out, Todd, that look of resigned, barely controlled panic on her face as she watches her wife leave (Clea DuVall, come back to Emily and to our TV screens!) is what sells the flat rage with which she watches the Commander’s Wife writhe in agony. But what really got me is the moment in which Emily reels in Tomei’s Wife by giving her pills that she says will protect her from E. coli but are actually poison.

Tomei asks Emily why she’s being so kind to her, and Bledel’s face goes simultaneously tense and wistful and misty-eyed as she says, “A mistress was kind to me, once.”

That statement happens to be sort of almost true — last season, we briefly saw Emily with a Wife who felt guilty enough about her situation that she tried to delay the monthly ceremonial rape — and she’s convincing enough that you can see why the Wife would buy it. But it rings false in the moment. Would the fact that one woman felt kinda bad about being complicit in Emily’s torture really be enough to win Emily’s goodwill toward some random?

Well, no, as it turns out. It’s not enough. Emily was playing that Wife out of sheer cold-blooded hatred, and it all works because Bledel is hitting every single note of her performance.

In the June plot line, meanwhile, what struck me most was the thought she mulls over at the beginning of the episode: that even if she’s escaped from the Waterfords, Gilead will always be inside her, “like the Commander’s cock.” Giving June the breathing space to explore how she’s internalized Gilead is meaningful character work, but it also helps resolve one of this show’s biggest structural problems.

When the show takes June out of her traumatic situation long enough to really explore her PTSD, it also creates a slight remove from the cramped, claustrophobic present tense of the rest of the show. It’s just a small tonal shift — June’s plot in this episode is still plenty bleak — but it’s enough of a change in register that it’s possible for the show to offer June a catharsis that feels earned. And that’s a goal that the show repeatedly struggled to achieve last season.

Did that final tableau work for you, Todd? And do you think there’s much dramatic mileage to be found in keeping June out of the Waterford house?

Todd: I actually loved everything non-Nick-related about the June plot. The wordless sequence where June learned just what happened to the freedom of the press in Gilead was breathtaking, Moss’s silent face and Adam Taylor’s music combining to fill in so many gaps.

The elegant storytelling device of one woman’s shoe at her desk — and then the other on the floor next to what was obviously the scene of a massacre — made me a little disappointed when June explained to Nick that the place was a “slaughterhouse.” Yeah, it makes sense in that moment for the character (she’s done more exploring than he), but the show’s willingness to go silent is one of its greatest strengths.

And there’s something jarring, too, about a scene of June just kicking back and watching Friends, a message in a bottle from some other world. The first season gained a lot of its strength from how accidentally political it was, and now that the second season has been produced in a world where reviews of the show are contractually obligated to include the word “timely,” I worry that the series might overstep itself just a little bit (as it arguably does when it invokes the specter of ICE to separate a pretty white woman from her wife and son, instead of something much more true to our reality).

But scenes like June watching a well-known sitcom from our world, then deciding to find her way toward some sort of meaning, no matter how futile, accomplish the goal of saying, “This is how far we are from Gilead — and how close we are too,” so much better than more pointed political commentary ever could.

All told, I’m really happy Hulu launched “Unwomen” on the same day as “June.” Both episodes have their flaws, but they neatly illustrate almost everything the series does spectacularly when it’s on its game. I might joke about how out of his depth Nick seems all the time, but sequences like June’s exploration of the Globe offices will hang with me long after the flaws have subsided in memory.

The first two episodes of The Handmaid’s Tale season two are currently available to stream on Hulu.Every week, a few members of the Vox Culture team gather to talk out the latest episode of The Handmaid’s Tale, Hulu’s adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s 1985 novel. This week, critic at large Todd VanDerWerff and staff writers Constance Grady and Caroline Framke discuss “June,” the show’s second season premiere.

Todd VanDerWerff: From the very first frames of its second season, The Handmaid’s Tale wants you to know it’s bigger. As June is hustled out onto the field of the now-abandoned Fenway Park, then put through a kind of mock lynching, all while Kate Bush’s “This Woman’s Work” plays, it would be possible to comment on the sequence through any number of lenses, thanks to its grim content, its beautiful direction, or even its cock-eyed sense of humor. (“Seriously?” June asks the audience when she’s not lynched. “What the actual fuck?”)

But, no, mostly, the sequence is just bigger, as is the episode that follows, in which June eventually goes on the run, hoping to find her way to the border and freedom. She gets an assist from Nick, while the Commander and Serena Joy seethe away. It’s bigger in that confident way TV shows sometimes get in their second seasons, where you can tell they’ve been holding back an entire world from you and are excited to let you see it. And it’s bigger in that way where you can tell Hulu dumped more money into the show this year.

I think it’s also bigger by directorial design. Where the scope of season one was limited, sometimes to the contours of one person’s face, the scope of season two steps back into wide master shots (at least in these first two hours, which I haven’t watched beyond), forcing the audience, more and more, to become citizens of Gilead, to contemplate all the ways we already are.

Both “June” and “Unwomen” (the second episode, which also launched today) take as a starting point this concern of how oppression is so deeply woven into our society that it sometimes looks like Just the Way Things Are. And that choice, as much as anything, kept me from feeling as if the series was going to disappear down a rabbit hole of its own hype.

Yes, it will continue to make the occasionally baffling musical choice (I can already sense “This Woman’s Work” is going to be a musical choice only Handmaid’s Tale showrunner Bruce Miller and I like, but dammit, I liked it). And, yes, I still don’t entirely buy anything the show wants to do with Nick. But the stuff that’s good is so good I almost don’t care.

How about the two of you? Where do you come down on this premiere and, perhaps more importantly, the contents of Bruce Miller’s first-generation iPod?

Constance Grady: Somehow, in the months since the season one finale aired, I’d managed to forget just how harrowing Handmaid’s Tale is to watch: the way all those blood-red robes against the grays of Gilead combine to create a sense of airless tension, the way those overhead shots of the Handmaids in their tight, anxious circles make you feel trapped, claustrophobic.

That opening lynching sequence drops me back into that mood relentlessly. (Look at how few guards there are, compared to the masses of women, and how little it matters: They still hold all the power.) I started to feel as though the show had grabbed hold of everything it could do well and was moving away from its weaknesses.

And then “This Woman’s Work” started to play, and I remembered once again how incredibly bad Handmaid’s Tale is at music. The world it’s created is so viscerally discomfiting to watch that whenever the show tries to use music to punch up the tension or to undercut it ironically, instead it has the opposite effect: Things start to feel mawkish and silly, and my emotional attachment to what’s happening onscreen is broken a little. So, yeah, this show is back, in all its harrowing and occasionally clumsy glory.

Most interesting to me in this first episode was the standoff between June and Aunt Lydia, which delves into one of the structural issues with last season’s climactic confrontation. We knew all along that June wouldn’t face the punishment for her rebellion that the other Handmaids would, because she’s our protagonist and can’t get banged up too permanently, and because she’s pregnant and Gilead wouldn’t do anything to hurt the baby.

And that knowledge kept June’s leadership from quite landing for me in the way that I felt the show wanted it to: It’s all very well for her to stand up to Aunt Lydia, I kept thinking, but what is she doing leading everyone else down this road? She might be untouchable, but they’re not.

But Aunt Lydia knows that June is untouchable too, and she manages to leverage that immunity into its own kind of punishment. The sight of June sitting warm and untouched and eating her lunch as the other Handmaids line up to be tortured is haunting, and it reminds us that Gilead is able to turn any perceived strength into its own kind of punishment. No one is ever truly untouchable in this world.

How season two weaponizes June’s pregnancy

Caroline Framke: All the horrors of this show started to blend together for me after I mainlined the first six episodes of this season for my overall review. But I can still remember the moment when “This Woman’s Work” started up because it’s the only time I’ve ever burst out laughing during The Handmaid’s Tale.

Anyway. I won’t spoil anything specific, but that moment with June’s status protecting her as people around her get hurt does foreshadow some of the grief to come. (It also sets up Aunt Lydia to be more of a consistent force this season, which is bad news for June but great news for fans of Ann Dowd’s great and sternest acting!)

Despite my initial wariness at June’s pregnancy, I have to admit that it makes for some of the show’s strongest moments both in this premiere and beyond. June’s dueling resentment and vulnerability are constantly at odds, and her newly elevated status only complicates it in ways that Elisabeth Moss is particularly good at selling with a glancing smirk or grimace of pain.

June’s pregnancy also means that her escape(!) is that much more of a blow to the people she’s running from. (And here’s a quick side note to say that I really loved that slick final sequence where June broke out of the sterile doctor’s office with the help of strategically placed red marks on the wall.) Not only did they lose a Handmaid, but they lost a pregnant Handmaid. It’s safe to say that they’re not going to just let her go into that good night without exhausting some serious resources to track her — and, more importantly, her miraculous womb — down.

Since you both have only seen this premiere and the second episode, I’m curious: What are you hoping for from this season at this point, now that you know its setup? Does losing the structure of June’s life in the Waterford home and the Red Center excite or concern you at all?

Todd: My assumption is that June will wind up a Handmaid again sooner or later. The premiere sets up so neatly the stakes of being not just a woman but a pregnant woman in this world, and there are too many unexplored ruptures between June and Serena Joy, that I assume the show will get back to its status quo eventually.

One of the things I really like about this show as a TV structure nerd is the way it weaponizes all the things that are irritating on other TV shows. Where other shows give the regular characters plot armor that protects them as extras die by the hundreds, The Handmaid’s Tale invents a world where a functional womb will protect you from pretty much anything — up to and including death.

The same goes for pregnancy. On most other shows, it would be a happy event that was also a desperate grab at rejuvenating a show gone tired. Here, it’s one of the worst things that could possibly happen, and your captors will use it against you. Compare the moment of Luke and June thinking about having another kid in the flashback to the grim reality of June actually carrying her second child. At its best moments, the show knows everything it’s doing, and it knows so precisely how to turn every screw it can, trusting in Elisabeth Moss’s face to hold it all together.

And even now, as June is superficially “free,” the series is hammering home just how little that even matters. June and Gilead are inextricable from each other, no matter how far she makes it toward the border or how many tags she tears out of her ear. Gilead oppresses June, but Gilead also is June. It’s a question I hope the show delves into more in the weeks ahead.

And come on, folks: It might have been over-obvious, but the Kate Bush cut was great!

Caroline: You are entitled to your opinion, but when this show sets a revenge scene to “Goodbye Earl,” you can’t say we didn’t warn you.

The first two episodes of The Handmaid’s Tale season two are currently available to stream on Hulu.Avengers: Infinity War feels like a Marvel movie on bath salts. Trying to describe any part of it alone will make you sound like you’ve lost your mind; trying to describe it all kind of makes it sound like it’s lost its mind. And it’s all the more confounding for how closely it mirrors its decade of movie predecessors only to end up shattering that mirror: Infinity War moves, sounds, and acts like a typical Marvel movie, but then unmasks itself as a creature distinctly its own.

Throughout Marvel Studios’ 10-year cinematic history, we’ve seen the world saved multiple times, from threats ranging from a chunk of Earth poised to crash down and wipe us out like the dinosaurs in Avengers: Age of Ultron to the unkillable goddess of death in Thor: Ragnarok.

You don’t have to squint too hard to see that all these villains and their endgames (take control of the planet and/or the universe), as well as our heroes’ efforts to stop them, have started to look essentially the same.

“We don’t trade lives,” Captain America (Chris Evans) tells his compatriots in Avengers: Infinity War, essentially summing up Marvel’s ethos over the past 18 movies: Leave no men, women, children, or any other life form behind.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

Directed by the Russo brothers, the architects behind Captain America: Civil War and Captain America: Winter Soldier, Infinity War slyly betrays Cap, presenting his and the Avengers’ worldviews as naive and privileged. Instead, it dares to ask what happens if saving the day means taking real, tangible losses — a concept so foreign that it comes in the form of an intergalactic purple titan named Thanos (Josh Brolin).

It’s a testament to Marvel and the Russos’ daring that Thanos is actually one of the less surprising things about Infinity War. For the past six years, we’ve been told that he’s on a collision course with Earth’s Mightiest Heroes, setting us up for the chaos that ensues in this long-heralded culmination. What I didn’t fully realize is just what that chaos would look like, and that Marvel had the guts to, mostly, pull it off.

Infinity War is more of a Thanos movie than an Avengers movie

The most difficult task facing Infinity War is addressing all of the characters, motivations, subplots, and relationships that the Marvel Cinematic Universe has built up over the years without making it feel like an expository avalanche careening down a mountain to bury the audience below.

For example: Gamora (Zoe Saldana) and Nebula (Karen Gillan) are adopted daughters of Thanos, the villain of Infinity War and the big bad lurking in the shadows of Marvel’s movies since 2012’s Avengers. Gamora and Nebula hate each other and hate Thanos, who tortured them by pitting them against each other; he also killed the family of Gamora’s Guardians of the Galaxy teammate Drax (Dave Bautista).

Gamora, Drax, and the other Guardians aren’t technically Avengers, but that’s just because they operate in Marvel’s cosmic universe, which we found out in Thor: Ragnarok is connected to Thor’s Asgard, a recently destroyed world populated by Norse gods and goddesses.

That intricate web of characters and motivations barely scratches the surface of four of Marvel’s recent movies; there are 18 total, not including Infinity War.

The Russo brothers’ solution to this dilemma is to turn a movie nominally about the Avengers into a movie about Thanos, played by Brolin decked out in lumpy mounds of purple CGI.

The special effects needed to turn Brolin into Thanos distract in the villain’s softer moments, as when he explains how exactly he came to be the Mad Titan. We’re told that, ages ago, Thanos’s home planet was bountiful but resources were finite. To alleviate the stress on the planet, Thanos had the idea to reduce it by half, eliminating life in order to preserve it.

Not satisfied with culling his own planet, Thanos has continued on a mission to eliminate half the life in the universe, and needs the Infinity Stones to do so. And it just so happens that our Avengers are the only thing standing in his way.

Thanos’s story allows Saldana to shine, as she rounds out Gamora with more humanity and purpose than the Guardians movies have allowed her. That she’s acting opposite a computer-enhanced Brolin in a majority of her scenes is even more impressive.

But giving Thanos such an expansive history comes at a price.

Most of the Marvel superheroes appearing in Infinity War, particularly Black Panther and Captain America, are compressed, concentrated versions of themselves. T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman) is given five or so lines to be majestic in his defense of Wakanda; Cap gets a few more minutes to be noble and inspiring. Spider-Man (Tom Holland) is around to remind us that he’s young.

Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) and Vision (Paul Bettany) have scenes together to tell you they’re in love. Characters like Drax, Mantis (Pom Klementieff), Falcon (Anthony Mackie), Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan), Shuri (Letitia Wright), Okoye (Danai Gurira), Rocket (Bradley Cooper), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), and, of course, Groot (Vin Diesel) have a few one-liners.

Instead of showing us why these characters are so beloved, the Russo brothers employ a Marvel shorthand of sorts, relying on past movies to do most of the work. And that’s not an unreasonable instinct: Captain America’s first onscreen return in Civil War is awe-inspiring in large part because he’s the Captain America who’s lived in the Marvel Cinematic Universe for the past seven years.

The same kind of chills happen when the “Wakanda” theme plays in Infinity War — a testament to the power of Ryan Coogler’s massive film. For devotees of the MCU, there’s plenty to read into between the lines of Infinity War, but only if you know where to look.

Not all of the film’s heroes are underutilized, though. Tony Stark’s (Robert Downey Jr.) fear of a galactic threat, established over the past few films featuring him, is fully realized in Thanos, and Downey sinks his teeth into Stark’s vulnerability and apprehension. Stark has to not only defeat this villain but also reconcile that mission with the fact that Thanos’s plan is horrifyingly adjacent to Stark’s dream of a universe so safe that Avengers are rendered obsolete.

Benedict Cumberbatch’s Doctor Strange and Chris Hemsworth’s Thor are apt counters to Stark. Cumberbatch’s Strange is coolly stubborn, calculating in ways that Stark isn’t. And Hemsworth, after flexing his knack for comedy in 2017’s Ragnarok, taps into that same humor but laces it with jagged grief and anger informed by having seen Thanos’s wrath firsthand.

It would have been stellar to see all of Marvel’s superheroes allowed these little pockets of storytelling in between the Thanos action, but there’s already not enough room in Infinity War’s two hours and 40 minutes. I don’t envy the difficult decisions the Russos had to make about the heroes and storylines to spotlight, but I’m also not convinced that giving us a Thanos origin story and relying on that Marvel superhero shorthand to fill in the gaps was the most efficient way.

Perhaps the easiest way to reconcile this is to understand that Infinity War doesn’t want to have multiple profound heroes, but rather have one profound thing happen to all of its heroes.

Avengers: Infinity War is the most comic book movie that Marvel has ever created

The best and worst thing about Infinity War is that it’s a comic book movie.

Comic book artists aren’t bound by visual effects budgets, so they’re allowed to give us priceless imaginations on paper: new worlds on every page, mystifying beings, dazzling spacecraft, spellbinding powers, and megaton fights. Infinity War is the closest iteration of this limitless power that we’ve seen onscreen.

Midway through, I lost count of the planets and galaxies visited, each one terrifyingly beautiful in its own way. There’s a breath-stopping visit to a deserted ghost city of a planet, so evocative you can almost smell the sulfur in the air and feel the temperature drop when it comes on the screen.

And the faces of Thanos’s Black Order, his cabal of henchmen, are fearsome and distinct, offering both scintillating powers and copious nightmare fuel. Their fights with the Avengers are the film’s highlights, and a couple of them truly feel like significant threats to Earth’s Mightiest Heroes.

The problem with flexing this sort of expansive world building is that it requires so much jumping around the universe that the film feels like it’s spinning plates. That results in the compression I mentioned earlier, the feeling that some characters are around simply to remind you they exist. But it also, frustratingly, kneecaps what should be the MCU’s grandest fight scene, Infinity War’s invasion of Wakanda.

It’s the largest-scale onscreen fight I can recall since the Battle of Helm’s Deep in The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers. Our heroes, in a valiant last stand, are the only thing that stands between Thanos and universal destruction. And his generals have unleashed thousands of intergalactic hounds — what look to be a cross between snapping turtles and WWE wrestlers — upon Wakanda. Cap and Black Panther teaming up to hold the line is a strange mix of joy and stress. Seeing Okoye and Black Widow’s combat expertise in tandem is breathtaking. Same with Scarlet Witch unleashing her full powers.

Unfortunately, though, because there are multiple storylines going on at one time, we jump from Wakanda to outer space and another faction of Avengers doing their part to save the universe, or get thrust into Thor’s side quest to find a weapon strong enough to kill Thanos.

It’s frustrating that it’s so difficult to fully appreciate the fantastic work that went into orchestrating these massive spectacles when we’re constantly being jostled from place to place. Midway through, all these different settings and all these jumps begin to feel exhausting.

The same thing can happen in comic books. Some story arcs are better than others. And sometimes you’ll have to read through them all — even the most boring ones — to get the full crossover experience and make sure you didn’t miss anything.

But also as in comic books, there’s one absolute bombshell of a moment that grabs you by the neck and drives you back into the story. Infinity War boasts the most breathtaking, audacious moment in superhero movie history, one that rocketed through my brain and tore apart everything I thought I knew about the past 10 years of Marvel moviemaking. For the first time in a while, I can’t wait to see what happens next.On Sunday night, Hillary Clinton delivered the Arthur Miller Freedom to Write Lecture at the PEN America World Voices Festival. It was about what you’d expect from the former candidate in her first speech since the publication of James Comey’s memos on Donald Trump. “Today, we have a president who seems to reject the role of a free press in our democracy,” she said. “Although obsessed with his own press coverage, he evaluates it based not on whether it provides knowledge or understanding, but solely on whether the daily coverage helps him and hurts his opponents.” More interesting, however, was Clinton sitting down with novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie after her speech.

Adichie — who joked that she thought of Clinton as her “auntie” — was a warm and sympathetic conversationalist, but she was also willing to press certain issues. Adichie asked Clinton whether she had fought Trump hard enough, why white women voted for Trump, and why Clinton described herself as a wife first in her Twitter bio. (“When you put it like that, I’m going to change it,” Clinton quipped, though as of this writing, she hasn’t.) It was a thoughtful reexamination of the 2016 election and her own role in Trump’s victory.

Highlights of their conversation follow, lightly edited for length and clarity.

On Hillary Clinton’s likability problem

Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie

In your memoir Living History, you wrote, “I’m not the sort of person who routinely pours out her deepest feelings.” And I’m hoping that this evening will be different, that you will pour out those feelings to me. But more seriously, I wondered about that, because I realize that what you are describing is a certain reserve that is your nature. But I wonder whether you think you might have had to develop that reserve because of the experiences you’ve had.

Hillary Clinton

I think that’s a really good way of asking the question. I do think it’s a combination of, perhaps, my innate reserve, my temperament, and the experiences I’ve had. Which, by and large, [give me] no cause for complaint, but which have been somewhat taxing and, in the political realm, quite brutal from time to time.

But I think it’s also the age in which I was raised and became a young woman. And it’s hard to separate out all these different factors. So although I was fortunate to have parents who encouraged me to follow my interests and to get an education and to speak up, yet in the atmosphere growing up in the 1950s and the early 1960s, that was challenging for a young woman. We were pretty much taught from an early age that the worst thing you can do if you’re going to try to be competitive, if you’re going to try to go further than, in my case, my mother: “You can’t show your emotions. You can’t be angry. You can’t cry. You can’t do a lot of things that are part of natural human responses.”

In my book What Happened, I have a whole chapter called “On Being a Woman in Politics,” and I use some examples, not only from my own life but from others’ as well. So trying to walk that line is still more challenging, I think, for women. And my own experience and my own temperament I’m sure added to that.

Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie

Just before the election, I wrote a piece about you. If you’ll permit me, I’d like to read a few paragraphs and then we’ll talk about it.

When I sent out this piece, it was titled — I titled it — “Why Is Hillary Clinton So Widely Loved?” And I’m going to read to you a few very short paragraphs from the beginning:

We do not see, often enough, the people who love Hillary Clinton, who support her because of her qualifications rather than because of her unqualified opponent, who empathize with her. Yet millions of Americans, women and men, love her intelligence, her industriousness, her grit; they feel loyal to her, they will vote with enthusiasm for her. Human beings change as they grow, but a person’s history speaks to who she is. There are millions who admire the tapestry of Hillary Clinton’s past: the first-ever student commencement speaker at Wellesley speaking boldly about making the impossible possible, the Yale law student interested in the rights of migrant farmworkers, the lawyer working with the Children’s Defense Fund, the first lady trying to make health care accessible for all Americans. There are people who love how cleanly she slices through policy layers, how thoroughly she digests the small print. They remember that she won two terms to the United States Senate, where she was not only well-regarded but was known to get along with Republicans. They have confidence in her. There are people who rage at the media on her behalf, who see the coverage she too often receives as unfair. There are people who in a quiet, human way wish her well. There are people who, when Hillary Clinton becomes the first woman to be president of the United States, will weep from joy.

When I sent this in, I was struck by how much back-and-forth happened, particularly with the title. I was told, “Oh, we can’t have that title.” And I said, “Well, why can’t we? It’s an opinion piece; that’s what I think.”

I mentioned people who rage on your behalf at how the media treats you. I am one of those people. But until then, I hadn’t realized … it just seemed to me to be so insidious. And in the end, the title was changed. [Laughing.] Because somehow I was silenced, I was censored.

So I want to talk to you about: How do you keep going on? I mean, seriously, knowing that the discourse around your candidacy became about likability: who likes her, who doesn’t like her. I kept thinking, “Who the hell cares? She’s qualified.”

Hillary Clinton

For 25 years, ever since I’ve been in the public spotlight, there has been a very concerted effort to attack me, spread falsehoods about me and the like. Which I knew was going on and which do take a toll. They take a toll, not really on me, but they take a toll on people’s views about me. Because when you have so many absurd lies being propagated about you, you come to know that even when they are easily disprovable, there’s a lingering doubt people have.

I’ve not done — I will say this clearly, as I feel it — I’ve not done or figured out a way to combat that effectively.

I don’t know quite why I provoke that kind of overreaction. And so many of the accusations against me are so absurd. But then in retrospect, when I was writing my book and looking at all the research, enough people believed them. They believed the most outlandish, ridiculous stories: that I was running a child sex-trafficking ring out of the basement of a pizzeria. [Audience laughs.] You laugh, but people believed it. Because, as I said in my remarks, it was weaponized. And it was delivered to people who the very smart manipulators behind that knew might be affected.

Just the other day, I looked at an Ohio State analysis about the three stories that led people who had supported President Obama to either not vote or vote for a third party, or even vote for Trump. Most didn’t vote or voted third-party.

The three were that I was dying — a very constant theme. You may not have seen it, but it was very much in the atmosphere. The second was that the pope had endorsed Trump. And the third was that I was supplying weapons to ISIS. And people believed it because the stories are delivered in a way that looks like news.

I don’t blame voters. I don’t blame people who received that on their Facebook feed or their Twitter account, or however they received it, thinking, “Oh, I don’t know.” Even when contrary information is presented — [joking] I’m still here, I haven’t died yet, and the pizzeria didn’t even have a basement — you just have to wonder, “How do we stop this?”

I’m not just concerned because of me. I’m concerned because we’re living in a time when information can be so powerful. And if it’s wrong, or if it’s intended to influence you to do something that is not reality-based but based instead in propaganda, that’s something that we have to face going forward.

The history of suppressing women’s speech goes back as far as The Odyssey

Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie

I want to talk about the connection between free speech and feminism, because we’re talking about free speech today. Obviously, it’s important to talk about the emancipated literary variety. But what about this idea that often the pursuit of censorship is one of silencing?

Constantly, people have said since the election, “You need to be quiet; you need to go away.” I’m talking about people on the right and the left, often people on the left who should know better. I read that as a feminist issue.

When your book came out, for example, I went online and I read some of the coverage. And I found myself being disappointed, actually, by people on the left who should know better, saying, “We’ve decided she needs to go away, the Democratic Party needs to face forward and think about the future.” And I found myself thinking, “Maybe we could ask Ms. Clinton if she could bring in the nearly 66 million votes that she brought? And then whoever runs can bring in a few more.”

The point being, I’m so happy you’re not being silent. But I want you to talk, if you could, about that decision not to be silent. And also, how are you dealing with the constant barrage of attempts to silence you?

Hillary Clinton

I found this also very curious. Because to the best of my memory, no man who ever lost a presidential election was ever told to shut up and go away. And I’m glad they weren’t, because each had points of view and experiences that were worth hearing about.

I’ve given a lot of thought to this, and I do conclude — and I write about it in my book — that there is this long, long history of trying to silence women. Literally in literature, in the western canon, it goes back to The Odyssey.

Penelope is holding the whole country together while Odysseus is taking his time getting back. She’s raising their son, Telemachus.

There’s a very telling scene where all the usual partiers and others are hanging around, hoping that she’ll finally decide that her husband’s dead and marry one of them so that they can take over. Telemachus is now about 17, so he’s a young man.

His mother comes down, as she always did, to greet people and listen to their complaints and to continue being the glue that held the country together. And her son greets her by saying, “Mother, go back upstairs. Speech is not for women.”

The really terrific classics professor Mary Beard — who some of you know, and if you don’t, look her up — has just written a book about women and power, in which she traces this whole line of being quiet: “Don’t speak. Don’t speak up.”

Now, for everyone saying, “Well, that’s a Hillary Clinton problem.” The people who they’d interview, saying, “Well, of course I would vote for a woman! Just not that woman.” In the last year and a half, what have we seen?

We’ve seen Elizabeth Warren ordered off the floor of the Senate by Mitch McConnell. I was in the Senate for eight years and I never saw that. Because she was reading a letter from Coretta Scott King about Jeff Sessions, and he told her to stop. She had every right not to stop, and when she didn’t, he literally had her taken off the floor. And one of her male colleagues — a really good guy, another Democratic senator — he came to the floor of the Senate and he began to read her letter, and nobody said a word.

Or Kamala Harris, who was doing her job and cross-examining Jeff Sessions and [was] basically told to stop talking: “Don’t do that.”

This is not about one woman and one election. This remains a very serious challenge to women speaking out, speaking up, trying to or already assuming positions of power and influence.

So when I hear that, I hear the echoes going back thousands of years. And I hear the unfortunate belief that people still have, that women’s voices are not particularly appealing. That women’s words are not particularly important.

And in my case, it was also because a lot of those same people who said, “Don’t talk,” they did not want to face what happened in the 2016 election. So getting me off the stage was a way of ignoring everything that had gone on.

I come at it very differently. If we don’t understand what happened in that election, we are doomed to see it repeated in future elections.

Why white women en masse have been trending Republican

Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie

I was thinking about you going to the inauguration — God bless you; I wouldn’t have — and just looking back: What do you think about the fact that 52 percent of white women voted for this president?

I say that because we knew he had shown us what he was. We knew. It wasn’t just the Access Hollywood tape; it was a way of being and doing in the world.

I ask you this because you’re a white woman, but also because: Gloria Steinem in her memoir writes that many of the women she spoke to who were most opposed to you being president, many of them were white women who were very similar to you: they were educated, they were middle-class, they were about your age. And she was struck by that.

In reading about Trump, I wonder if these are the same women who voted for him. She writes that she tried very hard to humanize you to them, because of all this, “She’s too cold, she’s too ambitious,” and all of those things. Do you think about that?

Hillary Clinton

White women writ large, all white women, have been steadily voting Republican for decades. I actually got a slightly higher percentage of white women than President Obama.

White women have moved toward the Republican Party for a lot of reasons. In 2000 and 2004, there were reasons that had to do — especially 2004 — with the 9/11 attack. In 2008 and ’12, President Obama had an amazing campaign, and it turned out so many people of color that the fact that white women weren’t voting for him was not as salient.

As [for] my case, I actually got a majority of college-educated white women. It was, I think, exactly because these were the women who were most worried about what they’d seen of Trump during the campaign.

But for other women, particularly women who gravitate in presidential elections toward the Republican Party, there were a combination of explanations. They didn’t believe he’d be as bad as he said. They thought it was all political rhetoric. They thought he would bring real change. And as I say in my book, when you run to succeed a two-term president of your own party, it’s always an uphill struggle.

I think there were a number of factors at work in that. But what we’ve seen of the energy coming after the election, starting with the Women’s March and going into the political races of the last year and a half: We’ve seen college-educated, primarily suburban women moving away from the Republican Party because of the performance that they have now been able to watch.

On why Hillary Clinton describes herself as a wife first, and if she should

Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie

You’ve made many choices for love. In reading about your life, I was thinking about what if you hadn’t gone to Arkansas very very young.

I should say that I spend lots of time being very protective about you, and in my mind I call you my auntie. I get very protective of my Auntie Hillary, and when people talk about your personal life, I find it very irritating. And having read quite a bit of your own writing about your personal life, I think that you have a remarkable love story. I really do. It seems to me that you have this wonderful friendship.

However, I have to say that I’m guilty of being very interested in your personal life. And the one question I have about that is about your Twitter account.

So your Twitter account first of all describes you as a wife. And then it’s mom, and then it’s grandmother. And when I saw that, I have to confess that I felt just a little bit upset. And then I went and I looked at your husband’s Twitter, and the first word that he used to describe himself was not “husband.”

I wanted to ask if this was your choice, if it was something that you wanted to do, or maybe something that somebody thought would be good for the campaign. And if it’s your choice, whether you think it’s fair for me to have been a little bit annoyed by this.

Hillary Clinton

Well, when you put it like that, I’m going to change it.

You know, there’s always this — for me, I’ll just speak for myself, but I think it’s broader than just me — there’s always this internal conflict. When you are very committed to your relationships, your family — in my case, parents and siblings, and obviously my husband and my daughter and now my grandchildren — and your own identity, and how you feel about yourself and describe yourself.

Yesterday, I went to Barbara Bush’s funeral. She gave a very heartfelt speech at Wellesley in I think 1991 [ed. note: 1990], in which she said: At the end of the day, it won’t matter if you got a raise, it won’t matter if you wrote a great book, if you are not also someone who values relationships. She got a standing ovation after, [even though] there was a lot of concern and some protest about her being invited to come speak.

I’ve thought a lot about that. Because it shouldn’t be either/or. It should be that if you are someone who is defining yourself by what you do and what you accomplish, and that is satisfying, then more power to you; that is how you should be thinking about your life and living it. If you are someone who primarily defines your life in relationship to others, then more power to you. Live that life the way Barbara Bush lived that life, and how proud she was to do it.

But I think most of us as women in today’s world end up in the middle: wanting to have relationships, wanting to invest in them, nurture them, but also pursuing our own interests.

I loved the picture of Sen. Tammy Duckworth coming onto the floor of the Senate with her baby. I think that sort of summed it all up. She is both: She’s a mom, she’s a senator, she’s a combat veteran. She is somebody who’s trying to integrate all the various aspects of her life. That’s what I’ve tried to do for a very long time, and it’s not easy. But it is something that I’ve chosen to do, and I think is best for me, so I’m going to keep doing it.

But I am going to change my Twitter account.

“The overwhelming story was my candidacy and his behavior”

Chimamanda Ngozie Adichie

Do you remember Suzie O’Callahan, when you were very young? She’s a little girl who has bullied you, and you came in crying to your mother. And your mother said, “Go back out there, and if she hits you, you have my permission to hit her back.”

Reading that, I thought about your most recent campaign. Did you hit back often enough, do you think?

Hillary Clinton

I now think that I didn’t.

In the book, I write about that one particular incident when [Trump] was stalking me on the debate stage. People are saying, “You need to talk about the mistakes you made.” I’ve been pretty forthcoming about that, but one of the mistakes is that it was really difficult to figure out how to deal with the first reality TV candidate in a reality TV campaign.

I’ve been around people who run for president. I’ve supported them, obviously married one, worked for another. So I was used to what was the norm — only updating the technology, you do a better job communicating — but the norm was: You lay out what you’re going to do, you defend it, and at some point, usually in the debates, one of the questioners really nails you down. Like, “Okay, you say you’re going to give us universal health care coverage. How are you going to do it? How are you going to pay for it?”

We didn’t really get a lot of that in the campaign, because the overwhelming story was my candidacy and his behavior. So we were always trying to figure out how to break through.

On that debate stage, I remember so well thinking, “What do I do?” I did practice to say what I wanted to say in the short period of time we were given, and all of a sudden — I know what he’s doing. He’s trying to intimidate me, but he’s also sending a message to the audience. “This is what a president looks like. It’s a guy who is going to overpower people and be dominant.”

So I’m thinking, “What, do I turn around? Do I say, ‘Back up, you creep’?” But by then, I had enough experience. The coverage of it would have been, “She can’t take the pressure.” Or, “She got angry.” I say things in a normal tone and I’m always amazed when the press says, “She was so angry!” [Joking] You haven’t seen anything yet.

I was really struggling with it, and I concluded, as I was, I think, expecting myself to, “Okay. You just have to be calm and controlled. Ultimately, what the country wants is somebody who is not going to be blowing up in the Oval Office. They want somebody who is going to be in control of their problems.” As you know, that did not work out so good.Laura and Emma, a debut novel from Kate Greathead, is a book that insists on its own quietness, its own hushed ideas. There’s a kind of fierceness to the rigor with which this book keeps itself whispering, to the way each restrained and understated sentence has been polished to glittering brightness.

Rating vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark vox-mark

The titular Laura is a young woman when Laura and Emma begins in 1980. She’s a daughter of wealth — her family is a rough analog to the Morgan family — but she feels vaguely that she ought to make her own way through life. So she has her own apartment (her parents pay the mortgage), and she has a job at the museum endowed by her family.

Laura is progressive; she is worried about the environment and about global warming. She congratulates herself on moving to Harlem and taking the subway in the ’80s, and she is proud of seeing a gay doctor during the height of the AIDS crisis.

To prevent waste, and because she takes a quiet pleasure in routine and uniformity, she always wears “a white turtleneck, one of five rotating Laura Ashley skirts, and a pair of Frye cowboy boots.” Bill Cunningham put the outfit in the New York Times’s Sunday Styles in 1979, and Laura continues to wear it across the entire span of the novel, through the ’80s and into the ’90s, secure in the knowledge that her clothes were once considered fashionable.

Into this placid and ordered routine comes a disruption. After an uncharacteristic one-night stand, Laura finds herself pregnant. She decides to keep the baby, and she names it Emma. And Emma, unlike Laura, is a hellion with little interest in order or routine.

Other books would mine the friction between Laura and Emma into wacky Odd Couple comedy or heartwarming Gilmore Girls screwball hijinks. But Laura and Emma is made of sterner stuff than that. As Laura and Emma progress through the years in a series of elegant, understated vignettes, the distance between them quietly expands and then contracts and then expands again, a torrent of raw emotion under the glacial surfaces of these sentences.

The comedy comes from Laura herself and her Emma Woodhouse-like self-delusions. Laura is implacably convinced of her own righteousness and correctness at all times, and Greathead leaves just enough distance between Laura and the narrative for us to see how foolish Laura can be.

We watch her studying tabloid headlines as though she’s cramming for a test when she plans to make small talk with her sister-in-law; when the sister-in-law explains to Laura that, having just given birth, she has no time for Laura’s visits, we see Laura magnanimously forgive the other woman for her “emotional immaturity.”

But the comedy hurts a little, too, because it covers up the essential emptiness of Laura’s life. Laura is a woman of enormous privilege who nevertheless has no emotional connection to anyone besides the daughter she barely understands, and the insistent quietness of the book, its glass-like sentences, point to the hush in Laura’s psyche, the hollowness of her interior life.

That’s why, despite this novel’s enormous restraint and despite the surface pleasures of its comedy, Laura and Emma is a profoundly sad book. It’s loneliness in the form of a novel, and beneath its fierce quietness, there’s an ache that never stops.The first trailer for Venom, featuring Tom Hardy’s growly voiced comic book antihero — no, not that one, the other one — was almost laughably devoid of plot details. Tom Hardy had some sort of angst for some sort of reason that vaguely had to do with the supervillain-ish Venom.

Luckily for Marvel fans who’ve hungered for more details about Hardy’s passion project, the latest Venom trailer, officially released today by Sony after it leaked on Monday, tries to make up for the first trailer’s lack of content by overdelivering on plot and a big Venom reveal.

That means we get our first real look at Venom’s human alter ego — the dogged street-smart reporter Eddie Brock, played by Hardy with his typical mix of mild manners and toughness. Eddie is investigating Riz Ahmed’s equally mild-mannered but definitely evil scientist, Dr. Carlton Drake, while flirting hard with Drake’s lawyer Anne Weying (Michelle Williams).

Drake has developed the Venom symbiote, which fuses with a human host to generate superpowers, through a series of horrifying hybrid experiments — one of which attacks Eddie and sends him down his, uh, venomous path.

Venom starts to erode Eddie’s sanity immediately, to disturbing, tragicomic effect. That’s still rare for a superhero film, but it’s clear that in a post-Deadpool world, Sony is okay with letting its heroes go a little mad sometimes. Kudos to Tom Hardy for always keeping it lively despite his inability to pass up the chance to have his characters do crazy cartoon voices; watching him struggle with reality is the most unexpectedly interesting part of the trailer.

Oh, wait, except for this bit:

Sony also released a new poster for the film.This Wednesday, Hulu’s acclaimed and bleak Handmaid’s Tale is coming back to your screens. And if you’re just looking at the source material — Margaret Atwood’s 1985 novel — it’s an open question where it goes next.

Last season’s finale, “Night,” ends exactly where Atwood’s novel does. (Aside from the epilogue. We’ll get into that below.) Offred (Elisabeth Moss) is locked into the back of the van, and that van belongs either to the Eye, the police force of Offred’s dystopian totalitarian state, or to rebel forces in disguise. As Moss recites the last words of Atwood’s novel in voiceover, the camera pushes in on her face, and we’re left guessing: Is Offred about to be led to unimaginable torment? Or is she getting her chance for freedom?

That’s where Atwood chooses to leave readers dangling, and where the Hulu show will pick up in the new season. The show already forged its way through most of Atwood’s novel in its first 10 episodes, so it’s safe to say that the new season will focus on expanding the world of the novel and digging into its unexplored corners.

But there are two major pieces of Atwood’s material that the TV show has yet to explore. Here’s what’s left of the book for The Handmaid’s Tale to work with.

We still haven’t seen Offred’s mother

On the Hulu show, Offred’s mother has yet to make an appearance, but in the book, she’s a major part of Offred’s backstory.

Book-Offred’s mother is a second-wave feminist who took Offred to marches and protests as a child. Offred, a child of the post-feminist ’80s, finds her mother’s radicalism silly and faintly embarrassing — until she finds herself living in the misogynist dystopia of Gilead. In the “present day” of the narrative, she repeatedly has conversations with her mother in her head.

She’s fairly certain her mother was sent to the so-called Colonies to clean up nuclear waste in what was essentially a death sentence, which is Gilead’s preferred means for dealing with radicals, but she can’t be certain.

Showrunner Bruce Miller has already announced that he’s cast Cherry Jones as Offred’s mother Holly, and IMDB has Jones appearing in the fourth episode of season two, so it looks like season two will start digging into Holly’s story in earnest. What we don’t know is whether we’ll be seeing her solely in flashbacks into Offred’s past or whether we’ll also catch a glimpse of her in the present, in the Colonies or elsewhere.

There’s still the problem of the epilogue to deal with

Atwood’s novel doesn’t end where Offred’s story does. After Offred’s last chapter, the reader is transported to a conference of “Gileadean Studies” in 2195 and presented with a transcript of remarks from a male scholar of Gilead.

Offred’s tale, we learn, was in fact spoken by Offred, recorded on a collection of cassette tapes. What we just read was an edited transcription of the tapes created by this scholar, and he is now placing Offred’s story into “historical context” for us. Said context mostly consists of light mocking of Offred’s repeated rapes and warnings to the audience not to judge her rapists too harshly. It’s a chilling coda to the novel, one that reminds us that the history of women is generally written by men.

This frame story has yet to appear as part of the Hulu show, but the show has left enough wiggle room that it could conceivably come into play in the future. Offred’s voiceover generally plays like inner monologue, but in theory, it could also be her recorded thoughts spoken into a recorder. And just before her voiceover begins in the first episode, there’s an audible click. It could just be part of the sound mix, but it could also be the sound of a tape deck beginning to record.

Working the Conference in Gileadean Studies into the show would be tricky: The show has already developed a dependable rhythm of moving between past and present, and delving into the conference would mean adding a third timeline to the language of the show. But the epilogue is the richest vein of Atwood’s novel that remains untapped, and it’s arguably essential to a full understanding of the book. If the TV show is looking for new book lore to delve into, the epilogue is the place to go.We called ourselves “the Constitution Defenders” and we wore anything that looked military: camouflage, civil war uniforms, tricorn hats. There were about a dozen of us, teenagers and even younger, and we met on Sundays after church and prepared ourselves for battle.

We lined up in the upper room of our church and saluted the Confederate flag, even though we were in a small town in Michigan. Then I stepped forward to make a speech, wearing hunting camo over a Confederate flag T-shirt. I was 13. When I was done, we pulled out our knives — K-Bars, Bushmans, Bowies — and practiced techniques from a manual.

We practiced like that every week until, when I was 14, a boy got stabbed with a sword. The blade sank an inch and a half into his thigh, but his parents didn’t take him to the hospital; they were too suspicious of medical institutions and the risk of social services. The wound eventually healed after a mild infection.

It’s been a long time since I thought about militias. It’s been years since I’ve shot a gun, and I’ll be honest, I don’t really miss it. Politically, I’m generally progressive.

But in the Trump era, militias are making headlines again, and memories are flooding back with them. My family homeschooled; all our friends homeschooled; we all prioritized self-sufficiency. We lived in fear of a few looming specters: the Clintons, social services, martial law, gun control. We were taught that the liberal government was out to get our liberties and our faith.

One time at the library, a man approached my mom and asked if we were homeschoolers. I started gathering my little sisters, thinking he was from social services and we needed to make a run for it. He turned out to be a curriculum salesman.

These were the kind of fears we lived in, and we weren’t alone. In the ’90s, the Michigan Militia claimed 12,000 members and inspired militias throughout the country. Men in self-designed fatigues testified before the Senate and said the government needed a spanking. Gun sales skyrocketed, and so did the sales of pocket Constitutions.

When I sat down to write this piece about my experiences, I started by pointing to all the obvious historical catalysts that set the movement in motion — the civilians killed by government agents at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, and Waco, Texas, and when Bill Clinton signed the Brady Bill into law, expanding gun control in the US. These are the common militia talking points, but I realized it’s easier for me to recite them than to process the actual state of mind that once made me want to take up arms against the government.

Small towns like the one I grew up in are built on an economy of face-to-face trust. You see the same people every day, whether you’re going to work, pumping gas, or buying groceries. When you don’t ride the subway, when you’ve never worked in a company too big to meet the owner, you don’t learn to trust people you don’t personally know.

There’s something lovely and human about this “look a person in the eye and shake their hand” ecosystem, but it also contributes to small communities’ suspicion of the government — that faceless, unknowable entity. And it has a darker side. It primes a large chunk of America to distrust their elected officials, and it enables them to believe the worst about people of different races and religions they rarely actually encounter, whose humanity and struggles they never get the opportunity to see in real life.

It seems unbelievable now. But when you think that your president killed Vincent Foster, when you think that God instilled in you a duty to own guns and that the government is slowly eroding that right so that it can impose martial law, you start to lead a pretty suspicious life.

Meeting the leader of Michigan’s viral militia movement

Our family had half a dozen guns, far from an unusual number for a rural family. Our designated home-defense weapon was a consistently loaded Mossberg 20-gauge, and I knew from an early age that it was my job to use it if something went down when Dad wasn’t home. We openly discussed home intruder scenarios with the whole family, but the details of government standoff strategies were just between me and Dad, like when to aim for the head because an agent might be wearing body armor.

I was 11 when Dad and I drove an hour north to the home and gunshop of Norman Olson, a retired Air Force officer, Baptist pastor, and controversial founder of the Michigan Militia. Instead of maintaining secrecy and seclusion, he welcomed the local news to training sessions. He wore his fatigues constantly. He went to an amusement park with Michael Moore on his show TV Nation. He organized the Michigan Militia in county-based brigades that he led from his headquarters, which was also a church that he ran, in Alanson, Michigan.

The militia movement was always decentralized. That’s how they wanted it, a movement driven by the people. But if there was one person who inspired and modeled for the militia activity in the ’90s, it was Norm.

Dad and I went to interview Norm, calling it homeschool “civics class.” Norm kept having to run out to the gunshop to help customers, so he set out stacks of books about Ruby Ridge and guerrilla warfare tactics for us to look at. We briefly met his wife, who referred to Norm as “the commander.”

Norm seemed intelligent as he talked about issues like 9/11 (it wasn’t necessarily an inside job, but Bush definitely knew it was going to happen and didn’t stop it), the Oklahoma City bombing (probably orchestrated by the government to discredit the militia), and the Bush-Gore election contest (Norm had hoped Gore would win, because he might have been totalitarian enough to spark an actual revolution).

His rhetoric was conspiratorial but contained insights into real problems with the American system; Norm argued that white liberals contributed to racial poverty, and cited the Black Panthers as an inspiration for his movement. He was frightened by the militarization of local police and the increasing government surveillance that new technology made possible.

When we left I was excited. I had a Michigan Militia Wolverines patch signed by Norm Olson. I felt important. I felt that I could be part of returning America to what it was supposed to be.

Over the next few years, as I entered my teens, I was prepared to do just that.

I thought about the Second Amendment and states’ rights and revolution constantly. I imagined fighting in a revolution against the government. I envisioned standoffs in our house, in our woods, in our barn. I prepared for those situations, planning and practicing marksmanship faithfully.

The Michigan Militia never engaged in the government standoff they were prepping for. Some local groups did gather though: In 1994, three young men in Fowlerville, Michigan, were stopped by a police officer who discovered their car was full of weapons, including an AK-47 and more than 700 rounds of ammo. They also had a notebook that indicated they’d been monitoring police officers’ movements. The three men skipped bail, but 40 armed militiamen showed up at court in their place, publicly threatening to kill any police officer who tried to take away their guns.

If I had been called to join a standoff at that time, I probably would have taken my guns and gone.

Running the boys militia

Three years after interviewing Norm, I joined my first militia, the group of homeschooled teens that eventually ended in an accidental stabbing. I was 13, and my family joined a church of homeschooling families. After each service, while our mothers made lunch, boys as young as 10 trooped upstairs for militia meetings.

I ran to be militia commander in their next election, making speeches standing on a pew all about how I would turn the group into a legitimate militia that could protect our families. I appointed lieutenants and held competitions for fitness, tactical knowledge, and marksmanship. We started bringing knives, guns, and tactical books to church.

Most of the adults in the church encouraged us. An older man sat me and my second-in-command down and warned us to prepare for the race war that was brewing in America, adding that black-on-white crime was criminally underreported by the liberal media. He also suggested that we might consider targeting abortion doctors, if we ever went beyond training exercises.

But after the stabbing incident spooked a bunch of our parents, they started pulling their kids out the group. After winning a few elections, I lost to a boy whose older brothers were in the real Army.

Norm Olson had also lost an election. His new theory that the Japanese were responsible for the Oklahoma City bombing was too much for the rest of the militia, and he was replaced by a “moderate” from southern Michigan.

In Montana, a group called the Freemen defied the FBI and another standoff ensued. But the government seemed to have learned something. Nobody died. They just waited out the Freemen.

Norm showed up at the site of the standoff, as he had promised to show up anywhere people were resisting the government, but he found his services weren’t wanted and spent most of his time sitting in a nearby diner.

Not long after that, he moved to Alaska, which he said was the last independent-thinking state left. Norm’s time in the spotlight was over.

Growing up and growing out

It’s hard to connect the dots between where I was then and where I am now, working in marketing in southern Pennsylvania and raising two hopefully nonviolent sons. I didn’t wake up and have any sudden liberal epiphanies. Maturity comes slowly, but the ability to break your intoxicating addiction to paranoia comes with it.

By the time I was in my mid-teens, I was thinking more about changing the establishment from within. I decided I wanted to be a Supreme Court justice instead of a revolutionary. I was still obsessed with politics and what I saw as an ever-encroaching government.

I went to college, moved around the country, met different types of people, and read a lot of books. At some point, I forgot to be afraid all the time. Over the years my paradigm shifted from actual war to culture war, then to wondering why there has to be a war at all. My days as an angry, armed young man faded into the past.

Sometimes I miss the simple certainty I felt back then, but it’s hard not to cringe when I remember the way I thought about people who thought and believed and even looked different from me. It’s easy to think of that as a different lifetime, a different world. But deep down, I know that kid wearing his Confederate shirt and sharpening his Bowie knife isn’t a separate person from who I am now. I think I distance myself from that version of myself so I don’t have to cope with knowing that that person was me.

I could chalk it up to immaturity — I was just a kid. But there are adults who do that stuff, men much older than I am now. So I believe we have to think long and hard about what makes people so scared and angry.

You can draw a line from the scared right-wingers of the ’90s to the scared right-wingers of Trump’s America, but it’s not a straight line. One thing has stayed the same: the insider information. The militia information mill used to run on scanned pamphlets, homemade comb-tooth books, and conservative talk radio. Now it runs on YouTube, Facebook, and, still, conservative talk radio. The message is the same: You can’t trust the media. You can’t trust the government. Only we understand what’s really going on.

And people are dangerous when they believe — like I did — that everyone else is either deceived or evil.

Daniel Southwell has worked as a farmhand, roofer, roughneck, roustabout, surveyor, promotional video producer, and freelance writer. He currently lives in eastern Pennsylvania with his wife and two sons.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.The Marvel Cinematic Universe is as old as a fourth-grader and has made more than $14 billion worldwide.

It is a behemoth, the work of countless people behind and in front of the camera, based on the countless pages of comic books funded by sticky nickels and leftover allowances.

When people talk about the Marvel Cinematic Universe, they’re not only referring to the 18 movies Marvel has produced over the past 10 years, but also the shared place where all these fictional characters exist. If a Wasp flaps its wings in one movie, its effect is felt in Marvel’s other films. With the MCU, Marvel has created a 10-year continuous filmic narrative for dozens of characters — a cinematic rarity.

Avengers: Infinity War is an inflection point in that narrative, both the 10-year anniversary of Earth’s favorite superheroes and a monumental battle without any guarantees that anyone in this epic universe is safe.

As Infinity War looms — with record-breaking ticket sales — it’s as good a time as any to look back at how exactly Marvel built this cinematic juggernaut, look ahead to its future, and remember how it never would have existed had Marvel not fallen into bankruptcy.

How bankruptcy dictated Marvel’s future

To fully understand Marvel’s cinematic success story, it’s important to understand where it started.

Back in the ’90s, Marvel was hemorrhaging money. In an effort to stave off bankruptcy, it sold off the film rights to its most popular comic book characters: the X-Men to Fox and Spider-Man to Sony. Marvel’s financial decision was the reason Spider-Man wasn’t part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe until 2017’s Spiderman: Homecoming, and why the X-Men won’t be (at least until Disney’s acquisition of Fox goes through).

Fox and Sony got on the modern superhero movie bandwagon first with 2000’s X-Men and 2002’s Spider-Man, which were both massive financial successes and would subsequently turn into trilogies. X-Men and Spider-Man proved that the interest in superhero movies was there, but the challenge facing Marvel was that the heroes whose film rights it didn’t sell off had much smaller fan bases than the X-Men or Spider-Man (at least back in 2000).

What Marvel did have was the charismatic egomaniac Tony Stark and plenty of trust in Robert Downey Jr., who reportedly beat out Sam Rockwell, Timothy Olyphant, and Clive Owen for the role. Downey had been arrested in 2001 and admitted to battling an addiction to drugs and alcohol. In the mid-2000s, he began making his comeback in mainstream movies. While you could make an argument that his portrayal of Harry Lockhart in 2005’s Kiss Kiss Bang Bang might be the best performance of his career, there’s no doubt that his portrayal of Tony Stark, first seen in 2008’s Iron Man, has been his most successful.

As a character, Iron Man did not have the same name recognition as the X-Men or Spider-Man and was nowhere close to DC Comics’ trinity of Superman, Wonder Woman, and Batman. But the perfect fit of Downey as Tony Stark was immediately apparent: While Spider-Man and the X-Men have been rebooted with new actors, the former multiple times, Downey has always been Marvel’s Tony Stark. The same can be said for fellow Avengers actors like Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, and Scarlett Johansson, who have played their characters throughout the 10-year span.

Downey gave Stark the arrogant, effortless charisma the character needed to make the jump from page to screen, and was a breath of fresh air compared with the very serious X-Men and Christopher Nolan’s dark take on Batman. Iron Man was a hit, grossing $318 million domestically and $624 million worldwide.

If the first Iron Man movie had bombed, we would never have had The Avengers and, ultimately, Infinity War. But more importantly, if Marvel had never signed away the rights to Spider-Man and the X-Men, it never would have been forced to gamble on a superhero viewers didn’t know they wanted yet.

Marvel lifted its cinematic strategy straight from its comic book origins

Marvel’s biggest contribution to the modern movie landscape has been making movies that function on their own but also help build a universe with its own narrative, a narrative that extends to both characters and themes.

One example is Tony Stark’s evolving moral compass and his self-assigned duty to protect the world: You can see it come to life in the first Iron Man, then slowly evolve to the point where it becomes a liability in Age of Ultron, and then a moral fissure between him and Captain America in Captain America: Civil War. Or it could be an evolution as simple as Tom Holland’s Spider-Man being introduced in Civil War and then getting rounded out as a character in the subsequent Spider-Man: Homecoming.

The interconnected universe approach is what allowed the Hulk to disappear from the Marvel Universe after the events in Age of Ultron and not appear in another movie or in the universe again until he’s found in Thor: Ragnarok. And, of course, there are those Infinity Stones, which are peppered, some more discreetly than others, throughout those 18 movies.

The word that comes to mind is continuity, a strategy that reflects what Marvel godfather Stan Lee did in his comic books. As Sean Howe wrote in Marvel Comics: The Untold Story, Lee and his fellow writers, editors, and artists would create individual stories in specific issues but would also tinker with the overarching narrative, keeping in mind what happens in those issues.

“[Lee] vigilantly kept a consistent continuity between all the titles, so that, for instance, when the Hulk was captured in Tales to Astonish, Reed Richards wondered about his whereabouts in a Fantastic Four Annual,” writes Howe.

Marvel’s comic books still operate in the same way today.

This idea of a continuous narrative isn’t the only concept Marvel Studios borrowed from its comic books. With Avengers, Avengers: Age of Ultron, and Infinity War, Marvel Studios has brought the comic book crossover — collecting all their heroes in one special issue or event — to the silver screen.

The foundation for a crossover was laid early. The MCU’s first solo superhero films — Iron Man, Thor, and Captain America: The First Avenger — primarily functioned as introductory origin stories. But they were also loosely connected by Iron Man’s “Avengers Initiative” post-credits scene:

In that scene, Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) tells Tony Stark that there are other superpowered individuals and that he (Fury) is working on tracking them. Of course, the cherry bomb in this scene is that anyone familiar with Marvel knows the Avengers are a superhero team, meaning this first MCU post-credits scene was playing a long game, foreshadowing the team-up we’d see four years later in The Avengers.

By now, Marvel’s cinematic strategy is well-known and well-proven, but at the time, it was starkly different than that of its superhero movie peers. The X-Men, with the exception of Wolverine, have always functioned more as a unit than individuals, and none save Wolverine had solo movies. Meanwhile, the superpowered individuals who kept popping up in Spider-Man’s universe were villains; Spider-Man himself operated alone and wasn’t part of a bigger team.

Though Marvel didn’t have the film rights to the X-Men and Spider-Man, it did have the Avengers, and it smartly used its movies to showcase its heroes.

The prosperity of Marvel’s box office has gotten to the point where it helped shape, inspire, and promote the comic books — the source material that all these movies are based on. Heroes like Scarlet Witch (in 2015), Black Widow (in 2016), and Vision (in 2015) have all gotten their own solo comics after their status was raised by their respective movie introductions. And in anticipation of Infinity War, Thanos received his own comic book in 2016 that has run through this year.

Even though Marvel’s model has proven successful — while not entirely avoiding criticism that so many of its movies are the same — it hasn’t been replicated successfully. Warner Bros., which boasts the rights to DC’s Justice League, tried its own version of the Marvel Cinematic Universe by introducing heroes beyond Batman and Superman in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice. But instead of giving its superheroes their own individual movies and stories, the studio opted to give us BvS first, then Suicide Squad, then Wonder Woman, and then finally the Avengers-like team-up Justice League.

With the exception of Wonder Woman, all of those films struggled to achieve the combination of warm reviews and big box office that’s greeted most MCU movies; Justice League has the dubious distinction of being the highest-grossing “flop” ever. The studio’s cinematic universe is struggling for the moment — proving just how hard it is to nail Marvel’s winning formula.

Marvel’s storytelling has evolved to become more self-aware

When Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige talks about Marvel’s movies, he’s referred to them as parts of phases — one, two, and three. Infinity War, at the 10-year mark, is the seventh movie in phase three.

Looking at these movies in phases, it’s evident that the storytelling has evolved. Marvel began shifting its focus from origin stories (Iron Man, Thor, Captain America: The First Avenger) to more personal ones (Iron Man 3, Captain America: Winter Soldier, Avengers: Age of Ultron) in the first two phases.

A lot of that is just the result of storytelling within a world that Marvel’s movies have already established; it’s easier to take risks when you’re playing with Marvel’s house money. Further, many of the comic books these movies borrow from are political and have been political since their creation.

But the shift also stems from audiences and critics searching for deeper meaning in superhero films. The “superhero saves the day” story can’t be repeated the same way for 10 years.

The clearest example of this is the evolution from 2012’s The Avengers to 2015’s Avengers: Age of Ultron to 2016’s Captain America: Civil War.

In the first Avengers movie, Earth’s Mightiest Heroes defend the city at any cost, wrecking buildings and presumably endangering New Yorkers to hold off the Chitauri invasion. Age of Ultron examines the repercussions of superheroism and how Tony Stark’s obsession with protecting people — by way of a genocidal sentient AI — ultimately endangers regular civilians even more; Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver start out as villains whose main motivation is getting revenge on Tony Stark and Stark Industries for ruining their country and killing their family. And Civil War is a story about government regulation and independence woven into a bigger story featuring a villain who wants to take revenge on the Avengers for ruining his life.

Marvel’s early movies dazzled us with the stories of great power. By phase three, its movies aren’t just reinforming us that with great power comes great responsibility, but also asking if great responsibility alone is enough to contain great power.

The future of the Marvel Cinematic Universe is going to need new leaders

Black Panther is the last movie that Marvel produced before Infinity War and was its most successful in recent memory. Director Ryan Coogler’s film has made $1.3 billion worldwide and $675 million domestically, making it Marvel’s most successful movie on American soil. Its success has been so massive that it’s now impossible to imagine a Marvel Cinematic Universe without Wakanda and T’Challa.

Related Black Panther just keeps smashing box office records

Getting Black Panther to the screen was a different story.

Black Panther was the first nonwhite superhero to get his own movie in Marvel Cinematic Universe history, which began with Iron Man in 2008. Nonwhite characters existed in the MCU but mostly as sidekicks or under prosthetics and makeup. Black Panther and its hero represented a superhero fantasy that Marvel, and cinema in general, has had little time for.

That Black Panther was so successful and has a story that unapologetically deals with themes like racial inequality, colonization, prejudice, and pride is a glimpse of what Marvel Studios can do with the power it has. Black Panther is life-affirming for fans who have been waiting for representation — and possibly life-changing for kids lucky enough to see themselves in Black Panther and Wakanda.

Black Panther also might be a preview of Marvel’s future.

In 2019, around a year from now, Brie Larson will take up the mantle of Captain Marvel, a.k.a. Carol Danvers, a photon-wielding, Air Force-trained space captain who, in the comic books, is also one of the Avengers’ leaders. Captain Marvel will be the first female superhero in Marvel’s Cinematic Universe to get her own movie. With the success of Black Panther and 2016’s Wonder Woman — the first of DC Comics’ female superheroes to get her own movie — there’s no reason Captain Marvel can’t be a success on par with those two films.

And with Carol Danvers having led the Avengers in the comic books, it’s not out of line to think she could end up commanding the next iteration of Earth’s Mightiest Heroes on the silver screen.

Robert Downey Jr. isn’t getting younger, and Scarlett Johansson, Chris Evans, and Chris Hemsworth have been playing their characters for about seven or eight years in a plethora of movies. Meanwhile, characters like Black Panther, Doctor Strange, Spider-Man, and Captain Marvel are just getting their start in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. After Captain Marvel hits theaters, the next Avengers movie (still untitled, and due out in May 2019) follows and marks the end of phase three and the beginning of phase four — a clear opportunity to pass the torch.

When Marvel Studios began its cinematic universe a decade ago, Iron Man was a bold gamble on a hero and character. I’d wager that no one, not even the most optimistic Marvel executives, could have foreseen Iron Man as the foundation for 10 years of movies, 2,200 minutes of film, and such a long, complex continuous narrative on the silver screen.

At this point, passing leadership and the responsibility of the franchise to new heroes and the actors who play them sounds potentially blasphemous. But it’s not like Marvel hasn’t done this before.When I saw Beyoncé in concert in 2016, I found myself far above the stage, in the extreme nosebleed seats of the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. I watched much of the concert on the gigantic screens displaying the performer as she slid effortlessly among her biggest hits, while still leaving a little time to pay homage to the then-recently passed Prince via a cover of “Purple Rain.”

But every time I looked down at the stage, far, far below me, it was always obvious which performer was Beyoncé. Yeah, some of that was just effective staging, which created stage pictures that worked from above to always draw your eye to a particular focal point (in this case, perhaps the most famous entertainer alive). But just as much of it was something ineffable, some essential Beyoncé-ness that took the singer from one member of a trio to a massive global success whose every move spawns headlines.

Some of that is the much-remarked-upon contradiction between Beyoncé’s talent and how much she wants you to know she’s using that talent. She can do things few other performers can do, but she always wants you to see how hard she’s working. She’s never met a simple dance move that she couldn’t exploit for every little micro-beat of effort. It’s mesmerizing, even from hundreds of feet above.

But in watching her 2018 Coachella set, which seemed simultaneously constructed to give the audience at the California music festival and those of us watching at home an equally good time, I realized how much this applies to Beyoncé’s whole career. Like many of the best performers throughout history, she is eternally conscious of setting higher and higher bars for herself, then making sure you know just how thoroughly she’s cleared them. She has an almost preternatural sense of what she has to do to remain the biggest star on planet Earth.

That won’t last forever. Every star dims eventually. But for now, isn’t it amazing to watch?

So far, Beyoncé’s instincts are serving her very well

Beyoncé’s 2018 Coachella performance was a makeup for a 2017 set she had to cancel due to her pregnancy with twins. (Beyoncé being Beyoncé, even the announcement of her pregnancy aimed for artistry.) This made the performance her first major appearance on such a massive stage since the 2017 Grammy Awards, when she performed, heavily pregnant, in support of her massively successful album Lemonade.

The divide between these two performances couldn’t be more vast. The 2017 Grammys performance was subdued, much of it focused on the singer sitting atop a gravity-defying throne, while the 2018 Coachella performance was as high energy as anything Beyoncé had ever done. Yet what the two had in common was her inherent understanding of how a performance can play one way in person and another way entirely when watched on a TV or computer screen.

The number of variables Beyoncé ultimately couldn’t control for in the Grammys performance — from the fact that she hadn’t selected the program’s director to how energetically her own pregnancy would allow her to perform — were largely absent in the Coachella performance, which was a dazzling feat of on-the-fly image creation that kept topping itself. (Her second-weekend performance at Coachella wasn’t streamed but apparently had its own set of shifts that allowed her to once again create a series of payoffs for fans and concertgoers.) But all these performances had in common Beyoncé’s sense of what, precisely, she needs to do to top her last work.

What Beyoncé understands that previous performers at her level of fame — Prince and Madonna spring to mind — also understood is that “topping yourself” rarely means clearing the bar you previously set for yourself.

Sometimes, as in the Coachella performances, it means clearing the bar by such a height that you create almost impossible expectations for your future performances and could never possibly live up to them. And once you’ve done that, it sometimes behooves you to go under the bar in such an artistically daring and intriguing way that your audience forgets it’s sad it didn’t see you at the height of your most pyrotechnically dazzling.

Topping yourself, then, isn’t about building bigger and bigger presentations for yourself, but instead about constantly finding ways to do the unexpected. What pushes Beyoncé to the level of a Michael Jackson or Beatles, then, is how she applies this natural gift for finding the most satisfying and most unexpected thing she could do to every stage of her career.

Beyoncé is simply playing a different game than almost everybody else

It’s almost impossible to think of an entertainer right now who commands the level of interest or respect that Beyoncé does. In terms of sheer pop culture oxygen she sucks up in the room, she’s on the level of something like Game of Thrones or the Marvel movies, to the point where she feels less like a person or artist and more like a fact of life we all exist alongside.

In her nearly decade-long run at this level of fame, there have been other musicians who occasionally feinted at approaching that level, notably Taylor Swift. But Swift’s seeming inability to figure out what to do after her 2014 release 1989, the most successful album of her career in terms of attaining cultural omnipresence, is a useful counterpoint to how much better Beyoncé is at both being famous and then using that fame to make artistically bold choices that resonate with listeners.

Take, for instance, how Beyoncé followed up an album I guess you could sort of label “disappointing” when viewed within the context of her career, the 2011 release 4, which was a massive hit that still underperformed its predecessor, 2008’s I Am ... Sasha Fierce and didn’t manage a single to hit the level of the earlier album’s “Single Ladies.” (This is all, of course, relative; 4 would be most other artists’ best album by a long shot.)

Her follow-up, then, was 2013’s Beyoncé, a double album that spawned its share of hits but also won attention and publicity thanks to its surprise release, an out-of-nowhere publicity move that almost dwarfed the (very good) album.

Her next move after that, album-wise, was 2016’s Lemonade, both her best album in terms of critical reviews and one that managed to sell millions of copies amid a music industry best known for crumbling. But it was also notable for how personal it was, how much it talked about her marriage, about her life, about black womanhood. The deeper Beyoncé gets into her career, the more she grasps that balancing showmanship with something real and non-manufactured is key to success.

For obvious reasons, I can’t grasp how important this is to black women, who rightly see Beyoncé as a titanic figure in pop music history, both for her music and for who she is. But as a pop culture critic, I’m taken with how brilliantly she navigates the straits of giving everybody a great show while also offering just enough of a glimpse of the real Beyoncé to keep us fascinated.

It’s a move someone like Swift — who always built her persona around a faux authenticity that was too easily punctured by essentially any news story about her — doesn’t have access to, and it’s a move that will eventually run out of juice, as it did for someone like Madonna (who offered a similar personal/professional dichotomy in her music throughout the ’90s). But for Beyoncé, right now, in the 2010s, it’s working, and it’s made her the biggest star on Earth, someone who doesn’t particularly need to care if she’s under or over the bar, so long as she’s jumped.Over the weekend, while most of the other living presidents were attending the funeral of Barbara Bush, President Donald Trump was disputing a Washington Post account that he calls Attorney General Jeff Sessions “Mr. Magoo” and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein “Mr. Peepers.”

The Washington Post said I refer to Jeff Sessions as “Mr. Magoo” and Rod Rosenstein as “Mr. Peepers.” This is “according to people with whom the president has spoken.” There are no such people and don’t know these characters...just more Fake & Disgusting News to create ill will! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

First of all, these are pretty funny jokes, and if I were Trump, I would just take credit for them, because why not, you know? Trump occasionally stumbles on a solid joke in the insult comedy vein he is so fond of, then almost always immediately backs away from it. Embrace your talent, Mr. President!

But it’s the “don’t know these characters” bit that has caused the most consternation, because, I would posit, there is basically no way a television-addicted baby boomer wouldn’t know who these characters are. Hell, it’s pretty hard to be a reasonably pop culture savvy American over 30 and not have heard the phrase “Mr. Magoo” in some context, though I’ll grant that “Mr. Peepers” is a more obscure reference. But if you’re someone who was born between 1945 and 1955 and who watched a lot of TV as a kid, you probably know who Mr. Peepers is.

But I’m getting ahead of myself, because once again, my rather extensive knowledge of American film and television of the mid-20th century proves useful in explaining something the president has done. Who could have predicted, etc.

Let’s answer the most basic questions first.

Who are Mr. Magoo and Mr. Peepers?

Voiced by Jim Backus and created by the hugely influential United Productions of America animation studio (usually just known by its initials of UPA), Mr. Magoo was, for a time, a cartoon star on the level of Mickey Mouse or Bugs Bunny.

The character was a nearly blind old man, and the best Magoo cartoons balanced jokes about Magoo’s crotchety nature with jokes about how he couldn’t see very well, so he was always stumbling into dangerous situations. (The worst cartoons mostly just laughed about how he couldn’t see very well.) Magoo cartoons won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film twice, including for When Magoo Flew, which I’ve embedded above if you want to see the character at his finest.

UPA was notable for its stripped-down approach to animation, compared to the lusher house style of Disney or the manic pop art of Warner Bros. The characters were beautifully drawn and animated, but UPA got tons of mileage out of the power of suggestion, using shapes and lines to create more abstract backgrounds against which the characters could act out their tales.

This design style eventually lapsed into self-parody (especially as the studio ran into money troubles and slashed its budgets), but in the best Magoo cartoons, it suggests something akin to a newspaper comic strip come to life. (Remember, the height of UPA in the 1950s was also the era when Charles Schulz’s similarly minimalist Peanuts was taking off in newspapers.)

Anyway, Magoo eventually fell out of the upper echelons of cartoon stars, especially since UPA struggled to develop a supporting character on the level of a Donald or Daffy Duck to back him up. (The closest they came was a sound effects-emanating boy named Gerald McBoing-Boing, who wasn’t as versatile a character as Magoo.) But the fact that he starred in the first full-length animated TV Christmas special — 1962’s Mr. Magoo’s Christmas Carol — and has been revived periodically in attempts to make him relevant again (most notably in a 1997 movie starring Leslie Nielsen) makes it really hard to believe Trump has never heard of Magoo.

As mentioned, Mr. Peepers is a bit more obscure as a reference, but it seems like one Trump would be aware of. Over three seasons from 1952 to 1955, the sitcom Mister Peepers cranked out 127 episodes (of which only 102 still survive) about the titular character (played by Wally Cox), a mild-mannered high school teacher living in the kind of idyllic small-town American television celebrated often in the 1950s.

The show is one of the most significant early sitcoms, debuting less than a year after I Love Lucy and standing as one of the first shows to prove that earlier series’ innovations could be replicated on other shows. It ran for years and years in syndication, where young baby boomers could catch it in reruns.

I, admittedly, haven’t seen a ton of Mister Peepers, but the episodes and clips I have watched depict a rather meek man who manages to keep from being bowled over by his stronger-willed friends and colleagues through gentle good humor and spirit. And Cox, who played the character, made a career out of playing characters with a deceptive strength. He was, after all, probably even more famous for being the voice of Underdog. Mr. Magoo — who’s best known for being a doddering old blind man — is a better insult than Mr. Peepers, who is a pretty good guy, all things considered, though I guess if you reduce all of human life to a battle for dominance, his gentle good humor must seem pretty weak.

And I’ve seen the argument that Trump was somehow referring to the Saturday Night Live character Mr. Peepers, a half-monkey, half-man played by Chris Kattan, or the even more obscure Mr. Peepers from Comedy Central’s raucous parody Another Period, where the character of the same name is a butler played by Michael Ian Black. But c’mon. Rod Rosenstein looks just like Mr. Peepers. It’s a good joke! Like I said!

Donald Trump is a television addict who seems occasionally embarrassed about that fact

Here’s what’s most puzzling about this to me: Why is Trump pretending he never called Sessions or Rosenstein those names?

I think it’s safe to say that a television-addicted baby boomer (a description very easily applied to the president) would know both Mr. Magoo and Mr. Peepers. Indeed, having been born in 1946, Trump is almost exactly the right age to have had his young brain steeped in a pop culture stew where both characters were well-known reference points — like how someone born in 1986 would almost certainly get a reference to “Grampa Simpson” or “Steve Urkel” (to choose a similarly nerdy sitcom character without a long-lasting legacy).

And it’s not as if Trump has attempted to hide his dislike of Sessions and Rosenstein, believing they didn’t sufficiently kowtow to him in shutting down Robert Mueller’s investigation. Trump has spoken and tweeted about his thinly veiled contempt for the two so frequently that I thought long and hard about including the modifier “thinly veiled” in this sentence.

To be sure, a lot of this probably stems from his constant desire to depict all news outlets that aren’t Fox News as thorns in his side, to shift the battle to “Trump versus the media” as often as possible, because his core voters dislike the media intensely. Trump understands on some instinctual level that if he can sow distrust in that media (and the attorneys general), then whenever the Mueller probe hits, his loyalists will be less likely to believe anything in it.

But still: This is the hill he dies on? And he claims to never have heard of two characters he almost certainly has?

Trump’s relationship to the mass media — and especially to television — is a complicated, occasionally tortured one. He loves it and craves its attention, but he also likes to hit back and seem as if he is bigger than television. He wants so badly to be on TV, but he also wants so badly to be so big that TV needs him more than he needs it. Look at how frequently he frames stories about TV in terms of “ratings,” which almost always redound to his benefit, even when he doesn’t quite understand what he’s talking about.

I wouldn’t dare draw a massive psychological profile from this, but Trump does, occasionally, seem a little embarrassed by just how steeped his brain is in television, at how dependent on it he is, especially because being so reliant on television for entertainment and information marks him as older, as do these references. Maybe some part of his brain can still hear a parent telling him to turn off the TV and come to dinner, or maybe he wants people to think he’s cool, but on some level, Trump must intuit that being able to crack extremely accurate Mr. Magoo jokes makes him seem as old and doddering as the former cartoon king. And for a guy who loves narratives of dominance, that won’t stand.Kensington Palace announced early Monday morning that Duchess of Cambridge Kate Middleton had gone into labor with her and Prince William’s third child. She gave birth to a boy at 11 am in London. As of now, they have not yet announced a name, but the odds are good that it will be something in the existing royal family, like Edward or James, and not, say, Cory or Matt.

Were it not for the “Prince Harry and Meghan Markle prepare for their wedding” show, this birth would have been the undisputed biggest royal news of the spring. Still, this newest royal baby is significant if only because he has automatically skipped ahead of Prince Harry in the line of succession for the British throne. He’s now fifth: Currently, the queue starts with Prince Charles, then William, followed by the new baby’s older siblings George and Charlotte.

In fact, before 2013, this new baby boy would have superseded Charlotte. But the new Succession to the Crown Act made it official that the line of succession would continue according to age, not gender — making this new royal boy the first in history to not cut his older sister in line.

The Queen, The Duke of Edinburgh, The Prince of Wales, The Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Harry and members of both families have been informed and are delighted with the news. — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) April 23, 2018

As with literally anything regarding the royal family, this birth will be accompanied by approximately a metric ton of pomp and circumstance. One of my favorite touches that has somehow stood the test of time is that the birth still gets announced by a “town crier,” complete with an outfit fit for a particularly luxe production of The Pirates of Penzance.

"God save the Queen!" - A town crier announces the birth of a baby boy on the steps of the Lindo Wing #RoyalBaby pic.twitter.com/IHeluWKMAm — Sky News (@SkyNews) April 23, 2018

It shouldn’t take long for Kate and William to announce a name and bring the baby out to greet his adoring fans (not to mention the press camped outside the hospital). But hey, this is their third go-around; by now, we get the gist.What happens to your brain on love? Is there such a thing as “casual sex”? What do we get wrong about male and female sexuality?

These are a few of the questions I put to Helen Fisher in a recent interview.

Fisher is a biological anthropologist, the chief scientific adviser to the dating site Match.com, and the author of several books including Why We Love: The Nature and Chemistry of Romantic Love.

She’s written six books about human sexuality, gender differences in the brain, and how cultural trends shape our views of sex, love, and attachment. Fisher, in other words, has spent a lot of time thinking about the role of sex and love in human life.

So I reached out to her to find out what she has learned and how it undercuts a lot of our conventional ideas about sexuality and gender.

I also wanted to know what distinguishes love from attachment, and why she thinks there are three simple things you can to do maintain a happy relationship.

A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows.

Sean Illing

What happens to our brains on love?

Helen Fisher

It’s a fascinating question. My colleagues and I put over 100 people who had recently fallen in love into the brain scanner to understand what’s going on in their brains.

We found that in almost all cases there was activity in a tiny little part of the brain called the ventral tegmental area (or VTA). It turns out that this brain system makes dopamine, which is a natural stimulant, and then sends that stimulant to many other brain regions.

That’s what gives you the focus, the energy, the craving, and the motivation to win life’s greatest prize: a mating partner.

Sean Illing

And the experience of love, at the level of the brain, is different from the experience of sex or from feelings of attachment?

Helen Fisher

The sex drive is largely orchestrated by testosterone in both men and women, but romantic love is orchestrated by the dopamine system. I see romantic love as a basic drive that evolved millions of years ago to focus your mating energy on just one individual and start the mating process.

The sex drive motivates you to look for a whole range of partners, but romantic love is about focusing your mating energy on one person at a time.

“You can think of love as an intense obsession, but it’s really an addiction.”

Sean Illing

So being in love is like being hooked up to a perpetual dopamine drip, and you get a little hit every time you see the person or touch them or think about them?

Helen Fisher

Dopamine drip — I love that phrase! I haven’t heard that before; it’s a great way to put it. But the dopamine hits occur even when you’re not with the person.

You can think of love as an intense obsession, but it’s really an addiction. You think about them all the time; you become sexually possessive; you get butterflies in the stomach; you can read their emails and texts over and over again.

But I say it’s an addiction because we found that, in addition to the dopamine system being activated in the brains of people in love, we also found activity in another part of the brain called the nucleus accumbens.

This part of the brain is activated in all forms of behavioral addiction — whether it’s drugs or gambling or food or kleptomania. So this part of the brain fires up in people who have recently fallen in love, and it really does function like an addiction.

Which is why romantic love is a far more powerful brain system than the sex drive.

Sean Illing

I’ve heard you say that “casual sex” isn’t as casual as we think. Why not?

Helen Fisher

It’s not casual because when you have sex with somebody, and it’s pleasurable, it drives up the dopamine system in the brain. That can push you over the threshold into falling in love.

And when you orgasm, there’s a flood of oxytocin and vasopressin. Those neurochemicals are linked with the attachment system in the brain.

So there are all these potential chemical triggers that can get activated when you have sex with someone, whether it’s “casual” or not. Something like one-third of people who’ve had a “friends with benefits” relationship have fallen madly in love with that person.

So casual sex is not casual: It can trigger these brain systems for romantic love and feelings of attachment.

Sean Illing

In other words, don’t have sex with someone unless you’re prepared to fall in love with them.

Helen Fisher

Exactly. If you’re on vacation and there are natural barriers and you’re unlikely to see them again, then that’s probably safe. But otherwise you’re risking falling in love, and that might complicate your life in ways you’re not prepared for.

Sean Illing

What do we, as a culture, get wrong about male and female sexuality?

Helen Fisher

A lot. We think men want to have sex with everything that walks, but that’s not true. They’re much more picky than people think.

I think we also got it wrong that women are not interested in sex. Among people under the age of 40, women are apparently just as adulterous as men. Women in college have more sex than men in college do, largely because women have the pick of the place when they’re in college, and men don’t.

But the idea that men need or desire sex more than women is a fantasy.

I’ve been telling women’s magazines for 30 years that men fall in love faster than women do because they’re so visual, and they fall in love more often. Men like public displays of affection more regularly, which sounds romantic but isn’t.

This is probably a form of mate guarding, a way of informing everybody that “she’s with me.” Men want to introduce women they fall in love with to friends and family sooner. Men also want to move in with a woman that they’re in love with sooner.

Men have more intimate conversations with their girlfriends and wives than women do with their husbands and boyfriends because women have their intimate conversations with their girlfriends, not necessarily with their man.

Men are also 2.5 times more likely to kill themselves when a relationship is over. That is something that the press and the public really have wrong.

Sean Illing

Wait, men are 2.5 times more likely to kill themselves when a relationship fails? Do you have an explanation for that?

Helen Fisher

It’s a really good question. All I have is a hypothesis. I don’t think anyone has come up with a good Darwinian explanation. Women appeal to their networks. I mean, they will threaten suicide, but often they don’t follow through or they do try to kill themselves and fail. But men do the job.

I think some of this has to do with how differently men and women express their emotions. Women’s emotions are always dribbling out. We tend to be more emotionally expressive.

Men hide their emotions, probably because for millions of years it was not adaptive for men to express their frailty or their fear. Their job was to protect the group. Their job was to protect the wife and family. Their job was to go out and kill very dangerous wild animals and bring home dinner.

Under those circumstances, it’s really not adaptive to be expressing your fear, your anger, your surprise, your vulnerability.

So men are better at containing their emotions, but they are also more predisposed to what we call emotional flooding. Unlike women, they hold their anger in, but eventually that anger builds up and explodes.

I suspect this is related to suicide in some way, but it’s just a hypothesis.

Sean Illing

Love is love and I assume your data holds whether we’re talking about gay or straight couples, or gay or straight men and women, but I want to ask just in case you’ve noticed any differences.

Helen Fisher

I have data on several hundred gay men and they fall in love just as often as straight men. (As I mentioned, romantic love is a brain system like anger and fear, everyone has this brain system—regardless of to whom their romantic feelings are directed). But I have no data on whether gay men are just as likely to kill themselves when a relationship ends. Actually, I’ve never seen these data either. But it might exist.

Sean Illing

I’m sure you get pushback from people who worry about reducing something as rich and complex as love to brain systems. What’s your general response to this concern?

Helen Fisher

This basic brain physiology is only part of the experience. You asked me about the brain circuitry associated with romantic love, so that’s what I told you about. This isn’t reductionistic; I was just trying to explain part of a vast complex system. I’ve spent my entire intellectual life chipping away at a vast array of phenomena associated with romantic love. And surely basic brain circuitry is part of this.

But this work of mine only explains how the brain generates the ecstatic, possessive, obsessive feelings of romantic love. It doesn’t explain who you love, how you express your love, where you love, or when you love.

But for those who feel this is reductionistic: I often say “You can know every single ingredient in a piece of chocolate cake and still sit down and eat the cake and feel that joy. The same with love. There will always be magic to love.”

Those who study the fear system aren’t called “reductionistic.” But when it comes to love, people seem to think this comes from the supernatural. It doesn’t. It’s one of the most powerful brain systems humanity has evolved.

People pine for love, live for love, kill for love and die for love. Everywhere in the world, people have love songs and love poems, and most places also have novels, TV series, ballets, operas, symphonies, myths, legends, and even holidays for love. Everywhere people also stalk, murder and/or kill themselves over love.

I will go to my grave believing that it’s worthwhile to understand the brain circuitry involved in this unquenchable, adaptable and primordial human trait: romantic love.

Sean Illing

You’ve done a lot of research for Match.com. What makes for a happy marriage or relationship?

Helen Fisher

You talk to a psychologist, and they’ll probably give you a different answer, but I can tell you what the brain says about happiness in a longterm partnership. There are three brain regions that become active when you are in a longterm, loving relationship.

A brain region linked with empathy, a brain region linked with controlling your own stress and your own emotions, and a brain region linked with what I call “positive illusion,” the ability to overlook what you don’t like about somebody and focus on what you do.

You want a happy marriage? Do all those things that psychologists and others might suggest, but this is what the brain says: Express empathy, control your own emotions, and overlook the negatives in your partner and focus on the positives.Caroline Framke: The robot revolution is officially upon us, and it is spectacular.

By “spectacular,” I mostly mean that Westworld hasn’t lost its taste for splashy spectacle rather than it being particularly well done. In season two, this show is still palpably impressed with itself, its willingness to Go There (wherever “there” is), and its (admittedly impressive) use of a generous budget.

Still, even as a season one skeptic who quickly grew tired of the show’s dependence on interlocking (and ultimately unsatisfying) puzzles, I’ll admit that “Journey Into Night” gave me more to like than I was expecting.

For one, it feels slightly more self-aware than before. As Maeve stalks through the decimated HQ like a wary shark, she takes Lee — Westworld’s perpetually bewildered “story architect” — as a hostage. As the two exchange information, it becomes unavoidably meta.

Lee sputters about everything going off the rails and is stung when Maeve calls one of his programmed lines for her “a bit broad.” At one point, she gets to command Lee to strip naked, staring at his exposed penis with so much disdain you can practically feel the Westworld writers breathing down your neck to make sure you know they heard the criticism about the show’s often gratuitous gaze at its female characters in season one.

More importantly, this premiere follows through on the first season finale’s promise to blow up everything and go scorched-earth about as literally as possible. I have to admire the substantial risk this premiere takes by essentially skipping the immediate chaos that followed Dolores — or, should I say, Wyatt — marching up behind Ford and executing him with a single bullet at the end of last season. It throws us right into the disastrous aftermath, hundreds of bodies later, as human guests scramble to escape the hosts who have turned on them with the single-minded focus of eliminating them from their own game.

When we initially come back to the action, though, it’s through Bernard’s flickering, confused perspective after the carnage has already happened. As he comes to consciousness on a foreign beach, we see glimpses of what might be the past, or the future, or who knows what (including an almost tender moment with Dolores/Wyatt putting a hand to his cheek and promising that “there’s beauty in what we are”).

It feels something like a “this season on Westworld” teaser montage, but again, this is Westworld, so who knows what the hell is supposed to be happening — especially since the episode then dips back into the moments immediately following Ford’s death, in which Bernard tried to keep his cover while hiding out with Charlotte Hale and assorted other guests as the hosts turned on everyone.

So, hey, Todd: I won’t ask you what’s happening, since I know you’ve seen multiple episodes for your overall review. But do you think this premiere does its job so far as convincing us that season two knows what it’s doing?

Todd: Look, I’ll be honest: I’ve seen the first half of this season (five out of 10 episodes), and I don’t know that I could possibly spoil for you any of what’s to come. Could I tell you my basic recollection of events? Sure. But sometimes, half the experience of Westworld is in the fact that you don’t quite know what’s important until you know it’s important.

Take this perhaps too-sweeping season premiere, which dumps us into the middle of the fray and expects us to keep up. The time between when Bernard attended the dinner that erupted in chaos and the show’s “present” (if that term has any meaning on this series) is a matter of days, but the gap between past and present is, I guess, meant to be a kind of half-mystery. What was Bernard up to in that time? It’s hard to say, but if the final moments of the episode are any indication, it was nothing good.

Yet I’m most struck by how Westworld has largely reorganized itself this season around its four protagonists — Dolores, Maeve, Bernard, and the Man in Black — while sorting most of its other characters into an assortment of parties that can join these central players. We check in with all four throughout the hour, and just when I was starting to lose patience with one obfuscatory storyline, the episode would switch over to another one.

This reorganization is mostly a good idea. In season one, the series could feel too sprawling, and having a tighter focus (with three of the four protagonists being Hosts) ends up benefiting the series quite a bit. Yet at the same time, it leaves me feeling like certain characters who seemed like they might be important are just window dressing, perhaps none more notably than James Marsden’s Teddy, who mostly gets to stand around and watch as Evan Rachel Wood monologues a few times in his general direction.

Now, this being a massive ensemble cast, I’m sure we’ll get some scenes in future episodes that give Marsden more meat to chew on. But it’s still a little sad to watch him in this episode, knowing how much he’s capable of.

Don’t get me wrong: I love Dolores (or Wyatt or whatever), and Wood gave my favorite TV performance of 2016. But the process of watching her wake up turns out to be more arresting than watching her be awake. Dolores’s goal at this point is pretty much “wipe humanity from the park” (and then presumably from the earth). I’m not inherently opposed to that goal, but it’s a little easier to get on board with Maeve’s “find my daughter” or Bernard’s “figure out what the fuck is going on.”

Still, we get more Luke Hemsworth! How about that, Caroline? More Luke Hemsworth!

Caroline: Were it not for our friend Alan Sepinwall constantly stumping for Stubbs — which, by the way, is the actual name of Hemsworth’s character — I would have forgotten completely that this show co-stars the grimmest of Hemsworths.

But that actually speaks to something that this premiere indicates is still a weakness for Westworld. Like you said, the four main characters as confirmed in this episode are Dolores, Maeve, Bernard, and the Man in Black. Three of those characters are Hosts. The one human is by far the least interesting one of them all, despite being played by both Ed Harris and Jimmi Simpson as the center of a show-defining time jump.

At this point, not a single other human on this show has anything resembling a character arc. The closest we get is Tessa Thompson’s Charlotte Hale, who seems like more of a means to an end at the moment, and while I’m thrilled to see Betty Gabriel (Get Out) join the cast as part of the backup force brought in to clean up the mess, I’m not getting my hopes up for her getting to do much beyond that.

What it comes down to is that I just can’t bring myself to care about something like the Man in Black continuing his maze quest — one of the show’s favorite ways to get lost in itself — when the hosts are awakening in such startling ways. Thandie Newton as Maeve has always been magnetic; Bernard’s fight to keep his Host nature hidden even as he feels himself deteriorating should make for some of Jeffrey Wright’s best work yet.

And while I’ll admit that Wood’s grand monologuing is far less riveting for me than the way she got to flutter between various personalities last season, I can’t lie: Seeing Dolores on a murderous prowl has me more excited for what’s to come than I was expecting — especially given that it took me until halfway through this premiere to realize I had almost entirely forgotten the finale, that’s how quickly it dissipated for me.

Todd: Hey, I watched this premiere a couple of days ago and have already forgotten a lot of it. (Granted, some of that is that the episodes after this one are generally stronger, without having to get the audience caught up all over again. This may be the show’s most marked similarity to Game of Thrones.)

I actually don’t know that it’s such a bad thing that the show itself is so much more invested in the Hosts to the exclusion of the humans because the humans on this show are generally not as interesting as the Hosts by design. (Luv u forever, Stubbs!) At its best, Westworld is a show that attempts to create a sort of ur-text of oppressors and the oppressed, with the Hosts standing in for every oppressed group ever and the humans standing in for the oppressors.

When it sticks to that basic format, it’s a genuinely involving show because it really does dig into how oppression is a choice, but often just one of choosing the status quo over actively interrogating the underpinnings of your society. In season one, many of the human characters were just beneficiaries of a system they didn’t dare question too much.

But now that they’re actively on the run from those who were formerly under their thumb, they’re snapping to attention and fighting back, in a way that makes it easier to root against them. Somewhere inside of Westworld is a really trenchant critique of, uh, every political and economic system ever devised.

But then you get to stuff like William/the Man in Black wandering around and trying to solve the Maze, and it becomes harder to get too invested, at least in my case. I know that a lot of people enjoy this show on the level of thinking about, like, what it would be to live as a video game character (as most of the Hosts effectively are), but the stories where the humans actually “play the game” are rarely as compelling as watching the Hosts’ awakening political consciousness, or even the workplace drama set behind the scenes of a robot theme park.

Yet in considering “Journey Into Night,” I realized that where we’ve landed is essentially the place Westworld was always going to go. After all, this series is based on a movie about a theme park where the robots malfunction and start killing the guests, so the robot revolution was always coming. (One significant change: Here the Man in Black is a human, at least so far as we know.)

The show does play around with this in interesting ways here and there. Poor Bernard, caught between the life he’s always known and the life he’s slowly awakening to, is forced to hang out with a bunch of Delos pals, who don’t yet know the truth about him, and it’s clear how hard it is for him to keep living the life he thought was his, in favor of the life that’s slowly coming alive for him. It’s a pretty effective little noodle on the consequences of compartmentalization, made even more so by the occasional presence of flying bullets.

But if Westworld is going to take off in season two in the way I still think it can, it needs to reach a little deeper than that. For as much as I love certain aspects of the show, “Journey Into Night” suggests it’s still more conceptually interesting — which is to say “fun to think about” — than it is legitimately compelling on the levels of character, theme, or plot. But, hey, maybe we’ll get there.Every week, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could be bad. It will always be interesting. You can read the archives here. The episode of the week for April 14 through 21 is “Chapter Eighty-One,” the fourth season finale of The CW’s Jane the Virgin.

Typically, we don’t write about the same show as Episode of the Week more than once a season — but in every way that counts, Jane the Virgin isn’t a typical show.

Over four effervescent seasons, Jane the Virgin has established itself as one of television’s most inventive and compassionate treats. It didn’t just offer an outlandish telenovela conceit — a virgin gets artificially inseminated by accident, hijinks ensue — but leaned fully into it to find beauty in the nooks and crannies of every dramatic reveal.

It deepened its characters and relationships with meticulous, generous warmth. A turbulent love triangle between earnest overachiever Jane (Gina Rodriguez), suave mogul Rafael (Justin Baldoni), and determined cop Michael (Brett Dier) could have been corny, but found a believable balance in this show’s hands. Even though my default answer to just about every love triangle is “eh, girl, just pick yourself,” Jane the Virgin consistently made such excellent cases for both Michael and Rafael that it was easy to understand why Jane was so torn.

It also helped that Jane’s relationship with her family was treated with just as much consideration. Her fiery mother Xiomara (Andrea Navedo), devout grandmother Alba (Ivonne Coll), and melodramatic telenovela star father Rogelio (Jaime Camil) could easily have remained as simple as those descriptors, but instead, each has become so much more.

In one of Jane the Virgin’s most demonstrative displays of finding nuance where other shows might not have, Petra (Yael Grobglas) quickly went from being simply Rafael’s ice queen ex-wife (and Jane’s most obvious rival) to a flawed, surprisingly goofy woman all her own. In season four, she even got a partner worthy of her punishingly high standards in J.R. — who, as played with a liquid smirk by Rosario Dawson, was an unexpected choice, both because she is Petra’s lawyer and a woman.

To be fair, there was a stretch in the third season in which it seemed like the show was getting a bit lost in its own twists, especially whenever the (admittedly very magnetic) crime lord Sin Rostro (Bridget Regan) was involved. But after that season ended with everyone reeling from Michael’s sudden death, season four had the show take a step back to remember that it doesn’t need to be an endless maze of mythology to be truly great.

Then again, as “Chapter Eighty-One” showed, laying a careful foundation of character conflict under such a mythology maze sure can pay off. Since Jane’s fifth season will reportedly be its last, it seems safe to say that this fourth season has been working toward the show’s endgame, making every story feel that much more significant. And as the fourth season drew to a close, diving into deeply emotional storylines like Alba taking the US citizenship test and Xiomara learning she has breast cancer, the show threw out more and more winks to its telenovela structure that made it clear something was coming.

It took until the finale’s last few minutes, but when that penny dropped, whew, did it drop.

This finale laid the groundwork for Big Twists with smart meta moments

The last few episodes of the season have seen Jane frantically working on her new book about her relationship with her mother, alternately making creeping progress and spiraling into a creative tailspin.

In the penultimate episode and finale, however, she’s officially “on a roll,” barely able to stop typing lest she forget a single idea. And when she gets stuck for a minute, she takes a step back, looks at the color-coded outline plastered to her wall, and realizes that she needs to stop glossing over the roots of her stories with exposition and excavate them for real. In order to make the story work, she tells her family with a tone equivalent to a “well duh!” forehead smack, she has to go back to the beginning.

Meanwhile, two other plotlines are converging in a way that makes it clear this show isn’t shying away from its roots, either.

In one seemingly less consequential corner is Rogelio, trying to bring telenovelas to an American audience without diluting what makes them great. In “Chapter Eighty,” his famous collaborator River Fields (played by Brooke Shields, get it?) dismisses telenovela twists like secret twins and amnesia as contrived — and then accidentally eats a pot brownie, watches a telenovela with Xiomara, and loves it so much that she immediately eats her words.

In the other, more mysterious, corner is Rafael, who was dogged by the question of who his birth parents are for years before he decided finding out wouldn’t be worth it. But when Sin Rostro dangles the possibility of information in front him of him, he can only hold out for so long before he relents and goes to visit her in prison. There, she drops what is apparently such a huge bombshell that he can barely function afterwards. He even drops plans to propose to Jane, and when she asks him what’s going on, he deflects by kissing her passionately — as if he has to savor whatever time he gets with her.

Rafael’s refusal to tell Jane what’s happening leads everyone to speculate wildly about what might be going on with him. At one point, Alba laughs that “if this were a telenovela,” the twist would have to be that he’s somehow Jane’s brother. The fact that I thought exactly the same — and was only convinced otherwise by Rafael reacting to the news by having urgent sex with Jane — speaks to how well this show has established its telenovela bonafides. After all, as Jane reminds Rafael, Sin Rostro kidnapped their son just minutes after he was born; it’s not so outlandish to think he had learned something both truly devastating and supposedly implausible, given their history.

So while the real twist doesn’t turn out to be incest (thank god), it does turn out to be both shocking and perfectly understandable given the show’s careful foreshadowing.

Bringing Michael back(?!) is a huge twist that nonetheless makes perfect sense

Yep, that’s right! In the final few seconds of this finale, just a few scenes after Jane insisted that Rafael was “it for [her], forever,” Rafael opened the door to his apartment and revealed with visible angst that Michael is still alive.

There is, of course, a chance that it isn’t Michael at all. He did (supposedly) die of a rare heart condition rather than some splashy disaster, and this wouldn’t be the first time the show’s pulled a twist involving a twin or a lifelike mask — nor, for that matter, the second. But even given just the briefest glimpse at his pained, earnest face as Jane gasps in shock, it seems far more likely that Michael is back. So what now?

That question will likely drive the beginning of the show’s final season. On the one hand, this feels a little frustrating, given how well Jane handled its love triangle and how beautifully it dealt with the aftermath of Michael’s death. On the other, it’s no coincidence that Jane realizing she had to go back to the beginning to tell her story right happened right before Michael, a pivotal part of the beginning of this show’s story, came back into her life. (Plus, given how much Rogelio fought to keep amnesia in his American telenovela, I’m gonna go ahead and guess that that might be part of Michael’s storyline when the show returns.)

No matter how this storyline shakes out, Jane the Virgin has proved time and time again that it’s capable of handling bombshells that would crater other shows with an impressively deft touch. And even if it is reverting back to the #TeamMichael versus #TeamRafael posturing that drove its romantic storylines in the beginning, everyone on this show has lived through years of joy, pain, grief, and celebrations. Even with Michael back in the picture, there’s no chance that this love triangle, nor anything around it, will be at all predictable.R. Kelly’s lawyer, publicist, and longtime assistant have all severed ties with the R&B singer, according to multiple media reports. The news comes just after the release of R. Kelly: Sex, Girls and Videotapes, a BBC documentary that examines the numerous allegations of sexual misconduct and assault against him — including accusations that he held women against their will in an abusive sex cult.

Linda Mensch, who was Kelly’s entertainment attorney, told BBC on Friday that she “no longer represented Mr. Kelly or his entities.” She said she resigned in February and that it was unrelated to Kelly’s “social life.” Trevian Kutti, Kelly’s publicist, told Rolling Stone he no longer represents Kelly as of April 16. And the BBC reported Diana Copeland, who has been Kelly’s executive assistant for more than 10 years, has resigned as well.

The reasons behind their departures are not known, but Kelly finds himself at the center of a disturbing scandal and allegations of sexual misconduct and abuse. BuzzFeed in July 2017 published an explosive story that reported Kelly was holding multiple young women against their will in what their parents described as an abusive sex cult. “R. Kelly is the sweetest person you will ever want to meet,” Asante McGee, who used to be part of Kelly’s inner circle, told BuzzFeed. “But Robert is the devil.” R. Kelly’s first name is Robert.

Multiple women have come forward with allegations about Kelly, including former radio DJ Kitti Jones, who told Rolling Stone she suffered verbal and physical abuse throughout her two-year relationship with Kelly. A woman in Dallas has filed a criminal complaint that Kelly emotionally manipulated her and knowingly gave her a sexually transmitted disease.

Jones is featured in the BBC documentary, during which she said she was part of Kelly’s “sex dungeon” and was forced to have sex with him and other people more than 10 times. Per BBC:

She believes some of the girls in the “sex dungeon” were underage, and talked about an encounter with R Kelly where he told her that he had been “training” one of the girls from the age of 14 to be one of his “pets.” Kelly has previously denied these claims, calling them false and defamatory. Kitti Jones said, “I saw that this girl was dressed like me, that she was saying the things I’d say, and her mannerisms were like mine. That’s when it clicked in my head that he had been grooming me to become one of his pets, too. He calls them his pets.”

The BBC documentary was released in late March.

R. Kelly has a long history of sex crime allegations

R. Kelly, whose full name is Robert Sylvester Kelly, has for years been dogged by allegations of sexual misconduct and abuse. Jim DeRogatis, the music journalist who wrote the original 2017 BuzzFeed story, has for years covered Kelly and in 2013 laid out a timeline of his alleged misdeeds, including his 1994 marriage to singer Aaliyah when he was 27 and she was 15 and the multiple lawsuits and settlements with women who said he abused them.

DeRogatis was also the recipient of the now-infamous videotape that shows Kelly engaging in sex acts with and urinating on a young girl. He was ultimately indicted on 21 counts of child pornography, seven of which were later dropped, and was in 2008 found not guilty.

Throughout all of this time, Kelly has continued to perform, make money, and book shows. He tweeted as recently as Wednesday to tout an upcoming show and highlight a Bruno Mars cover of one of his songs.

This isn’t the first time those around Kelly have distanced themselves. Kelly’s former manager, Barry Hankerson, resigned in 2000. He wrote a letter to the star’s attorney saying he thought Kelly needed psychiatric help for a “compulsion” to pursue underage girls.Welcome to the weekly Vox book link roundup, a curated collection of the internet’s best writing on books and related subjects. Here’s the best the web has to offer for the week of April 15, 2018.

Jhumpa Lahiri, who won the Pulitzer in 2000 for Interpreter of Maladies, moved to Rome a few years ago to begin writing in Italian. She talked to the Paris Review about the process of translating Italian novels into English:

Right now, I feel like my creative project is translation. It’s just constant reading and rereading, on such a deep level. If you’re reading anything at that depth, it brings this deep nourishment, linguistically and technically. When I see how Domenico deals with something—say, indirect discourse. Or, How does he deal with time? How does he deal with description? To plow through this new territory—it’s very invigorating for me.

In more recent Pulitzer news, Andrew Sean Greer won this week for his novel Less. At LitHub, he’s created a list of novels he planned to write but never did:

Wow was I feeling bleak. Apparently I applied to work on a novel about an America in which the sun had, for unknown reasons, suddenly gone out. I even spoke with a climatologist at Berkeley to learn how the lack of sun would affect plant life, bird life, etc. But of course I was most interested in how human life would cope in constant darkness, and my idea, naturally, was that we would lose our humanity and turn on each other.

At the Washington Post, Ron Charles points out that Less is one of very few comic novels to win a Pulitzer in the recent past:

“A comic novel” has become a suspect designation, as though creating laughter were some sub-craft, like decoupage. We used to know better. Shakespeare’s comedies are as classic as his tragedies. The light that humor shines on the human condition may be a different frequency, but it’s just as illuminating as its calamitous twin.

At Atlas Obscura, Sarah Laskow goes deep on the history of the girdle book:

Girdle books had to be small, and they had to be light. From the bottom edges of their bindings extended an length [sic] of leather, usually gathered into a knot at the end. This extension of the cover could be used to carry the book like a purse or could be tucked into a girdle or belt. To read, the owner wouldn’t even have to detach the book; when taken up, the book would be oriented correctly, just as if it had been pulled from a shelf.

“There are more cameras here than people,” one person joked. Another journalist asked the room: “Is anyone a normal person or is everyone a journalist?” Only one person -- reluctantly -- identified himself as a “normal person.” ”I wanted to see it for myself and read it, especially after Comey’s ABC interview. I’m more curious now,” said Matthew Hoeck, who was immediately approached by a handful of reporters in the room.

But that doesn’t mean Comey’s book won’t sell well. CNN also reports that since Fire and Fury in January, every book at the top of the New York Times’ hardcover nonfiction best-seller list has been about Trump. A Higher Loyalty is expected to continue the trend.

PBS has revealed its list of America’s 100 most-loved books, so now Ayn Rand’s Atlas Shrugged has the great honor of sharing a list with Jean M. Auel’s The Clan of the Cave Bear.

Happy reading!To Katie Roiphe, #MeToo is a bit of an overreaction.

In her essay “The Other Whisper Network,” published in February by Harper’s, she reiterates an oft-aired concern about the “Shitty Media Men” list, a crowdsourced spreadsheet of reports of sexual misconduct by men in journalism and publishing. Some of the allegations on the list, according to Roiphe, were simply too small to be worth worrying about.

“I can’t imagine sitting with one of my smart, ambitious students in my office,” she writes, “lined with shelves of books like The Second Sex and A Room of One’s Own and I Love Dick and The Argonauts, saying, ‘Before you go work there, I just want to warn you, that guy might leer at you.’ I would worry I was being condescending, treating her like a child who doesn’t know how to handle herself in the world.”

Roiphe’s essay had been anticipated for weeks, ever since word spread on Twitter that it might name the creator of the Shitty Media Men list, who was then anonymous. Moira Donegan subsequently came forward as the creator of the list, and Roiphe folded what she called “the prepublication frenzy of Twitter fantasy and fury about this essay” into the piece itself.

Fallout from the piece continued after publication — on April 18, former Harper’s editor James Marcus told the New York Times he had been fired due to his opposition to the piece. The magazine’s vice president of public relations, meanwhile, disputed his account and said that the story had been “the most successful story we’ve had in a couple years.”

Roiphe’s discussion of the controversy around her essay forms part of the core disjunction of the piece: Much of what women are reporting as sexual misconduct is not really all that scary, Roiphe seems to argue, but the prospect of public criticism is very fearsome indeed.

The “other whisper network” of Roiphe’s title refers to women who, she says, are afraid to air their criticisms of #MeToo in public: “Amid this welcome reckoning,” she writes, “it seems that many women still fear varieties of retribution (Twitter rage, damage to their reputations, professional repercussions, and vitriol from friends) for speaking out.”

Roiphe’s piece is part of a larger strain of #MeToo backlash, one that casts survivors and their allies as repressive agents eager to punish anyone with whom they disagree. This view conflates criticism with prosecution and discomfort with oppression. The current conversation around sexual harassment and assault is new for many people, and it’s no surprise that some are uncomfortable.

It’s reasonable to ask for some empathy for that discomfort, and certainly to demand that everyone be safe from harassment. What’s not reasonable is to ask survivors to stop talking.

For Roiphe, some fears are valid — others are not

Katie Roiphe originally gained notoriety by criticizing what she called the “neo-Puritan preoccupation” with date rape — her past writing on sexual assault was one reason many were concerned that she had been assigned to write about the Shitty Media Men list for Harper’s. The essay she eventually produced is of a piece with her earlier work in that it casts a central feminist and leftist concern — in this case, workplace sexual harassment and assault — as a bit panicked and hysterical.

According to Marcus, “the piece was widely disliked by the entire staff” of Harper’s. He told the Times in April that the magazine’s publisher had suggested running “a contrarian piece on #MeToo movement,” an idea Marcus thought was unwise due to the magazine’s “longtime reputation as a gentleman’s smoking club.” Ultimately, he said, he was fired over his opposition to the piece.

Giulia Melucci, the vice president of public relations at Harper’s, took issue with his account in unusually confrontational language. Asked why Marcus had opposed the piece, she said, “Maybe because it was a good story? It was the most successful story we’ve had in a couple years. He may have been against it, but it was good for the magazine.”

One of the central strands of Roiphe’s essay is a critique of women’s fear. She quotes the writer Rebecca Solnit: “Women are so hemmed in by fear of men, it profoundly limits our lives.”

“The idea of this ubiquitous, overwhelming fear is repeatedly conjured and dramatized by Twitter feminists,” Roiphe writes. She seems to argue that at least for some women, this fear doesn’t truly exist. She quotes one anonymous woman who says, “I feel blessed to live in a society where you are free to walk through the city at night. I just don’t think those of us who are privileged white women with careers are really that afraid.” And if other women are afraid, Roiphe implies, maybe that fear is unjustified.

Roiphe takes both Donegan and the New York magazine writer Rebecca Traister to task for their concerns about a man who, in Roiphe’s words, “was fired many years ago from Harper’s Magazine following an instance of sexual misconduct and now writes for New York.” Of this man, Donegan asks, “What about the women at New York who feel uncomfortable working with him? Why is their ability to feel safe at work less important than his second chance?”

Roiphe deems these questions unnecessary, noting that the man in question does not have women reporting to him and does not work in the office. “The looming threat of his mere existence to the safety of the young New York employees seems somewhat overblown,” she writes, “I can’t help thinking it is @MegaMoira” (Roiphe repeatedly uses an old Twitter handle to refer to Donegan) “here who is endowing him with a power he doesn’t have, and at the same time, not giving those allegedly scared and unsafe young women at the magazine enough credit: Why should they care about a writer puttering at home?”

It is reasonable to have a conversation about the appropriate consequences for acts of sexual misconduct, and about what constitutes a safe workplace for workers of all genders. Roiphe’s aim in her Harper’s essay, however, is different. Donegan, Traister, and other “Twitter feminists” are either exaggerating women’s fear of harassment to punish men, Roiphe argues, or perhaps accurately conveying fears that women simply shouldn’t have. Other women, she suggests, are suffering from a very valid fear: the fear of being shamed.

Roiphe reports that she has been subject to online harassment as a result of attention around her Harper’s piece, which is reprehensible — calling a woman a “harridan” for her journalism, however much one disagrees with it, helps no one. But Roiphe seems to reserve all of her sympathy for women who fear criticism for their skepticism over #MeToo, leaving none for women who fear the harassment and assault that inspired #MeToo in the first place.

Roiphe opens her essay with a discussion of the more than 20 women who spoke to her about their feelings about #MeToo, under the condition of anonymity: “Here in my living room, at coffee shops, in my inbox and on my voicemail, were otherwise outspoken female novelists, editors, writers, real estate agents, professors, and journalists of various ages so afraid of appearing politically insensitive that they wouldn’t put their names to their thoughts, and I couldn’t blame them,” she writes.

The source of their fear is a political climate Roiphe pins on “Twitter feminists”: “Social media has enabled a more elaborate intolerance of feminist dissenters,” she writes, “as I just personally experienced. Twitter, especially, has energized the angry extremes of feminism in the same way it has energized Trump and his supporters: the loudest, angriest, most simplifying voices are elevated and rendered normal or mainstream.”

Roiphe references the harassment she experienced in the run-up to her essay’s publication, and asks, “With this level of thought policing, who in their right mind would try to say anything even mildly provocative or original?”

Roiphe’s Twitter account was created in January of this year, and her piece drips with disdain for women who use the medium. By referring to Donegan and the writer Kaitlin Phillips by their Twitter handles (in Donegan’s case, an outdated one) rather than their names, she seems to be inviting readers to ridicule them: How could you possibly take someone named @MegaMoira seriously, she suggests.

At one point, she justifies talking about Twitter so much by pointing out the apparently staggering fact that people who use it have other jobs — “some of these seemingly fringe figures are actually writers and editors who publish in places like The New Republic and n+1.”

As anyone who uses Twitter regularly knows, Roiphe is quite right that the platform can be unpleasant and, at worst, dangerous. In fact, few have done more to combat its dangers — including the kind of harassment Roiphe reports — than feminists who are active on Twitter. But examining the ways feminists actually use Twitter is not part of Roiphe’s project — instead, she is content to use the term “Twitter feminists” to describe a somewhat amorphous group she identifies as contemporary thought police.

The conversation around #MeToo is uncomfortable for a lot of people. It’s also necessary.

Roiphe is not the only one to describe women speaking out about harassment as though they were agents of a repressive state — Andrew Sullivan, writing in New York magazine about the Shitty Media Men list and #MeToo more generally, called contributors to the list “today’s McCarthyites.”

“They believe,” he wrote, “they are fighting an insidious, ubiquitous evil — the patriarchy — just as the extreme anti-Communists in the 1950s believed that commies were everywhere and so foul they didn’t deserve a presumption of innocence, or simple human decency. They demand public confessions of the guilty and public support for their cause … or they will cast suspicion on you as well.”

While some men have lost their jobs due to reports of sexual misconduct, this is not generally what happens to those who merely refuse “public support” for #MeToo. Public critics of #MeToo have generally received a version of what they doled out: criticism.

Criticism can be deeply unpleasant, and it’s understandable that people are afraid of it. Humans are social animals, and social opprobrium hurts us, even when it doesn’t rise to the level of harassment. I have heard from multiple men, in public and in private, in the last few months, that they are afraid of being criticized for their views on #MeToo or the allegations against a particular celebrity, and their fears are entirely rational: Criticism is deeply uncomfortable, and no one enjoys it.

But sometimes we have to tolerate discomfort in order to have a necessary conversation. “To hold a lot of opposites in our minds seems to be what the moment calls for,” Roiphe writes, “to tolerate and be honest about the ambiguities. If we are going through a true reckoning, there should be space for more authentically diverging points of view, a full range of feelings, space to hash through what is and is not sexual misconduct, which is an important and genuinely confusing question about which reasonable people can and will disagree.”

The conversation Roiphe calls for sounds a lot like the one that is, in fact, happening right now. Authentically diverging points of view? Read, perhaps, Andrew Sullivan on testosterone, gender, and #MeToo; and this response at Slate by Evan Urquhart, a trans man who takes testosterone.

A full range of feelings? Read Allison Benedikt on how her boss became her husband, Leslie Jamison on female rage, Jenna Wortham on how whisper networks can leave out women of color, Heather Wilhelm on why she “cannot honestly say #MeToo.”

Space to hash through what is and is not sexual misconduct? Read Grace’s story about her date with Aziz Ansari (if you haven’t already) and then responses by Bari Weiss, Caitlin Flanagan, Aditi Juneja, and 18 readers of the Lily, the Washington Post’s site for millennial women.

Americans of all genders are already having a robust conversation about the nuances of sexual misconduct, with criticism flying in all directions. Roiphe surely knows this because she’s part of it — fear of “thought policing” aside, she published her piece anyway.

Roiphe has certainly never let criticism stand in her way, and neither have the many people who have written and spoken about #MeToo in recent months, expressing, despite Roiphe’s protestations to the controversy, a wide variety of views. Certainly no one deserves harassment or threats, but the idea that the conversation around #MeToo has become prohibitively unsafe for skeptics is not borne out by the evidence.

To some degree, the current public conversation around sexual harassment and assault is uncharted territory for everyone. Survivors have long been speaking out, or trying to speak out, about their experiences, but they are being heard and their words amplified in new ways. Many people — many men, in particular — have never really been asked to think about the prevalence of sexual harassment, and are now doing so for the first time.

It is inevitable that criticism will arise from this moment. It is inevitable that many people will feel uncomfortable, and that some people will feel hurt. We can approach this discomfort empathetically — we can acknowledge, for instance, that some women are not bothered by workplace flirtation, or that some men are afraid of saying the wrong thing — without shutting down the necessary discussions that are engendering it. We can acknowledge that #MeToo stories can be hard for some people to hear without asking survivors to stop telling them.

The women who spoke out against Harvey Weinstein, and the many people who have come forward to report harassment and assault since then, did not make an easy decision. They faced career repercussions, shaming, threats, and abuse for speaking publicly about their experiences, and they did so anyway. In the conversation inspired by their testimony, we should seek to keep all parties safe from harassment and threats, but we cannot keep them safe from criticism.

What survivors have done in last few months was not easy. We cannot expect the conversation that comes next to be easy, either.It’s 4/20, the day tens of thousands of Americans gather around the country to celebrate a drug that remains illegal in most of the country: marijuana.

April 20 (or 4/20) is cherished by pot smokers around the world as a reason to toke up with friends and massive crowds each year. Major rallies occur across the country, particularly in places like Colorado and California, where marijuana is now legal.

But as support for marijuana legalization grows, the festivities are becoming more mainstream. As a result, marijuana businesses are looking to leverage the holiday to find more ways to sell and market their products. This puts 4/20’s current iteration in sharp contrast with the holiday once embraced by a counterculture movement that was largely made up of hippies and others who decried greed, corporate influences, and all things mainstream. And that tells us a lot about how cannabis is changing in America.

What is 4/20? And why is it on April 20?

4/20 is, in short, a holiday celebrating marijuana.

Why April 20? There are a few possible explanations for why marijuana enthusiasts’ day of celebration landed on this day, but the real origin remains a bit of a mystery.

Steven Hager, a former editor of the marijuana-focused news outlet High Times, told the New York Times that the holiday came out of a ritual started by a group of high school students in the 1970s. As Hager explained, a group of Californian teenagers ritualistically smoked marijuana every day at 4:20 pm. The ritual spread, and soon 420 became code for smoking marijuana. Eventually 420 was converted into 4/20 for calendar purposes, and the day of celebration was born. (A group of Californians published documents giving this theory legitimacy, but it’s unclear if their claims are valid.)

One common belief is that 420 was the California police or penal code for marijuana, but there’s no evidence to support those claims.

Another theory is that there are 420 active chemicals in marijuana, hence an obvious connection between the drug and the number. But there are more than 500 active ingredients in marijuana, and only about 70 or so are cannabinoids unique to the plant, according to the Dutch Association for Legal Cannabis and Its Constituents as Medicine.

A lesser-known possibility comes from the 1939 short story “In the Walls of Eryx” by H.P. Lovecraft and Kenneth Sterling. The story describes “curious mirage-plants” that seemed fairly similar to marijuana and appeared to get the narrator high at, according to his watch, around 4:20. Since the story is from 1939, it’s perhaps the earliest written link between marijuana and 420.

Whatever its origins, 4/20 has become a massive holiday for cannabis aficionados.

Marijuana legalization is changing 4/20

What 4/20 stands for varies from person to person. Some people just want to get high and have fun. Others see the day as a moment to push for legalization, or celebrate legalization now that more states are adopting it and it has popular opinion behind it.

Back in the 1970s, 4/20 was part of a smaller counterculture movement that embraced marijuana as a symbol to protest against broader systemic problems in the US, like overseas wars and the power of corporations in America. “Marijuana was the way you said you weren’t a suit,” Keith Humphreys, a drug policy expert at Stanford University, previously told me.

In recent years, marijuana legalization activists have tried to bring a more formal aspect to the celebration, framing it as a moment to push their political agenda. Organizers for the 2014 Denver rally — during the first year marijuana sales were legal in the state — put out a statement comparing the battle for legal marijuana to “the time when Jews fled from slavery in Egypt,” a moment commemorated in Passover celebrations. “This year’s rally represents the continuing fight for freedom from economic slavery for marginalized members of our community and a rebirth of creative genius that will get us there,” they wrote.

Businesses are also trying to take advantage of the holiday. Eddie Miller, CEO of Invest in Cannabis, which seeks to bring investment into the marijuana industry, previously told me that his company was trying to build and sponsor major 4/20 gatherings around the country — similar to what other companies, some of which Miller has been involved with, have done with holidays like St. Patrick’s Day.

“Our perspective is 4/20 is a real holiday — no smaller than St. Patrick’s Day or Halloween,” Miller said. “It’s just nobody knows about it yet. And our company is going to let everyone know about it.”

4/20 is becoming a commercial event

Originally 4/20 was a counterculture holiday to protest, at least in part, the social and legal stigmas against marijuana. Marijuana legalization undercuts that purpose: As big businesses and corporations begin growing and selling pot, marijuana will slowly lose its status as a counterculture symbol — and that, Humphreys of Stanford University speculated, could bring the end of the traditional, countercultural 4/20.

“If a corporate marijuana industry adopts 4/20, it would still be a celebrated event, but not with the same countercultural meaning,” Humphreys wrote in an email. “People celebrated Christmas long before it became an occasion for an orgy of gift-buying and materialist consumption, but the meaning of the holiday for most people was different then than it is now.”

Companies such as Invest in Cannabis admit they’re already leveraging the holiday as another opportunity to promote the industry and its products — much like beer and other alcohol companies now do with St. Patrick’s Day.

“The media is covering 4/20 as a consumer interest story,” Miller of Invest in Cannabis said. “But some portion of the media is covering 4/20 as a call to arms for the industry — so [in 2015] there are multiple competitive business conferences that are happening in Denver, the [San Francisco] Bay Area, and Las Vegas.”

The pot industry has also gotten directly involved in 4/20 events. The Cannabis Cup, for example, has become a major event at a select city’s 4/20 rally, where hundreds of vendors show off their finest marijuana products to tens of thousands of attendees. The event has steadily grown over the years, featuring big concerts from notable musicians like Snoop Dogg, Soja, and 2 Chainz, as well as a wide collection of marijuana businesses as sponsors.

The Cannabis Cup is only one of many events, which also include comedy shows (like Cheech and Chong), marijuana-friendly speed dating, and trade shows for glass pipes and bongs, offering businesses and celebrities various opportunities to push their products and brands.

Some people don’t attend the public festivities at all, choosing instead to stay home and enjoy a joint (or more) with their friends. For them, 4/20 likely remains a more casual affair void of big sponsorships and marketing.

But in public, 4/20 is increasingly becoming a commercial holiday.

4/20’s shift shows how marijuana legalization will change cannabis

The shift in 4/20 from a counterculture holiday to a more corporate one shows how legalization is changing marijuana.

To many legalizers, this is a sign of their success. Legalization campaigns often adopt the tagline “regulate marijuana like alcohol.” That this is actually happening as the cannabis industry takes a form similar to the alcohol industry is a sign that legalizers are winning.

But to some drug policy experts and legalizers, this is a cause for alarm. The big concern is that a big marijuana industry will, like the tobacco and alcohol industries, irresponsibly market its drug to kids or users who already consume the drug excessively — with little care for public health over the desire for profits.

To this end, many drug policy experts see alcohol as a warning, not something to be admired and followed for other drugs. For decades, big alcohol has successfully lobbied lawmakers to block tax increases and regulations on alcohol, all while marketing its product as fun and sexy in television programs, such as the Super Bowl, that are viewed by millions of Americans, including children. Meanwhile, alcohol is linked to 88,000 deaths each year in the US.

If marijuana companies are able to act like the tobacco and alcohol industries have in the past, there’s a good chance that they’ll convince more Americans to try or even regularly use marijuana, and some of the heaviest users may use more of the drug. And as these companies increase their profits, they’ll be able to influence lawmakers in a way that could stifle regulations or other policies that curtail cannabis misuse. All of that will likely prove bad for public health.

Now, the situation almost certainly will not be as bad as alcohol, since alcohol is simply more dangerous than marijuana. Pot’s risks, for one, tend to be nonfatal or at least much less fatal than alcohol: dependence and overuse, accidents, non-deadly overdoses that lead to mental anguish and anxiety, and, in rare cases, psychotic episodes. Marijuana has never been definitively linked to any serious ailments — not deadly overdoses, lung disease, or schizophrenia. And it’s much less likely — around one-tenth so, based on data for fatal car crashes — to cause deadly accidents than alcohol.

Given this, the focus for drug policy experts tends to be the risk of dependence. As Jon Caulkins, a drug policy expert at Carnegie Mellon University, has told me, “At some level, we know that spending more than half of your waking hours intoxicated for years and years on end is not increasing the likelihood that you’ll win a Pulitzer Prize or discover the cure for cancer.”

But these risks are still risks. Yet as the marijuana industry grows, it’s likely that these will be issues that the industry just doesn’t care much about — and it will market its product excessively for as much profit as possible, even if it means more public health or safety problems along the way.

Today, 4/20 is an example of this shift in action — showing cannabis’s evolution from a counterculture symbol to just another commodity that big companies can make a lot of money from.

For more on marijuana legalization, read Vox’s explainer.“Do I wish he had been our savior? Maybe I wish he had been our savior,” Bette Randazzo said, as if letting free a confession.

Former FBI Director James Comey was not a savior, not for Randazzo, or for many who attended a taping Thursday night of an interview between New Yorker editor David Remnick and Comey at the Town Hall, a venue off Times Square in New York City.

It is one stop of many on Comey’s book tour for his new memoir, A Higher Loyalty. But this event, live and away from the cable news cameras, had been a coveted ticket — rumored to be going for as much as $850 on resale sites.

No one I talked to paid, or at least admitted to paying, that much for a chance to see Comey not answer the questions they most wanted answered. Because of this, people are certain: Comey, studied and precise, will not give them what they want. The former FBI director and seasoned prosecutor, will not break and spill about Donald Trump. He will not say he regrets sending that letter about Hillary Clinton’s emails less than two weeks before the election or give a new answer for why he did what he did.

Yet people still want to hear Comey out. It’s why some lined up overnight in advance of Comey’s first public appearance Wednesday, at Barnes & Nobles in Union Square. It’s why the crowds stretched down 43rd Street on Thursday night. Many, as they were Thursday in Manhattan, are Trump opponents, and they’re grappling with two different Comeys — the one whose memos helped set the Robert Mueller investigation in motion and the other who wrote a letter in October 2016 that may have brought them Trump in the first place.

People are frustrated by Comey, but they believe him. They don’t worship him, but they do want to understand him, the former FBI director who is somehow both a casualty and creator of this moment in American politics.

“What could he have been thinking?”

The need for Comey to decode himself and his decisions seemed to matter more to attendees than the details about Trump, about whether the president obstructed justice, or about the pee tape.

Many in the crowd, informed and well-versed in the daily dramas of Trumpworld, took a longer view. As they saw it, the 2016 election, the Trump presidency, and the Mueller investigation represent major historical moments being written in real time. Seeing Comey, intertwined or implicated in the events, is a chance to be a witness to it all — no matter the outcome.

“What could he have been thinking?” Randazzo said, referring to the infamous letter. She attended the taping with her husband, Steven, both of them photographers from Manhattan. Back in October 2016, they heard about the letter, and knew Hillary was done.

“I want to have respect for him,” Randazzo added. She wants something, a way to understand Comey’s reasoning for the Clinton letter, about his interaction with Trump and the “honest loyalty” pledge. She, like others, had a sense that Comey owed them — America, really — an explanation, an insight, anything to help make sense of the Trump era.

It’s very confusing, Rosemary Lavan said, standing outside the venue before the event. She campaigned for Clinton in Pennsylvania, after seeing Trump sign after Trump sign on a 60th birthday trip. “I have mixed emotions about the guy because of what he did, and I’m furious,” Lavan said of Comey and the letter-that-must-not-be-named. “On the other hand, I do think he stood up to Donald Trump, whom I despise with every ounce of my being.”

She’s still waiting for him to apologize about his handling of the Clinton emails investigation. “Which I know he will never do,” she said. And she’d like Comey to talk more about his feelings — not the book feelings, his real feelings — about Clinton, and Trump, and his former deputy Andrew McCabe, who now might face criminal charges for misleading investigators against leaks. “Which,” she said, resigned, “I seriously doubt he will.”

He’s a “central figure to the story of our time — probably the most important story of our time,” said Andrew Longstreth, of Brooklyn, about Russian meddling into the 2016 election. He described Comey as a tragic figure. “He comes from a good place, he wanted to do the right thing, but got in his own way.”

“But it’s complicated,” Longstreth added. “He’s complicated.”

Does Comey live up to his own ideals?

The only person who appeared convinced of Comey’s true character was the guy relentlessly handing out fliers from a plastic bag claiming that Comey allowed Jamaican gangs to smuggle drugs into the country — an almost quaint conspiracy in this era of fake news. He was joined in his efforts by another man alleging cover-ups by Robert Mueller. This wasn’t his audience. “Hope springs eternal,” he said.

But the rest of the attendees struggled with a more complicated view of Comey. Longstreth articulated one element of that: Comey’s emphasis on the rightness of his personal judgment. Would Comey, Longstreth wondered, be as comfortable with another leader acting on those same instincts? Comey wasn’t infallible, as Longstreth pointed out.

Alexander Gladstone, a financial journalist, thought Comey, by not fully acknowledging some of his actions in 2016, “contradicted the ideals in his book.”

Rachel, an 18-year-old from New Jersey, said she’d read the first few chapters of Comey’s book, and thought that he did strive for ethical leadership — abstaining from voting, for example.

Her father, Marc Halpern, saw Comey and the events around it as “important historical time for our country.” Whatever the outcome, he hoped that, when it was over, a sense of decency and democracy would be restored.

Until then, what’s left is Comey and Remnick, facing each other on a stage, illuminated by a spotlight on a dark stage.

Remnick skillfully tried to find ways to crack open and challenge Comey. Comey, careful and diplomatic, budged only a few times — when he described Trump as having an “emptiness” inside him, and when Comey said, with emotion in his voice, that he would ask Republican leaders, “What are you going to tell your grandchildren?” But the former FBI director remained convinced he had no good options with Hillary Clinton’s letter; the outcome, and what came after, would not change anything.

At one point, Remnick asked Comey why he wrote a tell-all, what he wanted from the exposure. “I do not crave to be known,” Comey replied, maybe oblivious, or maybe all too aware, that the audience craved to know him.As the lead-up to next week’s Avengers: Infinity War intensifies, Marvel fans have been vocal about the conspicuous absence of Hawkeye during the film’s promotion. Last seen coming out of retirement to fight alongside Captain America in Civil War, Clint Barton (played by Jeremy Renner) has been noticeably absent from the marketing hype for the upcoming film.

In Infinity War’s first trailer, he appeared only for a brief moment, with his back turned to the audience. In the subsequent Super Bowl spot, he was nowhere to be seen. The latest trailer once again snubbed Hawkeye, despite finding a place for most of the franchise’s ever-enlarging cast.

Hawkeye has also gone missing from each of the film’s posters and all 15 of its Entertainment Weekly special edition covers. All of this has led to increasing speculation that Hawkeye might not be long for this world. After rumors surfaced that a major character dies at the beginning of the film, all eyes turned to Clint:

*Turns to Family Feud board* "SHOW ME HAWKEYE!" https://t.co/ArUzfV61XG — Shannon Miller (@Phunky_Brewster) April 18, 2018

But while the absence of Renner’s character from the marketing mill has peeved his fans, there’s a perfectly good explanation for it that doesn’t involve death. Vox’s Alex Abad-Santos argued that Hawkeye’s role in this film might be too insignificant to kill: “Can you kill a ghost?” He also noted that the Russo brothers have made it clear Hawkeye is not only not forgotten but that he has “a bit of a long play” sub-storyline through this and presumably succeeding films.

And that’s where the following spoiler-filled fan theory comes in.

Fans have been predicting for months that Hawkeye will be back — but not as we know him

In October, photos surfaced of Renner on the Infinity War set, apparently in costume, wearing distinctive black and gold leg plating. The costume caught the attention of Marvel comics fans because it seemed to indicate that Hawkeye would be going undercover and using an alias known as Ronin.

The “Ronin” alias is a katana-wielding masked ninja persona that’s been used by multiple Marvel characters before. Clint adopted the persona in a 2007 issue of New Avengers, written by Brian Michael Bendis and drawn by Leinil Francis Yu, and proceeded to keep it for the next three years throughout various series, always as an expression of his search for deeper self-discovery. In the comics, Clint’s Ronin persona relies on swords and martial arts skills rather than Hawkeye’s usual bow and arrow (which, it should be noted, were a subject of mockery in a running Age of Ultron gag).

The Hawkeye-as-Ronin theory has resurfaced in recent weeks thanks to the speculation over Renner’s absence from Infinity War’s promotional buildup. It’s also been exacerbated by a viral piece of fan art created by digital artist Yadvender Singh, which some fans have mistaken for official Marvel art:

It’s led to a number of other attempts to envision what Hawkeye as Ronin might look like.

Because we didn't get any Hawkeye in the #InfinityWar trailer, here's a quick Ronin concept poster. Because. pic.twitter.com/LBHGHVBCxW — SG Posters (@SG_Posters) February 5, 2018

Had the tell-tale photo of Renner in what looks like Ronin gear not been leaked, it’s unlikely speculation about his identity would be as advanced as it now is. But even though the rumors may have dampened what will presumably be a big character reveal, fans are still excited for it:

#AvengersInfinityWar marketing has made Hawkeye (or Ronin) my most anticipated character.



If that was done on purpose, good job. — Browntable (@Browntable_Ent) March 28, 2018

Of course, there could also be another, simpler reason Hawkeye is missing from the marketing: The Avengers cast is now so big they just can’t fit everyone in.

We’ll have to wait till the film’s release next week to know for sure.CNN political commentator Sally Kohn published a new book, The Opposite of Hate, earlier this month. It’s a book devoted to the laudable cause of understanding and then fighting back against hatred throughout the world, especially in the form of bigotry and prejudice. So far so good, right?

Here’s the problem: One chapter features a fairly explosive quote from Call Your Girlfriend podcast host Aminatou Sow. Kohn quotes Sow as saying that if she is provoked by a Twitter troll, “I can fucking kill you and I’m justified in doing that.” Metaphorically speaking, Kohn adds.

Sow says that she never said those words. Moreover, she says that she never went on the record with Kohn. Kohn, for her part, maintains that Sow did say those words and that she did go on the record with them, but as a courtesy, she has removed the quote from the digital edition of her book and has committed to removing it from any subsequent printed editions.

The entire controversy is a deeply vexed situation that’s become a referendum on liberal racism and on the way that black women are used as props by progressives. (For more on its social implications, I’d recommend takes by Amanda Arnold at the Cut and Amy Thomson at Mother Jones.) But the controversy has also brought up one of the knottier and more confusing questions that periodically rears its head in book publishing.

Sow says that the misquote would have been caught in fact-checking if anyone had contacted her to verify it. Kohn says that she fact-checked the quote by checking it against her notes and that this method is the journalistic standard.

So how does fact-checking work in book publishing? And is the way that it works effective?

The standard rule in book publishing is that accuracy is the author’s problem

In general, fact-checking is not a standard part of the workflow in book publishing, even in nonfiction book publishing. What usually happens is this: Authors submit their manuscripts, the manuscripts go to editors who help to refine them and shape them, and from there the book goes into production and copy editing.

The copy editor will look for grammatical errors, and sometimes the publisher’s lawyer will check the book to make sure there’s nothing libelous in there, but fact-checking is not part of the standard publisher’s process.

There have been exceptions to this rule. In 2015, Vulture reported that Penguin Random House imprint Tim Duggan Books “has been quietly promoting in-house fact-checking as a special feature of his new shop,” and confirmed that at least one of the books Tim Duggan published had been fact-checked at the publisher’s expense. But the Tim Duggan fact-checking project was an exception, not the norm, and it’s not clear that it survived into 2018. (The imprint did not respond to requests for comment.)

So how do publishers generally handle it if factual errors creep into a book? Basically, the same way they handle plagiarism: They make it the author’s problem.

One of the standard parts of any book contract is the warranty and indemnity clause. By signing on to that clause, an author is guaranteeing that their book is their own, original project, not plagiarism, that it doesn’t infringe on anyone else’s rights, and — if the book is nonfiction — that its facts are accurate. And if it turns out that any of these claims are untrue, the liability is all on the author. They’re the ones who pay up if someone decides to sue.

So the facts are all up to the author. And different authors handle that liability differently. Some might want to hire a freelance fact-checker, but that can get expensive: Vulture cites flat prices of between $5,000 and $25,000, and the Editorial Freelancers Association quotes a rate of about $30 to $40 per hour. The money for fact-checker fees would have to come from the author. And since most nonfiction book authors aren’t exactly rolling in spare cash, it’s a tempting corner to cut. Many authors decide to just fact-check themselves or to skip that step entirely.

Either way, we’re left with an industry in which a lot of nonfiction books don’t get looked over by a professional fact-checker.

“While I can’t speak for every publisher or author, my experience with book-length material is that fact-checking is the exception, not the rule,” says Rob Liguori, a New York-based freelance fact-checker with nearly a decade of experience.

A fact-checker wouldn’t have fixed every issue in the Kohn/Sow mess, but it might have helped a little

According to Sow, she had a single private conversation with Kohn in the back of a car last summer, after drinks. At no point, she says, did she agree to go on the record for Kohn, and at no point did she see Kohn record or take notes on their conversation.

The fact that no one ever contacted Sow to verify her quote after the fact is a major problem, but it’s not the main issue. It’s part of what Sow has framed as the larger problem: According to Sow, Kohn violated basic journalistic principles. (Sow did not respond to a request for comment.)

This quote is explosive and not only do I not remember saying it or Sally asking for my permission to quote me in the car ride, she has admitted to me that she did not go back to factcheck sources in her book. This has been a real education the book editing process. pic.twitter.com/PKekIwe5Wc — Aminatou Sow (@aminatou) April 12, 2018

For her part, Kohn maintains that she did ask for Sow’s permission to put her on the record and that she did take notes on their conversation on her iPhone as they spoke. (She’s put a copy of her notes on Twitter.) Moreover, Kohn says, she did fact-check the quote: she checked it against her notes.

“That is the standard of journalism. That’s the standard of news reporting. That’s how it’s done,” Kohn said in an interview on the Twitter BuzzFeed morning show AM to DM. “Every Times story you read, every Washington Post story you read, they’re not going back and checking with people who went on record and saying, ‘Are you okay with your quotes?’ … Let’s be clear: I’m not inventing a new standard of book-writing here. It’s false to say that the book wasn’t fact-checked. And it’s false to say that the quotes weren’t checked. They were checked against the notes.”

Over the phone, Kohn reiterated her statements. “I have tried to be direct, forthcoming and honest, including about what I wish I had done differently,” she told Vox, saying that she felt that as a white woman she should have been more careful about quoting such an explosive line from a woman of color and that she feels that the critiques of the racial politics of the quote are valid.

But, she said, she continues to maintain that she asked for and received consent to put Sow on the record and that she visibly took notes on the conversation as they spoke. And, she added, “It is true that there is not an industry standard of confirming quotes.”

It’s certainly the case that there are multiple standards of quote confirmation and fact-checking in journalism. As writer Ann Friedman pointed out on Twitter, in a thread that’s critical of Kohn, “Standards for how (and how rigorously) to check facts vary quite a bit depending on what corner of the industry you’re in, what outlet you work for, how tight your deadline is, and even, sometimes, who’s editing you.”

Fact-checking quotes for a newspaper story that has to be published in a matter of hours is a different process than fact-checking a long reported article that has a lot of time and resources going into it, which is part of why magazine fact-checking is more rigorous than newspaper and news website fact-checking. (Disclosure: Vox does not have a dedicated fact-checker on staff, though our copy editors do fact-checking for large, reported articles, and we occasionally hire third-party fact checkers for especially sensitive articles.) And fact-checking a quote transcribed during casual conversation with an acquaintance is a different process from fact-checking a quote gathered in a formal interview.

Quote approval, in which a source gets to read their quotes verbatim and then veto what shows up in print and what does not, is a widely disliked practice that reputable outlets use only in special circumstances. But checking the substance of a quote with a source for accuracy is a different matter.

“I endeavor to verify every quotation in a book, and there is a hierarchy of what constitutes good backup for quotes,” freelance fact-checker Liguori told me. “Most effective would be a discussion with the source about the substance of the quote — though I do not read back quotations to sources verbatim because of concerns about ‘source remorse’ — followed by checking the quotation against an audio recording or a professionally-prepared transcript. Reliance on the author’s contemporaneous, often piecemeal notes is the least reliable way to check a quotation. (Dear writers: please tape your interviews!)”

So while Kohn’s book was fact-checked to an extent, it was not fact-checked with the rigor that an outside party might have brought to the process. And book publishing as an industry is set up to disincentivize bringing an independent fact-checker into the process.

All of which is to say that if Kohn’s publisher had made fact-checking a standard part of its workflow, the way that copy editing is, rather than making it the author’s problem, someone might have contacted Sow about her quote before the book went to press, and Kohn and her publisher might have avoided a public controversy.

A fact-checker would not have solved the central dispute here, which is about whether a journalist used ethical and accurate practices in getting a quote from a source on a sensitive subject. And using a fact-checker is not a magic solution that puts a book beyond all possibility of reproach.

But a fact-checker can act as an effective safety net, a support system that helps make a book the best and most accurate version of itself. And it’s a support system that, for the most part, the book publishing industry does not have.

That’s not a great situation for book authors, their sources, or their readers to be in.

Correction: An earlier version of this piece has Sow saying her conversation with Kohn took place years ago. Sow actually places it last summer.Black Panther isn’t just a terrific movie — it’s also proved to be a record-crushing machine. Here’s a quick roundup of its success thus far:

And now it’s en route to another huge milestone. On Thursday, the movie topped $676 million in the US, a number that surpasses the total theatrical grosses of Iron Man ($318 million), Thor ($181 million), and the first Captain America ($177 million) film — combined.

Of course, box office is only a measure of commercial success, and it can be dangerous to equate box office haul with cinematic greatness. But in the case of Black Panther, it’s well earned. It’s a terrific film, one that shatters stereotypes about race and gender in tentpole blockbusters, explores important ideas about black culture and Afrofuturism, and is a genuinely fun, well-made movie to boot.

The movie’s been out for nine weeks, which means it’s likely slowing down. But T’Challa and co. are part of the force that will likely propel next week’s Avengers: Infinity War into the box office stratosphere and their popularity with moviegoers means they’re not going away any time soon. At this rate, Wakanda will, indeed, be with us forever.Earlier this month, a spokesperson for HBO announced that the network was taking steps to close its gender wage gap. And now we know that HBO has put its money where its mouth is in at least one case. On Thursday night, Westworld’s Evan Rachel Wood told Jimmy Fallon she was finally earning equal pay. And judging from her interview, she’s both glad she’s finally got it and a little pissed off that it took this long.

In an interview with the Hollywood Reporter at the beginning of April, HBO president of programming Casey Bloys explained that after a series of conversations with Big Little Lies star and producer Reese Witherspoon, “We’ve proactively gone through all of our shows — in fact, we just finished our process where we went through and made sure that there were no inappropriate disparities in pay; and where there were, if we found any, we corrected it going forward. And that’s is a direct result of the Times Up movement.” (You just know Reese went full Elle Woods on him.)

Bloys added that HBO’s initiative doesn’t mean that everyone will earn the exact same amount in an HBO show. “When you’re putting a show together, people come in with different levels of experience and maybe some people have won awards or something that makes them stand out,” he said.

“But when you get into season two or three of a show and the show is a success, it is much harder to justify paying people wildly disparate numbers, and that’s where you have to make sure that you’re looking at the numbers — that they don’t end up just on the path they were on from the pilot stage.”

In an April 16 interview with the Wrap, Evan Rachel Wood — who has been active in the Time’s Up movement and the fight for victim’s rights — confirmed that she was finally getting equal pay.

“I was just told that, you know, ‘Hey you’re, you’re getting equal pay.’ And I was like [gasp]. And I almost got emotional,” Wood said. “I was like, ‘I have never been paid the same as my male counterparts … Never, never.’”

Wood may have been tear-struck when she first learned that she was finally getting equal pay, but on The Tonight Show on Thursday night, she didn’t seem thrilled that it took so long to get there.

“I’ve been an actor since I was a kid,” she said, “so it only took 25 years.”Alek Minassian, the man who killed 10 people by driving a van down a busy street in Toronto on Monday, is a terrorist.

We know this because he told us so. On Tuesday afternoon, Facebook confirmed the authenticity of a post in his name, in which he pledged allegiance to something called the “Incel Rebellion.” This is not an organized militant group but rather an ideal developed by the so-called “incel” movement — an online community of men united by their inability to convince women to have sex with them. (“Incel” stands for “involuntarily celibate.”)

Some self-identified incels, as they call themselves, have developed an elaborate sociopolitical explanation for their sexual failures, one that centers on the idea that women are shallow, vicious, and only attracted to hyper-muscular men. They see this as a profound injustice against men like them, who suffer an inherent genetic disadvantage through no fault of their own. A small radical fringe believes that violence, especially against women, is an appropriate response — that an “Incel Rebellion” or “Beta [Male] Uprising” will eventually overturn the sexual status quo.

Minassian is not the first to turn these violent fantasies into reality. In 2014, a sexually frustrated man named Elliot Rodger killed six and wounded 14 in a shooting spree in Santa Barbara, California. He justified his actions in a lengthy and creepy manifesto sent to acquaintances and then widely shared online as retaliation against women as a group for refusing to provide him with the sex he is owed. This man has become a hero to many incels; the Toronto perpetrator praised him as the “Supreme Gentleman” (a term the California shooter coined for himself) in his Facebook post.

Only a tiny percentage of incels seem willing to turn to violence or terrorism, and the movement isn’t a threat on the level of an al-Qaeda or ISIS. But it’s a new kind of danger, a testament to the power of online communities to radicalize frustrated young men based on their most personal and painful grievances.

The Facebook post “situates the attack as extremist and terrorist,” says J.M. Berger, an expert at the International Center for Counter-Terrorism in the Hague. “Misogyny isn’t new, and ideological misogyny isn’t new. Having a distinct movement that is primarily defined by misogyny is [fairly] novel.”

Incel, explained

When we talk about “incels,” we are not talking about all men who are not having sex. Instead, we are talking about a specific subculture of people in various internet forums — subreddits like r/braincels, the cruel troll chat forum 4chan, and dedicated websites like incels.me.

Beyond their shared frustration with not having sex, the incel community is not monolithic. Many of them are simply sad and lonely men, suffering from extreme social anxiety or deep depression. Some of these moderate incels actively police the extremists in their midst; in a sympathetic 2015 profile, the Washington Post’s Caitlin Dewey reported that some incel forums were set up to automatically delete any posts referencing the California shooter.

But many incels have a much more sinister, and specific, worldview — one that the Southern Poverty Law Center sees as part of a dangerous trend toward male radicalization online. These incels post obsessively about so-called “Chads,” meaning sexually successful and attractive men, and “Stacys,” attractive, promiscuous women who sleep with the Chads. Both are positioned as unattainable: The Chad is the masculine ideal, one incel men cannot emulate for reasons of poor genetics, while the Stacy is whom every incel man wants to sleep with but cannot because they aren’t a Chad.

It’s this embrace of helplessness, of their certainty of their own sexual doom, that makes the more extreme incel communities so dangerous. Instead of trying to support each other and work through their issues as a group, the incels in certain communities allow their resentments to curdle. They see the world through the lens of entitlement: They are owed sex but cannot have it because women are shallow. This manifests in a deep and profound hatred for women as a group, which shows up on a very brief scan of some of the more extreme incel communities.

“I have sluts for managers,” one poster on the incel.me forum wrote. “Flat bitch with no ass and loud ugly black landwhale somehow with no ass either ... both brag about all the dick they suck.”

But it’s not just individual women that these radical incels hate — it’s society writ large, a society that allows their perceived sexual oppression to go on. The sexual revolution, in particular, comes in for hate: They believe women being freed to make their own sexual choices, rather than being married off to men and made subordinate, is the reason women can choose to sleep with attractive men and ignore the so-called incels.

This is how inceldom becomes a political doctrine: They see themselves as a class, oppressed by a social system that’s rigged in favor of other men. One post on an incel subreddit compared their worldview to Marxism, with incels playing the part of the proletariat and Chad the bourgeoisie. The natural corollary of this idea is clear: If the root of the problem is an unfair social system, then there needs to be a revolution to change it.

This is where the idea of the “Incel Rebellion” that Minassian referenced comes from — sometimes called “Beta Uprising” on incel forums, a reference to beta males. There’s no centralized planning, no incel equivalent to of Osama bin Laden. There are just men on various online forums celebrating violence and forming a mutually supportive echo chamber that justifies harming others, especially women, in the name of the incel uprising.

“I do not blame Alek Minassian for what he did,” another poster on incels.me writes. “I blame society for treating low status men like garbage. There will always be more rampages because of the way society treats us.”

Some of the reactions to the Toronto attack have been even more extreme. David Futrelle, a journalist who follows the incel movement on his site We Hunted the Mammoth, took screenshots of some of the most extreme pro-Minassian posts, in which posters call for more “ERs” (attacks like the California shooter’s). Here’s one of the worst ones (highlights by Futrelle):

This is the stuff of terrorist incitement and recruitment. The appeal to male frustration in these communities serves, as my colleague Aja Romano has written, as a kind of gateway. Men log on to complain about their loneliness and dating failures and end up getting sucked into a community that encourages them to blame women and society for their problems. And eventually, some of them decide to do something about it.

This is a terrorist movement. What can be done about it?

Terrorism is a notoriously difficult concept to define, but the most widely accepted definition among scholars is that terrorism is a form of violence directed against civilians by a non-state actor with the goal of achieving some kind of political end. By that standard, there is no doubt that the Toronto attack fits the bill. The perpetrator wasn’t taking revenge on a specific woman who wronged him; he wanted to instill terror in society writ large as a means of furthering the incel rebellion against the sexual status quo.

“Morally, it is important to recognize such acts as terrorism,” Stephanie Carvin, a professor at Carleton University in Ottawa, tells me.

This is not a familiar type of terrorism. The groups we hear about the most tend to have more understandable political goals, like installing an Islamist regime or winning the right for their region to secede from a country. The incel rebellion has a much more amorphous endpoint; there’s no worked-out vision for what success looks like, nor is there a chief ideologue working to come up with one. You just have a bunch of random internet forum posters pushing one another toward violence.

While extremist groups are quite commonly misogynistic and even recruit based on male sexual frustration, their ideologies almost never center on that fact. There have been mass acts of misogynistic violence before, as in the 1989 shooting at Montreal’s École Polytechnique that claimed the lives of 14 women, but there wasn’t a large online community providing an ideology that justified the killer’s grievances. The incel turn toward violence is a unique phenomenon, at least in the modern era.

This creates a fairly difficult challenge for law enforcement agencies. On the one hand, there is a real terrorist threat from incel communities; it’s clearly not all talk. On the other hand, there are serious risks that come along with having American and Canadian law enforcement officials trawling Reddit for people to arrest.

“I’m not sure national security agencies are best placed to handle places like 4chan,” Carvin says. “We want to keep the law narrow enough that we aren’t monitoring all different kinds of dissent.”

There’s also a serious identification challenge. Online communities are both full of empty talk and draped in irony, making it tough for social media companies and law enforcement officials to figure out who is a threat and who isn’t.

“[The perpetrator’s] post really highlights the challenges facing the social media companies. It read like a joke or nonsense,” Berger, the terrorism expert, tells me. “How are you supposed to evaluate something like that?”

Does this mean we should just throw up our hands and say that the radicalization of some young men toward violent misogyny is inevitable? Of course not. Carvin suggests that social outreach programs, focusing on countering the sense of isolation that draws young men to these communities in the first place, might be a better idea than standing up a potential counter-incel task force at the FBI. (No such group is currently known to exist.)

But regardless of what the right solution is, we need to be clear-eyed about the type of challenge we’re facing. The internet makes it easier than ever for sad and angry people to find each other and develop communities with weird and dangerous ideologies. What we’re seeing right now is one of society’s oldest hatreds, misogyny, being reworked in real time to fit a specific group of men’s rage and pain.

And 10 people in Toronto just died as a result.A former Smallville actress has been arrested and charged with sex trafficking for her role in a secret society that news reports are calling a “sex cult.”

Allison Mack, who is perhaps best-known for her role as Chloe Sullivan on the WB (later CW) show Smallville, has been charged in a New York federal court with sex trafficking, sex trafficking conspiracy, and forced labor conspiracy. She’s accused of having recruited women — some of whom were underage — to the multilevel-marketing organization Nxivm (pronounced NEX-ium). She faces life in prison.

Ostensibly a self-help group advertising “executive success programs,” Nxivm has been condemned by former members as a cult, in which female members are ritualistically branded and pressured to engage in sexual “master-slave” relationships with higher-ups in the program, and in particular with the group’s founder and leader, Keith Raniere. Raniere, who is known to his followers as “Vanguard,” was arrested last month on charges of sex trafficking.

Raniere maintains his innocence, and the Nxivm website has posted a statement denying all allegations, saying, “We are currently working with the authorities to demonstrate his innocence and true character. We strongly believe the justice system will prevail in bringing the truth to light. We are saddened by the reports perpetuated by the media and their apparent disregard for ‘innocent until proven guilty,’ yet we will continue to honor the same principles on which our company was founded.”

Tabloids and mainstream media outlets alike have almost uniformly described Nxivm as a “sex cult.” And the allegations of sexual abuse, humiliation, and deprivation are chilling. But when you read more about Nxivm, what’s striking is how ordinary its marketing rhetoric seems to have been. Recruiting new members by promising feminist empowerment and anodyne self-actualization schemes, Nxivm took advantage of female insecurity — and capitalistic notions of being one’s own “best self” — to recruit members.

Nxivm has been around for two decades

While Allison Mack may be the most notable member of Nxivm, the group has been in existence, and attracting wealthy and famous adherents, for almost two decades. The Albany, New York-based organization was founded in the late 1990s, peddling self-help seminars and “executive success programs” designed to, in Nxivm’s words, “help … people realize the potential that exists within them.”

Nxivm wasn’t Raniere’s first attempt at a multilevel marketing program; in 1993, he settled with the New York attorney general after being accused of running a pyramid scheme through an unrelated company. Nxivm was by far his most successful attempt, though. Attendees included Stephen Cooper, then acting chief executive of Enron, and heir to the Seagram’s fortune Edgar Bronfman Sr., whose two daughters would go on to become heavily involved in Nxivm.

A Forbes article from 2003 characterizes the seminars as an Ayn Rand-inspired glorification of selfishness:

Days begin at 8 a.m. with the “ESP handclap,” akin to using a gavel to open a court hearing. Students then go through sessions on “Money,” “Face of the Universe,” “Control, Freedom & Surrender” and more. They learn baffling and solipsistic jargon: “Parasites” are people who suffer, creating problems where none exist and craving attention. “Suppressives” see good but want to destroy it. Thus, a person who criticizes Executive Success is showing suppressive behavior.

A New York Times piece on the group reports that approximately 16,000 people have taken Nxivm’s seminars, although only a small fraction of them were inducted into Raniere’s inner circle, known as DOS (from the inaccurate Latin dominus obsequious sororium — “master over the slave women.”)

While it’s unclear when exactly DOS began, one ex-member recalls that Nxivm’s seminars started featuring a course called “Human Pain” in 2011 or 2012. The course encouraged members to engage in extreme forms of self-punishment if they “broke their word,” techniques that would be replicated within the DOS. That member, Sarah Edmondson, who joined Nxivm in 2005, recalls being recruited into DOS in March 2016.

According to ex-members quoted in the Times report, the DOS functions as a kind of master-slave pyramid scheme, in which “slave” members swear fealty to designated “masters,” who in turn are the slaves of their own “masters,” with Raniere at the top.

Ex-members have reported being forced to provide intimate photographs and video of themselves as “collateral” — which were later used to discourage them from speaking out. They report being forcibly branded with Raniere’s initials, being coerced into unpaid labor, and being kept on extremely low-calorie diets to maintain the physiques Raniere found most sexually attractive.

Members were required to text their “masters” every morning and evening and be available to answer their masters’ texts at all time. Minor transgressions were punished with ritual humiliation, such as being forced to wear cow udders or suffer extreme deprivation of food or heat.

Nxivm promoted itself as a chance for feminist empowerment

One of the most striking elements of Nxivm was the contrast between its alleged internal “master-slave” dynamics and its public face.

Nxivm’s recruits, including Allison Mack, billed Nxivm as a chance for feminist empowerment. In January 2016, for example, Mack tweeted at actress Emma Watson, a known supporter of feminist causes, telling her that she wanted to give her more information about an “amazing women’s movement.”

.@EmWatson I'm a fellow actress like yourself & involved in an amazing women's movement I think you'd dig. I'd love to chat if you're open. — Allison Mack (@allisonmack) January 24, 2016

Another actress, Samira Shoaib, recalls Mack attempting to recruit her by characterizing the gathering as “a bunch of women ... [who] go on a retreat upstate, and we share our experiences and support each other.”

In the mid-2000s, one of the major recruitment efforts for Nxivm was through Nxivm-funded a cappella music concerts and gatherings popular with college-age women, at which Mack and her Smallville co-star Kristin Kreuk (who left the organization in 2012 and denies any knowledge of DOS’s use of “sex slaves”) would be present.

Meanwhile, Seagram’s heiresses Claire and Sarah Bronfman, who are believed to have taken over Nxivm after Raniere’s arrest, reportedly bankrolled the organization to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars.

Sarah Edmondson, who shared her story with the New York Times and other outlets, says the DOS was pitched to her as an opportunity to transcend stereotypically feminine weakness like being “over-emotional” or having a “victim” mentality, encouraging women to develop their capacity for obedience and discipline through submission. In a personal essay for Vice, she writes:

Keith taught us that one of the strongest imperfections of the female gender—among other things—is that we’re weak and have no character, we’re indulgent emotionally, and we’re princesses ... The tricky way I believe he got that indoctrination in, is he wasn’t saying these are his views, he was saying this is how women are perceived and this is why women aren’t equal in the world, because they’re perceived this way. This is how men see you.

Only by learning to master her perceived self-indulgent tendencies, Raniere implied, could Edmondson truly become empowered as a woman.

Likewise, Edmondson recalls that the language of feminism was used by other women in the group to convince her to perform acts that made her uncomfortable. When she was told to strip naked alongside other women during her DOS induction, for example, her co-DOS members characterized her “body issues” as something she had to work to overcome. “We’re a sorority,” Edmondson recalls other members telling her. “We’re a sisterhood — relax.”

Nvixm is the perfect “cult” for 2018

Unlike many organizations termed “cults,” Nxivm does not seem to have any theistic or theological content. Members didn’t join because they believed Raniere was a representative of God on earth or that he had any particular spiritual powers.

Rather, Nxivm attracted the members it did by capitalizing not on spirituality but on culturally potent concepts like “female empowerment,” “executive success,” and “self-actualization.” Edmonson recalled feeling like she was initially being inducted into a “badass bitch bootcamp,” and that “The group was supposed to be women that were going to be a secret society, sort of like the Freemasons, as a force for good. We were going to be able to change the world.”

The tools used to recruit members — the same tools that characterize other controversial multilevel marketing schemes, like the “essential oils” phenomenon — are the building blocks of basic capitalism. Promise empowerment. Demand a down payment.

In a society in which religious “nones” are the largest single religious bloc, Nxivm is the perfect, chilling example of a “secular” religion: one that speaks to contemporary cultural neuroses and anxieties and capitalizes on them. It uses some of the same structures as (theistic) religion — a way to order the world and make it meaningful, a sense of ritual and community — but marries them with the cultural values of secularism: independence, self-improvement, and “empowerment.”

One of the most uncanny elements of so-called cults is how they’re able to leverage our wider cultural hungers — for success, for “wellness,” to be our “best selves” — to lure us in.

In that sense, Nxivm doesn’t exist in a vacuum. Dismissing it as a “sex cult” — something “weird” and “creepy” that exists outside the bounds of ordinary society — fails to take into account that Nxivm attracted members because it purported to offer something highly culturally potent: a “badass bitch bootcamp” in which women could self-actualize, and an Ayn Randian narrative of capitalist self-improvement structured around freeing oneself from would-be “parasites.”On April 11, 2011, a trio of prominent Catholic Democratic operatives traded a series of emails accusing Republicans of cherry-picking aspects of their religion for political gain.

“It’s an amazing bastardization of the faith,” wrote John Halpin of the liberal Center for American Progress think tank.

“I imagine they think it is the most socially acceptable politically conservative religion,” Jennifer Palmieri, who also worked for CAP at the time, replied. “Their rich friends wouldn’t understand if they became evangelicals.”

Nothing about the email exchange was particularly remarkable, except for the third person copied in: John Podesta, the head of CAP and a former White House chief of staff.

That became a serious problem five years later, when Podesta was running Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. Russian hackers broke into Podesta’s email account and passed thousands of messages to WikiLeaks to try to damage Clinton and help then-GOP nominee Donald Trump.

On October 11, 2016, WikiLeaks released the Halpin-Palmieri emails. Within hours, Russia’s state-owned RT media outlet started highlighting the exchange in an array of articles on its website that quoted the emails extensively and said that they included “disparaging comments.”

Trump, reeling from the release of the Access Hollywood tape only four days earlier, jumped at the chance to attack Clinton’s team.

His first attack came on the evening of October 11, the same day WikiLeaks released the emails. At a campaign rally in Florida, Trump said the emails showed “the Clinton Team attacking Catholics.”

He went further the next day, telling another rally that the emails “show members of the Clinton team viciously attacking Catholics and Evangelicals.” The messages, he added, “could be election changing.”

We’ll never definitively know whether this WikiLeaks email dump, or their continued release of sensitive emails stolen from Podesta and the Democratic National Committee, were what allowed Trump to squeeze out his razor-thin victory.

But the story of the leaked Halpin-Palmieri-Podesta emails about Catholicism is important all the same because it illustrates the sophistication with which WikiLeaks released the stolen emails for maximum political effect — and the speed with which the emails ricocheted through the conservative media ecosystem and then into Trump’s own remarks.

Put another way, this specific case illustrates a broader point about WikiLeaks: The stolen emails had power, and Trump and his allies so badly wanted to use that power to win the White House that they tried to get early access to the stolen emails at least six times before WikiLeaks publicly released them. And that, in turn, is why special counsel Robert Mueller is focusing on the stolen emails as part of his investigation into Russia-Trump collusion.

This is why Trump was desperate to win the Catholic vote

Spending substantial time on the Catholic vote might seem like a waste, until you look at the demographics of several key battleground states.

Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, two states Trump was aggressively contesting, are among the top 10 states in the US in terms of Catholic population at 29 percent and 32 percent respectively, according to a Gallup survey from 2014.

That means there are about 3.7 million Catholics in Pennsylvania, a state that Trump won by fewer than 50,000 votes. There are about 1.8 million Catholics in Wisconsin, a state he won by about 20,000 votes. Both states were critical to his narrow Electoral College victory.

“It was absolutely part of the strategy to focus on blue-collar Catholics in the Rust Belt; it was a major initiative of the Trump campaign,” Stephen Schneck, a professor at the Institute for Policy Research and Catholic Studies, told me. “WikiLeaks was clearly a piece of all that.”

Polls showed Trump had been lagging among Catholics all through the summer of 2016. An August 2016 poll by PRRI, a polling company that focuses on religion in politics, had Trump trailing Clinton by 23 percent among Catholic registered voters. Four years earlier, Obama and then-GOP nominee Mitt Romney were effectively tied with that group even though many Catholics hold unfavorable views of Mormonism, Romney’s faith.

“You saw people having reservations [about Trump],” Robert Jones, CEO of PRRI, told me, noting that Trump had been sharply critical of Pope Francis and had a well-known history of infidelity.

And by the time WikiLeaks released the emails, Trump was also trying to manage the fallout from the Access Hollywood tape, in which he’s recorded boasting about sexual assault. An influential Catholic political group, Catholic Vote, called for Trump to step down shortly after the tape surfaced.

“If Donald Trump is unwilling to step aside, the Republican National Committee must act soon out of basic decency and self-preservation,” the organization said in a press release.

Then WikiLeaks released the emails.

The stolen emails were a gift for Donald Trump

The sudden uproar over emails that were five years old at that point baffled the three participants.

“We’re calling out rich and right-wing hypocrites that are using our faith to do things that we think are antithetical to our faith,” Halpin, who supported Bernie Sanders and is still with CAP, told me. “At a minimum, it had absolutely nothing to do with Hillary Clinton.”

But with Podesta then running Clinton’s campaign and Palmieri serving as her communications director, Trump’s surrogates jumped at the chance to paint Clinton as anti-Catholic.

The campaign immediately organized a conference call with key campaign figures such as Kellyanne Conway and Newt Gingrich, both of whom are Catholic, along with several prominent leaders of conservative Catholic organizations.

“Callista [Gingrich’s wife, currently the US ambassador to the Vatican] and I both feel assault not just on Catholicism but on people of faith, the callousness, the contempt,” Gingrich said. “Now we know what Hillary meant by deplorables. It’s people of faith.”

Conway, for her part, said that “for 30 years, Hillary Clinton has been openly hostile on issues important to Catholics.”

Eight days after the press conference, Trump was preparing for the Al Smith Dinner, an annual fundraiser for Catholic charities both presidential candidates typically attend and trade lighthearted barbs. Not Trump: Clinton, he said bluntly, “hates Catholics.”

The Kremlin may have helped Trump win the Catholic vote

Catholic groups wouldn’t let the emails go either. After saying Trump should quit the campaign, the Catholic Vote organization changed course and starting promoting his candidacy through political ads that ran straight up to Election Day.

One ad starts with a Fox News clip that described the emails as “dismissing the entire Catholic belief system” and then cut to a middle-aged woman looking directly into the camera.

“I wanted to check out of this election like most people,” she says. “But then with the Clinton campaign mocking us as Catholics, I’m back in.”

By the time the election arrived less than a month after WikiLeaks released the emails, Trump had completely overcome his summer deficit and won the Catholic vote by 7 percent, according to Pew Research exit polls.

The final results of the Catholic vote largely matched those of recent presidential elections, according to Jones. What happened was that many Catholic voters who had been hesitant about Trump over the summer eventually decided to vote for him after WikiLeaks released the stolen emails and Trump returned to the populist themes he’d used earlier in the campaign.

“These kinds of events caused people to pause, but not pull a different lever,” Jones said.

Many observers believe the single biggest factor behind Trump’s last-minute surge was then-FBI Director James Comey’s decision, less than two weeks before Election Day, to announce that the agency was reopening its investigation into Clinton’s emails. Still, the razor-thin margins in several critical, heavily Catholic states mean it’s impossible to dismiss the possibility that the WikiLeaks releases may well have impacted the election.

Halpin, Palmieri, and Podesta may have thought they were sharing innocent, and private, thoughts about the thorny politics of religion. Five years later, Trump’s campaign — with a clear assist from WikiLeaks — found a way to distort and weaponize those emails. Since the US intelligence community unanimously believes Russia stole those emails in the first place, there’s a real chance that Moscow helped deliver the Catholic vote to Donald Trump.“You could say I was red-pilled by Nietzsche.”

That’s how white nationalist leader Richard Spencer described his intellectual awakening to the Atlantic’s Graeme Wood last June. “Red-pilled” is a common alt-right term for that “eureka moment” one experiences upon confrontation with some dark and previously buried truth.

For Spencer and other alt-right enthusiasts of the 19th-century German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, that dark truth goes something like this: All the modern pieties about race, peace, equality, justice, civility, universal suffrage — that’s all bullshit. These are constructs cooked up by human beings and later enshrined as eternal truths.

Nietzsche says the world is in constant flux, that there is no capital-T truth. He hated moral and social conventions because he thought they stifled the individual. In one of his most famous essays, The Genealogy of Morality, which Spencer credits with inspiring his awakening, Nietzsche tears down the intellectual justifications for Christian morality. He calls it a “slave morality” developed by peasants to subdue the strong. The experience of reading this was “shattering,” Spencer told Wood. It upended his “moral universe.”

There is, of course, much more to Nietzsche than this. As someone silly enough to have written a dissertation on Nietzsche, I’ve encountered many Spencer-like reactions to his thought. And I’m not surprised that the old German philosopher has become a lodestar for the burgeoning alt-right movement. There is something punk rock about his philosophy. You read it for the first time and you think, “Holy shit, how was I so blind for so long?!”

But if you read Nietzsche like a college freshman cramming for a midterm, you’re bound to misinterpret him — or at least to project your own prejudices into his work. When that happens, we get “bad Nietzsche,” as the Week’s Scott Galupo recently put it.

And it would appear that “bad Nietzsche” is back, and he looks a lot like he did in the early 20th century when his ideas were unjustly appropriated by the (original) Nazis. So now’s a good time to reengage with Nietzsche’s ideas and explain what the alt-right gets right and wrong about their favorite philosopher.

The obsession with decline

In her recent book about the rise of the alt-right, Irish academic Angela Nagle discusses their obsession with civilizational decay. “They’re disgusted by what they consider a degenerate culture,” she told me in a recent interview.

Nietzsche made these same arguments more than 100 years ago. The story he tells in The Genealogy of Morality is that Christianity overturned classical Roman values like strength, will, and nobility of spirit. These were replaced with egalitarianism, community, humility, charity, and pity. Nietzsche saw this shift as the beginning of a grand democratic movement in Western civilization, one that championed the weak over the strong, the mass over the individual.

The alt-right — or at least parts of the alt-right — are enamored of this strain of Nietzsche’s thought. The influential alt-right blog Alternative Right refers to Nietzsche as a great “visionary” and published an essay affirming his warnings about cultural decay.

“Future historians will likely look back on the contemporary West as a madhouse,” the essay’s author writes, “where the classic virtues of heroism, high culture, nobility, self-respect, and reason had almost completely disappeared, along with the characteristics of adulthood generally.”

There is something punk rock about his philosophy. You read it for the first time and you think, “Holy shit, how was I so blind for so long?!”

Christianity is wrong, Christendom is right

In his interview with the Atlantic, Spencer, an avowed atheist, surprised Wood with a peculiar defense of Christianity: that the religion is false but it “bound together the civilizations of Europe.”

Spencer’s view is common among the alt-right. They have no interest in the teachings of Christ, but they see the whole edifice of white European civilization as built on a framework of Christian beliefs. From their perspective, Christendom united the European continent and forged white identity.

It’s a paradox: They believe the West has grown degenerate and weak because it internalized Christian values, but they find themselves defending Christendom because they believe it’s the glue that binds European culture together.

Last August, Vox Day, a prominent alt-right thinker (who often cites Nietzsche in his posts), laid out the central tenets of the alt-right in a post titled “What the Alt-Right is.” There are a number of revealing points, one of which reads:

The Alt Right believes Western civilization is the pinnacle of human achievement and supports its three foundational pillars: Christianity, the European nations, and the Graeco-Roman legacy.

Nietzsche accepted that Christianity was central to the development of Western civilization, but his whole philosophy was focused on convincing people that the West had to move beyond Christianity.

When Nietzsche famously declared that “God is dead,” he meant that science and reason had progressed to the point where we could no longer justify belief in God, and that meant that we could no longer justify the values rooted in that belief. So his point was that we had to reckon with a world in which there is no foundation for our highest values.

The alt-right skipped this part of Nietzsche’s philosophy. They’re tickled by the “death of God” thesis but ignore the implications.

“Nietzsche's argument was that you had to move forward, not fall back onto ethnocentrism,” Hugo Drochon, author of Nietzsche’s Great Politics, told me. “So in many ways Spencer is stuck in the 'Shadows of God' — claiming Christianity is over but trying to find something that will replace it so that we can go on living as if it still existed, rather than trying something new.”

The irony of racist Nietzscheans

The alt-right renounces Christianity but insists on defending Christendom against nonwhites. But that’s not Nietzsche; that’s just racism. And the half-baked defense of “Christendom” is an attempt to paper over that fact.

Nietzsche was interested in ideas, in freedom of thought. To the extent that he knocked down the taboos of his day, it was to free up the creative powers of the individual. He feared the death of God would result in an era of mass politics in which people sought new “isms” that would give them a group identity.

“The time is coming when the struggle for dominion over the earth will be carried on in the name of fundamental philosophical doctrines,” he wrote. By doctrines, he meant political ideologies like communism or socialism. But he was equally contemptuous of nationalism, which he considered petty and provincial.

Listening to Spencer talk about Nietzsche (and, regrettably, I listened to his Nietzsche podcast) is like hearing someone who never got past the introduction of any of his favorite books. It’s the kind of dilettantism you hear in first-year critical theory seminars. He uses words like “radical traditionalist” and “archeofuturist,” neither of which means anything to anyone.

Like so many superficial readers of Nietzsche, Spencer is excited by the radicalism but doesn’t take it seriously. Spencer’s rejection of conventional conservatism clearly has roots in Nietzsche’s ideas, but Spencer’s fantasy of a white ethnostate is exactly what Nietzsche was condemning in the Germany of his time.

“Nietzsche's way forward was not more [racial] purity but instead more mixing,” Drochon told me. “His ideal was to bring together the European Jew and the Prussian military officer. Spencer, I take it, only wants the latter.” Nietzsche, for better or worse, longed for a new kind of European citizen, one free of group attachments, be they racial or ideological or nationalistic.

Racists find affirmation in Nietzsche’s preference for “Aryan humanity,” a phrase he uses in several books, but that term doesn’t mean what racists think it means. “Aryan humanity” is always contrasted with Christian morality in Nietzsche’s works; it’s a reference to pre-Christian Paganism. Second, in Nietzsche’s time, “Aryan” was not a racially pure concept; it also included Indo-Iranian peoples.

People often say that the Nazis loved Nietzsche, which is true. What’s less known is that Nietzsche’s sister, who was in charge of his estate after he died, was a Nazi sympathizer who shamefully rearranged his remaining notes to produce a final book, The Will to Power, that embraced Nazi ideology. It won her the favor of Hitler, but it was a terrible disservice to her brother’s legacy.

Nietzsche regularly denounced anti-Semitism and even had a falling-out with his friend Richard Wagner, the proto-fascist composer, on account of Wagner’s rabid anti-Semitism. Nietzsche also condemned the “blood and soil” politics of Otto von Bismarck, the Prussian statesman who unified Germany in 1871, for cementing his power by stoking nationalist resentments and appealing to racial purity.

So there’s no way to square Nietzsche’s philosophy with the racial politics of the alt-right, just as it wasn’t fair to charge Nietzsche with inspiring Nazism. But both of these movements found just enough ambiguity in his thought to justify their hate.

The alt-right renounces Christianity but insists on defending Christendom against nonwhites. But that’s not Nietzsche; that’s just racism.

Nietzsche as a mirror

Nietzsche liked to say that he “philosophized with a hammer.” For someone on the margins, stewing in their own hate or alienation or boredom, his books are a blast of dynamite. All that disillusionment suddenly seems profound, like you just stumbled upon a secret that justifies your condition.

He tells you that the world is wrong, that society is upside down, that all our sacred cows are waiting to be slaughtered. So if you’re living in a multiethnic society, you trash pluralism. If you’re embedded in a liberal democracy, you trumpet fascism. In short, you become politically incorrect — and fancy yourself a rebel for it.

Nietzsche was a lot of things — iconoclast, recluse, misanthrope — but he wasn’t a racist or a fascist. He would have shunned the white identity politics of the Nazis and the alt-right. That he’s been hijacked by racists and fascists is partly his fault, though. His writings are riddled with contradictions and puzzles. And his fixation on the future of humankind is easily confused with a kind of social Darwinism.

But in the end, people find in Nietzsche’s work what they went into it already believing. Which is why the alt-right, animated as they are by rage and discontent, find in Nietzsche a mirror of their own resentments. If you’re seeking a reason to reject a world you don’t like, you can find it anywhere, especially in Nietzsche.An unexpected Saturday morning presidential tweet briefly — and without further explanation or elaboration — raised the prospect of a perhaps-imminent pardon of former boxing champion Jack Johnson, the victim of a century-old act of racial injustice.

Sylvester Stallone called me with the story of heavyweight boxing champion Jack Johnson. His trials and tribulations were great, his life complex and controversial. Others have looked at this over the years, most thought it would be done, but yes, I am considering a Full Pardon! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

Johnson has been dead for more than 70 years, so the practical stakes, in this case, are low. But a pardon would be a symbolically potent recognition of the kinds of racial disadvantage even relatively privileged African Americans have experienced in American history — a theme whose relevance endures today.

Of course, a symbolic act of solidarity with people of color mistreated by the criminal justice system seems a little off brand for Trump. But Johnson’s case is far enough back in time — and has enough support from old, white, male, conservative boxing fans — that moving forward would be unlikely to trouble anyone in Trump’s base. Meanwhile, at least one aspect of a Johnson pardon would be extremely on brand: Pulling the trigger would be a rebuke to former President Barack Obama, who considered a pardon but didn’t go through with it.

Even better, it would be an example of the very disregard for the norms and procedures of office for which Trump is so frequently criticized paying off and serving the public interest. Plus, it would make Sly Stallone happy, and he played Rocky.

Who was Jack Johnson?

Born in a poor (though, according to Johnson’s recollections, racially integrated) section of Galveston, Texas, to former slaves in 1878, Johnson attended school for five years before quitting in favor of work on the docks. He boxed as an amateur during his teen years and made his professional debut in Galveston in 1898.

Boxing was, at the time, a semi-segregated endeavor with a separate World Colored Heavyweight Champion title available to black boxers who were unable to compete with whites for the title of World Heavyweight Champion. At the same time, professional boxing has always been a decentralized affair, and black and white fighters were able to meet outside the context of championship bouts.

And, indeed, as early as 1901, Johnson fought the Jewish boxer Joe Choynski in a match that landed both contestants in jail (prizefighting was illegal in Texas at the time) after one of the very few defeats in Johnson’s career.

In 1902, Johnson defeated Frank Childs, a two-time former Colored Heavyweight Champion, and in 1903 he beat Denver Ed Martin on points to become World Colored Champion himself.

Johnson, however, set his sights higher and was determined to challenge James Jeffries for the title of World Heavyweight Champion. Jeffries, however, refused and eventually retired undefeated in 1905.

In 1907, Johnson fought — and beat — Jeffries’s predecessor, Bob Fitzsimmons, as part of an ongoing campaign waged in the press to taunt (white, Canadian) Heavyweight Champion Tommy Burns into fighting him in December 1908.

Johnson, defying the expectations of the white press, beat him in a well-publicized match in Australia and touched off what can only be termed an outbreak of mass racial hysteria, in which a succession of “Great White Hope” figures were sought to dethrone Johnson, all of whom fell short. White racists’ hopes then alighted on the still-undefeated Jeffries, hoping that he could beat Johnson and reclaim the title for the white race.

When, instead, Johnson won their July 4, 1910, bout — dubbed the Fight of the Century — the reaction was an immediate outbreak of white supremacist violence in multiple American cities. As a contemporaneous United Press International story recounts, “riots between whites and blacks followed in a dozen cities of the country, and reports this morning increase the number and add to the list of injured.”

Three African Americans were killed in Uvalda, Georgia; in San Francisco’s Tenderloin district, one was “seized by angry whites and strung up to a lamppost,” though police cut him down before he died, and “another mob attempted to lynch a negro buying a paper.”

Jeffries, however, came away humbled by the experience, explaining: “I could never have whipped Johnson at my best. I couldn’t have hit him. No, I couldn’t have reached him in 1,000 years.”

Unbeatable in the ring, Johnson was instead taken down by the law.

Why does Jack Johnson need a pardon?

Johnson scandalized the conventional opinion of his time by not only out-boxing white fighters but also openly carrying on relationships with a series of white women, three of whom he married.

The prime of Johnson’s career roughly corresponded with what was probably the nadir of civil rights in America in the post-Civil War years. In the 1870s, 1880s, and even to an extent the 1890s, African Americans served in Congress and the national Republican Party saw attempting to uphold black voting rights as a political imperative.

By the early 20th century, however, GOP commitment to President Abraham Lincoln’s legacy had largely evaporated, while the Long Civil Rights Movement had yet to begin making an impact on Northern Democrats. When President Theodore Roosevelt had a 1901 dinner meeting with Booker T. Washington at the White House, it produced a massive racial backlash. Woodrow Wilson’s election in 1912 would bring formal segregation to federal offices and the District of Columbia.

In this difficult political context, Johnson was viewed as a menace by white supremacists but also as a problematic figure by black political leaders who were invested in a form of respectability politics that he flagrantly violated.

In his 2006 book, Unforgivable Blackness, Geoffrey C. Ward quotes Washington’s anti-Johnson remarks to an audience at the Detroit YMCA:

It is unfortunate that a man with money should use it in a way to injure his own people in the eyes of those who are seeking to uplift his race and improve its conditions. Chicago is now witnessing a good example of the result of educating a man to earn money without due attention having been given his mental and spiritual development. In misrepresenting the colored people of this country this man is harming himself the least. I wish to say emphatically that his actions do not meet my personal approval, and I am sure they do not meet with the approval of the colored race.

In the summer of 1912, Johnson met Lucille Cameron, and they were frequently seen in public together shortly thereafter.

Cameron’s mother went to the press and argued, “Jack Johnson has hypnotic powers, and he has exercised them on my little girl. I would rather see my daughter spend the rest of her life in an insane asylum,” she further argued, “than see her the play thing of a ni**er.”

On October 18, 1912, Johnson was arrested for violating the Mann Act — a 1910 law making it a federal crime to transport across state lines “any woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose.” This vaguely worded statute was in theory designed to combat prostitution or human trafficking, but in practice could be applied much more broadly.

The October case fell apart, but Johnson was rearrested in November, married Cameron in December, and was convicted in June 1913, after which time he skipped bail, resurfaced publicly in Montreal, and then lived in exile abroad with Cameron for seven years before surrendering to authorities in 1920.

During Johnson’s exile years, W.E.B. Du Bois wrote of Johnson’s critics, “Of course some pretend to object to Johnson’s character. But we have yet to hear, in the case of White America, that marital troubles have disqualified prize fighters or ball players or even statesmen. It comes down, then, after all to this unforgivable blackness.”

Several members of Congress have been seeking a Johnson pardon

In the wake of the civil rights movement, Du Bois’s view that Johnson was the victim of unjust racial persecution has become conventional wisdom. The January 2005 Ken Burns documentary that borrowed Du Bois’s memorable phrase — Unforgivable Blackness — for its title further pushed Johnson’s case into the public eye.

The year before Burns’s documentary came out, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and Rep. Peter King (R-NY), both boxing fans, first introduced legislation calling for an official pardon of Johnson. McCain and King succeeded in getting a “sense of Congress” resolution expressing the idea that Johnson deserves a pardon included in the bipartisan 2015 No Child Left Behind rewrite. In June 2016, they were joined by Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) and Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) in writing a letter to President Obama on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of Johnson’s death to urge a pardon.

With Reid retired, Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) has taken his place as the go-to Senate Democrat on this issue, joining with McCain, King, and Meeks to write a 2017 resolution once again seeking a pardon for Johnson.

Stallone, a Republican boxing fan like McCain and King, is apparently also on the “pardon Johnson” bandwagon. Since Trump is apparently more interested in the views of famous movie stars than of US senators, Stallone seems to have persuaded Trump to consider the matter seriously.

A Johnson pardon would be a rebuke to Obama

The momentum for a Johnson pardon gathered several times during President Obama’s two terms in office, but it was always rebuffed by the administration. This despite the fact that, in some ways, it would seem like a natural symbolic cause for the country’s first black president to embrace.

But he never did, perhaps in part because black America has traditionally had somewhat mixed feelings about Johnson as a civil rights icon, but more fundamentally because Obama was a stickler for rules. Presidential pardon claims are normally processed by the Department of Justice’s Office of the Pardon Attorney, which does fairly extensive research and investigations on claims for presidential clemency.

The OPA’s standard operating procedure is to not bother wasting resources on people who are dead, and the Obama administration neither wanted to go outside the OPA process nor get them to change their policy.

Trump, by contrast, has already bypassed the OPA to pardon Joe Arpaio and Scooter Libby in moves that have been mostly denounced by progressives as examples of Trump’s dangerous disregard of constitutional norms. There’s considerable concern on the left that Trump will attempt to pardon his way out of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and undermine the rule of law.

The fact that the presidential pardon power is so unconstrained by the text of the Constitution — allowing the president to pardon essentially anyone of any federal crime for any reason (or no reason at all) — is a somewhat embarrassing and potentially alarming fact. A president’s political allies could, in theory, murder opposition members of Congress on the streets of Washington (where, not being a state, murder is a federal crime) and then get pardoned for their trouble. So the OPA process has been created over the years to “tame” and bureaucratize the process.

Pardoning Johnson would be a way of delivering something Obama couldn't — or wouldn’t — and of specifically highlighting that Trump’s oft-criticized way of doing business has some real upsides. Trump has faced relentless criticism for his norm violations and rule-breaking, but it’s unquestionably the case that at least some of his appeal was precisely the sense that a sclerotic American political system has become excessively unresponsive to the public’s needs and desires.

If Johnson can’t get a posthumous pardon even when more or less everyone agrees he deserves one out of sheer bureaucratic inertia, what hope is there for causes that face actual opposition from organized interest groups?

For Trump to simply do the thing would both redress a historical injustice and serve as an object lesson in the real upside implicit in his freewheeling approach to the presidency.Megan Halicek went to Dr. Larry Nassar as a 15-year-old gymnast suffering from a fractured spine. But during what was supposed to be a routine appointment, Nassar assaulted her: “Again and again and again,” Halicek testified in court in January, “he abused me, all the while telling me stories about his Olympic journey.”

“I closed my eyes tight, I held my breath, and I wanted to puke,” she recalled. “To this day, those feelings are still there.”

Halicek is one of more than 150 women who came forward with harrowing testimony at the sentencing hearing for Nassar, a former doctor for USA Gymnastics and sports medicine physician at Michigan State University who has pleaded guilty to charges of criminal sexual conduct and federal child pornography charges.

A judge sentenced Nassar to up to 175 years in prison for his crimes in January, saying “I just signed your death warrant.” The former doctor has already been sentenced to 60 years on federal child pornography charges.

Among Nassar’s alleged victims are decorated US Olympians, including Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, Simone Biles, and McKayla Maroney. Maroney said Nassar molested her “every time I saw him.” It amounted to “hundreds” of times she told NBC’s Savannah Guthrie, in a Dateline interview set to air Sunday.

“I think I would’ve starved at the Olympics if I didn’t have him [Nassar] bring me food.” @McKaylaMaroney opens up about the competitive gymnastics culture to @savannahguthrie. More on @datelineNBC Sunday night pic.twitter.com/JlWluizD8g — TODAY (@TODAYshow) April 19, 2018

But the majority were not famous competitors. They were students and young female athletes — gymnasts, dancers, and volleyball players. Nassar’s reputation as a well-connected, talented doctor won their trust. It also helped secure their silence.

The ongoing reckoning with the Nassar case comes amid a larger outpouring of stories about sexual assault and harassment in all arenas, from Hollywood to hotel rooms — and the people in power negligent or complicit in protecting those perpetrators.

Even given the headlines of the past few months, the Nassar case is shocking. First, there’s the number of known victims: More than 260 women and one male athlete have now come forward, which, as HuffPost’s Alanna Vagianos writes, represents “nearly as many victims as the Jerry Sandusky, Bill Cosby, and Harvey Weinstein scandals combined.”

Many of the victims were minors, sometimes abused with their parents in the room while they were medically examined. There is evidence that Michigan State University and USA Gymnastics, the two elite institutions associated with Nassar, were slow to act on reports that he was abusing girls and young women.

Here’s what we know about the case against Nassar, where it stands now, and why elite gymnasts may have ended up particularly vulnerable.

Who is Larry Nassar?

Nassar practiced at the very top tier with some of the most elite American gymnasts. In 1986, he began working with USA Gymnastics, the governing body that selects Olympic teams, as an athletic trainer. After he went to medical school at Michigan State University, he became the chief medical coordinator for USA Gymnastics in 1996. At photos taken at the 1996 Olympics, he’s pictured next to American gymnast Kerri Strug after her famous ankle injury, and he attended the games in Sydney in 2000, Beijing in 2008, and London in 2012.

He was also part of the faculty at Michigan State, where he had taught and practiced medicine since 1997 — meaning he wasn’t only a renowned sports physician but also part of an academic institution.

Then in September 2015, Nassar abruptly retired from USA Gymnastics with little fanfare. (He’d stepped down from his chief medical coordinator position but had originally planned to stay on as the team doctor for the 2016 Olympics.)

A year later, a flood of sexual assault allegations began to explain why.

More than 260 people have accused Nassar of sexual abuse

In 2016, the Indianapolis Star ran a scathing exposé on USA Gymnastics’ systematic failure to protect young athletes from sexual abuse and to report allegations against coaches to authorities. It opened the floodgates and eventually led to dozens of allegations against the physician.

The initial article focused on coaches and did not name Nassar, but Rachael Denhollander of Louisville, Kentucky, reached out to the publication with her own story of abuse and filed a criminal complaint with the Michigan State University police. In it, she alleged that Nassar had sexually abused her in 2000, when she was 15.

Denhollander had sought treatment from Nassar for lower back pain at his sports treatment clinic at MSU, and she alleged that the doctor, without gloves, digitally penetrated her vagina and anus, and at another visit unhooked her bra and massaged her bare breasts with a “visible erection.”

“He’s the type of person who knows how to make you want to trust him,” Denhollander told the Indy Star in the September 2016 story. “There’s a reason he’s risen to this place of prominence. And honestly, part of what grieves me so much is that he has everything he needs to be an incredible leader. He has the personality, he has the skill, he has the knowledge, and he’s using that to prey on people. What a waste.”

Around the same time, “Jane Doe” (who later identified herself as Jamie Dantzscher, who competed with Team USA in 2000 at the Sydney Games), filed a civil suit in California against Nassar, alleging that he abused her repeatedly between 1994 and 2000.

Dozens of allegations followed, all similar, about a trusted doctor who offered relief only to molest them under the guise of treatment.

“For years, Mr. Nassar convinced me that he was the only person who could help me recover from multiple serious injuries. To me, he was like a knight [in] shining armor,” Alexis Moore, who said Nassar molested her starting when she was 9, said in court in January. “But alas, that shine blinded me from the abuse. He betrayed my trust, took advantage of my youth and sexually abused me hundreds of times.”

Eventually, 125 women filed criminal complaints with police, and as many as 260 people have filed civil suits against the doctor and the institutions that employed him for so long, most notably USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University. Some of the victims say coaches and administrators were aware of complaints against Nassar, but no actions were taken against him.

The victims, all women, include notable US Olympians. Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, and McKayla Maroney, Jordyn Wieber, four members of the “Fierce Five” 2012 gold medal-winning team stated publicly that Nassar sexually abused them. Wieber came forward for the first time during Nassar’s sentencing. Simone Biles, one of the most decorated gymnasts of all time, has said that Nassar abused her too.

Nassar’s victims said the doctor cannily won over their trust, making them feel special or privileged because of his position with USA Gymnastics. He operated in a sport where injuries can end careers, and young athletes deferred to his authority. Even Olympic athletes were told to feel grateful for Nassar’s care; Raisman said an official with USA Gymnastics told her she should feel lucky for his treatment because he was such a good doctor.

Victims testified that he gave them gifts, offering trinkets from his Olympic travels. Maroney, in her interview with Guthrie, said Nassar would bring her food, and that used the intense, pressure-filled culture to his advantage. “I would’ve starved at the Olympics if I didn’t have him bring me food,” she said.

Nassar was also outwardly supportive, and kind to many of those he abused. “He was always, always, always on my side,” Raisman told Time magazine. “He was always that person who would stick up for me and make me feel like he had my back. The more I think about it, the more I realize how twisted he was, how he manipulated me to make me think that he had my back when he didn’t.”

Nassar, after initially denying the allegations of abuse and defending vaginal penetration as part of his medical treatment, pleaded guilty in two Michigan counties to a total of 10 counts of criminal sexual assault. The victims are primarily women or girls; the first male athlete came forward in March. Almost all were assaulted by Nassar during the course of a medical examination, except one girl — a family friend of Nassar’s whom he abused for six years, between the ages of 6 and 12.

In addition to the charges in Michigan, federal prosecutors charged Nassar in December 2016 with possession of child pornography, saying that the doctor had about 37,000 explicit images in his possession. Investigators discovered this cache while executing a search warrant related to an investigation into sex abuse allegations against Nassar, which stemmed from his work with USA Gymnastics.

Nassar ultimately agreed to plead guilty in July to the possession of child porn, but as part of the deal, he avoided the more serious federal sex abuse charges, which ESPN reported included allegations that he molested children in his home, in his pool, and during “interstate/international travel.” A judge sentenced him to 60 years in prison — the maximum prosecutors had asked for — in December.

USA Gymnastics knew about Nasser’s abuse for weeks before reporting it

As in other recent sexual abuse scandals (involving retired football coach Jerry Sandusky at Penn State and within the Catholic Church, among others), a big question is what the institutions involved knew and when they knew it.

Current and former members of USA Gymnastics have delivered scathing criticisms of the organization for its handling of Nassar. Dozens of members are suing the organization for negligence; a handful of lawsuits have also named famed US gymnastics coaches Bela and Martha Karolyi, who ran the training center in Texas where elite gymnasts trained. (USA Gymnastics ended its relationship with the Karolyis in January.)

“I heard during the testimonies that some of the parents were in the therapy room with their own child and Larry Nassar was performing this,” Martha Karolyi told NBC’s Guthrie, adding “and the parent couldn’t see. How I could see”

The institutions have seen some shake ups. The entire board of USA Gymnastics agreed to resign on January 26, prompted by a scathing letter from the US Olympic Committee. Three members of the USA Gymnastics board of directors had already stepped down amid pressure, including chair Paul Parilla and vice chair Jay Binder. Steve Penny, the CEO of USA Gymnastics for more than 10 years resigned in March 2017 as the scandal unfolded. (He was also named in several lawsuits.)

The House Oversight Committee also launched an investigation into Larry Nasar and sexual abuse at USA Gymnastics, and the Karolyi ranch. “The Committee is investigating how Nassar’s crimes were able to occur, let alone persist, for over two decades,” the committee wrote in a letter. “USA Gymnastics, the national governing body for the sport in the United States, is at the center of many of these failures.”

USA Gymnastics heard about allegations against Nasser in June 2015, according to the Indianapolis Star:

A coach overheard the U.S. national team member, who is Manly’s client and another elite gymnast discussing the doctor at the Karolyi Ranch, the women’s national team’s training center in Texas. The coach reported the conversation to USA Gymnastics senior vice president of women’s program Rhonda Faehn on June 17, 2015, according to USA Gymnastics, and Faehn immediately called Steve Penny, the organization’s president.

But the organization waited five weeks to contact law enforcement officials about the incident, justifying the delay by saying it had conducted its own independent review. The Wall Street Journal later reported that the case, which bounced around FBI field offices, didn’t begin in earnest until about April 2016 — 10 months after the first allegations were reported.

“I’m so angry that, after realizing that we were abused, they let him continue to molest other gymnasts when they told me there was an investigation going on,” Raisman told ESPN’s Outside the Lines, referring to USA Gymnastics. “They told me to be quiet. I thought that they were doing the right thing, and I didn’t want to tip off the investigation. I trusted them and I shouldn’t have.”

Meanwhile, other gymnasts reached settlements that would keep them from speaking publicly: McKayla Maroney, who won gold with Raisman in 2012 in London, reportedly faced a $100,000 fine from USA Gymnastics if she spoke out about Nassar (she originally came forward in December 2016) as part of a $1.25 million settlement. USA Gymnastics later issued a statement that said it “has not sought and will not seek any money from McKayla Maroney for her brave statements made in describing her victimization and abuse by Larry Nassar.”

The problems at USA Gymnastics weren’t limited to Nassar, as revealed in the Indianapolis Star’s extensive investigation. The Star discovered a pattern of coaches and others failing to report sex abuse to authorities and later uncovered more than 360 cases spanning 20 years in which gymnasts accused coaches of sexual misconduct.

The organization had hired a former federal prosecutor, Deborah Daniels, last November to conduct an independent review on how it handles sexual assault allegations.

The review, released in June 2017, is striking in the obviousness of its recommendations, including that all members of USA Gymnastics report abuse immediately to authorities.

USA Gymnastics is, in some ways, still reeling from the Nassar allegations. Daniels called for a “complete cultural change” at the organization, and cited the atmosphere — where elite athletes are trained and taught to defer to authority figures such as coaches — as contributing to the roadblocks of rooting out and reporting abuse. USA Gymnastics unanimously adopted all 70 of the recommendations for implementation.

But some athletes say these efforts fall far short. “My highest priority has been to push for change, so future generations of athletes will be safer,” Raisman said in a statement, after filing a lawsuit against the US Olympic Committee and USA Gymnastics. “It has become painfully clear that these organizations have no intention of properly addressing this problem. After all this time, they remain unwilling to conduct a full investigation, and without a solid understanding of how this happened, it is delusional to think sufficient changes can be implemented.”

The microscope is also on Michigan State University

Many of Nassar’s victims say Michigan State has yet to answer for enabling Nassar. Some of the lawsuits filed against the university say coaches, staff, and other university employees knew of the allegations against Nassar, and others have told ESPN Magazine and Detroit News that they warned coaches, trainers, and other university officials about his misconduct long before he was finally fired in 2016.

The fallout has begun, spurred by the survivors’ excruciating testimony. The Department of Education has opened a formal investigation into the university. So has the NCAA. The House Oversight committee is looking into the failures at Michigan State University.

Attorney General Bill Schuette has also embarked on a “full review” of the Nassar case, appointing a special prosecutor who has already handed down his first indictment in March: William Strampel, Nassar’s former boss and former dean of MSU’s College of Osteopathic Medicine. Strampel was charged with crimes related to sexual misconduct and abuse of power, including sexually assaulting, verbally abusing, and soliciting nude photos from female students. He also faces misdemeanor charges for “willful neglect of duty” in failing to properly supervise Nassar or enforce proper medical protocol.

Hours after Nassar’s sentencing on January 24, MSU president Lou Anna Simon announced she would step down. Simon said in a statement that “as tragedies are politicized, blame is inevitable. As president, it is only natural that I am the focus of this anger.”

MSU’s popular athletics director Mark Hollis announced his retirement on January 26. He told reporters he wasn’t forced into retirement and will cooperate with investigators. “Our campus and beyond have been attacked by evil,” he said. “We must listen and learn lessons. Only then can we truly begin the process of healing.”

Reporting casts doubt on MSU’s line that it first heard of Nassar’s misconduct in 2016. ESPN Outside the Lines interviewed four women who said they told MSU coaches or trainers about Nassar as far back as the 1990s. Two of those women said that they told Kathie Klages, MSU’s longtime gymnastic coach, in 1997 about Nassar. Klages resigned in February.

Others came forward after that. Tiffany Thomas Lopez, a former MSU softball player, told ESPN she complained about Nassar to three athletic trainers in 1998:

”I felt like they thought I was a liar,” Thomas Lopez says. She eventually met with Destiny Teachnor-Hauk, an athletic training supervisor. “She brushed me off, and made it seem like I was crazy. She made me feel like I was crazy.”

A separate Detroit News investigation found that no less than 14 MSU officials or representatives were aware of allegations against Nassar in the nearly 20 years before his arrest. At least eight women and girls had made complaints, including one who contacted local police officials.

In 2014, the university launched a Title IX investigation into Nassar after a recent MSU graduate reported that she had visited his clinic for hip pain, and he had massaged her breasts and vaginal area and appeared to be sexually aroused as he did so.

The university closed the investigation after three months, in July 2014. It dismissed the woman’s claim, concluding that she hadn’t understood the “nuanced difference” between sexual assault and an appropriate medical procedure.

According to the Indianapolis Star, the university consulted four experts to draw their conclusions — all of whom had ties to both the university and Nassar. The university attempted to reopen the 2014 Title IX investigation in December 2016, after a slew of women came forward against Nassar. (The woman involved is now suing the university, along with dozens of others.)

The Title IX investigation also forced police to open a criminal probe. The Lansing State Journal reported that MSU police also launched an investigation (as required by the Title IX complaint), and the Ingham County prosecutors also declined to bring charges.

Meanwhile, Nassar was allowed to see patients during that 2014 criminal investigation. What’s more, both USA Gymnastics and MSU admitted that they did not communicate to each other that Nassar was under investigation by their separate institutions, according to Michigan Live. A New York Times report later found at least 40 women and girls who were abused between July 2015, when the allegations against Nassar first came to the attention of the FBI, and September 2016, when MSU finally fired Nassar.

As the women delivered their impact statements in court, they also called out the university, alongside USA Gymnastics, for their lack of accountability. “It’s horrifying that MSU and USA Gymnastics are not stepping up to their plate to admit their wrongdoing,” Olivia Cowen said during her statement. “I’ve gone from a raving fan of MSU to now seeing green and white in the very same way I do Larry Nassar. I want MSU and USAG to know what they have done is on the very same level of accountability as the crime Nassar has committed.”

Many of Nassar’s victims were not world-famous athletes, and instead encountered abuse as student athletes at Michigan State, or elsewhere in the Michigan community.

“It’s hard to feel like, if I was an Olympic gymnast, maybe this would be different,” Jessica Smith, who says Nassar abused her when she was 17, told HuffPost. “If I was a football player at MSU or a basketball player at MSU, then maybe the public and MSU as an institution would care more.”

MSU has denied any cover-up relating to Nassar. “Any suggestion that the university covered up Nassar’s horrific conduct is simply false,” the university said in a statement, in response to the victim impact statements:

Words cannot express the sorrow we feel for Nassar’s victims; the thoughts and prayers of the entire MSU community are with these women as we listen to their heartbreaking testimony. … We want to say again that we are truly sorry for the abuse Nassar’s victims suffered, the pain it caused and the pain it continues to cause.

The university is conducting an internal review of the handling of the Nassar case, led by former federal prosecutor and special counsel Patrick Fitzgerald. Jason Cody, a spokesperson for MSU, told Michigan Public Radio that if the review turns up anything criminal, it will be referred to law enforcement.

Are gymnasts particularly vulnerable to abuse?

There’s an even broader question of institutional culpability in the Nassar case: the institution of elite gymnastics itself.

Abuse exists across Olympic sports. The US Olympic Committee has taken steps to address this, including opening the US Center for SafeSport, now an independent nonprofit, which oversees abuse reports and education and training for all 49 Olympic governing bodies.

Shellie Pfohl, the president and CEO for the Center for SafeSport, told Vox that one of their top priorities is to make sure those who come forward with abuse allegations aren’t retaliated against, and they are trying to foster a culture change that puts athletes’ safety first. “Protect athletes no matter what,” she said. “Their well-being is more important than making the team or earning a medal.”

But some argue that certain factors make elite gymnasts more vulnerable to abuse.

Top gymnasts are usually still in their teens: Gabby Douglas won the individual all-around title at the London Olympics at age 16 in 2012.

That means that teenagers are facing grueling physical training and an extremely competitive environment that can make them vulnerable to abuse — an environment journalist Joan Ryan described in 1995’s Little Girls in Pretty Boxes, a book exposing the abuses top female gymnasts and figure skaters face.

“My whole book was about really framing what goes on in elite gymnastics as legal, celebrated child abuse,” Ryan said. “There is nobody looking out for these girls.”

Girls in the sport are desperate to achieve, and just as desperate to please the adults around them, she concluded. And that makes them vulnerable. In this environment, Ryan said in an interview with Vox, “the abnormal starts to become normal.”

Ashley Stirling, a professor of kinesiology and physical education at the University of Toronto, stressed that athletes of any age or gender are no more or less susceptible to sexual abuse than other groups of people.

But, she said, the research has shown that among athletes, women and girls at “the imminent age of achievement” are the most vulnerable — which in gymnastics is frequently adolescents and young teens.

“The younger that age is, the more at risk that sport is to sexual violence,” Stirling said. She added the risk factors increase for those who define themselves as athletes — something particularly true for an Olympian or other top athlete.

Such competitors may fear speaking out because it may feel as if they’re sacrificing their goals — and part of their identity.

That can increase the pressure to keep quiet about abuse. Teenage girls, said Ryan, are training like professional athletes, under enormous pressure, and are grateful to be with the top coaches. They have a short window to succeed in the sport. Rocking the boat, so to speak, isn’t an option.

“These are girls,” she said. “If you are an elite gymnast you are a perfectionist. You’re totally driven. Totally focused. Your parents have probably mortgaged the house and they have a lot riding on your success, [so] you’re not going to disappoint anybody.”Friday is 4/20— a day of stoner jokes, and, yes, lighting up. And with the recent legalization of marijuana in states like Vermont and California, it’s going to be an even happier holiday for some. But one thing that may get lost amid the smoke is that there is still an ongoing war on drugs that disproportionately targets people of color.

Research shows that there’s a clear racial discrepancy in who is arrested for marijuana possession, and that discrepancy even exists in states that have legalized marijuana.

As of January, weed is currently legal in nine states and Washington, DC. But laws still exist in some of these states that bar public consumption of marijuana, ban marijuana sales, and prohibit marijuana use for people under 21. A recent report by the pro-legalization Drug Policy Alliance found that even as arrests in states that legalized pot decline for black and white people, black people are still more likely to be arrested.

Marijuana legalization hasn’t ended racial disparities in arrests

Take Colorado, one of the first states to legalize pot back in 2012, and the first state to allow recreational marijuana sales in 2014. According to a 2016 report from the Colorado Department of Public Safety, the arrest rate for black people for weed-related offenses is still nearly three times that of whites. While marijuana arrests in general have decreased, this hasn’t affected all groups equally. “The decrease in the number of marijuana arrests by race is the greatest for White arrestees (‐51%) compared to Hispanics (‐33%) and African‐Americans (‐25%),” the report notes.

As Vox’s German Lopez has explained, these disparities exist in other states that have legalized marijuana and reflect the presence of racial bias in the criminal justice system. The difference isn’t explained by black and white marijuana use rates, since surveys show that black and white Americans use the drug at similar levels. But that data didn’t stop a Republican legislator in Kansas from arguing earlier this year that black people respond “the worst” to marijuana “because of their character makeup, their genetics.”

There is a concern that the recent wave of legalization will leave black Americans behind.

Racial justice activists, many of them black women, argue that for real change to occur legalization must include a change in how drug laws are enforced by police officers, and have incorporated the issue into the broader conversation about race and policing. And black people are also working to increase their presence among those starting marijuana businesses in states that allow sales.

“As white people exploit the changing tide on marijuana, the racism that drove its prohibition is ignored,” Vincent M. Southerland, executive director of NYU Law’s Center on Race, Inequality and the Law, and Johanna B. Steinberg of the Bronx Defenders recently wrote for the New York Times. “So are the consequences for black communities, where the war on drugs is most heavily waged.”White evangelical support of Donald Trump is at an all-time high, according to a new study. The poll, conducted by the Public Religion Research Institute in March, found that a full 75 percent of white evangelicals surveyed had a positive opinion of Donald Trump, compared to just 22 percent holding an unfavorable view. Among white evangelical men, that number is even higher — 81 percent — while 71 percent of white evangelical women also view Trump favorably. The poll has been tracking Trump’s ratings since he first became a Republican primary candidate in March 2015.

Given that 81 percent of white evangelical voters voted for Trump, these latest findings suggest that the well-document turmoil of Trump’s presidency has done little to dissuade his core supporters. Nor are his supporters necessarily banking on the only Republican option out there: According to the poll, 69 percent of white evangelicals would prefer Trump, rather than another Republican candidate, as the 2020 presidential nominee,

These numbers are particularly striking in the light of a number of debates being carried out among academics and pastoral leaders within the evangelical community. Earlier this month, for example, a group of progressive evangelicals met in Lynchburg, Virginia, to protest the solidly pro-Trump rhetoric f Jerry Falwell’s Liberty University, while, just this week, a group of 50 evangelical leaders met at Wheaton College to discuss the future of evangelicalism in the light of Donald Trump’s presidency.

“[T]he reason we are getting together is the 2016 election and the role that white evangelicals played in electing Trump,” evangelical author Katelyn Beaty told the Washington Post, adding that the meeting provided an opportunity to ask “how have we gone wrong and how can we repair what’s clearly broken.”

But that sense of ambivalence doesn’t seem to have reached rank-and-file white evangelical voters. During the 2016 primaries, for example, Trump’s favorability rating among white evangelicals fluctuated at around 30 percent (reaching an all-time low of 24 percent in March 2014). It steadily increased after Trump won the nomination. Since the inauguration — when Trump’s approval was at a then-all-time high of 74 percent — his ratings have dipped somewhat (to a low of 68 percent) but consistently rebounded.

For comparison: Consider the case of white evangelical support for George W. Bush in mid-2001. According to documentation provided by the Public Religion Research Institute, white evangelicals supported Bush during his presidency in similar numbers as Trump (79 percent support to Trump’s 75). But Bush’s overall favorability at that time was at 61 percent, compared to Trump’s 42 percent. In other words: today, the difference between the attitude of white evangelicals and the public at large is a staggering 33 points; the difference was much smaller during the Bush administration.

How has Trump managed to hold onto this support? According to Public Religion Research Institute founder and CEO Robert Jones, author of The End of White Christian America, there are two major factors in Trump’s continued success among evangelicals.

The first, he says, is pure partisanship.

“We’ve seen this before,” Jones says. When Mitt Romney, for example, won the Republican nomination in 2012, white evangelicals were initially cautious about the candidate, who is Mormon. But “as soon as he became the Republican nominee, his approval jumped.”

In general, Jones says, white evangelicals vote by about 4:1 for the Republican candidate, whoever it is — numbers that played out in Trump’s election. “Republican partisanship is sort of baked into evangelical identity in a way it’s been since Reagan,” Jones said.

But, he said, Trump’s continued success since the inauguration, as well as voters’ support for him over another potential Republican challenger, speak to a wider change in how white evangelicals vote.

“The ‘values voters’ have all but dissipated,” said Jones, referring to the evangelical voting bloc that stressed the importance of a candidate’s perceived moral character.

During the Clinton years, Jones pointed out, evangelicals treated Clinton’s dalliances as a fundamental character flaw. Now, however, the evangelical political discourse is markedly different: “[They believe] ‘The ends justify the means’ — it’s a very transactional and utilitarian political ethic” — the goal of which is to “elect a candidate [evangelicals] believe is going to carry water for [them].”

Just look, Perkins said, at the way the Family Research Council’s Tony Perkins, a major figure within the evangelical world, used a popular golf euphemism for a “do-over” — a “mulligan” — to imply that Trump’s alleged affair with Stormy Daniels should be ignored.

Republican partisanship may be a defining feature of white evangelicalism, in other words. But the rhetoric used to defend Republican candidates, from morality-based “values voting” to a purely utilitarian “elect our guy” approach, has shifted drastically.

As Jones put it: “Evangelicals have completely turned their political ethics on its head.”Last month, ProPublica reported that over the past five years, IBM has targeted its older American employees for layoffs. The numbers are staggering: Since 2013, it’s estimated that IBM eliminated more than 20,000 employees ages 40 and older in the US.

Using public records, internal company documents, and a collection of stories from over 1,400 former IBM employees, the investigation pieced together how IBM went from dream employer in the 1980s to recent layoffs. How exactly does one of the country’s largest tech giants quietly push out so many older workers? Don’t we have laws to protect people at the end of their careers? Check out the video above for more.

In response to age discrimination claims, IBM spokesperson Ed Barbini has said: “We are proud of our company and our employees’ ability to reinvent themselves era after era, while always complying with the law. Our ability to do this is why we are the only tech company that has not only survived but thrived for more than 100 years.”

ProPublica hasn’t received further explanation or response from IBM in the weeks since its reporting on the company was published. But these layoffs haven’t ended. Members of a Facebook group, Watching IBM, have reported that IBM sent a wave of layoff notices in just the past few weeks.

If you know more, particularly about anything happening internally at the company, reach out here. This story makes up the seventh installment in Vox’s collaboration with ProPublica. You can find this video and all of Vox’s videos on YouTube. Subscribe and stay tuned for more from our partnership.“There’s a part of me that says, ‘You could have done more. You could have been more active.’”

Nineteen years ago, Andy McDonald was a student at Columbine High School when two of his classmates walked into school armed with two sawed-off shotguns, a carbine rifle, and a semiautomatic handgun and fatally shot 12 students, one teacher, and themselves.

It was far from the first school shooting, but the details around the attack — the huge arsenal of weapons (which also included propane bombs and pipe bombs), the much-discussed role social isolation may have played in driving the killers’ actions, panic about the alleged influence of video games and metal music — marked it as the first of a specific kind of mass shooting.

Since Columbine, there’s been an average of 10 shootings a year in American schools, according to a Washington Post analysis. It is routine for them to be compared, in one way or another, to the Columbine shooting. But the shooting in February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed by an ex-student wielding an AR-15, felt viscerally familiar to McDonald.

“This one I’ve really tried to stay away from,” he said. “It hit really close for me.” Yet McDonald also has watched the actions of the students at Parkland afterward with deep respect — and a twinge of regret that Columbine students did not do something similar.

Since the shooting at Stoneman Douglas, the students at that school have plunged into gun control activism; they played a central role in the March for Our Lives protest in Washington, DC last month. As the Parkland kids speak out, Columbine survivors like McDonald have been reflecting on how the earlier tragedy continues to affect their lives nearly two decades later. Some feel a sense of hope that policy changes that make such shootings less likely could finally occur, while others remain skeptical. All of them had their lives upended.

These interviews have been condensed and edited for clarity.

“They’re experiencing so much inside that nobody else necessarily gets to see.”

Jami Amo

Columbine High School class of ’02. She was 15 at the time of the Columbine attack. A stay-at-home parent and gun violence prevention advocate in Philadelphia, Amo, has three children, ages 7, 4, and 1.

I am diagnosed PTSD. When [mass shootings] happen, I’ll get flashbacks. Memories that seem far away most days come back a lot closer when you see it on the news. It’s been almost 19 years, but it’s not something that you move on from.

I can’t go somewhere and not know where the exits are. I can’t have my back to the door, for example, when I’m in a restaurant. I don’t really see movies anymore — movie theaters make me very uncomfortable. I’ll have panic attacks and anxiety issues. For the most part, I’ve been able to work through these issues over the years. I can leave my house and still do things that I have to do. But on the inside, I’m totally a wreck.

I used to think nothing really significant happened to me on that day. I wasn’t shot. My sister [class of 2000] wasn’t killed. There were people who had it so much worse. And what I know now is that trauma is not about how bad it is for you compared to others. What happened at Columbine really was significant enough that I can say now that it’s okay that this affected me so deeply.

When I see the Parkland kids, it’s inspiring. There’s also an element of concern for them. Are they eating? Are they sleeping? Are they talking to a counselor? Are they taking care of themselves? They’re doing so much. And they’re experiencing so much inside that nobody else necessarily gets to see.

Part of me feels like, why wasn’t this enough to anger people on a broad level before? I’m grateful for it, but at the same time, it’s an interesting thing to wonder. What’s the difference this time?

“There’s a part of me that says, ‘You could have done more.’”

Andy McDonald

17 when the Columbine shooting occurred, class of ‘00. A social studies teacher who lives in Plymouth, New Hampshire, McDonald has three children, ages 9, 4, and 1.

There’s a part of me that says, “You could have done more. You could have been more active.” I wrestle with that, between my family and other things that I could be doing, those big-picture things that you want to do versus what you need to do right now. It’s hard. Those Parkland kids — that was me 19 years ago. The fact that this has continued to happen and nothing has been done about it is horrible.

One of the things that crossed my mind was, what if there were changes that were made after Columbine on a policy level? What could have been different today as a result? Would it have become part of the culture? That was part of my frustration.

I’ve worked with assembly programs and spoken to students all over the country and in places around the world. Big picture, that hasn’t worked. Maybe it’s worked to a certain extent, I don’t know. But I feel like I’ve tried to take what happened to us at Columbine and turn it into something positive. And every time these things come up, you see that it just wasn’t good enough. And that might not be fair.

“You may have to be more patient with us adults than we deserve.”

Samantha Haviland

Class of ‘00; age 15 at the time of the Columbine attack. She’s now a citywide public schools counseling director in Denver.

I traveled and did some speaking shortly after the shooting, through high school and a couple years of college. I told my story an awful lot, which tends to make you calmer when you’re processing some of those things.

The activism I was involved with after Columbine was more about anti-violence. I traveled for Crime Stoppers International, and I went to schools with the message that this was a very average day in a very average school. It was a campaign of, basically, “See something, say something,” that was anonymous. Don’t think it can’t happen to you, and keep your eyes out and be vocal if you see something that scares you. I traveled with a general message of, “Be kind to each other.”

I am very proud of the Parkland High School students. I think the direction they’ve taken it, the anger and frustration with us as adults, is very appropriate. I would tell the Parkland kids, yes, be angry. Yes, be vocal. Yes, be persistent with us. And take care of yourself and know that these are very complex issues. You may have to be more patient with us adults than we deserve.

What I worry about is that these students will take it personally that it takes us adults a long time to navigate this. I don’t want them to think we don’t appreciate them or love them or value their life. I worry about trauma victims who see the inaction of others as a personal affront, that they don’t matter. All students matter. Do not let us get away with walking away without having the conversation. With the volatility of gun control, I know that we’re going to have to have some really hard conversations because people have ideologized their access to weapons.

“My relationships with these people I went to high school with are so different.”

Kelly Vandamme

Class of ‘00; 17 years old when the Columbine shooting occurred. Vandamme is now an accountant in Littleton, Colorado, with two children, ages 5 and 3.

It became hard to deal with because no one understood. It was almost like I was being looked at as, “I know a girl that went to Columbine.” [I was] trying to find out who was really interested in me as a person instead of me being part of something that was unheard of at the time. I struggled a lot with dealing with it and finding people to talk to about it. It was such a unique thing to be part of a school shooting back then.

Then I moved back home and I realized I have amazing relationships with people I went to high school with that I don’t think I’d otherwise have. I think our friendships and our relationships are just stronger because there’s this inherent bond, and we don’t have to talk about the shooting. It’s not something you want to talk about that much. My relationships with these people I went to high school with are so different because they had to be. They’re the only people that can understand what you’ve been through, and who you are today because of it.

“Those kids don’t owe anybody really anything right now.”

Stephen Cohen

Class of ’99, he was 18 years old when the shooting occurred. He’s now a general assignment newspaper reporter in Seattle.

I hope that what the Parkland kids are talking about and what they are advocating for is really, truly what they believe — and it seems to me that they are. But if this is something that’s coming from the adults around them, tell the adults to fuck off. They should make sure they’re not being steered by anybody.

In the tradition I grew up in, there was a strong presence there of a conservative, evangelical bent. People thought Columbine was going to be the start of some kind of revival in the country. Of course they believed that, right? They had just seen their kids get murdered. How do you square that?

There’s a song that my brother and I performed at the memorial service, called “Friend of Mine.” It became an anthem of healing and community, but also it’s a deeply religious song. In the months after the shooting, my brother and I were flown around the country to go appear at different festivals. We went in front of a congressional delegation in DC at the Capitol. Then people would make donations that went to Columbine victims. We were this weird Christian rock star hybrid tragedy survivor thing for a summer, which will fuck with you.

Looking back on it now, that was a really weird time. I’m happy that we were able to raise money for the people who were injured, but I also feel deeply troubled about the fact that we were put in this very strange spotlight afterward.

That kind of stuff is incredibly disruptive. Even from good people whose motives are more or less pure, that stuff can put kids in harm’s way. It can delay them getting help. For me, it led to some very conflicted feelings later on in life. What exactly did I endorse at that time that I wouldn’t endorse now and would never have thought to have done that without somebody sort of steering me in that direction? That’s a hard thing to kind of square.

Because those kids don’t owe anybody really anything right now. They’re victims in this. For all of them, I just hope that they’re getting help.

“You let us bury every child, and then we’ll talk about school.”

Paula Reed

A teacher at Columbine High School when the shooting occurred, Reed has two children, ages 27 and 22. She lives in Lakewood, Colorado, and still teaches at Columbine.

I’ve been a part of a Facebook page called the Rebels Project, for survivors of mass shootings, for several years now. I ended up privately messaging a couple of teachers from several schools where there were mass shootings.

I get a lot of questions like, “I don’t know what to do. I’m so angry, but then I have to go to school, and I have to teach, and I have to act like everything is okay because I have to be strong for the kids.” Just for them to just be able to talk to a teacher who can say, “Yep. Been there, done that,” and to give them some pointers for how to get through it.

Teachers are by nature rule followers for the most part, and people know that. So they will ask you to do nearly impossible things. When you’re in shock, you’re even more likely to say, “Okay, I’ll try to do that.” It’s okay to dig in your heels and say, “Don’t tell me what I need and what I don’t need.” They tried to make us go back to school before we had buried the last child, and we said, “No. We’re not doing it. You let us bury every child, and then we’ll talk about school.”

I’m also still pretty jaded. When I talked to the teachers from Sandy Hook, and they said, “Do you think this is going to make a difference?” I said, “Nope. It’s not. The NRA is really powerful, and it’s not going to make a dent.”

Lead image credits: Morgan Levy, Corey Perrine, Sarah Priestap, and Ian Bates for Vox. Family images courtesy of Jami Amo, Andy McDonald, Samantha Haviland, Kelly Vandamme, Stephen Cohen, and Paula Reed.

First Person is Vox’s home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.This is what life in #MeToo jail looks like

Share This is what life in #MeToo jail looks like

Powerful men toppled by the media over allegations of sexual harassment or even sexual assault are starting to agitate for an end to their life in exile, where they’ve endured months of horrors in the #MeToo gulags.

Matt Lauer appears to be inching his way back into New York life after he was ousted from NBC when eight women accused him of years of harassment and serious abuse. One woman said he would lock the door to his office by hitting a button under his desk so no one could come in during these incidents.

After getting fired, Lauer said that “repairing the damage will take a lot of time and soul-searching and I’m committed to beginning that effort. It is now my full-time job.”

Lauer, apparently, defines “a lot of time” as four months, doing his soul-searching at one of his compounds in the Hamptons:

Lauer bought the 14,000-square-foot property from Richard Gere for $33 million in 2016. His #MeToo prison cell overlooks the Peconic Bay and includes 12 bedrooms and 12 bathrooms, a 60-foot heated swimming pool, a private 240-foot dock, and an “island-inspired” teahouse, whatever that means.

Charlie Rose skipped town last year after he was accused of walking around naked or with a bathrobe open in front of his underlings for decades.

Hollywood mogul Barry Diller described his punishment this way: “You get accused, you’re obliterated,” he said in an interview with Maureen Dowd. “Charlie Rose ceases to exist.”

By “ceases to exist,” Diller means that Rose isn’t spending as much time glad-handing in Manhattan restaurants. Instead, he’s retreated to his “sanctuary,” a large house outside New York City, in a town called Bellport on Long Island. He enjoys panoramic views of the water from his house and can see Fire Island in the distance.

James Cury wrote for the Hollywood Reporter that Rose has made “occasional, mostly disastrous forays into Manhattan.”

Harvey Weinstein pleaded for “a second chance” 10 days after the New Yorker and the New York Times dropped damning reports detailing accusations that the Hollywood mogul carried out decades of abuse, including rape. “I’m hanging in. I’m trying my best,” Weinstein said to a TMZ reporter on video. “I’m not doing okay, but I’m trying. I gotta get help. We all make mistakes. Second chance, I hope.”

When forgiveness didn’t materialize in a week and a half, Weinstein retreated to the desert, taking a trip to a luxury Arizona rehab facility where he spent $58,000 on a 45-day sex addiction treatment plan. He didn’t complete the program, which had stringent requirements like waking up sort of early to meditate. The facility, called the Meadows, offers patients a swimming pool and beautiful views. (Kevin Spacey also paid the Meadows a visit for sex addiction after 15 accusers came forward with accounts of abuse and assault by the actor.)

In November, Croc-wearing celebrity chef Mario Batali apologized directly for how he’s treated women for decades. “My behavior was wrong and there are no excuses. I take full responsibility,” Batali wrote in an email newsletter message. He included a recipe for cinnamon rolls, to underscore his sincerity.

He was seen walking around Manhattan 10 days after the accusations surfaced. Since then, it’s hard to say exactly where he’s spent his time. He considered flying to Rwanda and Greece to help refugees (no word on that). He considered a move to the Almafi Coast, the New York Times reports. Then there’s speculation that he went to his Michigan retreat, a waterfront home overlooking the Grand Traverse Bay. Batali reportedly spends his summers there making pizza in his outdoor wood-fired oven.

Four months since his apology, Batali started taking meetings in New York to figure out a comeback.

These high-profile bad actors want us to believe they did real time. Many of their allies say their sentence is as bad as it gets. “Peoples lives are being shattered and destroyed by a mere allegation,” President Trump wrote in a supportive note on Twitter, referring to staffer Rob Porter, who lost his job in the White House when credible accusations that he abused both of his ex-wives and a former girlfriend became public.

But the fact is, losing a job and relying on money, accumulated power, and powerful friends to continue to live in luxury while plotting your return is not the same as real jail.

For example, unlike Lauer or Rose’s #MeToo jail, in real jail, there are no ocean views:

And in general, you stay imprisoned much longer. In New York, for example, if you’re, theoretically, convicted of a sex crime, you could face up to 25 years in prison. One instance of a misdemeanor offense, like unwanted grabbing or pinching, could land you in jail for up to a year.

And you don’t get to decide to slip out of prison to eat at a nice restaurant or take a walk through New York City.

But unlike in criminal cases, where a rubric is supposed to be applied to behavior to determine the punishment, we’ve looked at these cases as unique examples. Each man’s behavior is assessed on the specifics of his situation and the question of whether it merits him being fired.

We ended up here in large part because of the role the media played in starting this long-overdue national conversation. #MeToo emerged alongside investigative reporting that outed individual men. The media did its job. Reporters gave us stories that exposed and humanized a rampant problem.

But the media isn’t designed to execute large-scale changes to tackle systemic problems. That’s the big question about what’s next for the #MeToo movement. As my colleague Anna North writes, “Talk of comebacks at this early date risks replicating one of the flaws critics saw in earlier phases of the #MeToo conversation: an excessive focus on individual men to the exclusion of the systemic factors that allowed them to harass colleagues with impunity.”

Until we start to rely on regulators, the legal system, and even employers to see the issue of sexual harassment as a serious, deeply rooted, and structural problem that requires significant change, we’ll continue to find ourselves gawking at individual men. It’ll be those few powerful men and their allies who’ll get to define what the punishment for these offenses should be. They’ll call it exile. They’ll call it banishment. They’ll try to claim #MeToo jail is enough.

It won’t come close to real jail. And it won’t solve the problem.On April 20 — the informal holiday known as 4/20 — cannabis users celebrate their favorite herb. The day features both heavy smoking and long impassioned speeches in favor of allowing adult consumers unfettered legal access to a substance that some 37 million Americans report having used in the past year.

Those celebrations will not, however, be quite universal, even among cannabis consumers. Presumably most of the roughly 500,000 people whose cannabis use sends them to a hospital emergency department in a typical year — usually as a result of overconsumption, leading to a scary and unpleasant few hours but no lasting injury — will celebrate with reservations, if at all. Those who suffer from the much rarer but much scarier Cannabis Hyperemesis Syndrome, characterized by uncontrolled vomiting, are no doubt even less happy.

You’d expect equally little enthusiasm from the estimated 4.1 million who, by their own self-report, appear to meet the diagnostic criteria for cannabis use disorder. These people use marijuana more, or more often, than they want to; they’ve tried, unsuccessfully, to cut back or quit; they find that cannabis interferes with their other interests and responsibilities; and their use has led to conflict with people they care about.

There are uncounted others who appear to the people around them to have some of these issues, but who don’t acknowledge it. (Not everyone with a drug problem is self-aware.) Of course, those for whom cannabis is a burden rather than a pleasure also have families and friends, who suffer vicariously.

We’re heading toward the “alcohol model,” but there’s still time to shift course

Marijuana policy is heading inexorably toward the model we use for alcohol — weakly regulated commercialized legalization, with taxes that are too low. That’s been a public-health disaster in the case of alcohol. Cannabis isn’t as dangerous, but there’s still no good reason to repeat that mistake. Taxes should be higher and marketing restrictions tighter; there’s even a case for keeping commercial enterprises out of the industry altogether and restricting sales to consumer-owned co-ops.

But here’s a more outside-the-box idea, designed to help people exercise self-restraint about how much cannabis they use and how often: a system of user-set monthly purchase limits.

Under such a system every buyer would be required to set up an account (with a number rather than a name, to protect privacy) and to choose a monthly quota, stated in milligrams of THC. Every purchase, wherever made, would be registered against that account number, and when the user’s own chosen limit was reached, no further purchases could be made that month. (The system could be state-run, or federal.) As an escape hatch, a user could be allowed to increase the quota after a one-week waiting period.

The myth that marijuana is harmless

The biggest barrier to adopting this idea, or any idea for adequate cannabis regulation, is the widespread belief that cannabis is “natural,” “harmless,” and “non-addictive.” Those beliefs are partly an overreaction against “reefer madness” propaganda, partly the product of the zeal of legalization advocates, and partly a result of the skilled marketing and lobbying efforts of the cannabis industry.

Today’s cannabis is several times as potent as it was a generation ago. Stores in the states where cannabis is now openly sold under state law compete to offer stronger and stronger pot; reported percentage THC content on the stores’ online menus now averages in the mid-teens, with some strains claiming to be as high as 25 percent.

Legalization advocates confidently predicted that users would compensate for higher potency by cutting back their consumption, but that hasn’t happened. The number of people who report using cannabis daily or nearly daily has multiplied by approximately a factor of seven over the past quarter-century. It now stands at some eight million (out of 37 million who have used it in the past year).

Other studies find that those daily and near-daily users consume about three times as much cannabis per day of use as more casual users. More evidence that people aren’t adjusting for potency: The estimated dollar value of cannabis sales has soared, even as potency-adjusted prices have fallen drastically.

There’s no reason to think that occasional cannabis use is harmful, but there’s just as little no reason to think that frequent heavy use is benign, and a substantial body of evidence challenges the myth of harmlessness. One Dutch study, for example, found that excluding foreign students from buying cannabis in “coffee shops” led to improvements in their grades, while the grades of their Dutch classmates, who still had access, stayed flat.

Speaking out about the risks of cannabis should not be equated with supporting prohibition

None of this means that cannabis ought to remain illegal. Prohibition is simply no longer a practical option. With the estimated retail cannabis market now above $40 billion per year, with state after state permitting an activity the federal government still forbids, with increasing concern about too many arrests and too much incarceration, and with the need to focus drug enforcement on the supply of heroin and the fentanyls, there’s no way to put the genie back in the bottle, even if the public wanted to, which it overwhelmingly doesn’t.

The only remaining practical question — much as the die-hard drug warriors deny it — is what form legal availability will take. Following the alcohol model will lead to ever-higher levels of problematic cannabis use. According to Jonathan Caulkins of Carnegie Mellon and Steven Davenport of RAND, cannabis prices in Washington and Colorado are falling at 2 percent per month; one store in Seattle now sells what it claims to be 16 percent THC flower at $15 per quarter ounce. That translates to about 25 cents a stoned hour — much cheaper than an alcohol buzz.

Since legal cannabis is remarkably cheap to grow, and since competition will force prices down to no more than a reasonable margin over production costs, the bottom is not in sight. And taxes assessed as a fraction of retail price will fall as prices fall.

Low prices generate high volume, but they also mean that high volume is the only way the industry can stay in business. Daily and near-daily users account for some 85 percent of current cannabis sales. That means the for-profit commercial industry will, like its illicit counterpart, and like the alcohol industry, be financially dependent on the minority of users who are chemically dependent. That industry will do everything in its power to create and sustain the biggest possible population of chronic stoners.

That’s the bad outcome user-set quotas might help prevent. Virtually no one starts out wanting to be a three-joints-per day smoker, spending most of his or her waking hours under the influence. A quota system would prevent some people — there’s no way in advance to tell how many — from sliding down that slippery slope.

User-set monthly limits aren’t a perfect policy

Of course, no system could make it impossible for someone to lose control of his or her cannabis use. A user could choose to set a very high initial limit, or keep increasing the limit to accommodate a growing habit. But some would choose a modest limit, and would regard hitting their quota early as a signal that they were using more than they intended to.

But a user-set quota system would also do very little harm, since it wouldn’t actually limit the freedom of any user more than trivially. Users could even choose to opt out by choosing an absurdly high limit.

So here’s a thought to keep in mind as you light up: There’s no contradiction between deciding a commodity ought to be legal and still thinking that some people might need a public-policy “nudge” to keep their use of that legal commodity under control.

Mark Kleiman is professor of public policy at NYU’s Marron Institute. His book on drug policy is Against Excess. He is the co-author, with Jonathan Caulkins and Beau Kilmer. of Marijuana Legalization. He blogs at The Reality-Based Community and can be found on Twitter @markarkleiman.

The Big Idea is Vox’s home for smart discussion of the most important issues and ideas in politics, science, and culture — typically by outside contributors. If you have an idea for a piece, pitch us at thebigidea@vox.com.President Donald Trump held a joint press conference with French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday afternoon. Soon after the presser began, a reporter asked Trump about his musings on withdrawing US ground troops from Syria — a point he and Macron had discussed in private before.

Having watched Trump’s full answer, and read over the transcript many times, I still have no idea what the president of the United States thinks about this vital question of Middle East geopolitics and literal life and death.

Read for yourself:

As far as Syria is concerned, I would love to get out. I would love to bring our incredible warriors back home. They’ve done a great job; we’ve essentially just absolutely obliterated ISIS in Iraq, and in Syria. And we’ve done a big favor to neighboring countries, frankly, but we’ve also done a favor for our country. With that being said, Emmanuel and myself have discussed the fact that we don’t want to give Iran open season to the Mediterranean, especially since we really control it to a large extent. We really have controlled it, and we’ve set control on it. So we’ll see what happens. But we’re going to be coming home relatively soon. We finished, at least almost, our work with respect to ISIS in Syria, ISIS in Iraq. And we have done a job that nobody has been able to do. With that being said, I do want to come home, but I want to come home also with having accomplished what we have to accomplish.

Here’s video:

"As far as Syria is concerned, I would love to get out. I would love to bring our incredible warriors back home," President Trump says. pic.twitter.com/ukJU14qFUI — KCTV5 News (@KCTV5) April 24, 2018

What does the president think about US troops being in Syria? Should they be fighting just ISIS, as they’re currently doing, or should the mission be expanded to fighting Iran and Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad? If it’s only the former, what are the conditions under which we can declare mission accomplished? If it’s the latter, are we going to war with Iran?

It’s just totally unclear how the president conceptualizes these vital strategic questions.

And the answer raised new questions about Trump, mostly centering on the Mediterranean Sea. You can sort of squint and make sense of what he’s saying when he says Iran shouldn’t have “open season to the Mediterranean”; Syria has a decent length of coastline on the sea, and Iran will have access to Syrian ports so long as its ally Assad is in power. But the only way to prevent that would be to topple Assad, which Trump doesn’t seem to want to do.

Also, what does Trump mean when he says “we really control” the Mediterranean “to a great extent”? It’s not like the US currently exercises control over Syria’s western coast, where there is a Russian naval base in the port of Tartus.

This is an issue Trump has been struggling with for some time. At the end of March, he suggested that US troops would be pulling out of Syria “very soon,” only to change his mind in early April. So he’s given some thought to this issue, and this is what he’s come up with.

And again, just so the enormity of this kind of answer is clear: the person giving it is not some random internet commentator, but the president of the United States — a man who has the ability to launch nuclear weapons basically at will.A man driving a white van plowed through a crowd of pedestrians in a busy stretch of north Toronto on Monday afternoon, killing at least 10 and injuring at least 15.

The driver sped down sidewalks at 40 miles per hour and traveled between a half-mile and a mile before being stopped by authorities and taken into custody. Toronto police have identified 25-year-old Alek Minassian of Richmond Hill, Ontario as the driver of the vehicle.

Toronto police chief Marc Saunders said the investigation is ongoing. He told reporters in a Monday evening press conference that “the actions definitely look deliberate,” but officials have not determined a motive. The suspect, Minassian, was not previously known to police.

At the moment Canadian authorities say that Minassian does not have any known links to terrorist networks and are not treating the incident as a terrorist attack.

Canada’s Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Ralph Goodale said the country faced no national security risk, based on the information available.

After speaking with top security officials - based on information to date - there appears to be NO National Security connection to the horrible event in Toronto today. — Ralph Goodale (@RalphGoodale) April 24, 2018

John Flengas, the acting emergency medical services supervisor for Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center in Toronto, which has received several victims from the incident, described the scene to CTV News as “pure carnage.”

“It’s unprecedented. We’ve never seen anything like this in Toronto up until now,” he said, according to the Globe and Mail. “We never thought this would happen here.”

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau issued a statement expressing condolences for the victims on Monday afternoon. “Our hearts go out to anyone affected. We’re obviously going to have more to learn and more to say in the coming hours,” he said.

The method of attack resembles other ISIS-directed and inspired attacks around the world in recent years. Vehicles have become a terrorist weapon of choice in cities including New York, where eight were killed last October, and Nice, where 86 people were killed in 2016.

These kinds of attacks are notoriously difficult to prevent because it’s hard for authorities to prevent an individual working alone from using an everyday vehicle as a weapon. Indeed, that’s in large part why terror groups — particularly ISIS — encourage their followers to use this method of attack.CIA Director Mike Pompeo just received a confidence vote from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to become the next US secretary of state — when just minutes before it looked like he would receive a historic rebuke.

On Monday evening, the committee — which is narrowly split with 11 Republicans and 10 Democrats — voted along party lines to endorse Pompeo’s nomination to the entire Senate. Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) originally vowed not to vote for Pompeo. But, in an unexpected twist, the senator tweeted minutes before the vote that he changed his mind after speaking with President Donald Trump and Pompeo himself.

“After calling continuously for weeks for Director Pompeo to support President Trump’s belief that the Iraq war was a mistake, and that it is time to leave Afghanistan, today I received confirmation the Director Pompeo agrees with @realDonaldTrump,” Paul tweeted. “I have decided to support his nomination to be our next Secretary of State.”

Asked about the Pompeo vote and Paul while alongside French President Emmanuel Macron on Monday evening, President Trump said Paul “never let us down” and that “he’s a good man.”

But the unexpected drama doesn’t end there. All Republicans originally voted in favor of Pompeo, while all Democrats voted against him — but Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) was not present at the committee because he was giving a eulogy for a friend. He voted for Pompeo by proxy, but according to Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN), the committee’s chairman, the committee could not send Pompeo’s nomination to the floor with an endorsement unless all the present “yes” votes outnumbered the present “no” votes.

Sen. Chris Coons (D-DE), who originally voted “no,” then said he would vote “present” so the committee didn’t have to wait until around 11 pm to vote in person. Coons also has a close relationship with Isakson and may have wanted to spare him having to formally vote late at night. The final tally ended 11 votes in favor of Pompeo, nine votes against, and one present (Coons). Because there were more present “yes” votes than present “no” votes, Pompeo’s nomination will now be sent to the Senate floor for a final confirmation vote.

Had the committee not endorsed Pompeo, he would likely have become the first Cabinet secretary of any kind to win their job without a committee endorsement since 1945, the Senate Historical Office told me. That dubious distinction is currently held by Henry Wallace, who served as commerce secretary from 1945 to 1946.

Most observers expect the Senate, where Republicans hold a 51-49 advantage, to officially confirm Pompeo because three Democrats have already said they’ll vote for Trump’s pick. The endorsements by Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (ND), Sen. Joe Manchin (WV), and Sen. Joe Donnelly (IN) — who are all up for reelection in states Trump won — will pave the way for Pompeo to become the nation’s chief diplomat.

So Pompeo avoided a massive embarrassment on Monday and will likely soon take over the State Department. But he surely would’ve wanted the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to endorse him in a more straightforward way than it just did.Natalie Portman, one of the most famous Jewish celebrities on the planet, just announced she was boycotting a major Israeli event.

Portman was scheduled to travel to Jerusalem to receive the Genesis Prize, a prominent award sometimes referred to as the “Jewish Nobel.” On Friday, she abruptly canceled her visit, writing that she “did not want to appear as endorsing [Israeli Prime Minister] Benjamin Netanyahu” in an Instagram post explaining her decision. It’s not yet clear what’s happening to the $2 million in prize money that comes with the award.

Celebrities deciding to avoid Israel on political grounds is not all that uncommon. Hollywood is left-leaning, and many celebrities are outspokenly pro-Palestinian. Netanyahu’s government is one of the furthest right in Israeli history, particularly when it comes to the conflict with the Palestinians. Tensions are to be expected.

But Portman is an altogether different case. She is an Israeli citizen, born in Jerusalem, though she was raised in America and currently lives in France. In the past, Portman has been an outspoken advocate of Israel — as an undergraduate at Harvard, she worked on a prominent book defending the Jewish state against its critics. She speaks fluent Hebrew; in 2015, she wrote, directed, and starred in a Hebrew-language adaptation of Israeli author Amos Oz’s memoir.

So Natalie Portman turning down a visit to Israel in protest is not business as usual, and Israeli politicians are not treating it as such. Oren Hazan, a member of Israel’s parliament from Netanyahu’s Likud Party, called for Portman’s Israeli citizenship to be stripped. A member of the cabinet, Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz, said her decision “has elements of anti-Semitism.”

This is not a marginal controversy, some kind of celebrity sideshow. It is a leading indicator of the rising tensions between liberal American Jewry and the increasingly right-wing Israeli government. Portman is the canary in the coal mine, warning Israel that its policies on the Palestinians and African migrants are putting it increasingly at odds with its most natural friends abroad.

Why Natalie Portman is skipping Israel’s version of the Nobel Prize

The reason for Portman’s decision is more nuanced than it appeared at first blush.

The Genesis Prize, in its own statement, said “recent events in Israel have been extremely distressing to her,” adding that “she does not feel comfortable participating in any public events in Israel.” This was widely interpreted as a reference to the crisis on the boundary between Israel and the Palestinian-populated Gaza Strip, in which Israeli troops have shot a number of Palestinians during occasionally violent demonstrations near a border fence.

If Portman were boycotting Israel entirely over Gaza, it would be a stunning development. It would suggest that she, one of a relatively few celebrities to have prominently defended Israel in the past, was supporting the Palestinian-led Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement. She would have, in effect, been signing up to serve as a prominent advocate for the international Palestinian cause.

But Portman’s Instagram statement, which came after the Genesis Prize comment, gives a somewhat more subtle explanation. First, she explicitly denied that she was a BDS advocate; she was only skipping this event because Netanyahu was also scheduled to speak at it. “Like many Israelis and Jews around the world, I can be critical of the leadership in Israel without wanting to boycott the entire nation,” she writes.

Second, her statement of grievance with Netanyahu’s government seemed to be at least in part about refugee policy. There are currently about 40,000 undocumented migrants, mostly African asylum seekers, in Israel. Netanyahu’s government backed off initial plans to deport them, but in early April reneged on an agreement with the United Nations that would give them permanent status in Israel, leaving the refugees in limbo. Portman’s statement seemed to imply that this was the “recent event” that had so upset her.

“Israel was created exactly 70 years ago as a haven for refugees from the Holocaust,” she writes. “But the mistreatment of those suffering from today’s atrocities is simply not in line with my Jewish values.”

However, focusing on the past month or so of Israeli political developments somewhat misses the point. Portman has long been a critic of Netanyahu’s government; after his 2015 reelection, she told the Hollywood Reporter that she was “very, very upset and disappointed,” blasting him for “racist” comments about Arab voters during the campaign.

Indeed, her statement contained a largely overlooked line — “because I care about Israel, I must stand up against violence, corruption, inequality, and abuse of power” — suggesting that this is about more than just current events, but rather broader concerns Portman has with the Netanyahu government. This is less about a boycott of the Israeli state writ large, and more an American Jew and Israeli citizen expressing her concern with the state’s current leadership.

That, however, is still a big deal. Very few Jews, Israeli or diaspora, support a wholesale boycott of Israel. But views on Netanyahu’s government, specifically, are far more mixed. The fact that Portman is framing her criticism as coming from a place of affection for the Jewish state, not hostility, makes it more likely that other Jews — especially Americans — will take it seriously.

“This is an important symbolic moment,” says Jeremy Pressman, a scholar of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict at the University of Connecticut. “She cannot just be written off as a BDS supporter.”

Natalie Portman points to a growing divide between Israel and American Jews

If this were just one person taking a one-time stand, it wouldn’t be all that noteworthy. But Portman’s stand against the Netanyahu government points to much broader and deeper divides emerging between Israel and American Jews.

On one level, the divide between Israeli and American Jews couldn’t be simpler: Israeli Jews are, on the whole, more conservative than their American peers. Forty-nine percent of American Jews identify as liberal, per Pew data; only 8 percent of Israeli Jews say the same. Nearly twice as many Israeli Jews (37 percent) as American Jews (19 percent) described themselves as politically conservative in Pew’s survey.

This owes to profoundly different historical experiences. American Jewish identity comes from “a sense of exclusion from American society,” Steven M. Cohen, a research professor at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, told me. Israel has a long and robust socialist political tradition but has tilted sharply rightward after the 1990s peace process collapsed into the violence of the Second Intifada and a 2005 military withdrawal from the Gaza Strip ended up with a takeover of the territory by the Islamist group Hamas.

In every presidential election in recent memory, a majority of American Jews have voted for the Democratic candidate. Israel’s center-left Labour Party has not won an election since 1999.

The result is a slow but steady sense of alienation of American Jews from the Israeli political system. A growing number of American Jews look at Israel and see a country that is occupying Palestinian territory and breaking up peaceful Palestinian protests using force and a Jewish state that only recognizes one socially conservative strand of Jewry, Orthodox Judaism, as legitimate — which manifests in things like preventing liberal American Jews from praying in mixed gender groups at the Western Wall, the holiest prayer site in Judaism.

The Pew data shows a clear age gap here: Younger American Jews are, overwhelmingly, more skeptical about Israel’s political direction than their older peers. Five times as many American Jews between the ages of 18 and 29 think the United States is “too supportive” of Israel as those over the age of 65. Only a third of Jews between the ages of 18 and 49 believe Israel’s government is making a sincere attempt at peace with the Palestinians; the number is 10 points higher among Jews ages 50 and up.

Natalie Portman, age 36, is one of the most prominent members of the younger cohort of American Jews. Her decision to cancel the speech serves not only as an example of tensions between liberal America and conservative Israel boiling over, but actually stokes the conflict: She is serving as a role model, a Jew and Zionist in good standing who’s willing to take a vocal stand against the Israeli government.

This is why prominent Israeli politicians — who are, notably, right-wing — have called for her citizenship to be stripped, or tried to marginalize her as somehow anti-Semitic. They worry, not without cause, that she’s a harbinger of future conflict between Israel and its most important international ally.

Now, there have always been tensions between Israel and diaspora Jewry. Every community has internal issues. But the ideological divide, particularly with respect to the Palestinians and the synagogue-state divide, has never been sharper. Brent Sasley, a political scientist at the University of Texas Arlington, tells me this an example of “the harmful global effects of the rise of the neo-nationalist/religious right in Israel” on Israel’s relationship with the diaspora — and it’s hard to argue with him.

So long as Israel continues its rightward drift, incidents like this will almost certainly become more and more common.A month after his personal legal team imploded over whether President Donald Trump should consent to be interviewed for special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, the president is finally rebuilding his defense.

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani is the most high-profile addition to the president’s legal team, but two other lawyers joined on Thursday as well. And unlike many of the attorneys working with Trump, they have substantial — and recent — criminal courtroom experience.

Jane and Martin Raskin, a wife-and-husband criminal defense duo based in Florida, will be working on Trump’s personal legal team. The two have long histories both working for the Justice Department and as white-collar criminal defense lawyers.

The first big question they’ll have to grapple with is whether the president should agree to a Mueller interview.

John Dowd, Trump’s top personal lawyer, quit in March after repeatedly telling the president that he shouldn’t talk to Mueller as part of the ongoing investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and potential coordination with the Trump campaign. That left Jay Sekulow — a lawyer and radio host best known for defending conservative and evangelical Christian causes — as the only lawyer on Trump’s personal team. Trump has White House lawyers, but their job is to protect the institution of the presidency, not Trump himself, against potential criminal accusations.

Trump’s attempts to hire new personal lawyers haven’t gone smoothly. After Dowd left, several well-known Washington criminal defense attorneys turned Trump down. And in a bizarre week, Sekulow announced that Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing would join the legal team, only to say days later that they wouldn’t.

Sol Wisenberg, a white-collar criminal defense lawyer who worked on the Ken Starr investigation, told me that a lot of DC law firms are scared of working with Trump.

But Giuliani hasn’t been taking on legal clients in recent years. And the Raskins might have an easier time avoiding some of the conflicts that would prevent a lawyer from taking on Trump, partially because they have their own small practice. “If you’ve got a small firm and you’re primarily handling criminal defense matters, you really don’t have to worry about pissing off clients,” Wisenberg said.

Trump is still toying with the idea of sitting down for an interview with Mueller. Despite reports that the recent raid on Trump confidant and longtime personal attorney Michael Cohen’s office demolished negotiations for an interview, one of Trump’s White House lawyers, Ty Cobb, said the president still wants to do it. Despite their decades-long relationship, Cohen has not joined Trump’s personal Russia defense team.

Here’s the team Trump currently has to defend him if he does decide to do the interview.

Jane Raskin

Raskin is a longtime criminal defense lawyer who spent years working at the Justice Department. She started as a prosecutor as part of the agency’s Organized Crime and Racketeering Section’s Boston Strike Force.

She joined that office in 1983, according to her website, shortly after Mueller moved to Boston to become the assistant US attorney for the Justice Department’s Massachusetts office. Wisenberg described that strike force as “an elite group” and said that the Boston office was small.

“She would have to know Mueller,” he said. Raskin did not respond to a request for comment, including a question about whether she had or has a relationship with Mueller.

After working for the task force for three years, Raskin moved to Washington, DC, to work for the Justice Department’s criminal division. When she left the Justice Department, she joined the Hale & Dorr law firm. Although they did overlap there, Mueller joined the same law firm nearly two decades after he completed his term as FBI director.

In 1990, Raskin left the firm and started an independent law practice with her husband, Martin.

Martin Raskin

Before joining his wife for their law practice, Martin Raskin had his own history with the Justice Department.

He was an assistant US attorney for the District of New Jersey for three years starting in 1975, according to his LinkedIn profile, before joining the Justice Department’s organized crime strike force in Miami in 1978.

He spent two years as head of the criminal division for the Miami Justice Department office, before leaving to start a practice doing criminal defense.

Martin and Jane met during a legal conference on white-collar crime, and after Martin’s law partner became a federal judge, the husband-and-wife team started practicing law together.

Since forming their own group, they have focused on criminal defense cases largely for clients tied to potential financial crimes.

In 2014, the two defended Juan Felipe Martinez, a customs agent whom a federal prosecutor indicted for extortion. A jury acquitted Martinez.

In his statement announcing that Giuliani and Jane and Martin Raskin had joined the legal team, Sekulow described them as “highly respected former federal prosecutors with decades of experience.”

While the Raskins have recent experience in the courtroom, Giuliani hasn’t argued a case in decades. He does, however, have substantial legal experience of his own.

Rudy Giuliani

Giuliani is best known as a former presidential candidate and as the mayor of New York City during the 9/11 attacks. He also was the third-ranking official in the Justice Department starting in 1981 during the administration of President Ronald Reagan.

Giuliani would later go on to lead the federal prosecutor’s office in Manhattan in 1983, where James Comey worked for him, before running for mayor of New York in 1989.

Giuliani lost that election, but ran again and won in 1993.

After serving as mayor, he ran for the White House in 2008, losing the primary badly. He also was a named partner with the law firm Bracewell & Giuliani before leaving the firm in 2016.

Giuliani was a major supporter of Trump during the campaign, frequently appearing on Fox News to defend the candidate.

While Jane and Martin Raskin declined to talk to any media outlets after Sekulow announced their addition to the Trump legal team, Giuliani described his role as trying to bring the Mueller probe to a close.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” Giuliani told the Washington Post.

Jay Sekulow

Before Thursday’s additions, Sekulow was the only lawyer on Trump’s personal legal team. He began his legal career working for the IRS on tax cases, before starting his own tax law firm.

In the mid-1980s, he started working on constitutional issues of interest to the Christian right, before joining the American Constitutional Law Center in 1990, where he still serves as chief counsel.

He’s argued a dozen cases before the Supreme Court in that role.

Sekulow became famous for his work on religious litigation, eventually starring in his own radio show talking about conservative issues.

Sekulow has served as the spokesperson for the Trump legal team since he joined in June 2017. He’s frequently appeared on television to defend Trump.

Now several lawyers with criminal defense experience are joining him. While Sekulow is likely to remain the face of the president’s defense against Mueller’s Russia probe, Trump appears to have done what flummoxed him for much of March and put together a legal team.

“Obviously, they know what the hell they’re doing,” Wisenberg told me.President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are potentially meeting in just two months — and a flurry of weekend activity was a reminder of how frenzied the last-minute preparations for a historic face-to-face are likely to be.

On Friday, Kim announced his country would no longer test nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missiles, which he used to threaten the world for much of 2017. Kim said his country didn’t need to conduct more tests because he already knows how effective they are — which is scary.

On Sunday, Trump tweeted that Pyongyang agreed to dismantle its nuclear and missile programs so that it can never attack another country with them — but it hasn’t. And nine hours later, the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump plans to tell Kim his country must take concrete steps to scrap its programs before the US lifts any of the sanctions that have been battering its economy for years.

It looks like both leaders have already started to position themselves ahead of their encounter. That means both sides may play out the high-stakes negotiation in public before they actually meet in private.

If you missed any of it because you wanted to enjoy a North Korea-free weekend, don’t worry. We’ve got you covered.

North Korea will stop testing nuclear weapons and long-range missiles

Kim shocked the world last Friday.

“From April 21, North Korea will stop nuclear tests and launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles,” the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported Kim decreeing. “The North will shut down a nuclear test site in the country’s northern side to prove the vow to suspend nuclear test.”

That’s a potentially huge deal. Much of the animosity between Washington and Pyongyang last year grew because Kim tested very threatening weapons in 2017. Last September, Pyongyang tested its largest nuclear bomb to date, one that was seven times stronger than the weapon America dropped on Hiroshima in 1945. And last November, Kim tested a missile that could reach all of the United States.

Now, it seems, Kim feels satisfied his weapons are sufficiently powerful, but there is some mystery as to why. One possibility is that he now knows the strength of his weapons arsenal. Conducting more tests wouldn’t tell him more than he already knows, but it would anger the US and its key regional allies South Korea and Japan — and he may think the gain doesn’t outweigh the risk.

Second, the US-led campaign to impose increasingly strong economic and diplomatic pressure on Pyongyang — through stringent sanctions and global isolation — may have taken its toll. North Korea is an extremely impoverished country, but it spends about 22 percent of its funds to bankroll the military. Meanwhile, North Koreans live on about $1,700 a year.

Kim has made improving the economy one of his priorities. When he gained power in 2011, he outlined a strategy known as byungjin, or “parallel advance.” The crux of the strategy was the dual, rapid improvement of North Korea’s nuclear and economic prowess. But on Friday, Kim announced his regime would scrap that strategy for a “new strategic line,” namely, rebuilding the North Korean economy. Redirecting resources from weapons to the economy — perhaps to improve the lives of everyday North Koreans — could form part of that effort.

And finally, Kim has an important meeting with Moon, South Korea’s president, on Thursday. Both leaders will negotiate — and potentially sign — a peace treaty to end the Korean War. That conflict ended in an armistice in 1953, not a peace treaty, so the Koreas technically remain at war.

All parties to that war — including China and the United States — must sign a peace treaty for it to officially end, says Charles Armstrong, a professor of Korean history at Columbia University. Promising not to test any more weapons might make the Kim-Moon summit at the inter-Korean border a little calmer.

South Korea made its own conciliatory gesture on Monday by turning off loudspeakers at the inter-Korean border. Seoul stopped blaring K-pop — South Korea’s world-famous brand of popular music (for example, “Gangnam Style”) — into North Korea as a show of good faith before Kim meets Moon. Seoul uses that music as a propaganda tool to show it’s more advanced than its northern neighbor. North Korea does something similar, although its music consists of less catchy propaganda tunes.

But let’s be clear: North Korea could restart testing at any time, and Kim’s statement doesn’t say his country will never try out weapons again. So it’s worth not getting too excited over this — even though some already have.

“North Korea suspending its nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missiles is a welcome move, but it’s important for the president and others not to overstate its significance,” Mintaro Oba, a former Obama State Department official who worked on North Korean affairs, told me.

Well ...

Trump said North Korea “agreed to denuclearization.” That’s not true.

Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd of Fake News NBC just stated that we have given up so much in our negotiations with North Korea, and they have given up nothing. Wow, we haven’t given up anything & they have agreed to denuclearization (so great for World), site closure, & no more testing! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2018

Trump, apparently watching TV on Sunday morning, didn’t like what Meet the Press host Chuck Todd said about North Korea.

“Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd of Fake News NBC just stated that we have given up so much in our negotiations with North Korea, and they have given up nothing,” Trump tweeted. “Wow, we haven’t given up anything & they have agreed to denuclearization (so great for World), site closure, & no more testing!”

There are two problems with that tweet (aside from the president attacking a journalist on social media).

First, North Korea hasn’t agreed to denuclearization — that is, the complete dismantling of its nuclear program. In the same statement where Kim promised to pause testing weapons, Kim called his nuclear program a “powerful treasured sword,” which shows just how much he values it.

But there’s also little incentive for North Korea to give up its nuclear arsenal. The regime believes the US and South Korea plan to invade and topple its government, and having the ability to strike the US or its closest allies with a nuclear weapon serves as a clear deterrent against that outcome.

Kim is keenly aware of the relevant history. Iraq’s Saddam Hussein persuaded much of the world that he had restarted his country’s nuclear weapons program; he hadn’t, but the boasts helped spark the 2003 invasion that drove him from power. In Libya, Muammar Qaddafi gave up his program to build closer ties to the West but was eventually ousted from power and killed by a mob.

And second, the US has given Kim a major concession: a meeting with Trump. Past American administrations knew how much North Korea wanted the prestige of meeting a US president, and viewed a summit as a prize Washington would only offer when Pyongyang acceded to its demands. But Trump flipped that on his head, agreeing in March to sit down with Kim in either late May or early June regardless of whether Kim actually showed any clear signs of dismantling his nuclear arsenal.

That’s a big win for North Korea, as the regime wants to look like a legitimate power. Sitting down with the leader of the world’s most powerful country is one way to do that — and all Kim had to do was suggest his country wouldn’t test weapons anymore.

But what matters most is what both leaders actually talk about when they meet. It turns out some of the talking points have started to leak out.

Here’s what Trump will tell Kim

On Sunday evening, the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump will convey two major demands to Kim when they meet.

First, North Korea must dismantle its nuclear program very quickly. And second, Trump won’t lift sanctions on Pyongyang until it has made substantial progress in that dismantling effort.

It’s a bold move, but it makes some sense. In past negotiations, North Korea offered some concessions in exchange for economic relief but then backed out or cheated on a deal. Pyongyang is not particularly trustworthy, so Trump wants to see actual progress before he rewards the regime.

“When the president says that he will not make the mistakes of the past, that means the US will not be making substantial concessions, such as lifting sanctions, until North Korea has substantially dismantled its nuclear programs,” a senior US official told the Journal.

Robert Manning, a Koreas expert at the Atlantic Council think tank, told me there are pros and cons to Trump’s stance. “Trump is right to want to front-load a deal: big steps to dismantle and disable nuclear weapons and missiles in exchange for a significant rollback of sanctions.” The problem, he continued, is the offer is “a nonstarter. Why would they unilaterally surrender and trust Trump to give them what they want?”

Trump may be aware of the risk, per another Sunday tweet, but he believes his predecessors should’ve made similar efforts.

....We are a long way from conclusion on North Korea, maybe things will work out, and maybe they won’t - only time will tell....But the work I am doing now should have been done a long time ago! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2018

It’s unclear how Kim will react to this offer if Trump proposes it in two months. But the North Korean leader’s answer may influence how much Trump continues to try diplomacy instead of war to solve the nuclear problem.National Security Adviser John Bolton is making headlines — and not for good reasons. NBC reported on Monday morning that Bolton had served as the chairman of the Gatestone Institute, a far-right think tank known for publishing anti-Muslim agitprop. Gatestone had published pieces claiming, among other things, that Muslim immigration heralded a “Great White Death” in Europe, and had already turned the UK into a “Islamist colony,”

Bolton’s links to Gatestone were never hidden; The Intercept had reported on them a month ago. This goes to show just how brazen Bolton has been about his association with anti-Muslim extremists. In fact, both Bolton and Mike Pompeo, Trump’s pick for next secrtary of state, have deep and extensive ties to an organized group of anti-Muslim writers and activists known as the “counter-jihad.”

The members of the counter-jihad movement aren’t exactly household names. But its leading lights — people like Reagan Defense Department official Frank Gaffney, activist Brigitte Gabriel, and blogger Pamela Geller — are surprisingly well-financed and influential.

Their major arguments include the idea that Islam is an intrinsically violent religion and that most mainstream American Muslim organizations are involved in a secret plot to replace American law with Islamic law. One “study” published by Gaffney’s organization, the Center for Security Policy, argued that 80 percent of mosques in America “are incubators of, at best, subversion and, at worst, violence and should be treated accordingly.”

Neither Bolton nor Pompeo has endorsed views this radical, though both have come relatively close. In February 2015, Pompeo appeared on Gaffney’s radio show and warned darkly of an Islamic conspiracy against America.

“There are organizations and networks here in the United States tied to radical Islam in deep and fundamental ways,” Pompeo said in a February 2015 interview on Gaffney’s radio program. “They’re not just in places like Libya and Syria and Iraq, but in places like Coldwater, Kansas, and small towns all throughout America.”

Bolton, for his part, has defended the Islamophobic attacks against Huma Abedin, a Muslim American who spent years as a top aide to Hillary Clinton. Some Republican members of Congress accused Abedin being a secret Islamist operative (which, it goes without saying, is wholly unfounded) in 2012; that July, Bolton went on Gaffney’s show and said there was nothing wrong with that line of attack. “What is wrong with raising the question?” Bolton asked.

These radio appearances aren’t one-offs: Bolton and Pompeo have been on Gaffney’s show dozens of times. The two men have also appeared at counter-jihadist events, accepted the endorsement of prominent counter-jihadists, and (in Bolton’s case) penned a glowing foreword to a counter-jihadist book. Gatestone isn’t the exception; it’s the rule.

There are no signs that either Bolton or Pompeo has cut ties with Gaffney or others like him, or that either is willing to disavow their past affiliations with them. That means that some of the most extreme anti-Muslim voices in the US have friends in some of the Trump administration’s most powerful national security personnel.

Bolton’s ties to the counter-jihad

In 2010, two prominent counter-jihadist writers — Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer — co-wrote a book called The Post-American Presidency. In it, they alleged that President Barack Obama took part in the Islamist war on America. Obama, they wrote, was helping with the “implementation of a soft sharia: the quiet and piecemeal implementation of Islamic laws that subjugate non-Muslims.”

Bolton penned the book’s foreword. While he doesn’t explicitly endorse its most inflammatory claims, he praises the book for “[carrying] forward the ongoing and increasingly widespread critique of Barack Obama as our first post-American president.” What The Post-American Presidency “recounts is disturbing, and its broader implications more disturbing still,” Bolton writes.

Praising counter-jihadist work, courting their support, but not outright endorsing their most radical claims: Those are the hallmarks of the Bolton approach to the movement. He advances their priorities without openly committing to their hardest-line positions.

One of the core counter-jihadist arguments is that mainstream American Muslim organizations, like the Council on American-Islamic Relations, are fronts for the Muslim Brotherhood, a Sunni Islamic movement that aims to establish Islamist governments in a number of predominantly Muslim countries.

These organizations, they contend, are secretly working on the Brotherhood’s behalf to subvert the United States from within. Their goal is to replace American legal codes with Islamic law (Sharia).

“The majority of Islamic organizations in America are affiliates of or associated with the Muslim Brotherhood in some way,” a report issued by Gaffney’s Center for Security Policy (CSP) argues. “Any organization that does not embrace sharia and the MB line has not been able to gain broad recognition as a Muslim-American force.”

Bolton has not explicitly endorsed this view. However, he used an appearance on Gaffney’s show to endorse CSP’s principal policy proposal for dealing with the group, which is to “get on with the business of declaring the Muslim Brotherhood a foreign terrorist organization.”

This may seem unimportant, given that the Brotherhood has not been linked to a terrorist attack in decades. But it takes on much darker tones when you recall that counter-jihadists think the majority of Muslim American groups in the United States are Brotherhood fronts. It’s illegal for any American to provide assistance to a designated foreign terrorist organization.

This policy change would, in the counter-jihadist imagination, set the stage for a massive federal inquisition into America’s major Muslim organizations based on counter-jihadists’ own conspiracy theories.

Bolton is endorsing a core policy idea of the counter-jihad — effectively, serving as their voice without the most extreme baggage.

Another illustrative example: In 2011, Gaffney was banned from CPAC, the country’s premier conservative political conference, on grounds of being too aggressively anti-Muslim. In 2016, the Atlantic’s Peter Beinart reports, Bolton lobbied to get Gaffney back in — and won.

This is Bolton’s role in the movement. He doesn’t endorse their views, explicitly, but he serves as connective tissue between the anti-Muslim right and the mainstream conservative world, in which he’s deeply connected. Now, he’s poised to be national security adviser.

Pompeo and the counter-jihad

Trump’s pick for secretary of state has, like Bolton, aligned himself with the counter-jihad without endorsing their most extreme ideas.

In a 2013 speech, shortly after the Boston Marathon bombing, Pompeo criticized the “silence in the face of extremism coming from the best-funded Islamic advocacy organizations and many mosques across America.” This alleged silence, according to Pompeo, “casts doubt upon the commitment to peace among adherents of the Muslim faith” and “has made these Islamic leaders across America potentially complicit in these acts.”

While in the House of Representatives, Pompeo sponsored a briefing for Republican Congress members from a group called ACT for America. ACT, which bills itself as the NRA of national security, is the activist arm of the counter-jihad. Its president, Brigitte Gabriel, believes Islam is an intrinsically violent religion.

“Islam went from being strictly a spiritual movement, after 12 years, to becoming a political movement cloaked in religion,” she said in one address. “Jihad is mentioned in the Quran 40 times — 36 times out of 40 as a holy war against the infidels, to either kill them or subjugate them.”

Pompeo believed Gabriel’s group was the kind of organization that should be briefing Republicans in Congress. ACT returned his affection: In 2016, Pompeo received the organization’s National Security Eagle Award, its highest honor.

The game that Pompeo and Bolton are playing — use rhetoric that counter-jihadists find appealing, move them closer to the mainstream, all without endorsing their full conspiracy theories — is fairly transparent. It’s anti-Islam dog whistling.

It’s possible that they merely recognize that counter-jihadists are a powerful constituency on the right, and are working with them as a way of building political support. It’s also possible that they share the counter-jihadist view of Islam as a fundamentally evil religion but know that saying so publicly would be risky politically. It’s very hard to tell from their public record, and I’m not going to hazard a guess either way.

But we know that Bolton and Pompeo — Trump’s picks for two of the highest offices in the land — are at very least willing to listen to counter-jihadist arguments, and work to help them reach a larger audience. It’s very plausible they could convey these ideas to President Trump, whose views on Islam are already unfavorable.

There’s a shockingly low level of public outcry about allies of Islamophobic groups taking over US national security infrastructure. The two men have not, to date, renounced their ties to Gaffney, Gabriel, Gatestone, and the rest. It’s time to ask them why.When the rest of the world looks at America’s gun problem, it’s often with bafflement.

Sunday with Lubach, which is sort of like the Dutch version of Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, looked at guns — specifically, the US’s love of firearms. And it’s very telling.

For one, the satirical Dutch video describes America’s love of guns as so bad that it is an illness: Nonsensical Rifle Addiction, or NRA — a reference to the biggest gun lobby group in the country.

“Dear fellow Europeans,” the video’s narrator begins, “a devastating humanitarian crisis is threatening a small country on the coast of North America: the United States of America.”

The video goes on to list some of the statistics related to America’s gun homicides and accidents from Gun Violence Archive: 24,000 injuries and 11,000 deaths so far this year, culminating to roughly 40 deaths a day. The video pins this on “a terrible epidemic.”

“NRA is a constitutional disorder caused by a dysfunction of the prefrontal Second Amendment in the nonsensical cortex, causing patients to shoot people,” the narrator explains. “It starts with an innocent Colt, but soon patients will show signs of shotguns, sniper rifles, and M16s even. Often, patients use silencers to hide their condition.”

The video goes on like this, showing pictures that you’d expect to see in a typical humanitarian crisis PSA about a major disease halfway across the world — black and white images, sad people, children suffering, and so on.

There are things in the video that some Americans, particularly supporters of gun rights, will surely disagree with or even find offensive.

But that’s kind of the point. To the rest of the world, this problem is straightforward: If you have a problem with guns, then you should deal with the guns directly. That’s what other nations have done, from Canada to the UK to Australia to Japan — and they see dramatically fewer gun deaths.

The empirical research shows these are related: Where there are fewer guns, there are fewer gun deaths. And gun control measures are truly followed with a reduction in gun deaths, suggesting that they save lives.

That America as a whole doesn’t seem to get this is baffling to much of the rest of the world. So Sunday with Lubach reaches far for an explanation: It must be a disease.

“We Europeans can help,” the narrator claims, citing programs like “the NRAA.” “But your help is needed urgently. We cannot turn away. So donate now.”

For more on America’s gun problem, read Vox’s explainer.CIA Director Mike Pompeo made history on Monday — just not in the way he would have wanted.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee vote on Pompeo’s nomination to be President Trump’s new secretary of state on Monday, is split fairly evenly, with 11 Republicans and 10 Democrats. All 10 Democrats have signaled they will vote against Pompeo, as has Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky. Unless one of them changes their mind, Pompeo will become the first secretary of state nominee not to receive an endorsement from the committee since the 19th century, when it started considering candidates, the Senate Historical Office told me.

That won’t necessarily kill Pompeo’s nomination because GOP leaders say they’ll bring him up for a floor vote by the entire Senate regardless of what the committee does. Most observers expect Pompeo to squeak through the narrowly divided Senate, where Republicans hold a 51-49 advantage, because two Democrats hav already said they’ll vote for Trump’s pick. The endorsement by Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV), who are both up for reelection in states Trump won easily, could pave the way for other vulnerable red-state Democrats to vote for Pompeo as well.

If he makes it through, Pompeo will be the first Cabinet secretary of any kind to win their job without a committee endorsement since 1945, the Senate Historical Office told me. That dubious distinction is currently held by Henry Wallace, who served as commerce secretary from 1945 to 1946.

All of which means Monday’s vote will be memorable — and potentially historic.

“I am trying to think about which Mike Pompeo I will be asked to vote on”

As my colleague Zack Beauchamp reported, the most telling moment of Pompeo’s April 12 nomination hearing came at the end, when New Jersey Sen. Robert Menendez — the committee’s top Democrat — ripped into the nominee:

Menendez ticked off contradiction after contradiction: Pompeo said during the hearing that he supports a diplomatic approach to Iran’s nuclear program, but in the past has said that regime change is “the only way” to deal with the problem. He said today that he opposes regime change in North Korea but had mused just last year about toppling the Kim regime. And it went on from there. The pattern was clear: Pompeo has a long history of extreme rhetoric, on issues ranging from the use of military force to Islam to LGBTQ rights — but had spent the entire hearing presenting a much less extreme, and more palatable, version of his views. ... “As we close here,” the senator said, “I am trying to think about which Mike Pompeo I will be asked to vote on.”

There’s no question Pompeo has impressive credentials. He’s a West Point and Harvard Law School graduate, a US Army veteran, and a three-term Congress member who first came to Washington as part of the Tea Party movement in 2010. He got coveted spots on the House Intelligence Committee and, in 2014, a seat on the Select Committee on Benghazi, both positions that would usually go to more senior members.

But he became a lightning rod during his 15 months as Trump’s CIA director. Democrats gripe that Pompeo acted like a Trump crony by, for example, distorting intelligence about Russia’s effect on the 2016 presidential election in ways that favored Trump. “The intelligence community’s assessment is that the Russian meddling that took place did not affect the outcome of the election,” Pompeo said at a Washington think tank event last October.

The problem is three intelligence agencies didn’t assess the impact Moscow may or may not have had on the election’s final tally.

Pompeo’s confirmation troubles mirror those of his predecessor, Rex Tillerson, who received a razor-thin 11-10 vote from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on January 23, 2017. Just over a week later, Tillerson became the secretary of state by a 56-43 margin, with only three Democrats — including Heitkamp — joining in. If he squeaks by, Pompeo will almost certainly receive fewer votes.

And that may be the ultimate insult. Tillerson, as Beauchamp has written, is widely seen as one of the worst secretaries of state in American history. Incredibly, senators appear to have even less confidence in Pompeo, which means America’s probable next secretary of state has his work cut out for him overseas — and here at home.North Korea has announced a freeze on all nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile testing starting April 21, according to the country’s state-run Korean Central News Agency. North Korea will also shut down a nuclear test site in the country’s north in order to “prove the vow to suspend nuclear test,” KCNA reports.

The announcement comes just weeks ahead of a planned summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, and just days before Kim is set to meet with South Korean President Moon Jae-in.

The decision was made public after the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea met to discuss “a new stage” in a “historic” period, the Washington Post reports.

North Korea’s announcement is a big deal — that is, if North Korea keeps its promise, which it hasn’t always done in the past. But there are also a few caveats.

Nuclear expert Ankit Panda wrote on Twitter that North Korea shutting down its nuclear testing site may have less to do with the spirit of diplomacy, and more to do with the fact that North Korea is “satisfied” with its nuclear capabilities and “may not need to conduct further nuclear testing.”

Here's KCNA with six points from Kim Jong-un. The Punggye-ri test site will close *because* North Korea feels it has conducted sufficient testing and is happy with its weapons. That's important context here. pic.twitter.com/uRlu30LG2O — Ankit Panda (@nktpnd) April 20, 2018

In a six-point statement from Kim himself and reported by KCNA, the North Korean leader said the country “will never use nuclear weapons unless there is nuclear threat or nuclear provocation” toward the country and “will not transfer weapons or nuclear technology.”

Vipin Narang, an MIT political science professor, explained on Twitter that the latter point is especially important to any future talks about Pyongyang potentially giving up its current weapons program.

Point 4 is important: pledging not to transfer nuclear weapons or technology. One, because that’s a big concern in Washington. But also two, implies they will keep them...but simply not transfer them. https://t.co/q25r7wbPYy — Vipin Narang (@NarangVipin) April 20, 2018

North Korea’s announcement is certainly a positive sign ahead of a possible sit-down between Kim and President Donald Trump. Shortly after North Korea’s announcement Friday, Trump tweeted: “This is very good news for North Korea and the World — big progress! Look forward to our Summit.”

North Korea has agreed to suspend all Nuclear Tests and close up a major test site. This is very good news for North Korea and the World - big progress! Look forward to our Summit. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 20, 2018

South Korea’s government also welcomed the North Korea news, calling it a “meaningful step forward” that will foster a “positive environment” for the upcoming summits.US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer is considering an audacious plan to bully Congress into approving a new version of NAFTA — but some experts think the plan could backfire.

Lighthizer is currently overseeing US negotiations with Canada and Mexico to revise the 1994 free-trade agreement that eliminated trade barriers between their economies. After the three countries come to an agreement in principle — which they’re hoping to do by May 4 — the legislative branch of each country has to approve the agreement.

The Trump administration is concerned that Republican lawmakers might not want to ratify the new version of NAFTA that it settles on with Canada and Mexico because it could involve scrapping provisions that lots of pro-business Republicans desperately want to keep in the agreement.

GOP lawmakers are particularly concerned that Trump could end up nixing things like the “investor-state dispute settlement” (ISDS) mechanism — a provision that allows corporations to sue foreign governments in tribunals if they think they’ve been wronged by them — or adding a sunset clause that would require the countries to vote every five years on whether to stay in NAFTA. US businesses tend to think that the ISDS mechanism is vital to their ability to protect their foreign investments and that a sunset clause would cause immense uncertainty in the North American business environment.

So Lighthizer is reportedly considering an aggressive plan that would force lawmakers to accept it anyway: withdrawing from NAFTA before the new version is ready. It’s a risky move, and one that experts say might turn out to be fruitless.

Lighthizer’s strong-arm tactic could be very hard to pull off

The logic behind the move is that even lawmakers who are opposed to Trump’s NAFTA will ratify it because they prefer a bad NAFTA to no NAFTA at all. Currently, lawmakers can reject Trump’s version of NAFTA and rest assured that the status quo will remain. Without NAFTA, their hand could be forced.

But trade experts are skeptical that this is a wise course of action for the Trump administration. They point out that the move could cause huge rifts between Trump and his party, given how fiercely the pro-Republican business lobby opposes some of the Trump administration’s objectives for the new NAFTA.

“The administration floated the idea of using the same tactic to gain leverage in the negotiations with Canada and Mexico — but ultimately decided it was better to work with those countries rather than threaten them,” Christopher Wilson, an expert on NAFTA at the Wilson Institute, told me.

“It would be strange and rather dangerous to employ hardball tactics deemed inappropriate for our trading partners on the Republican-led Congress,” Wilson added.

Monica de Bolle, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told me that the Trump administration’s plan suffers from an even bigger problem: Although the Trump administration can trigger withdrawal by invoking Article 2205 of NAFTA, it needs Congress to vote to actually pull out of the deal for good.

In other words, Lighthizer would have to convince Congress to do something that would give them less leverage in the debate over what the new NAFTA should look like.

Lighthizer is considering strong-arm tactics in part because there are huge time constraints on settling on a new deal. Mexico is slated for national elections in July, and the US holds midterm elections in November.

Both contests could shake up the governments of the two countries — if Democrats end up controlling the House of Representatives, for instance, or if new Mexican lawmakers oppose concessions to the US — and make ratifying a new deal a lot more complicated.

But trying to force Congress’s hand instead of trying to work with it might end up being a dead end.After months of chaos, infighting, and high-profile departures, President Donald Trump has made a surprising addition to his legal team: former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who’s better known today as a rabidly pro-Trump TV personality than as a top-notch legal mind.

Giuliani, 73, has been one of Trump’s biggest public boosters and gave a keynote speech at the GOP convention after Trump won the Republican presidential nomination in 2016. He’s also regularly appeared on television to defend Trump against charges of collusion with Russia and other alleged misdeeds.

But despite early rumors that Trump might pick him to be the attorney general, Giuliani was never given a formal position in the administration. In his new job, Giuliani still won’t be a technical part of the White House, but he’ll have a formal role on Team Trump and serve as the president’s closest advisers.

He’ll be coming on at a pivotal and dangerous moment for the administration. Trump’s legal team has been decimated by a wave of departures just as special counsel Robert Mueller has markedly ramped up his investigation into Trump and many of his closest aides. Mueller recently gave information to federal prosecutors in New York on Trump’s close confidant Michael Cohen, which led to an April 9 raid of his offices, and has reached plea deals with four former Trump associates. He seems to be methodically building a potential obstruction of justice case against Trump.

For Giuliani, the immediate priority will be to help decide whether Trump should sit down for a high-stakes interview with Mueller. The most recent head of Trump’s legal team, John Dowd, resigned after Trump disregarded his warnings about the perils of such a meeting and insisted that he wanted to sit down with Mueller and his team.

There are also growing fears that Trump may move to fire Mueller or his boss, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. For now, at least, Giuliani is striking a moderate tone and promising to work with the special counsel to negotiate an end to the investigation.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” Giuliani told the Washington Post.

Giuliani is joining Trump’s team just as the president escalates a very bitter, and very public, fight with former FBI Director James Comey, whose new book, A Higher Loyalty, paints Trump as a liar who runs his administration like a mob boss

The former mayor will have a very personal reason for joining the White House broad and nasty attack on Comey: the fact the former FBI chief’s book blasts the former mayor almost as harshly as it blasts Trump.

Comey had ordered FBI agents to open a leak investigation into Giuliani

Comey and Giuliani have been battling since the fall of 2016, when the former mayor made a series of cryptic statements about an upcoming “surprise” just two days before Comey announced in late October 2016 that he was reopening his investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server.

FBI investigators had found new emails on a computer used by Clinton’s aide, Huma Abedin, after Comey closed the investigation in July of that year. The FBI reviewed the new emails in a couple of days and closed the probe again before the election. Still, Clinton and her defenders have long argued that the Comey announcement was the decisive factor that helped Trump win the White House.

Giuliani later confirmed that his hints about a “surprise” were about Comey’s announcement and that FBI agents told him about the new trove of emails. However, Giuliani subsequently changed his story and said that Comey’s decision to reopen the case was a “complete surprise” to him.

Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee in May 2017, less than a week before Trump fired him from his post at the FBI, that the agency was “looking into” where Giuliani might have gotten his information, though he didn’t mention the former mayor by name.

On Thursday night, Comey repeated that claim in an interview on MSNBC and said.

“I don’t know what the result of that was, I got fired before it was finished, but I know that I asked that it be investigated,” Comey said.

Left unsaid was how much of his book was devoted to blasting his former boss.

Comey hasn’t just gone after Trump. He’s been going after Giuliani, too.

That investigation wasn’t the first time that Comey had dealt with Giuliani.

Before he became mayor, Giuliani was a federal prosecutor in New York, running the Manhattan US attorney’s office where Comey worked.

Comey writes extensively about his impressions of Giuliani in his new book, but the overall theme is simple. Comey thinks Giuliani is a showman with an insatiable desire for public attention and acclaim.

“Rudy’s demeanor left a trail of resentment among the dozens of federal judges in Manhattan, many of whom had worked in that U.S. attorney’s office,” Comey wrote. “They thought he made the office about one person, himself, and used publicity about his cases as a way to foster his political ambitions rather than doing justice.”

Elsewhere in the book, Comey calls Giuliani’s leadership style “dangerous,” and says that it created “resentment” among judges towards the US attorney’s office, which Comey would go on to lead, for years.

Trump chose to hire Giuliani despite the FBI investigation and the former mayor’s controversial tenure as a federal prosecutor and mayor. The question now is whether Giuliani will prove capable of doing something his predecessors on Trump’s legal team couldn’t: figure out how to protect a moody, dishonest and impulsive client from the skilled prosecutors who seem to be drawing closer and closer to Trump and his inner circle.President Donald Trump fired Michael Flynn as his national security adviser after only 24 days — but based on former FBI Director James Comey’s memos, it’s surprising that didn’t happen sooner.

Comey wrote memos after conversations with Trump in early 2017 in order to keep a written record. In the memos, which media obtained on Thursday night after the Justice Department sent redacted versions to Congress, Comey noted that Trump said he had “serious reservations” about Flynn — in part because he failed to tell Trump about a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Here’s what happened, according to Comey: Trump met with UK Prime Minister Theresa May in late January 2017. At one point during a lunch, Trump thanked May, saying she was the first world leader to congratulate him after his inauguration one week earlier. But then Flynn interrupted Trump to tell him another leader had actually called him first, although no one alerted the president.

The name of that person is redacted in the released version of Comey’s memo.

But the Wall Street Journal reported Friday morning that the person who called before May was — you guessed it — Putin. That, Comey says, was the first time Trump learned of the Putin call, “and he confronted Flynn about it.” Flynn responded that Trump would speak with Putin the following Saturday. Trump, however, was not pleased, saying that six days — the time between Putin’s first call and when Trump would call him back — was too long.

As Trump told this story to Comey, the president allegedly pointed his finger at his head and said, “the guy [Flynn] has serious judgment issues.”

Trump and Putin finally talked on January 28, according to the White House. Putin congratulated Trump on his election win and then both leaders spoke for about an hour about ISIS, Syria, and terrorism. In a readout, the White House said “[t]he positive call was a significant start to improving the relationship.”

If that was all the Comey memos detailed, it’d still be extraordinary. And yet...

Reince Priebus asked Comey if the government bugged Flynn

On February 8, 2017, Comey details a chat he had with then-Chief of Staff Reince Priebus at the White House.

After they talked for a bit, Priebus asked Comey if their chat was a “private conversation.” Comey agreed, so Priebus asked, “Do you have a FISA order on Mike Flynn?” using the acronym for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Surveilling someone under FISA means law enforcement believes someone acted as a foreign agent. So if the FBI used FISA to bug the national security adviser, that would be a huge deal.

Comey’s answer, however, is redacted. But the Priebus-Comey meeting came 13 days after then-Acting Attorney General Sally Yates warned the White House that Flynn had lied about his talks with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in December 2016.

So here’s the takeaway: Even during the early days of the Trump administration, high-level officials were worried that Flynn could possibly become a liability to Trump. Between that and Trump’s lament about Flynn’s “judgment,” it’s surprising Flynn stuck around as long as he did.

Comey’s memos provide new context for why Trump fired Flynn

Let’s recall what we already knew about why Trump let Flynn go just a few weeks after making him one of the most powerful people in Washington.

Flynn lied to Vice President Mike Pence about discussing Russian sanctions in calls with Kislyak prior to Trump’s inauguration. Trump didn’t like that, and then fired Flynn on February 14, 2017 — six days after the Priebus-Comey meeting. It was shocking, as Flynn was one of Trump’s most loyal supporters during the campaign, at one point even leading chants of “Lock her up!” during the Republican National Convention.

Until Comey’s memos came out on Thursday night, the public didn’t know about these incidents. They add a bit more context to Trump’s state of mind before he finally cut Flynn loose, and might insinuate that Flynn’s fib was one of a few reasons why Trump didn’t want Flynn in the White House anymore.

Still, Trump met with then-FBI Director Comey in the Oval Office day after Flynn’s ouster, and both men proceeded to talk about the former national security adviser, Comey wrote in the same set of memos, parts of which leaked last year. During that meeting, Trump allegedly told Comey that Flynn “is a good guy” and hoped Comey could see his way to “letting Flynn go.” At the time, the FBI was investigating Flynn’s ties to Russia. That means, per Comey, Trump insinuated the FBI should stop looking into Flynn.

In December 2017, Flynn pleaded guilty to a single count of lying to the FBI on or around January 24 about conversations with Kislyak. Flynn is now cooperating with Mueller — which means the special counsel now will decide what to make of Flynn’s judgment.Donald Trump has, throughout his presidency, used the American immigration system’s alleged vulnerability to terrorist infiltration as a justification for his harsh restrictions on immigration.

“America must fix its lax immigration system, which allows far too many dangerous, inadequately vetted people to access our country,” Trump said in one representative statement. “The terrible harm that this flawed system inflicts on America’s security and economy has long been clear.”

But Trump’s claims that our immigration system is “lax” aren’t true — or, in fact, even close to true. A new study from David Bier, an immigration policy analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute, digs into the data on just how many terrorists America has let into the country.

He found that only a single terrorist who committed a deadly attack snuck through the vetting process to enter the US legally after 9/11, out of a total of 379 million people who lawfully entered the country. Between 2002 and 2016, roughly twice as many people were killed by their own kitchen appliances than by a terrorist who slipped through the immigration system.

Trump’s fearmongering bears absolutely no relation to reality.

What the study found

Cards on the table: Cato is a pro-immigration think tank. But a close look at Bier’s methodology suggests that it’s solid; in fact, it’s actually likely to produce an overestimate of the US immigration system’s terrorism problem than an underestimate.

Bier combed through government data on terrorism prosecutions and terrorists killed by law enforcement in the midst of a terrorist act. He also combed through several nongovernment databases on terrorism to make sure he wasn’t leaving any incidents out.

Bier then looked for what he calls “vetting failures,” which he defines as cases where “a foreigner is granted entry to the United States who had terrorist associations or sympathies and who later committed a terrorism offense.” That’s designed to get to the crux of the debate Trump is raising: Is the United States, in fact, admitting “dangerous, inadequately vetted” individuals — or is the system mostly screening them out?

Identifying vetting failures is hard to figure out, obviously, as we can’t really be sure what was in someone’s mind when they entered the US (with a few exceptions, like the 9/11 hijackers, who were part of pre-organized plans). So the Cato study makes a pretty broad assumption: that anyone who entered the United States when they were a) 16 or older and b) committed a terrorism-related offense within 10 years of entering the US counts as a “vetting failure.”

This figure is probably an overcount; it’s easy to imagine someone coming into the US on, say, a student visa and then becoming radicalized a year or two into their time in America. But it’s a fine proxy for a study that bends over backward to be generous to Trump’s argument.

Bier found that, between 1986 and 2001, there were 52 vetting failures — a rate of about one vetting failure for every 4.7 million grants of entry. The most notorious of such failures were the 9/11 hijackers themselves, who took advantage of the fact that State Department visa officers had zero training in identifying terrorists during interviews as well no access to law enforcement files on suspected terrorists.

After 9/11, the US conducted a massive overhaul of its visa screening procedures — retraining visa officers, strengthening databases on terrorism suspects, and adding biometric information (like fingerprints) to keep people from simply lying about whether they’d been denied a visa under another name. The result was a massive decline in vetting failure rate; between 2002 and 2016, there were a total 13 people who qualified as vetting failures; a rate of one failure for every 29 million admissions.

But it goes further than that. The goal of these reforms was to prevent another 9/11, an attack orchestrated from outside the country, in which attackers sneak through the immigration system to conduct a massive, planned assault. No such attack has happened since; in vetting failures since 9/11, all but one of those let through were convicted on terrorism-related charges, like providing money to a terrorist group, rather than themselves killing anyone in an attack.

The only person to fit Bier’s “vetting failure” criteria and commit a deadly attack was San Bernardino shooter Tashfeen Malik, who had committed no crimes prior to her entry to the United States but had expressed sympathies for jihadist groups in social media posts. Malik and her husband, American citizen Syed Rizwan Farook, went on to kill 14 people in their 2015 attack on a California nonprofit that serves people with disabilities.

That means that flaws in the US immigration and visa system have contributed to a total of 14 deaths during the period studied by Bier (and it’s worth noting the US introduced social media screening after the San Bernardino attack). This is despite admitting about 379 million people during that timeframe, an astonishingly low rate of failure.

Why this matters

To put this in perspective, I looked at the Centers for Disease Control database on deaths in America, oddly called WONDER, and pulled a few examples of things that had killed more Americans between 2002 and 2016 than vetting failures:

37 died from “contact with hot household appliances,” like stovetops and ovens.

34 died from their own pajamas burning (“exposure to ignition or melting of nightwear,” as WONDER puts it).

20 people died in hot air balloon accidents.

16 people were killed due to “contact with steam or other hot vapors.”

This isn’t to minimize the horror of any death; every life lost is a tragedy. Rather, it’s to point out the yawning gulf between the scale of the immigrant terrorist problem and the president’s extreme proposed solutions, like a ban on Muslims entering the United States.

Trump has not called for discriminating against hot air balloon enthusiasts or a war on exploding nightwear, because that would be self-evidently ridiculous. But he is hyping up fears of the immigration system admitting terrorists — an extremely rare event, significantly less common than a person being killed by an oven or stovetop — to justify policies that would discriminate against literally millions of people.

The president wants you to believe that it’s easy for terrorists to flood into the United States under current law, that we are at serious risk unless we take the extreme step of barring huge numbers of people, mostly from Muslim-majority countries, from entering the country.

You simply have no reason to believe him.Vox Sentences is your daily digest for what's happening in the world, curated by Ella Nilsen. Sign up for the Vox Sentences newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox Monday through Friday, or view the Vox Sentences archive for past editions.

Hearings for President Trump’s travel ban begin in the Supreme Court; Finland’s universal basic income experiment comes to an end.

Trump’s travel ban goes to court

President Trump’s ever-evolving “travel ban” of citizens from seven countries (five of them majority Muslim) is one of the most controversial policies of his presidency. The ban had its day before the Supreme Court on Wednesday, and the justices’ questions during oral argument suggested the administration could win. [Vox / Dara Lind]

The Court will likely rule by late June on the third iteration of the notorious policy. The first was struck down by lower courts, and the second expired in September. The current version, which has been in effect since early December, bars almost all travelers from Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria, Venezuela, and Yemen. [Reuters / Lawrence Hurley and Andrew Chung]

Challengers say the ban is just a way for Trump to follow through on his campaign promise of a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the US. Its defenders argue that the courts should defer to the administration on matters of national security. [NYT / Adam Liptak and Michael Shear]

Critics had hoped to sway at least one conservative justice to join the Court’s four-member liberal wing. But with swing vote Justice Anthony Kennedy’s skeptical questioning of the ban’s challengers, that possibility seems more remote. [CNN / Ariane de Vogue and Saba Hamedy]

While many of the bill’s challengers are advocating for immigrants’ rights, others see it as negative in a different way. A wide array of former national security experts argued in legal briefs that the ban makes the country less, not more, safe. They say the ban makes it harder to get information into the targeted countries, which makes it more difficult to fight ISIS and radical Islamists. [NPR / Nina Totenberg]

This bill is about the future of immigration to the country. But it’s also about what the Supreme Court can and can’t weigh in on when it comes to national security, a domain that is usually left up to the president and Congress. [Washington Post / Amanda Frost]

The extent to which this is a question of national security versus human rights is up to the courts. Justice Elena Kagan offered a hypothetical situation in which a future president who is “a vehement anti-Semite and says all kinds of denigrating comments about Jews” comes into office and bans entry to the United States from Israel. “This is an out-of-the-box kind of president in my hypothetical,” she said, to audible laughter in the courtroom. [Bloomberg / Greg Stohr]

Hanging in the balance now are the fates of nearly 150 million residents of Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen. (Chad, also majority Muslim, was removed from the list of banned countries earlier this month. North Korea and Venezuela are not part of the legal battle.) Unless the Supreme Court stops the ban, it will remain in effect indefinitely. [USA Today / Richard Wolf]

vox-mark Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox. Subscribe By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page

Is universal basic income finished for the Finnish?

Finland became the first European country to test a universal basic income back in January 2017, when the country randomly chose 2,000 unemployed citizens to give $685 a month. But the program won’t be extended after this year; the government has decided instead to find other ways to reform the Finnish social security system. [BBC / Laurence Peter]

The data from the pilot program hasn’t been released yet. But in general, Finland appears to be moving away from no-strings-attached social insurance, threatening to cut benefits for unemployed people who aren’t looking for work or engaging in job training. [NYT / Peter S. Goodman]

Basic income has been touted as a way to end poverty. But in Finland, which has one of the world’s lowest poverty rates and where health care and education are already paid for by the government, some argued the program is a little redundant — and paying for it would require an income tax hike of 30 percent. [OECD Economic Surveys]

Basic income, a fringe idea a decade ago, now has pilot programs around the world. Vox’s Dylan Matthews wrote earlier this year about why he believes in the idea — and how its proponents can still oversell it. [Vox / Dylan Matthews]

Miscellaneous

More evidence that Amazon is subtly pervading every aspect of the human experience: The company will soon start offering in-car deliveries. [WSJ / Laura Stevens and Mike Colias]

[WSJ / Laura Stevens and Mike Colias] Not everyone working in the Trump administration is living large. Attorney General Jeff Sessions eats a turkey sandwich from the cafeteria for lunch every day. [NYT / Elizabeth Williamson]

In Egypt, where being queer is still a crime, dating apps have become both a refuge and a way for police and blackmailers to find targets. [The Verge / Russell Brandom]

After years of requests from users and activists, Facebook has finally published a guide to why the company removes certain pieces of content and not others. [Atlantic / Alexis Madrigal]

Verbatim

“We all care about the same thing: food on the table, a roof over our head. ... We have to be examples and folks have to demand that in their elected officials.” [Texas Republican Rep. Will Hurd reflects on his impromptu 25-hour road trip with his Democratic colleague Rep. Beto O’Rourke, to the Dallas Morning News / Todd Gillman]

Watch this: This 19-year-old can keep astronauts safe from space junk

Space debris is a growing threat to space exploration. [YouTube / Christina Thornell and Kimberly Mas]

Read more

What’s Robert Mueller’s next big move? Here are 9 possibilities.

29 summer movies to get excited about

Israel and Iran’s escalating shadow war in Syria, explained

Smallville’s Allison Mack sold Nxivm as female empowerment. Now it’s being called a “sex cult.”

Incel, the misogynist ideology that inspired the deadly Toronto attack, explainedPeople with a lot of self-control — people who, when they happen upon a delicious food they don’t think they should eat, seemingly grin and bear the temptation until it passes — have it easy.

But why? For a long time, the thinking was that these people are good at inhibiting their impulses. That they have a lot of willpower and they know how to use it.

People who are bad at resisting temptation, meanwhile, supposedly have insufficient or underexploited willpower, a view with deep cultural and moral roots. (Think Adam and Eve and the original sin.) It’s also deeply embedded in the pop psychology of reaching goals and self-improvement. “People are happiest and healthiest when there is an optimal fit between self and environment, and this fit can be substantially improved by altering the self to fit the world,” argued an influential 2004 paper that proposed a questionnaire to rate people on self-control.

But this idea, that people have self-control because they’re good at willpower, is looking more and more like a myth. It turns out that self-control, and all the benefits from it, may not be related to inhibiting impulses at all. And once we cast aside the idea of willpower, we can better understand what actually works to accomplish goals, and hit those New Year’s resolutions.

The idea of willpower has withered as the scientific tests for it have gotten better

There are two main ways to measure a person’s level of self-control.

One is with the self-control scale first published in 2004. This asks participants to agree or disagree with statements like “I am good at resisting temptation” and “I don’t keep secrets very well.” (See the whole questionnaire here.)

It’s a pretty simple measure, and it does a remarkable job at predicting success in life.

“Those self-report scales are really meaningful; they predict ‘the good life,’” Michael Inzlicht, a University of Toronto psychologist who studies self-control, says. People who score highly on this scale have better relationships, are better at abstaining from binge eating and alcohol, do better in school, and are generally happier. (A 2012 meta-analysis with more than 32,648 participants found compelling evidence that these links are solid.)

A second way to measure self-control is to actually test it, behaviorally, in a situation. In a classic (and increasingly challenged) self-control study, psychologist Roy Baumeister had participants resist the smell of just-baked cookies.

Today, it’s much more common for psychologists to use brain teasers that create internal, cognitive conflicts that participants have to use willpower to overcome.

For many years, Inzlicht explains, psychologists assumed that the self-control measured by the questionnaire measured the same thing (or something overlapping) as the behavioral tests of willpower.

Inzlicht and his collaborators wanted to answer a simple question with rigorous methods: Do these two measurements of self-control relate to each other? That is, are people who say they are good at self-control in the broad sense (and have the positive life outcomes to prove it) actually good at summoning willpower in the moment?

They ran a series of studies with more than 2,400 participants, who took the questionnaire and then completed a task designed to test their powers of inhibition.

One of these tests is called the Stroop task, and it is very hard. In it, participants are given words of colors, but the font of those words is a totally different color. Here’s an example. It hurts my brain just looking at it.

Participants have to indicate which color they see and ignore what the word actually says. “When the meaning of the word conflicts with the color of the word, you have a conflict,” Inzlicht says. And, the thinking goes, you have to use self-control to power your brain through this conflict and come to the right answer.

Other trials used what’s called the Flanker task, which poses a similar brain twister. Participants see a row of arrows and have to indicate which direction the central arrow points. This becomes very hard when the central arrow points in the opposite direction of all the others. You have to use effortful restraint to avoid the temptation of assuming all the arrows point in the same direction.

Again, you’d assume people who say they are good at self-control excel at these tasks that demand a lot of restraint, right?

That wasn’t the case. The results showed “there’s either a very small, almost trivially sized, relationship between these two types of measures or there’s no relationship at all,” says Blair Saunders, a University of Dundee psychologist and the lead author of the study. “I think that’s the strongest conclusion you can make.”

So think about that. In these rigorous tests, people who say they’re great at self-control aren’t much better at controlling themselves than the rest of us.

There are a few possible reasons why.

1) Perhaps the self-control we employ when struggling through the Stroop task is not the same as when we’re resisting the urge to eat a plate of delicious cookies.

If this is the case, psychologists need to go back to the drawing board and redefine “self-control” in more careful terms. It’s often been assumed that the self-control questionnaire and these cognitive tasks measure the same or similar thing. It could be that “self-control” as we think of it is much too broad a concept, and needs to be broken down into simpler parts.

2) The self-report scale is picking up on something else besides willpower to inhibit thoughts and feelings — things like habits, personal preferences, or the result of people living in a less tempting environment.

3) It could also be due to something researchers call the “reliability paradox.” Basically, on a hard test like the Stroop, there isn’t a huge range of scores. That lack of variation can make it difficult to use the test to access individual differences.

So which one is it? “I‘d say it is a scientific puzzle that needs to be sorted out and that could lead to new research and some interesting insights,” Sanjay Srivastava, a University of Oregon personality psychologist who wasn’t involved in the research, says in an email.

Other studies find willpower doesn’t work

Inzlicht’s Stroop task paper has yet to be published in an academic journal. So it’s preliminary (the authors published it early online in the hope of soliciting feedback and spurring discussion). But in the meantime, know that the case against willpower as a means of achieving goals is growing in the published literature.

Take a 2011 study published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, which tracked 205 people for one week in Germany. The study participants were given BlackBerrys that would go off at random, asking them questions about the desires, temptations, and self-control they were experiencing in the moment.

The paper stumbled on a paradox: The people who were the best at self-control — the ones who most readily agreed to survey statements like “I am good at resisting temptations” — reported fewer temptations throughout the study period. To put it more simply: The people who said they excelled at self-control were hardly using it at all.

More recently, Inzlicht and his collaborator Marina Milyavskaya (also a co-author on the latest paper) confirmed and expanded on this idea. In their study, they monitored 159 students at McGill University in Canada in a similar manner for a week.

If resisting temptation is a virtue, then more resistance should lead to greater achievement, right? That’s not what the results, published in the journal Social Psychological and Personality Science, found.

The students who exerted more self-control were not more successful in accomplishing their goals. It was the students who experienced fewer temptations overall who were more successful when the researchers checked back in at the end of the semester. What’s more, the people who exercised more effortful self-control also reported feeling more depleted. So not only were they not meeting their goals, they were also exhausted from trying.

What we can learn from people who are good at self-control

So who are these people who are rarely tested by temptations? They’re doing something right. Recent research suggests a few lessons we can draw from them.

1) People who are better at self-control actually enjoy the activities some of us resist — like eating healthy, studying, or exercising.

So engaging in these activities isn’t a chore for them. It’s fun.

“‘Want to’ goals are more likely to be obtained than ‘have to’ goals,” Milyavskaya said in an interview last year. “Want-to goals lead to experiences of fewer temptations. It’s easier to pursue those goals. It feels more effortless.”

If you’re running because you “have to” get in shape but find running to be a miserable activity, you’re probably not going to keep it up. An activity you like is more likely to be repeated than an activity you hate.

2) People who are good at self-control have learned better habits.

In 2015, psychologists Brian Galla and Angela Duckworth published a paper in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, finding across six studies and more than 2,000 participants that people who are good at self-control also tend to have good habits — like exercising regularly, eating healthy, sleeping well, and studying.

“People who are good at self-control … seem to be structuring their lives in a way to avoid having to make a self-control decision in the first place,” Galla tells me. And structuring your life is a skill. People who do the same activity, like running or meditating, at the same time each day have an easier time accomplishing their goals, he says — not because of their willpower, but because the routine makes it easier.

A trick to wake up more quickly in the morning is to set the alarm on the other side of the room. That’s not in-the-moment willpower at play; it’s planning.

This theory harks back to one of the classic studies on self-control: Walter Mischel’s “marshmallow test,” conducted in the 1960s and ’70s. In these tests, kids were told they could either eat one marshmallow sitting in front of them immediately or eat two later. The ability to resist the immediate gratification was found to correlate with all sorts of positive life outcomes, like SAT scores and BMIs. But the kids who were best at the test weren’t necessarily intrinsically better at resisting temptation. They might have been employing a critical strategy.

“Mischel has consistently found that the crucial factor in delaying gratification is the ability to change your perception of the object or action you want to resist,” the New Yorker reported in 2014. That means kids who avoided eating the first marshmallow would find ways not to look at the candy, or imagine it as something else.

“The really good dieter wouldn’t buy a cupcake,” Kentaro Fujita, a psychologist at Ohio State University, said in 2016. “They wouldn’t have passed in front of a bakery; when they saw the cupcake, they would have figured out a way to say yuck instead of yum; they might have an automatic reaction of moving away instead of moving close.”

3) Some people just experience fewer temptations.

Our dispositions are determined in part by our genetics. Some people are hungrier than others. Some people love gambling and shopping. People high in conscientiousness — a personality trait largely set by genetics — tend to be healthier and more vigilant students. When it comes to self-control, they won the genetic lottery.

4) It’s easier to have self-control when you’re wealthy.

When Mischel’s marshmallow test is repeated on poorer kids, there’s a clear trend: They perform worse, and appear less able to resist the treat in front of them.

But there’s a good reason for this. As University of Oregon neuroscientist Elliot Berkman argues, people who grow up in poverty are more likely to focus on immediate rewards than long-term rewards, because when you’re poor, the future is less certain.

Why the myth of willpower is so troubling

As anyone who has struggled with a diet knows, willpower won’t work in the long run. And failures of inhibition are too often confused for a moral failing. We blame willpower failings for weight gain, even though it’s genetics and our calorie-laden environments conspiring against out waistlines. We blame addicts for not restraining their urges, even though their addiction has a biological hold on their brain.

And overall, psychologists are shying away from the concept, as years of work suggesting that willpower is a finite, essential resource has come under intense scrutiny.

In a specific situation, sure, you can muster willpower to save yourself from falling back into a bad habit. But relying on willpower alone to accomplish goals “is almost like relying on emergency brake when you are driving your car,” Saunders says. “You should focus on things that drive you toward your goals rather than stopping things that are in your way.” What’s more, the human “emergency brake” that is willpower is bound to fail in some instances, causing you to crash.

And it’s time we all took these lessons to heart. Focusing on failures of willpower leads to shame, both public and private, and holds back our curiosity from finding and enacting solutions that actually work.My former colleagues in the broadcast meteorology field have certainly had a busy past year. Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria devastated the Texas coastline, Florida, and Puerto Rico, where thousands still suffer power outages. Wildfires spread across the West Coast. I know broadcast meterologists’ first job is to protect life and property, but on this Earth Day, I wonder how many of my former colleagues have mentioned climate change in their longform coverage of these natural disasters.

It was not so long ago that climate change was a topic broadcast meteorologists would not bring up. Some still don’t. The reasons are complicated, ranging from what meteorologists are taught in college to not wanting to upset their viewers. But they are increasingly changing. I’ve spoken to many former colleagues who want to start having these conversations on air and doing what they can to inform the public about the issue.

When I started on the air in the mid-’90s, climate change just wasn’t something many of us talked about, including me. I was way more focused on the shorter-range forecasting, preparing my audience for the weather of the day and week.

But the more I learned about the science, the more that started to change. In 2013, I was the chief meteorologist at the ABC affiliate in Lynchburg, Virginia. And that fall, when the world’s leading climate scientists had released their latest update on climate change, I thought it was time to speak up about how our planet was changing. This was science, not policy.

I was still concerned that many in my audience did not want to hear it. However, the information was important, so I made the decision to highlight the key findings on the air one evening that fall. Since 1901, global sea levels had risen 7.5 inches and the average temperature had risen 1.6 degrees Fahrenheit, I said. And this was primarily a result of the increasing greenhouse gas concentration from the burning of fossil fuels.

After discussing on the air, I shared a post summarizing what I had said on air. I mentally prepared to face any negative reaction. But in the end, I was surprised and somewhat relieved that I received only one comment about it:

I don't really like the news, but people need to hear it.

No hate mail came; no fussing from my news managers ensued. I realized that I could do this. I started to feel better about discussing climate change on the air, and slowly began peppering in climate change facts whenever possible. I still had to be cognizant of not going too far so as to not repel a conservative audience. Occasionally, I would get a cranky Facebook comment. But I was surprised at how little backlash it ultimately caused.

This experience sowed the seeds for me to help other meteorologists talk about climate change on the air. For much of the public, meteorologists are the only scientists people see on a daily basis, so they have a unique position in the media landscape. Talking about climate change from that position could make a real difference in how the public discusses climate change and its solutions. It’s something we increasingly have a responsibility to do.

Not all meteorologists are required to study climate science

Most meteorologists knew they wanted to study the weather from an early age. I’m no different. My two fascinations as a child were weather and astronomy. I had no idea who would pay me to look at the stars and planets, but a good forecast was always in demand, so I chose to study meteorology.

Aside from two courses I took in college on climate change and variability, I wasn’t someone who was deeply interested about climate change. It’s not that I wasn’t interested in climate science. It’s just that I didn’t have to learn much about it — you don’t need a deep understanding of the climate system to be an operational forecaster. It is not necessary to understand long-term climate variations, like the coming and going of ice ages, when following an advancing line of damaging thunderstorms.

When I think about climate science and the forecasting community, there is still a bit of a disconnect. It may be the lack of exposure to the subject when someone was at college. Those who study climate science look at the entire earth system, including the atmosphere, oceans, biosphere, and cryosphere, as well as how Earth relates to the sun. But for those who study weather forecasting, not much time is spent exploring those additional topics.

Instead, we look at how individual weather systems develop. So you can certainly take climate science as a complementary elective course, but it’s not one that is necessarily required. There are also some weathercasters who are self-taught or who take correspondence courses rather than studying meteorology in college, where they might take classes in climate science.

There is also a group within the forecasting community that doesn’t like the way the subject is covered in the news. Some are still not convinced it's real, and others view it as overstated and sensationalized by partisan media. I am painfully aware of how politicized the subject has become. In broadcast meteorology, the number of eyes on you ultimately drives your salary and your livelihood. You don’t want to upset your managers or give viewers a reason to turn you off. I have spoken to broadcast meteorology colleagues about this topic, and those concerns are very real to them.

Nonetheless, as my broadcast career moved forward, I thought it was important to remind my viewers that climate change was already occurring and the impacts were going be more noticeable. Watching the glaciers and permafrost melt across the Arctic was the evidence that convinced me most.

I began to talk more about climate change on the air, like discussing how much warmer Virginia has become since the first Earth Day in 1970. I started a blog specifically about climate change to share more with my community. If there were things I didn’t understand, I went after the scientific answers the best I could, steering clear of outside, nonscientific influences.

While weather inspired me to pursue my career in meteorology, this new desire to learn more about climate science inspired me to take the next step in my career.

There’s been a huge shift in attitudes toward climate change among weathercasters in recent years

In 2014, after nearly 20 years as a broadcast meteorologist, I saw a change in both the climate and the broadcast meteorology landscape. On the climate front, I knew evidence of climate change would only become stronger. On the broadcasting front, it seemed more meteorologists wanted to approach climate change on air, although some struggled with how to go about it.

In both cases, my gut was right. The planet has set a record for its warmest year for three years running. Intense heat waves and rising seas have taken a toll around the world as atmospheric carbon dioxide continues to rise to levels unseen in the history of human civilization.

Evidence of a shift in attitudes became clear in surveys of broadcast meteorologists. In 2010, a George Mason University survey indicated that 53 percent of broadcast meteorologists say global warming is indeed happening. A similar 2017 survey indicated that number had jumped to 95 percent. However, that same 2017 survey only indicated 49 percent were convinced it has been mostly or entirely due to human activity, so there is still work to be done to bring the science home. When an opportunity arose to make a career shift allowing me to convey the science to a broader audience, I wanted to investigate.

That’s how I ended up shifting careers to work at the nonprofit Climate Central, a group that provides research and multimedia to broadcast meteorologists to help them tell the story of climate change. Leaving broadcast meteorology was a career risk, but I believed in the work Climate Central was doing, getting the best science in the hands of broadcast meteorologists.

I now spend my time working with meteorologists on the forefront of weather and climate communication. The stories behind the growing number of meteorologists talking about climate change are as fascinating as the numbers.

Greg Fishel, a meteorologist at NBC in Raleigh-Durham, has been at his station since 1981. He was given the opportunity to do a longform documentary about climate change, which took him all the way to the Arctic Ocean shore town of Barrow, Alaska, located in a region warming about twice as much as the rest of Earth. He often uses social media to continually engage the public about the issue, including skeptics. Those skeptics are loud on his social media feeds, but he is not afraid to engage them, treating it as an opportunity to showcase the state of the science beyond just a few talking points.

It’s not just broadcast meteorologists. I was in Houston in July — long before there was a hint of Harvey — having dinner with a couple of meteorologist friends who work in the energy industry, a group that tends to lean conservative. They look at decadal trends in weather patterns for their energy clients, trying to determine if the summer will be particularly hot or the winter particularly cold, all in the service of helping energy companies plan for consumer demand.

One of them, a converted climate change skeptic, told me, “You know, I don’t understand why some people in the energy industry haven’t accepted it, especially after these last few years. Ten years ago, they kept saying, ‘Just wait, we’re about to go back into a cooling period,’ but that has obviously not been the case.” It's the kind of conversation I would never have had with them a decade ago.

We have a huge platform. With that comes a responsibility to inform our audience.

I understand there are still broadcast meteorologists who do not want to discuss climate change. They have their reasons. Some may not accept that humans are playing a role. Or maybe they feel like it’s not their job to discuss topics on which they’re not experts. However, at most television stations, they are the only people on air with any grasp of earth sciences, and that puts them in a unique position.

Like it or not, meteorologists will be asked by the news managers to discuss high-profile science events on the air. Any time there is an earthquake, volcanic eruption, or astronomical event, the meteorologists are needed and required to put those events into context for viewers. At the core, that is part of the job, and climate science is no different from geology or astronomy.

Having sat in the same chair as other broadcast meteorologists, I understand their constraints, but there is also an opportunity to lead. That’s why I’m working to help produce materials for them to use to quickly answer the questions the public has. According to a 2017 Yale/George Mason University survey, 70 percent of Americans are convinced global warming is happening. Even in my old broadcasting backyard of central and southwest Virginia, a traditionally conservative area, that percentage is in the 60s.

The public’s questions and concerns about climate change are likely to grow. We have had two major landfalling hurricanes in the US within weeks of each other. It’s inevitable that meteorologists will be asked about the role climate change played. The same goes for extreme heat, heavy precipitation, and coastal flooding, all of which are on the rise due to climate change.

Broadcast meteorologists are some of the most qualified people in the media to discuss the subject and are the liaison between the public and the research-based scientific community. Increasingly they are stepping up, and we hope to see it continue.

Sean Sublette is a meteorologist with Climate Central’s Climate Matters program, working with broadcast meteorologists across the country to communicate the science of climate change to the public. He previously worked as a broadcast meteorologist for 19 years in the Roanoke-Lynchburg, Virginia, television market.

First Person is Vox's home for compelling, provocative narrative essays. Do you have a story to share? Read our submission guidelines, and pitch us at firstperson@vox.com.Bernie Sanders, Cory Booker, and Kirsten Gillibrand have all embraced a bold new idea they think will revitalize the American economy: a job guarantee.

Under the proposal, the federal government would guarantee a well-paying job, with benefits and a high enough salary to pay for rent, transportation, and food, to every citizen who wants one. Anyone who didn’t have a job and wanted one could go into a local office for a government agency — call it the Works Progress Administration, maybe — and walk out with a regular government position paying a livable wage ($15 an hour, perhaps) and offering health, dental, and vision insurance, and retirement benefits, and child care for their kids.

Different people would do different things: teaching or working for after-school programs or providing child care or building roads and mass transit or driving buses and so on. But everyone would be guaranteed a job, including during recessions. Involuntary unemployment would be a thing of the past. No one who works would be in poverty.

That’s a truly radical policy idea. But it has deep roots in the Democratic Party’s past, from the New Deal’s emergency employment programs to the Humphrey-Hawkins Act, a 1970s proposal that, as originally written, would have given unemployed Americans the right to sue the government.

Now, the idea is making a comeback. Booker has proposed legislation that would establish a pilot job guarantee in 15 local areas, and Sanders is preparing a bill that would implement a nation-wide guarantee. Their legislation follows job guarantee or public jobs proposals from two prominent left-of-center think tanks: the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which published a proposal from economists and veteran job guarantee advocates Mark Paul, William Darity, Jr. (both at Duke), and Darrick Hamilton (of the New School), and the Center for American Progress, which issued a report in May 2017 calling for a "large-scale, permanent program of public employment and infrastructure investment."

But some labor economists, even left-leaning ones, are skeptical. None of the programs, they argue, have done enough work on the details. And those details are crucial to the eventual fate of such a policy.

An effective job guarantee that eliminated unemployment and boosted wages without negative side effects could be a very good thing. But an ineffective job guarantee that amounts to a welfare check plus onerous work requirements wouldn’t just be bad policy — it would also be politically toxic.

Why liberals are flocking to job guarantee plans in 2018

It might seem strange to be debating how best to solve mass joblessness at a time when the US unemployment rate is 4.1 percent, the lowest in over a decade.

And indeed, analysts critical of the plan raise exactly that objection: “Advocates who imagine we need a major restructuring of the entire economy are utopian and dystopian all at once," says Adam Ozimek, an economist at Moody's Analytics told me last year. "They are utopian in that they imagine we can nationalize a quarter of the labor force without significant negative effects on productivity and economic growth. They are dystopian in that they imagine things are so terrible that this kind of radical transformation is necessary."

But there are both political and policy reasons for why the job guarantee is suddenly a hot topic.

In the wake of the 2016 election, liberal commentators have latched onto the job guarantee — an idea pushed by some left-wing economists for years — as a way to forge a cross-racial working-class coalition. They need a plan that appeals to both to the white Wisconsin and Michigan voters who switched from Obama to Trump and to black and Latino workers left behind by deindustrialization. The ideal plan would improve conditions for lower-income Americans while supporting Americans’ strong intuition that people should work to earn their crust.

“A federal job guarantee is both universal — it benefits all Americans — and specifically ameliorative to entrenched racial inequality,” Slate’s Jamelle Bouie notes.

“The job guarantee asserts that, if individuals bear a moral duty to work, then society and employers bear a reciprocal moral duty to provide good, dignified work for all,” Jeff Spross adds in the influential center-left journal Democracy.

“If Democrats want to win elections, they should imbue Trump’s empty rhetoric with a real promise: a good job for every American who wants one,” writes Bryce Covert in the New Republic. “It’s time to make a federal jobs guarantee the central tenet of the party’s platform.”

But there’s also a policy rationale for the idea’s resurgence. Many experts think the unemployment rate makes the economy, or at least the labor market, look better than it really is. The unemployment rate only counts people looking for work, and the most recent recession and slow subsequent recovery forced some people out of the labor force. In January 2007, 80.3 percent of people ages 25 to 54 were employed; in March 2018, 79.2 percent were.

If the rate had stayed at its prerecession peak, there’d be nearly 1.4 million more people employed today. If the rate were at its all-time peak (81.9 percent, in April 2000), there’d be 3.4 million more people employed.

It’s possible those people will get jobs as the economy continues improving, but it’s not a sure thing. For one thing, the Federal Reserve keeps raising interest rates, a move that effectively kills jobs. There are also other factors at play. For decades, in both good economic times and bad, the share of men who are either working or looking for work has been declining. The labor force participation rate for 25- to 54-year old men fell from 98 percent in the 1950s to 88 percent today, per a 2016 report by White House Council of Economic Advisors members.

And it’s not just a matter of jobs. Wage growth has been somewhat anemic. During the last great boom in the late 1990s and early 2000s, wage and salary growth in the private sector, before adjusting for inflation, was about 3.5 to 4 percent per year, sometimes even topping 4, according to the Employment Cost Index. In recent quarters, however, wage growth has hovered around 2.5 percent. That's slightly worse than things were in the mid-2000s, before the housing bubble burst.

Nor has the recovery been evenly shared. As of March 2018, 60.7 percent of white people in America were employed, but only 58.4 percent of black people were.

Once black men’s disproportionate representation in prisons and jails is accounted for, the gap grows still larger. In 2016, the most recent year for which we have data, a mere 27.7 percent of people with disabilities age 16 to 64 were employed, compared to 72.8 percent of nondisabled people.

Nor do booms affect all geographic areas equally. There are still 337 counties or county-equivalents with a combined labor force of over 6.7 million people that have unemployment rates of 7 percent or higher as of February 2018. Seventy-eight counties still have unemployment rates in excess of 10 percent.

The bottom line is there are millions of people in the US economy who could be working, but aren’t. A jobs guarantee diagnoses that as a problem of demand: Private employers aren’t doing enough to make use of the US labor force. And it seeks to create such demand directly, by creating a new employer to provide it.

Have a disability, and unable to find an employer who will provide the support necessary for you to work? Well, under a jobs guarantee, the government would function as just such an employer. Lack a high school or college degree? A jobs guarantee could offer you a stipend to gain more training; if you don’t want to retrain, it could provide a skill-appropriate position that pays a living wage.

India’s successful job guarantee

Job guarantee advocates argue it wouldn’t just affect people who take jobs through the job guarantee program. It would affect everyone else too. Walmart pays its employees a minimum of $10 per hour; part-time employees aren’t guaranteed benefits like health insurance or a 401(k) match.

If you’re a part-time employee at Walmart, and all of a sudden you can get $15 an hour, work full time, and earn full benefits by working for the federal government — wouldn’t you? And, knowing that, wouldn’t Walmart try to increase wages to keep you?

Advocates say Walmart would. And they have some empirical evidence on their side from India, where a type of job guarantee known as the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme functions largely as an insurance system, offering a source of income for rural farmers during the dry season.

A group of economists — UC San Diego's Karthik Muralidharan and Paul Niehaus and the University of Virginia's Sandip Sukhtankar — collaborated with the former Indian state of Andhra Pradesh to randomize the roll-out of a new biometric card for participants in the rural employment program. The technology greatly improved access, but some subdistricts of Andhra Pradesh were randomly selected to benefit from it earlier than others. This randomization let the economists estimate the program’s effects by comparing subdistricts that got much-expanded access to the job guarantee to ones that didn’t.

Their findings are astounding: the job guarantee, they estimate, increases earnings for low-income households by 13.3 percent. Ninety percent of that increase is due to higher wages and increased work in the private sector, not the job guarantee program itself. Just as job guarantee advocates would predict, the program bid up wages everywhere.

Perhaps the most surprising result was that the program not only increased wages, but increased employment in the private sector.

Two things could be going on here, according to Paul Niehaus, the UCSD economist who co-authored the study. One is that employers in India are so few in number that they have more power to set wages than is typically the case, a phenomenon known as monopsony power. Under monopsony, firms typically have a number of vacancies, since to fill them they'd need to raise wages not just for new workers but for existing workers too.

Setting a minimum wage, either by statute or through a job guarantee plan, effectively forces the firms to pay more to everyone, which in turn drives more people to apply to work there, and fills the vacancies.

Alternately, Niehaus notes that private sector could increase because the program "created productivity enhancing assets," like roads. The work done in the program could actually be useful in a way that boosts productivity and employment across society. Other research has also found that the program increase entrepreneurship by injecting cash into rural communities that workers can then use to start their own ventures.

How an American job guarantee could work

Obviously, though, the Indian and American economies are quite different. The US has no need to provide jobs as a secondary source of income for agricultural laborers and subsistence farmers; a lack of capital for small enterprises isn’t a major factor holding back growth here. Instead, a US jobs guarantee would have to come up with a constant supply of useful jobs that enrollees with a wide array of skills could do — and jobs that can grow and shrink in number, as the economy booms and busts.

There are two big questions any program would have to answer.

The first is whether the goal is truly for the government to give everyone a job, or just to give more people jobs. The Center for American Progress is wrestling with that question right now: “Does the job guarantee translate to the government acting as an employer of last resort, or does it mean guaranteeing sustained public funding for a target number of jobs over and above what we already have?” asks Carmel Martin, the group’s executive vice president for policy. CAP isn’t sure yet.

As an illustrative example, CAP’s May position paper supposes that a public employment program should return the employment rate of prime-age workers without bachelor's degrees to its 2000 level of 79 percent. That would require creating 4.4 million jobs and would cost, CAP estimates, about $158 billion a year. It would also still fall short of guaranteeing every American a paying job.

The detailed CBPP plan from economists William Darity Jr., Darrick Hamilton, Mark Paul, and the Insight Center for Community Economic Development, is far more ambitious — it calls for employing about 10.7 million people at the cost of $543 billion per year. Wages would start at $11.83 an hour or $24,600 a year, plus another $10,000 a year in health care and retirement benefits. Participants would also get paid family, sick, and vacation leave. And the jobs would be guaranteed, not limited to a set number.

Still another outline from economist Pavlina Tcherneva, a professor at Bard College and its Levy Economics Institute, would also provide a guarantee, and allocate enrollees across nonprofit organizations rather than having the federal government provide jobs directly. While Tcherneva doesn’t go into this, such a plan would almost certainly amount to a massive subsidy to religious organizations, given how dominated the US nonprofit sector is by local religious groups and charities.

The second big question is what kind of work these workers would do. The Darity/Hamilton/Paul plan to employ 10.7 million people, for example, seems to envision pairing the guarantee with expansions to public services enabled by a larger government workforce.

Jobs, the authors write, could include:

the repair, maintenance, and expansion of the nation’s infrastructure, housing stock, and public buildings; energy efficiency upgrades to public and private buildings; assistance with ecological restoration and services to reduce the country’s carbon footprint; engagement in community development projects; provision of high-quality preschool and afterschool services; provision of teachers’ aids; provision of high-quality elder care and companionship; rejuvenation of the nation’s defunded postal service; support for the arts; and other activities that shall support the public good

Many of these are permanent jobs. If a job guarantee were enacted in a recession, and many of the enrollees became child care providers, what happens when the economy improves and workers find jobs in the private sector? It wouldn’t be tenable to eliminate a universal child care program because the economy improved. Nor, if the program employed bus drivers, would it make much sense to cut bus routes. Either the government provides child care and runs buses, or it doesn’t; making how much child care it provides or how many buses are available dependent on the state of the economy would be odd at best and counterproductive at worst.

Infrastructure work, also included in the plan, could be a more appropriate area for job guarantee labor. While ideally we’d repair roads and bridges and rail lines as soon as they need it, in practice that rarely happens, and tying projects like those to economic trends might not be so bad. But implementing a real job guarantee plan would require thinking through how useful a large number of untrained workers would be for such projects and estimating how many could be productively put to use. Then, if that number is less than the stock of unemployed people during recessions, the government would still have to find other roles for people to fill.

A plan would also have to distinguish between different groups of people benefiting. For the long-term unemployed and young workers new to the labor force, more permanent positions might make sense, as their difficulty getting work isn't necessarily tied to a bad economy. But for people struggling in a recession, the program might be more useful if it encourages work-sharing and deters layoffs, rather than pushing previously employed people into new jobs that they might not be a good fit for.

America’s last experience with public employment

Working through the details on a job guarantee is crucially important, especially for political survival. American history shows that even a mostly effective program can become politically toxic.

In the 1970s, amid economic malaise driven by the oil crisis, the federal government began funding job positions through the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (CETA). The program got some $47 billion in funding from its passage in 1973 to its dissolution in 1982; in 1977, President Jimmy Carter started directing more and more of that money toward public sector jobs, until by 1978 some 725,000 people had public sector jobs through CETA.

“CETA’s size,” Temple University political scientist Gary Mucciaroni writes, “dwarfed not only the employment programs of the 1960s but the entire War on Poverty effort.”

If you believe job guarantee advocates, the program should have been politically durable and popular, as it tied benefits to recipients’ willingness to work in the public sector and contribute to society.

It wasn’t. Instead, among its many opponents, the program became synonymous with corrupt liberal governance — a “visible symbol,” Mucciaroni writes, “of what its opponents argued was the futility and failure of government attempts to solve social and economic problems.”

“Like any government program, there were problems … but by and large it was a pretty successful program that got people employed quickly,” Carl Van Horn, a distinguished professor public policy at Rutgers and an expert on employment policy, told me. “But when Ronald Reagan was elected to succeed Carter, he announced that we had to get rid of this program … It was more about the symbol, of some people getting jobs to do things that weren’t perceived as worthwhile.”

And to be clear, some people with CETA jobs were doing things that weren’t worthwhile. Van Horn estimates that 5 to 10 percent of CETA projects were boondoggles or otherwise wasteful. But those projects are easy to publicize, and can be used to doom the program as a whole.

When the next recession hit, in 1981 to 1982, the worst downturn until the 2007 to 2009 financial crisis, the CETA program was so “radioactive,” as Van Horn puts it, that no one really proposed trying mass public job creation again.

“It also became intertwined with race,” Brown political scientist and sociologist Margaret Weir notes. Joblessness was seen as a black problem, and blacks were seen as primary beneficiaries of the public sector positions created by CETA in cities.

If CETA was effective but politically toxic, plenty of other public employment programs haven’t even been effective. While job guarantee programs envision a broad, inclusive program that can integrate all participants into the broader economy, the result is often a program that serves people who can’t get work anywhere else, and still can’t get work anywhere else after the program is finished.

Berkeley economist David Card recently conducted a meta-analysis of more than 200 evaluations of programs meant to boost labor markets, along with fellow economists Jochen Kluve and Andrea Weber. While they found a variety of impacts of different programs, one constant was that public employment programs that simply hired people directly performed worst.

“Public sector employment subsidies tend to have negligible or even negative impacts at all horizons," the study concludes. "This pattern suggests that private employers place little value on the experiences gained in a public sector program.” One reason, they suggested, was that the programs did nothing to help build skills that would make participants more employable.

Job guarantee advocates counter that a well-designed program would get around these concerns. CAP’s Martin argues that sound design would both permanently increase public employment, meaning unemployability in the private sector isn’t a concern, and that it will involve training programs that can boost skills.

Margaret Weir also expresses hope that a universal job guarantee could be more politically viable than the 1970s public employment program. “The jobs problem is perceived as a white problem now,” she notes. “I think that local government and nonprofits are more capable/professional now than they were in the 1970s, and could more easily implement a jobs program.”

Van Horn, on the other hand, expressed skepticism, fearing the same factors could doom public sector employment this time around, especially America’s fundamental uneasiness with direct government intervention into the job market. “I’d say it’s more likely we’d have a single-payer health care system than a guaranteed job program, and that’s also a reach,” he says. “There’s a very long tradition in public policy and the history of this country that this is a lightly managed economy … The idea that the government would suddenly change after 200 years of not doing that, and certainly not in the modern era, I just don’t think it’s likely.”

All which means job guarantee advocates should be thinking seriously about the details. The experience with CETA is a reminder that the line between a brilliant idea and a political failure is narrow, and that funding even a handful of bad or bad-looking projects can easily doom a program.

After the initial energy for public jobs and even a jobs guarantee in the 1960s and 1970s, “the flurry of new programs,” Weir wrote in her 1992 book Politics and Jobs, “was followed only a few years later by disillusionment and a sharp scaling down of resources devoted to them.”There is something near-miraculous about the organ donation system, which allows tens of thousands of Americans a year to give up parts of their body they no longer need to extend the lives of others.

And yet tens of thousands of viable organs are also lost each year rather than going to patients desperately in need of them. Researchers recently estimated there are only half as many donors as there are deaths with potential to donate.

Given how life-changing an organ transplant can be, and the scale of demand, how could we ensure that every potential donation finds its way to a recipient?

We tend to focus on the surgeon as the key figure in the equation. But as it turns out, the success of organ donation hinges just as much on other links in the chain.

If we supported the entire organ transplant system and held it to better account, we would ensure that more organs from the dying could become a gift of life for someone else.

Here’s how that might work.

There’s an urgent need to increase the number of organ transplants

2017 was a record year for organ donation and transplantation, as the number of deceased people whose organs were recovered for donation surpassed 10,000 for the first time. Those donations, combined with organs offered by nearly 6,000 living people, together meant that 35,000 desperately ill people got lifesaving transplants. But that same year, more than 50,000 people were added to the waitlist.

Of those people currently on the US transplant waitlist, 81 percent need a kidney, 12 percent need a liver, and the rest need a heart, lung, pancreas, or intestine. They suffer from conditions as varied as diabetes, alcohol abuse, or hepatitis C, but what they have in common is that one of their vital organs is irreversibly failing.

As organs become available for transplant, they are matched with the sickest nearby patient with whom they are compatible, following a complex protocol that takes physiological and geographic factors into account. To reach the front of the line, patients may have to wait until their illness is very advanced, and, as a result, undergo surgery when they are least able to physically tolerate it.

Transplant centers control which patients are added to the list; they can be conservative in putting forward only those who they believe will benefit. Dr. Seth Karp, director of the Vanderbilt University Transplant Center, estimates that only one in 10 patients who die of liver disease in Tennessee was even on the waiting list for a liver.

But organ donation after death is still the exception, not the rule

The supply of organs, in turn, is largely handled by a network of nonprofits that work in hospitals but possess skills that clinicians have little opportunity to practice — because within the health system, organ donation is actually fairly uncommon.

Organ procurement organizations (OPO), as they are known, oversee all the hospitals in one of 58 donor service areas (DSAs) across the country. When a hospital flags a patient with potential to donate, the OPO dispatches a staff member to the bedside. They and their colleagues serve as a liaison between all the parties involved — the donor hospital, the transplant center, the mourning family — and must perform the alchemy of turning one person’s loss into another’s reprieve.

Howard Nathan began working at the Pennsylvania-based OPO Gift of Life in 1978, as a transplant coordinator. Today he is the organization’s president. Their essential responsibility, as he sees it, is to represent the people on the waitlist: “They don’t have a voice at the bedside of the donor. We’re their voice.”

The OPO’s work is a balance of sensitivity and speed. They have difficult conversations with patients’ families on what may be their darkest day. Once the patient dies and blood ceases circulating oxygen, every passing moment means the organs are further compromised, reducing the likelihood of a successful transplant, so the OPO coordinates and carefully manages their swift transportation to whichever transplant centers are ready to make use of them.

As medicine has evolved, so has organ donation

Part of the challenge is that organ procurement must evolve in step with changes in how we treat illness, and how we die.

Historically, transplant surgeons were reluctant to accept organs from older patients or organs that had to be transported from a great distance, which left them depleted of oxygen. They favored donations from younger people who had suffered a traumatic injury or illness resulting in irreversible loss of brain function (known as “brain death”) but whose circulation had been maintained by life support. This preserved oxygen flow to the organs, creating a window of time for matching them to a recipient.

With advances in post-transplant care, surgeons are increasingly able to transplant organs previously considered marginal. Those include donations from older patients, organs transported over longer distances, and after deaths where the patient’s heart stopped. These donations after cardiac death present additional challenges because the clock starts ticking immediately upon death, leaving less time for the transplant. But cardiac deaths are nearly as numerous as brain deaths, so they hold potential to double the number of deceased organ donors.

Drawing on four years of data on deaths across the country, researchers calculated there are more than 24,000 deaths with potential to donate each year, more than double the number of actual donors in 2017. The researchers found that among people who died at age 39 or younger, 60 percent became donors, but of those ages 40 to 59, only 30 percent did, and just 11 percent of those ages 60 to 75. Of qualifying cardiac deaths, only one-fifth became donors.

“These data highlight the large number of unrealized donors under our current system of organ donation and transplantation,” wrote one of the study’s authors, Dr. David Goldberg at the University of Pennsylvania, in an email. “Efforts to standardize OPO practices are needed, especially among OPOs with the lowest donation rates.”

When OPOs focus on finding more donations after cardiac death and expanded donor criteria, it can yield major returns. When Jeff Orlowski took over the OPO LifeShare of Oklahoma in 2012, they were focusing on a few major referral hospitals because that was where trauma patients went.

Under his leadership, the organization reallocated personnel to better serve all 145 hospitals in their area. And where they had been facilitating 80 to 100 donations a year, their total nearly doubled to 183 in 2017.

The “three-legged stool”

Invariably, the organ donation system’s performance reflects some factors that can’t be easily attributed to any one entity so much as to the delicate collaboration between them. “The DSA is like a three-legged stool,” says donation expert Teresa Shafer, referring to the hospital caring for the dying patient, the organ procurement organization soliciting the donation, and the transplant center that will use it. Success, she explains, requires that “the OPO, the transplant center, and the donor hospital are firing on all cylinders.”

One place where they haven’t been is New York City, which has the lowest rate of donation in the country. Between 2004 and 2014, organ donations there fell by 10 percent even as they increased by 20 percent nationwide.

The local OPO, LiveOnNY, was slow to develop a practice of soliciting donors after cardiac death. And local hospitals were disengaged. Dana Lustbader, who has worked in New York on both the OPO and hospital side, recalls that during her medical training in Wisconsin, organ donation was integrated into the curriculum and this was reflected in its prominence in medical practice there. “A brain-dead donor was managed as aggressively as a living person who had pneumonia on a ventilator. They were both aggressively managed and equally important,” she said. “Here in New York, it’s a different culture.”

LiveOnNY is renewing efforts to build a culture of donation, recently co-hosting a summit with the Greater New York Hospital Association and initiating projects in half a dozen hospitals to test better approaches. But it’s not the only locale that could benefit. Shafer has called for a similar convening of hospitals and OPOs nationwide, like one a decade ago that substantially boosted donation rates.

Donations from the living have stagnated, and there’s an opportunity to boost them too

Another way to increase organ transplants is to look beyond the dead. While most transplanted organs in the US are donated by the dying, about 40 percent of kidney transplants and 4 percent of liver transplants are from living donors.

A healthy individual with two kidneys can part with one kidney, as they can with a portion of their liver, though with a higher degree of risk. Last year Vox’s own Dylan Matthews gave a kidney to a stranger in what is called a nondirected donation, inspiring his colleague German Lopez to do the same in March. (Such procedures are rare, though — only one in 30 living kidney donations is nondirected. The vast majority of donors are someone known to the patient.)

From the recipient’s perspective, a living donor is preferable because the donated organ typically functions better. Also, because living donations are arranged outside of the deceased donor system, recipients needn’t wait until deteriorating health moves them to the front of the waitlist, so they are typically in better condition to endure surgery.

Dr. Dorry Segev, a professor of surgery at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, says increased rates of living kidney donation could help meet the country’s needs. “In my opinion, there are enough healthy people in the United States to easily alleviate the shortage,” he wrote in an email. But while the number of living kidney donations tripled between 1990 and 2004, it has since stagnated.

Efforts to turn this around have focused on making it easier for sick patients to seek out potential donors. After observing that patients are often reluctant to solicit a kidney donation themselves, Segev and a team of researchers created a program for training a “champion” among a patient’s peers to ask on their behalf. They also developed a smartphone app that allows patients to post about their need to social media, significantly increasing the likelihood a donor will come forward.

“We don’t use bad livers. We use good livers with bad stories.”

Once the family of a deceased (or living) donor agrees to move ahead with donation, a transplant might seem sure to follow. But there are further hurdles. For an OPO to make good on the promise of a donation, it needs a transplant center to accept and use it. And researchers have shown that some transplant centers are much less likely to accept organs than others.

This is partly a predictable consequence of the way transplant centers are regulated. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services evaluate them in large part on the share of patients that undergo a successful transplant and survive at least one year. These measures are appealing on their face but do not reflect the outcomes for patients whose transplants the centers forgo. It’s as if in baseball, batters faced no penalty for letting pitches go by, whether in the strike zone or not: batters might be less likely to swing and miss, but they’d also waste many more good pitches.

Some transplant centers are defying these incentives. George Loss, the chief of transplant surgery at the Ochsner Clinic in Louisiana, has embraced a different paradigm for the clinic’s liver transplant practice. By considering donors typically thought of as “marginal,” Ochsner gains access to livers that other centers have declined, effectively expanding its supply. This allows a higher volume of transplants, and its patients get to the front of the line more quickly while they are healthier and better able to tolerate a less than ideal organ.

The criteria by which surgeons judge organs are somewhat subjective, and this may be part of the problem. Facing the decision of whether to accept an organ under a narrow time constraint, a prominent risk factor — say, if the patient was obese or had a history of alcohol abuse — may be enough to dissuade a surgeon from moving forward. In contrast, Loss says at Ochsner they thoroughly scrutinize all offered organs, examining scans and other evidence themselves rather than relying on secondhand reports. “We don’t use bad livers. We use good livers with bad stories.”

Other centers have embraced a similar philosophy. Loss thinks the shift could be accelerated if clinicians formed an advisory group that transplant surgeons could consult when making these tough calls.

New technology may help doctors use more marginal organs too. A randomized trial published in Nature this month found that livers donated after cardiac death that were preserved using a novel device were significantly less likely to be discarded for appearing too marginal — and yielded equivalent or improved survival for their recipients — than livers donated after brain death and stored using conventional methods.

States like New York are trying to foster a new culture of organ donation

The biggest predictor of whether a person will donate an organ is whether they previously registered as an organ donor. Should their family raise objections, the OPO will not necessarily override them, but authorized donors end up donating more than 90 percent of the time. The share of the population on a registry varies enormously across the US, from Washington, Montana, and Alaska, states where it exceeds 85 percent, to New York, where fewer than 30 percent of residents are registered.

Cultural mores vary across the country, but experts say state governments can take steps to make it easier to donate. Every state now has a digital portal for authorizing donation, but some do more to integrate it into other processes residents will encounter.

After years of delay, in 2017 New York launched a modern online registry and now offers people using the state’s health insurance marketplace the chance to join. Since 2017, more than 147,000 people have used it to enroll, according to health department data. Gov. Andrew Cuomo also signed a law allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to register as donors.

States can also engage and educate community directly. Public service announcements promoting organ donation now festoon subway cars and kiosks around New York City.

To increase the availability of organ transplants, advances in technology and greater investment can’t hurt, but the real success will come from getting doctors to work better together, asking dying patients hard questions in the best possible way, and making a more honest assessment of risks and returns.

These advances aren’t easily billed, and our medical system is not adept at promoting them. But achieving them has the potential to extend tens of thousands of lives.

Ted Alcorn is a researcher and writer in New York. Find him on Twitter at @tedalcorn.

Correction: A previous version of this story stated that OPO LifeShare of Oklahoma’s total number of donations in 2017 was 159. In fact, it was 183.Coal baron Don Blankenship, tarred by a mining accident that killed 29 people, is one of the three leading Republican contenders in the West Virginia Senate race — which is quickly becoming one of the most-watched campaigns of 2018. Now Democratic groups actually appear to be propping up Blankenship by targeting his competitors with a TV ad barrage leading up to the May 8 primary, while mainstream Republicans work to bring him down.

Come November, West Virginia will be a top Republican target. It’s become something of a miracle the state still has a statewide Democrat at all, though Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin has a long history within the state. But he’s in choppy waters. While it has a working-class Democratic history, West Virginia went for Donald Trump by 42 points and hasn’t gone for a Democrat in the presidential election since 1996.

“There’s a very strong anti-establishment sentiment in West Virginia, and there’s also an ‘it can’t get any worse’ sentiment,” Patrick Hickey, a political science professor at West Virginia University, told me. “We’re just trying to shake it up.”

Blankenship is the GOP primary’s wild card. The former Massey Energy CEO has an extensive personal fortune and deep West Virginia ties in the state’s marquee industry. Then again, he also has a criminal conviction, and many voters in the state will never forgive him for the Upper Big Branch mining accident.

The coal boss shook up what had been a two-man Republican primary: Rep. Evan Jenkins and state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey have also thrown their hat in the ring.

“One candidate has no convictions, one candidate has a conviction, and the other guy is a carpetbagger,” Jeff Kessler, a Democratic politician in the state, told me.

The Hill reported last week that an outside group with links to Washington Republicans is spending $200,000 on TV ads to try to stop Blankenship. But they’re being undermined by national Democrats, who are pouring in their own money to try to bring down Morrisey and Jenkins.

The New York Times’s Jonathan Martin saw the signs first:

Per media source, the “Duty and Country” Dem group on air trying to give a hand to BLANKENSHIP in #wvsen shares a buyer with....Sen Maj Pac (the main Senate Dem super pac)@clairecmc, hijinx pioneer — Jonathan Martin (@jmartNYT) April 19, 2018

Then Politico reported that the Democratic-allied group Duty and Country was spending nearly $400,000 to savage Jenkins and Morrisey — but sparing Blankenship. It sure looked like they were elevating the GOP candidate with the biggest vulnerability against Manchin, though they said it was because they believed the other candidates were more likely to be the nominee.

Democrats and Republicans at war ... in a chaotic three person GOP primary campaign. Buckle up.

Don Blankenship and his criminal conviction, explained

Blankenship is, in many ways, an only-in-West-Virginia story. He grew up in Mingo County and got his college degree from Marshall University. He rose through the ranks at the Massey coal company, helping build it into one of the largest mining outfits in the country. By 2010, he was making nearly $20 million a year.

But then on April 5, 2010, 29 miners died in an explosion at Massey’s Upper Big Branch mine in southern West Virginia.

Blankenship stepped down soon after, but four years later, federal prosecutors indicted him on conspiring to willfully violate federal mining regulations before the accident and making false statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission in its aftermath.

The investigation laid bare Blankenship’s cutthroat vision of capitalism. This was a businessman who broke unions, laughed off climate change, despised federal regulations, and described his industry in Darwinian imagery. As I wrote for Talking Points Memo in 2014:

In another handwritten note to the same executive, he called employment of workers tasked with maintaining safety “literally crazy” and “ridiculous,” according to the indictment. The pressure to bring in as much coal as possible at the lowest possible cost was intense. “In my opinion, children could run these mines better than you all do,” Blankenship said in another memo. “Look at your cost and figure out what you are going to do to get it down because if we don’t have a better August and September than we had July, you can be assured that the stock options are not going to look very attractive.” “Please be reminded that your core job is to make money,” he wrote in yet another memo before the accident, while adding that: “I’m looking to make an example out of somebody and I don’t mean embarrassment.”

Blankenship was eventually convicted of conspiring to violate federal mine safety standards. He always maintained his innocence, even calling himself a political prisoner. But he still served one year behind bars, becoming a free man in May 2017.

And he has a not-insignificant chance of securing the Republican nomination for Senate in West Virginia in two weeks.

The West Virginia Republican Senate primary is a total mess

To rehabilitate his image, the Blankenship campaign has been running ads to convince West Virginians that his trial was a politically motivated attack by President Barack Obama.

Senate candidate Don Blankenship tries to pin the death of 29 miners in his mines on Obama. pic.twitter.com/AdHgVQsh1V — Alex Thompson (@AlxThomp) April 20, 2018

Blankenship’s entry into the race upended what otherwise might have been a pretty generic contest between Jenkins and Morrisey: the mainstream GOP favorite and the candidate positioning himself as an outsider, respectively.

“He has deeper ties to the state than Jenkins or Morrisey do,” Hickey said of Blankenship. “He can say: ‘I was a Republican in West Virginia before it was cool to be a Republican in West Virginia.’ It’s that authenticity. He has guts. He’s real.”

Blankenship has sought to slime Jenkins, who has represented the southern half of the state in the House since 2015, as an ex-Democrat; Jenkins did indeed switch parties in 2013, though his supporters would remind you that is not an unfamiliar journey in a state like West Virginia.

The coal baron is hitting Morrisey, state attorney general since 2013, for a history of lobbying for drugmakers in a state with the worst opioid crisis in the country (though Morrisey has sued to make data on opioid sales more available while serving as attorney general).

Republicans in Washington, DC, have been worried about Blankenship for a while. The New York Times reported in February that Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell did not want the former coal boss to be the party’s nominee in the race against Manchin. A new PAC, Mountain Families, with ties to establishment Republicans has attacked Blankenship on the state’s airwaves.

“Who will clean up Washington? Not convicted criminal Don Blankenship,” narration for one of the group’s ads begins.

(Blankenship is also directing plenty of fire at McConnell, saying he does not back the long-time Republican leader and dubbing him the “swamp captain.”)

But in an apparent countermove, national Democrats are backing a group running ads hitting Jenkins for his past entanglements with overcharging health insurers and mocking Morrisey as a carpetbagger.

There isn’t a lot of good polling on the race right now. A February poll commissioned by Jenkins’s campaign showed him on top with 33 percent of the vote; Morrisey was at 25 percent, and Blankenship notched 18 percent of the GOP primary electorate’s support. Then the Hill reported earlier this month that Blankenship was placing either first or second in internal polls of the race.

Most recently, Politico reported on Monday that a poll commissioned by state GOP lawmakers found Morrisey leading at 24 percent, Jenkins close behind at 20 percent and Blankenship lurking with 12 percent.

Within the state, however, Democrats downplay differences between the Republican candidates. With the GOP’s attacks on health care, a successful teachers strike, and coal likely to dominate the debate during the general election, they don’t see much daylight.

“They’re all in the same bucket,” a West Virginia Democrat who supports Manchin told me. “They all want to destroy health care for West Virginians, they’re all against teachers when they’re striking, they’re all against coal miner safety.”

Can Joe Manchin hold on to West Virginia for Senate Democrats?

To win back the Senate in November, Democrats need to hold on to 10 Senate seats in states that Trump won. Going by the numbers, none is more challenging than West Virginia.

But Manchin has been elected statewide four times, as secretary of state, governor, and then US senator. His allies will point out that Manchin won reelection with 60 percent of the vote in 2012, the same year that Barack Obama got just 35 percent.

For now, Manchin is treading water with West Virginia voters: Morning Consult pegged him in April with 43 percent approval and 44 percent disapproval. Then again, the Wall Street Journal reported in March that a Republican poll found among GOP primary voters, Manchin was sitting pretty with 60 percent approval.

“Manchin is no stranger to running well above the party label here,” the West Virginia Democrat told me. “It’s not a new thing for him to be his own brand, and the brand is still strong.”

Then again, some Democrats in the state think that could be his undoing. Manchin endorsed then-Democrat Jim Justice in the 2016 governor’s race — and then Justice switched parties after sworn in and became a Republican. In the eyes of some skeptical Democrats, it epitomizes the senator’s problems.

Kessler, who ran for governor in 2016 against Justice, said to watch whether Manchin’s primary opponent, Medicare-for-all-endorsing insurgent Paula Jean Swearengin, registers at all on the Democratic side. Not that she should be expected to win, but if Swearengin has a strong showing, Manchin’s brand of centrism could be in trouble, Kessler argued.

“Joe is gonna have the race of his life, truthfully. Liberal and progressive wings of the party are not enchanted with him,” he said.

Manchin supporters roll their eyes, noting that labor unions like the state AFL-CIO are backing the senator and waving away the idea that Justice’s turncoat act could play a role in the Senate race.

“He pulled a fast one on everybody. That’s more the perception on the ground. It’s not a Manchin thing; it’s more of a Justice issue,” the Manchin-backing Democrat said, though Hickey told me that some Bernie Sanders supporters in West Virginia have not forgotten that Manchin supported Justice.

One wild card that could work in Manchin’s favor, as even Kessler acknowledges, is the teachers strike that took place in West Virginia this year. The state teachers walked out to demand a pay raise and better health care benefits from the GOP-led state government. Manchin appeared with them on the steps of the state capitol.

It was an unprecedented moment of political activism in the state. It seems at least possible that that energy will translate to anti-Republican votes in the fall.

“That will be an interesting thing to see,” Kessler said. “The teachers are extremely annoyed with the Republicans.”

But Manchin will still be fighting against that anti-government sentiment that seems so pervasive in West Virginia these days — and against Trump, who has put a target on the senator and remains overwhelmingly popular in the state.

“I think Manchin’s in a really tough spot too,” Hickey said. “He’s a career politician. He’s been around here forever.”

Whatever else, this race won’t be boring.On Sunday, a gunman used an assault rifle to kill four people at a Waffle House in Antioch, Tennessee. Already, the shooting has led to renewed calls to ban assault weapons. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) argued, “We can and must do everything possible to prevent these tragedies and keep Americans safe. That starts with restricting widespread civilian access to military-grade assault weapons.”

The assault weapons ban has become one of the top policy proposals from March for Our Lives and other gun control advocates. But it’s also one of the gun control measures with the least supportive evidence behind it.

The typical argument for the ban: Weapons of war have no place in American communities. These high-velocity, high-capacity weapons are particularly deadly, even more so than other semiautomatic firearms such as handguns. They have also been used disproportionately in mass shootings. And they aren’t needed for hunting or self-defense. So they should be banned altogether.

All these claims have a certain intuitive sense behind them. What they don’t have, however, is a whole lot of empirical evidence, based on my discussions with gun policy experts and researchers. Studies on assault weapons bans have generally ranged from inconclusive to unfavorable toward a ban.

That doesn’t mean an assault weapons ban would have absolutely no effect. Consider the 2017 mass shooting in Las Vegas. In that case, the gunman parked himself on the 32nd floor of a hotel near a country music concert and fired indiscriminately into the crowd with assault weapons — which were also retooled with bump stocks to mimic the firepower of machine guns. He killed 58 people and injured hundreds.

Bump stock or not, it stands to reason that the shooting would have been much less lethal if the shooter didn’t use an assault weapon and used, say, a more conventional handgun instead. The bullets would have had shorter range, and those that hit would have had lower velocity and therefore caused less damage. In a shooting with such a high casualty count, that could’ve translated to potentially hundreds of injuries averted — although the shooter also could have changed his approach without access to assault weapons.

Still, it’s worth putting this in context: This kind of violence is already relatively infrequent. Mass shooting deaths make up less than 4 percent of gun homicides in the US, while shootings with rifles, including assault weapons, make up less than 3 percent. So pushing assault weapons out of circulation wouldn’t have a big impact on overall gun violence in America, even if it has some impact on some particularly awful tragedies.

These are just some of the complications that limit an assault weapons ban’s effectiveness. So while the policy may seem intuitive, there isn’t much evidence to support it — and in a world with limited political capital for gun reforms, those gaps in the research need to be taken seriously.

Previous bans had no significant effect on gun crime

The most cited review of the evidence is a 2013 analysis by researcher Christopher Koper on the effect of the 1994 federal assault weapons ban, which lawmakers let expire in 2004.

The analysis concluded, “The ban did not appear to affect gun crime during the time it was in effect, but some evidence suggests it may have modestly reduced gunshot victimizations had it remained in place for a longer period.”

That was partially, Koper wrote, because the 1994 ban was riddled with loopholes.

To understand why, consider a surprisingly tricky question in this discussion: What is an assault weapon, and how do you define it? For lawmakers, these questions have posed a challenge over the years.

People might have a vision of an assault weapon in their heads — say, a semiautomatic rifle like an AR-15 — but defining what makes that an assault weapon can be difficult. Is it that it’s semiautomatic? Well, there are semiautomatic handguns and hunting rifles too. Is it the high velocity and long range? Traditional hunting rifles can also have those features. Is it the pistol grip? That offers an easy way around the law then — if someone could just remove a pistol grip, then it’s no longer an illegal assault weapon.

Ultimately, the 1994 ban settled on a definition of assault weapons that included, among other features, “pistol grips on rifles, flash hiders, folding rifle stocks, threaded barrels for attaching silencers, and the ability to accept ammunition magazines holding large numbers of bullets,” as well as some specific guns by name and “copies or duplicates” of them, Koper wrote. That captured some handguns, on top of the rifles that people might typically think of as assault weapons.

But the ban was still easily bypassed, Koper noted: “Relatively cosmetic changes, such as removing a flash hider or bayonet mount, were thus sufficient to transform a banned weapon into a legal substitute. In this sense, the law is perhaps best understood not as a gun ban but as a law that restricted weapon accessories.” Gun manufacturers took advantage of this, producing modified versions of previous weapons to make them legal — blowing a big hole in the law.

Plus, guns made and owned prior to the ban were grandfathered in, making them legal to own and transfer. That comprised at least 1.5 million assault weapons in the US at the start of the ban, according to Koper.

This gets into another tricky aspect of banning assault weapons: Do past guns get to stay around, or are there efforts to take those out of circulation through, for instance, a buyback program or a mandatory registration-and-tax scheme (similar to current laws for automatic weapons)? The 1994 ban took the former approach, but March for Our Lives has called for the latter with a new ban.

The 1994 ban was also attached to a ban on high-capacity magazines that carried more than 10 rounds, which Koper suggested was arguably the law’s “most important provision.” That’s in part because this ban also affected the firearms that weren’t covered by the assault weapons ban, so it could affect a much broader level of gun violence. Indeed, a study from February by Koper suggested that high-capacity magazines may be involved more often in typical shooting deaths than previously thought.

But at the end of the day, Koper found that the 1994 ban had no significant effect on gun crime — although it may have had some modest effects if it had been allowed to stay around for longer and over time pushed more assault weapons and high-capacity magazines out of circulation.

Koper’s analysis had two big gaps: It didn’t look at the 1994 ban’s effect on mass shootings, and it didn’t analyze state laws.

For that, the best review of the evidence is an extensive report by the RAND Corporation released in March, which looked at US studies on gun control, including assault weapons bans at the state level.

Here, too, the news is not good for an assault weapons ban. RAND found that the available studies were often contradictory. Focusing specifically on the most rigorous studies, RAND found the evidence for bans’ effects on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines on mass shootings and violent crime in general to be “inconclusive.”

“None of [the studies] provided what we considered to be any kind of conclusive evidence,” Andrew Morral, the head of RAND’s gun policy initiative, told me.

“The studies are pretty weak,” Morral said. “Also, a lot of these bans have been pretty weak” — noting many of the same loopholes that the Koper analysis did.

But what if an assault weapons ban wasn’t weak — and really took these guns out of circulation? The US could, for example, follow Australia’s lead and ban a much broader category of semiautomatic rifles and institute a mandatory buyback program — basically, a firearm confiscation scheme. Would that have a significant effect?

A ban would have little effect on overall gun violence but maybe some on mass shootings

Experts said that even a more effective ban on assault weapons likely wouldn’t have much of an impact on overall gun violence in the US.

That’s because only a small percentage of overall gun violence involves assault weapons, with the great majority of firearm homicides involving more conventional handguns. And Morral said there’s no reason to believe an assault weapons ban would have any effect on suicides, which have in recent years made up around 60 percent of all gun deaths.

In a country with so many gun deaths, cutting even a percentage point or two of overall gun deaths could still save hundreds of lives a year. But in terms of addressing America’s overall gun problem, it just wouldn’t have a big impact.

Still, experts said that an assault weapons ban may have a significant effect on the lethality of mass shootings.

Assault weapons’ “functionality is really most relevant in the context of a public mass shooting,” Daniel Webster, the director at the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research, told me.

The research still isn’t good in this area, in large part because there is no single accepted database for tracking mass shootings and what weapons they involve. But there are some analyses that can be drawn on.

Previous research by criminologist James Alan Fox suggests that the 1994 ban did not have an appreciable effect on the number of mass shootings.

But Webster argued that although the ban’s end in 2004 may not have resulted in more mass shootings, it might have resulted in more mass shooting deaths. He also pointed out that since the 1994 ban left so many guns in circulation and therefore could only phase out assault weapons over time, it should be expected that the ban could only have a gradual effect.

Webster cited an unpublished analysis of Mother Jones’s public mass shootings database: “When you fit a statistical model that fits a gradual impact [and looks at a counterfactual in which a ban isn’t in place] … the number of people who are shot in public mass shootings goes down roughly by 10 percent every year that the law was in place.” He cautioned that this is preliminary data, but it suggests that the federal assault weapons ban really did cut the lethality of mass shootings.

Morral, meanwhile, pointed to a 2017 analysis from the gun control advocacy group Everytown, which suggested that assault weapons weren’t used in a majority of mass shootings but did make these events deadlier.

RAND summarized the findings: “Another analysis that focused on mass shooting events involving four or more fatalities between 2009 and 2016 reported that 15 of these incidents (11 percent) involved an assault weapon or high-capacity magazine, resulting in 155 percent more injuries and 47 percent more fatalities compared with other incidents.”

“That’s probably the case: You would get fewer deaths in mass shootings,” Morral said, clarifying that this is based on inference, not the results of specific studies. “That’s not nothing, but it’s a small proportion of total firearm homicides.”

This, then, is where one should expect the effect of a stringent assault weapons ban to fall. And certainly, that would matter to groups like March for Our Lives — which formed after a school shooting in which the gunman used an assault weapon.

But if March for Our Lives wants to address broader gun violence — as it suggested it did during its big Washington, DC, event — then the research suggests that it’s going to have to think about other policies too.

Other gun policies could do more — and have popular support

March for Our Lives has put forward other proposals. Its official five-point plan calls for more gun violence research, strengthening the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, and universal background checks, on top of its demand for an assault weapons ban and a ban on high-capacity magazines.

Based on the empirical research into assault weapons bans, it might be more prudent to focus on the other policies. In a world with limited political capital, the assault weapons ban’s limitations are an important part of the discussion. And while bans on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines (which, again, typically go hand in hand) do have 65-plus percent support in Pew surveys, they face far more opposition from Republicans than other measures — and therefore would struggle to get through a Senate process that would likely require bipartisan support.

“If my child was injured or killed in a mass shooting with an assault rifle, I would be outraged, and I would say that it’s unacceptable, and I would want to ban them — and that’s completely legitimate and appropriate,” Webster said. But, he added, other measures would go further in reducing overall gun violence.

To this end, universal background checks — which are included in the March for Our Lives plan — could help. The RAND report, for one, found evidence that background checks are linked to a reduction in firearm homicides and suicides.

There are other measures not included in the March for Our Lives plan that experts argue could do more to mitigate gun violence. Webster said that gun licensing and permitting schemes — which are a bit like the process of getting a driver’s license, except much more rigorous — are at the top of his list of plausible policy preferences.

He pointed to two of his studies from Missouri and Connecticut that indicated those states’ permit-to-purchase laws reduced gun deaths. These studies are often cited in support of background checks (since getting a permit requires a background check). But Webster said the true strength of these types of laws is the permitting process: “The states that don’t have that [permit-to-purchase requirement], we’re not seeing the robust effects that we see with the permitting.”

A 2013 survey that Webster worked on found that more than 77 percent of Americans would back a gun licensing policy.

After the permit-to-purchase requirement, Webster said states could also do more to raise standards for who can legally own a gun: increase minimum age requirements, extend how long people are barred from buying a firearm after certain offenses and restraining orders, add more offenses to the list of disqualifiers, and so on. And he said lawmakers could enact stricter concealed carry policies.

There are far more things the US could do beyond these measures. The key problem, based on the research, is that America has too many guns, and those guns allow more gun deaths. Anything that successfully restricts firearms and reduces the number of guns in circulation, then, could help reduce gun deaths. To this end, a 2016 review of 130 studies in 10 countries, published in Epidemiologic Reviews, found that new legal restrictions on owning and purchasing guns tended to be followed by a drop in gun violence — a strong indicator that restricting access to firearms can save lives.

But there are political, cultural, and legal considerations in the US that make it very unlikely that lawmakers will do, say, an Australia-style mandatory buyback program anytime soon — even though there is evidence that it saved lives.

Those same political, cultural, and legal considerations also make it important to prioritize the best policies. Given that Congress couldn’t pass even a limited bill mostly focused on background checks after a gunman in 2012 killed 20 children and six others at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, adding additional asks on top of background checks should require good empirical evidence. And so far, bans on assault weapons, especially the limited versions the US has historically done, don’t have that kind of support.Seeing is believing. And because of this fact, we’re screwed.

Due to advances in artificial intelligence, it’s now possible to convincingly map anyone’s face onto the body of another person in a video. As Vox’s Aja Romano has explained, this technique is becoming more common in pornography: An actress’s head can be mapped onto a porn actress’s body. These “deepfakes” can be generated with free software, and they’re different from the photoshopping of the past. This is live action — and uncannily real.

Last week, BuzzFeed published a demonstration featuring the actor and director Jordan Peele. Using FakeApp, the same tool used in the celebrity face-swapping porn, BuzzFeed took an old video of President Obama and swapped in Peele’s mouth as he performed an impression of Obama. It’s a creepily powerful PSA with a forceful message: “This is a dangerous time. Moving forward, we need to be more vigilant with what we trust from the internet.”

You won't believe what Obama says in this video pic.twitter.com/n2KloCdF2G — BuzzFeed (@BuzzFeed) April 17, 2018

(Here’s another disturbing example from the University of Washington.)

Combine fake audio with fake video and it’s not hard to imagine a future where forged videos are maddeningly hard to distinguish from the truth. Or a future where a fake video of a president incites a riot or fells the market. “We’re not so far from the collapse of reality,” as Franklin Foer recently summed up at the Atlantic.

But I fear it’s not just our present and future reality that could collapse; it’s also our past. Fake media could manipulate what we remember, effectively altering the past by seeding the population with false memories.

“The potential for abuse is so severe,” says Elizabeth Loftus at the University of California Irvine, who pioneered much of the research in false memory formation in the 1990s. “Once you expose people to such a powerful visual presentation, how do they get it out of their minds?”

We don’t have psychological studies directly looking at the ability of AI-faked video to implant false memories. But researchers have been studying the malleability of our memories for decades.

Here’s what they know: The human mind is incredibly susceptible to forming false memories. And that tendency can be kicked into overdrive on the internet, where false ideas spread like viruses among like-minded people. Which means the AI-enhanced forgeries on the horizon will only make planting false memories even easier.

How a faked photo rewrites our memory

Do you remember this image? It’s of former President Barack Obama shaking hands with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the former president of Iran.

I hope you do not remember this photo, because it never happened. It’s photoshopped.

Yet in 2010, when Slate asked about 1,000 of its readers whether they remembered seeing the photo, around 21 percent said yes. Another 25 percent said they remembered that the event happened but couldn’t recall specifically seeing the photo.

Slate also gave its readers some space to write out their feelings about the photo. “I thought Obama was correct, snubbing Ahmadinejad so blatantly would have been a mistake,” one reader wrote, recalling a feeling that certainly never occurred to him.

Inspired by Loftus’s work, Slate’s William Saletan had created a quiz that presented readers with a mix of photos from real events plus one of five randomly selected fake events.

One of the fabricated photos showed Sen. Joseph Lieberman voting “guilty” during President Bill Clinton’s impeachment proceedings (Lieberman voted “not guilty”). Another showed President Bush on vacation with baseball player Roger Clemens during the Hurricane Katrina disaster. (Bush spent a chunk of time after Katrina hit at his ranch in Crawford, Texas — but not with any baseball players.)

Each faked photo provoked fake memories in at least 15 percent of the respondents. And overall, 50 percent of participants reported they believed the event depicted in the false photo happened. Slate’s project drew the attention of Steven Frenda, a Cal State Los Angeles psychologist who often collaborates with Loftus. Frenda and colleagues took Slate’s data and analyzed it further.

Here’s what they found: People were more likely to say they remember a faked photo when it fit with their political worldview.

“Conservatives were more inclined to believe that Obama had greeted this hostile foreign leader,” Frenda says. And liberals were more likely to recall Bush cavorting with Clemons. “When people encounter events that are complimentary with their political beliefs or preferences, they’re more likely to mistakenly believe those events really happened,” he says.

Think about what this means. Doctored photos can change the way we remember history. And not just our memories for facts, but possibly even our recollections of what we saw with our own eyes. It means that bad actors may be able to prey on our political biases to change our understanding of world events. And remember, these were Slate readers, who are presumably people who like to keep up with current events.

Even if people were lying on the survey in order to seem intelligent, the photos could still implant itself in memory. “When people lie or stretch the truth, sometimes that itself distorts their memory,” Frenda says. “So they will sometimes incorporate their lies or exaggerations into what it is to what they think they genuinely remember.”

Frenda and his colleagues published this conclusion in 2013 in the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology. And this topic — false memories for political events — hasn’t been directly followed up in the academic literature (though a 2010 paper did find similar results). But this finding checks out with what we know about political psychology: We’re more likely to remember facts that support our teams.

“Back in 2013,” Frenda says, “the potential for misusing [or] digitally doctoring images, and now videos,” was not that hot of a topic. Now, “there are a lot of things to worry about.” And there are reasons to believe that the false videos will be an even more powerful way to change how we remember the past.

Why we form false memories, and how

Human memory does not function like a videotape or a digital recording. When we remember, we don’t wind back our minds to a moment in time and relive that exact moment.

Instead, memory is constructed.

This is a tricky thing to understand. When we call on a memory, we have to piece it back together from disparate pieces of information that exist in our minds. Some of what ends up in our recollection is the truth. But there’s a laziness to our recollections. In reconstructing our memories, our brains often grab the easiest bit of information to recall. And information that we’ve learned since the event will be added to fill in memory gaps.

Our memory is not like a videotape. A more helpful metaphor is that it’s like a video editor working on a millisecond deadline. In its mad rush, the editor splices in bits of truth with whatever filler is handy. And what’s handy is often our biases, or new information altogether.

That’s why mere suggestions like being told cars “smashed” instead of “hit” after viewing video of a car accident will lead people to recall the accident being more severe than it was. Or why our memories for feelings of significant historical events — like the O.J. Simpson murder trial — tend to reflect what we think today rather than what we felt back then. Just the process of remembering one thing can cause us to forget another.

Familiarity is critical too. The more familiar we are with an idea, the more likely it is to get inserted into our memories as the truth. Studies find the more often a lie is repeated, the more likely it is to be misremembered. And we tend to forget the source of a piece of information, Frenda explains. After seeing a falsified story from a not-credible news outlet online, it’s possible to later “misremember that you actually saw it on CNN,” he says.

We can misremember whole events that never happened

False memories don’t just fudge the fine details. It’s also possible to falsely remember whole events.

That happened in the Slate survey. But researchers have also found that it can happen in studies where the false information is from a trusted source. We trust family, and faked letters from relatives can lead people to believe they were once lost in a mall as a child or that they committed a crime when they were younger. And we trust photos: Experiments that use altered photos to implant memories tend to be more effective than those that do not.

Here’s what’s really frustrating: We’re confident in our misrememberings. “Once we’ve updated memories, we don’t remember that we’ve done that,” Linda Levine, a University of California, Irvine psychologist who studies memory and emotion. “We have the illusion that we remember things as they happened.”

We’re biased for a sense of continuity, despite the fact that our memories are changing all the time. The video editor in our brains seals the seams up quietly.

That’s true for even the most intense events in memory. In the days after 9/11, psychological researchers interviewed thousands of people across the country, asking them simple questions like, “Where were you when it happened?” and then followed up over 10 years. Even as the participants’ memories for the day shifted, as the details they remembered changed, they still remained extremely confident they were remembering the truth.

Today, the scientific debate on this topic is around how prevalent false memory formation is (critics charge that reports of fully implanting a false childhood memory are overinflated), and how to more precisely define memory.

And researchers propose a few reasons why evolution has favored us to have such malleable memories. One is that it allows us to be creative. We can imagine what the future might look like by merging memories with new information. Another is that saves us effort. We don’t need to remember every detail in our lives.

A third hypothesis highlights the danger of false memories in these polarized times: They help us form a cohesive sense of reality with our groups.

Bill Hirst studies collective memory at the New School. His work explains how the process of talking to one another causes us to selectively remember, forget, and create a false collective narrative.

“All of these [memory] distortions allow us to craft a shared representation of the past,” Hirst says. “And because you and I both have a shared representation of the past, it leads to a common view that reinforces a collective identity.”

Social media is fertile ground for us to acquire truly bizarre false memories. Consider the case of the Shazaam truthers.

We also have the power to influence each other’s memories and construct new versions of reality as we go.

In 2016, the New Statesman magazine published a feature about a community of Reddit users who are fans of a movie from the 1990s starring the comedian Sinbad (remember him?). The movie is called Shazaam, and Sinbad plays a bumbling genie who adventures with two small kids.

The piece, however, was not the typical essay on ’90s pop culture nostalgia. It turns out that the movie Shazaam never existed, and yet many of the people New Statesmen writer Amelia Tait spoke to could not be convinced otherwise. And they were genuinely upset the movie didn’t exist. “It feels like a part of my childhood has now been stolen from me,” one believer told her. (And these people insist they’re not simply misremembering the movie Kazaam, which starred Shaquille O’Neal in the role of a genie.)

Here’s one possible reason these redditors believed in the movie so intensely: the Reddit forum itself. Social media brought together like-minded people. “Any type of corroboration is going to strengthen your memory for something, whether it’s true or not, and your confidence in your memory,” Frenda says. These Shazaam truthers were all riffing off one another, giving each other subtle suggestions to form a false narrative that exists in their minds.

It’s a clear of example of how, in an ever-polarizing world, we’re increasingly telling different stories from our neighbors because we’re plugged into separate feeds of information.

Fake video is even scarier than doctored photos

Let’s put this all together. False memories fester when they make sense to our political worldview, when it’s familiar and repeated ad nauseam, when we trust the source of the information, and when this information is corroborated, shared, and discussed by like-minded people.

Where else do all these things happen? Social media. Fake stories tend to move more quickly to people on these platforms than the truth, fueled by surprise and bias.

And so what happens when doctored audio and video get added to the mix? (Shudders.)

Most of the studies on false memories were conducted with faked photos or written documents. Since it’s so new, no one has studied the effect of deepfake video yet, but Levine and Loftus suspect it will be even more compelling. “Here that person is, in the midst of that situation, saying and doing these things,” Levine said. If the video is seamless, that’s going to be convincing. And “it’s legitimately worrisome,” she says.

Loftus agrees: “Having the [faked] video, and the richness of it, is just going to exacerbate the false memory potential,” she says.

The “collapse of reality” isn’t predestined. But there’s good reason to feel uneasy.

We do not yet know how to inoculate people against forming false memories. In fact, it doesn’t seem like any human is immune to forming them. And all around us, the seeds of false reminiscence are being sewn.

A recent poll found 44 percent of Republicans believe President Trump repealed Obamacare. That might be because the legislation was confusing to follow as it ping-ponged through Congress. Or because there’s some truth in that parts of the health care law have been weakened. Or because Republicans increasingly don’t trust the media. Whatever the reason, know this: The repeal didn’t happen.

But what happens when, in the future, there’s a video of Trump signing a fake Obamacare fake repeal? Or a fake clip of a CNN anchor announcing the breaking news of the repeal? And these fake clips prove impossible to eliminate from the web?

The imaginary dystopian scenarios are endless. Loftus has one of her own: a particularly corrupt police force doctoring a video of a suspect confessing to a crime. In those scenarios, she says, even the suspect might believe it. “I wish I could say something optimistic,” she says.

But it’s still possible that our worst fears about this kind of “collapse of reality,” as Foer put it, may not come to pass.

It’s possible fake video and audio will not become sophisticated enough to have an impact. Perhaps people can learn to spot it. Or maybe someone can design algorithms to squash it. Perhaps the tech giants will become vigilant in banning these forgeries. Or maybe we’ll grow so accustomed to lies that we won’t believe anything — a concept technologist Aviv Ovadya described as “reality apathy” in an interview with BuzzFeed.

We can hope that as much as our memories of the past diverge, there will always be historians getting the permanent record down straight.

But I worry that as our country and our media fracture politically, the divergence in our memories and understanding of facts is also going to grow worse. In 40 years, will fewer of us agree on the facts of history?

Further reading on the end of realityOn Sunday, it happened again: A shooter walked into a public space and opened fire. This time, the gunman killed four people at a Waffle House in Antioch, Tennessee.

Already, the mass shooting has given rise to new calls for gun control laws — with officials from the Nashville area, which includes Antioch, demanding action. “It’s happening too much. Enough is enough,” Nashville Mayor David Briley (D) said. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) concurred, arguing, “We can and must do everything possible to prevent these tragedies and keep Americans safe.”

But as has been true after past mass shootings, from Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012 to Las Vegas in 2017, the chances of Congress taking any action on guns is very low.

This has become an American routine: After every mass shooting, the debate over guns and gun violence starts up once again. Maybe some bills get introduced. Critics respond with concerns that the government is trying to take away their guns. The debate stalls. So even as America continues experiencing levels of gun violence unrivaled in the rest of the developed world, nothing happens — no laws are passed by Congress, nothing significant is done to try to prevent the next horror.

So why is it that for all the outrage and mourning with every mass shooting, nothing seems to change? To understand that, it's important to grasp not just the stunning statistics about gun ownership and gun violence in the United States, but America's very unique relationship with guns — unlike that of any other developed country — and how it plays out in our politics to ensure, seemingly against all odds, that our culture and laws continue to drive the routine gun violence that marks American life.

1) America's gun problem is completely unique

No other developed country in the world has anywhere near the same rate of gun violence as America. The US has nearly six times the gun homicide rate as Canada, more than seven times as Sweden, and nearly 16 times as Germany, according to UN data compiled by the Guardian. (These gun deaths are a big reason America has a much higher overall homicide rate, which includes non-gun deaths, than other developed nations.)

To understand why that is, there's another important statistic: The US has by far the highest number of privately owned guns in the world. Estimated in 2007, the number of civilian-owned firearms in the US was 88.8 guns per 100 people, meaning there was almost one privately owned gun per American and more than one per American adult. The world's second-ranked country was Yemen, a quasi-failed state torn by civil war, where there were 54.8 guns per 100 people.

Another way of looking at that: Americans make up less than 5 percent of the world's population, yet own roughly 42 percent of all the world's privately held firearms.

That does not, however, mean that every American adult actually owns guns. In fact, gun ownership is concentrated among a minority of the US population — as surveys from the Pew Research Center and General Social Survey suggest.

These three basic facts demonstrate America's unique gun culture. There is a very strong correlation between gun ownership and gun violence — a relationship that researchers argue is at least partly causal. And American gun ownership is beyond anything else in the world. At the same time, these guns are concentrated among a passionate minority, who are typically the loudest critics against any form of gun control and who scare legislators into voting against such measures.

2) More guns mean more gun deaths. Period.

The research on this is overwhelmingly clear: No matter how you look at the data, more guns mean more gun deaths.

This is apparent when you look at state-by-state data for gun ownership and gun deaths (including homicides and suicides) within the United States, as this chart from Mother Jones demonstrates:

And it's clear when you look at the data for gun ownership and gun deaths (including homicides and suicides) across developed nations, as this other chart based on data from researcher Josh Tewksbury shows:

Opponents of gun control tend to point to other factors to explain America's unusual levels of gun violence — particularly mental illness. But people with mental illnesses are more likely to be victims, not perpetrators, of violence. And Michael Stone, a psychiatrist at Columbia University who maintains a database of mass shooters, wrote in a 2015 analysis that only 52 out of the 235 killers in the database, or about 22 percent, were mentally ill. "The mentally ill should not bear the burden of being regarded as the ‘chief’ perpetrators of mass murder," Stone concluded. Other research has backed this up.

Another argument you sometimes hear is that these shootings would happen less frequently if even more people had guns, thus enabling them to defend themselves from a shooting.

But, again, the data shows this is simply not true. High gun ownership rates do not reduce gun deaths, but rather tend to coincide with increases in gun deaths. While a few people in some cases may use a gun to successfully defend themselves or others, the proliferation of guns appears to cause far more violence than it prevents.

Multiple simulations have also demonstrated that most people, if placed in an active shooter situation while armed, will not be able to stop the situation, and may in fact do little more than get themselves killed in the process.

This video, from ABC News, shows one such simulation, in which people repeatedly fail to shoot an active shooter before they're shot:

The relationship between gun ownership rates and gun violence rates, meanwhile, is well established. Reviews of the evidence, compiled by the Harvard School of Public Health's Injury Control Research Center, have consistently found that when controlling for variables such as socioeconomic factors and other crime, places with more guns have more gun deaths. Researchers have found this to be true not just with homicides, but also with suicides, domestic violence, and even violence against police.

For example, a 2013 study, led by a Boston University School of Public Health researcher, found that, after controlling for multiple variables, each percentage point increase in gun ownership correlated with a roughly 0.9 percent rise in the firearm homicide rate.

As a breakthrough analysis by UC Berkeley’s Franklin Zimring and Gordon Hawkins in the 1990s found, it’s not even that the US has more crime than other developed countries. This chart, based on data from Jeffrey Swanson at Duke University, shows that the US is not an outlier when it comes to overall crime:

Instead, the US appears to have more lethal violence — and that’s driven in large part by the prevalence of guns.

"A series of specific comparisons of the death rates from property crime and assault in New York City and London show how enormous differences in death risk can be explained even while general patterns are similar," Zimring and Hawkins wrote. "A preference for crimes of personal force and the willingness and ability to use guns in robbery make similar levels of property crime 54 times as deadly in New York City as in London."

Guns are not the only contributor to violence. (Other factors include, for example, poverty, urbanization, and alcohol consumption.) But when researchers control for other confounding variables, they have found time and time again that America's high levels of gun ownership are a major reason the US is so much worse in terms of gun violence than its developed peers.

To deal with its problem, America will have to not only make guns less accessible, but likely reduce the number of guns in the US as well.

The research also speaks to this point: A 2016 review of 130 studies in 10 countries, published in Epidemiologic Reviews, found that new legal restrictions on owning and purchasing guns tended to be followed by a drop in gun violence — a strong indicator that restricting access to guns can save lives.

But even with the outrage over gun massacres, the sense that enough is enough, and the clear evidence that the problem is America's high gun ownership rates, there hasn't been significant legislation to help solve the problem.

3) Americans tend to support measures to restrict guns, but that doesn't translate into laws

If you ask Americans how they feel about specific gun control measures, they will often say that they support them. According to Pew Research Center surveys, most people in the US support universal background checks, a federal database to track gun sales, bans on assault-style weapons, and bans on high-capacity magazines.

So why don't these measures ever get turned into law? That's because they run into another political issue: Americans, increasingly in recent years, tend to support the abstract idea of the right to own guns.

This is part of how gun control opponents are able to kill even legislation that would introduce the most popular measures, such as background checks that include private sales (which have upwards of 80 percent support, according to Pew): They're able to portray the law as contrary to the right to own guns, and galvanize a backlash against it.

This kind of problem isn't unique to guns. For example, although many Americans say they don't like Obamacare, most of them do in fact like the specific policies in the health care law. The problem is these specific policies have been masked by rhetoric about a "government takeover of health care" and "death panels." Since most Americans don't have time to verify these claims, especially when they involve a massive bill with lots of moving parts, enough end up believing in the catchphrases and scary arguments to stop the legislation from moving forward.

Of course, it's also the case that some Americans simply oppose any gun control laws. And while this group is generally outnumbered by those who support gun control, the opponents tend to be much more passionate about the issue than the supporters — and they're backed by a very powerful political lobby.

4) The gun lobby as we know it is relatively recent but enormously powerful

The single most powerful political organization when it comes to guns is, undoubtedly, the National Rifle Association (NRA). The NRA has an enormous stranglehold over conservative politics in America, and that development is more recent than you might think.

The NRA was, for much of its early history, more of a sporting club than a serious political force against gun control, and even supported some gun restrictions. In 1934, NRA president Karl Frederick was quoted as saying, "I do not believe in the general promiscuous toting of guns. I think it should be sharply restricted and only under licenses."

A 1977 revolt within the organization changed everything. As crime rose in the 1960s and '70s, calls for more gun control grew as well. NRA members worried new restrictions on guns would keep coming after the historic 1968 law — eventually ending, they feared, with the government's seizure of all firearms in America. So members mobilized, installing a hard-liner known as Harlon Carter in the leadership, forever changing the NRA into the gun lobby we know today.

This foundation story is crucial for understanding why the NRA is near-categorically opposed to the regulation of private firearms. It fears that popular and seemingly common-sense regulations, such as banning assault-style weapons or a federal database of gun purchases, are not really about saving lives but are in fact a potential first step toward ending all private gun ownership in America, which the NRA views — wrongly, in the minds of some legal experts — as a violation of the Second Amendment of the US Constitution.

So any time there's an attempt to impose new forms of gun control, the NRA rallies gun owners and other opponents of gun control to kill these bills. These gun owners make up a minority of the population: anywhere from around 30 to around 40 percent of households, depending on which survey one uses. But that population is a large and active enough constituency, particularly within the Republican base, to make many legislators fear that a poor grade from the NRA will end their careers.

As a result, conservative media and politicians take the NRA's support — especially the coveted A-to-F ratings the organization gives out — very seriously. Politicians will go to sometimes absurd length to show their support for gun rights. In 2015, for example, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) starred in a video, from IJ Review, in which he cooked bacon with — this is not a joke — a machine gun.

Although several campaigns have popped up over the years to try to counteract the NRA, none have come close to capturing the kind of influential hold that the organization has.

Kristin Goss, author of The Gun Debate: What Everyone Needs to Know, previously told me this might be changing. She argued that newer gun control groups like Everytown for Gun Safety and Americans for Responsible Solutions are much more organized, are better funded, and have more grassroots support than gun control groups have had in her decades covering this issue. As a result, Democrats at the state and federal levels seem much more willing to discuss gun control.

But supporters of gun control face a huge obstacle: far more passionate opponents. As Republican strategist Grover Norquist said in 2000, "The question is intensity versus preference. You can always get a certain percentage to say they are in favor of some gun controls. But are they going to vote on their 'control' position?" Probably not, Norquist suggested, "but for that 4-5 percent who care about guns, they will vote on this."

What's behind that passion? Goss, who's also a political scientist at Duke University, suggested that it's a sense of tangible loss — gun owners feel like the government is going to take their guns and rights. In comparison, gun control advocates are motivated by more abstract notions of reducing gun violence — although, Goss noted, the victims of mass shootings and their families have begun putting a face on these policies by engaging more actively in advocacy work, which could make the gun control movement feel more relatable. (See: #NeverAgain.)

There is an exception at the state level, where legislatures have passed laws imposing (and relaxing) restrictions on guns. In the past few years, for instance, Washington state and Oregon passed laws ensuring all guns have to go through background checks, including those sold between individuals. "There's a lot more going on than Congress," Goss said. "In blue states, gun laws are getting stricter. And in red states, in some cases, the gun laws are getting looser."

But state laws aren't enough. Since people can cross state lines to purchase guns under laxer rules, the weaker federal standards make it easy for someone to simply travel to a state with looser gun laws to obtain a firearm and ship it to another state. This is such a common occurrence that the gun shipment route from the South, where gun laws are fairly loose, to New York, where gun laws are strict, has earned the name "the Iron Pipeline." But it also happens all across the country, from New York to Chicago to California. Only a federal law could address this issue — by setting a floor on how loose gun laws can be in every state. And until such a federal law is passed, there will always be a massive loophole to any state gun control law.

Yet the NRA's influence and its army of supporters push many of America's legislators, particularly at the federal level and red states, away from gun control measures — even though some countries that passed these policies have seen a lot of success with them.

5) Other developed countries have had huge successes with gun control

In 1996, a 28-year-old man walked into a cafe in Port Arthur, Australia, ate lunch, pulled a semiautomatic rifle out of his bag, and opened fire on the crowd, killing 35 people and wounding 23 more. It was the worst mass shooting in Australia's history.

Australian lawmakers responded with legislation that, among other provisions, banned certain types of firearms, such as automatic and semiautomatic rifles and shotguns. The Australian government confiscated 650,000 of these guns through a mandatory gun buyback program, in which it purchased the firearms from gun owners. It established a registry of all guns owned in the country and required a permit for all new firearm purchases. (This is much further than bills typically proposed in the US, which almost never make a serious attempt to immediately reduce the number of guns in the country.)

The result: Australia's firearm homicide rate dropped by about 42 percent in the seven years after the law passed, and its firearm suicide rate fell by 57 percent, according to one review of the evidence by Harvard researchers.

It's difficult to know for sure how much of the drop in homicides and suicides was caused specifically by the gun buyback program and other legal changes. Australia's gun deaths, for one, were already declining before the law passed. But researchers David Hemenway and Mary Vriniotis argue that the gun buyback program very likely played a role: "First, the drop in firearm deaths was largest among the type of firearms most affected by the buyback. Second, firearm deaths in states with higher buyback rates per capita fell proportionately more than in states with lower buyback rates."

One study of the program, by Australian researchers, found that buying back 3,500 guns per 100,000 people correlated with up to a 50 percent drop in firearm homicides, and a 74 percent drop in gun suicides. As Dylan Matthews noted for Vox, the drop in homicides wasn't statistically significant because Australia has a pretty low number of murders already. But the drop in suicides most definitely was — and the results are striking:

One other fact, noted by Hemenway and Vriniotis in 2011: "While 13 gun massacres (the killing of 4 or more people at one time) occurred in Australia in the 18 years before the [Australia gun control law], resulting in more than one hundred deaths, in the 14 following years (and up to the present), there were no gun massacres."

6) Although they get a lot of focus, mass shootings are a small portion of all gun violence

Depending on which definition of a mass shooting one uses, there are anywhere from a dozen to hundreds of mass shootings in the US each year. These events are, it goes without saying, devastating tragedies for the nation and, primarily, the victims and their families.

Yet other, less-covered kinds of gun violence kill far more Americans than even these mass shootings. Under a broad definition of mass shooting, these incidents killed fewer than 500 people in the US in 2016. That represents less than 2 percent of the nearly 39,000 gun deaths that year — most of which were suicides, not homicides.

Preventing suicides isn't something we typically include in discussions of gun control, but other countries' experiences show it can save lives. In Israel, where military service is mandatory for much of the population, policymakers realized that an alarming number of soldiers killed themselves when they went home over the weekend. So Israeli officials, as part of their solution, decided to try forcing the soldiers to keep their guns at the base when they went home. It worked: A study from Israeli researchers found that suicides among Israeli soldiers dropped by 40 percent.

So while politicians often lean on mass shootings to call for gun control, the problem goes far beyond those incidents. Though it's hard to fault them for trying; mass shootings, after all, force Americans to confront the toll of our gun laws and gun culture.

But it seems that we as a nation just aren't willing to look, or else don't sufficiently mind what we see, when these events occur. Even the 2012 mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School, in Newtown, Connecticut — in which a gunman killed 20 young children, six school personnel, and himself — catalyzed no significant change at the federal level and most states. Since then, there have been, by some estimates, more than 1,600 mass shootings. And there is every reason to believe there will be more to come.This explainer was updated by Umair Irfan in March 2018, and draws heavily from a card stack written by Brad Plumer in 2015. Brian Resnick contributed the section on the Paris climate accord in 2017.

There is a decisive and growing fissure in America right now as climate change science and federal climate change policy move steadily in opposite directions.

In his first year in office, President Donald Trump has shirked all responsibility on the issue, rejecting or beginning to dismantle President Obama’s signature climate policies: the Paris climate agreement and the Clean Power Plan, the main domestic policy for limiting greenhouse gas emissions.

Trump has appointed to key positions more than 20 climate change skeptics, including Scott Pruitt and Rick Perry to lead the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy. And officials at these and other science agencies have been removing the words “climate change” from government websites and press releases.

Meanwhile, the science of climate change is growing ever more robust as researchers zero in on how the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are radically altering Earth’s systems and shaping the future.

Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations now top 408 parts per million, a threshold the planet hasn’t seen in millions of years. This year, Arctic sea ice is at the lowest extent on record and has been declining faster than it has in 1,500 years.

The big questions now are how these changes will reverberate throughout the rest of the world, and what we should do about them. The answers bridge decades of research across geology, economics, and social science, which have been confounded by uncertainty and obscured by jargon. That’s why it can be a bit daunting to join the discussion for the first time, or to revisit the conversation after a hiatus.

To help, we’ve provided some answers to some fundamentals about climate change you may have been afraid to ask.

1) What is global warming?

In short: The world is getting hotter, and humans are responsible.

Yes, the planet’s temperature has changed before, but it’s the rise in average temperature of the Earth's climate system since the late 19th century, the dawn of the Industrial Revolution, that’s important here. Temperatures over land and ocean have gone up 0.8° to 1° Celsius (1.4° to 1.8° Fahrenheit), on average, in that span:

Many people use the term “climate change” to describe this rise in temperatures and the associated effects on the Earth's climate. (The shift from the term “global warming” to “climate change” was also part of a deliberate messaging effort by a Republican pollster to undermine support for environmental regulations.)

Like detectives solving a murder, climate scientists have found humanity’s fingerprints all over the planet’s warming, with the bulk of the evidence pointing to the extra greenhouse gases humans have put into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuels. Greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide trap heat at the Earth’s surface, preventing that heat from escaping back out into space too quickly. So when we burn coal or oil for energy or cut down forests, thereby adding even more carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, the planet warms up.

Global warming also refers to what scientists think will happen in the future if humans keep adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.

Though there is a constant stream of new studies on climate change, the most robust aggregation of the science remains the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s fifth assessment report from 2013. The IPCC is convened by the United Nations, and the report draws on more than 800 expert authors. It projects that temperatures could rise at least 2°C (3.6°F) by the end of the century under many plausible scenarios — and possibly 4°C or more. A more recent study by scientists in the United Kingdom found a narrower range of expected temperatures if atmospheric carbon dioxide doubled, rising between 2.2°C and 3.4°C.

Many experts consider 2°C of warming to be unacceptably high, increasing the risk of deadly heat waves, droughts, flooding, and extinctions. Rising temperatures will drive up global sea levels as the world’s glaciers and ice sheets melt. Further global warming could affect everything from our ability to grow food to the spread of disease.

Avoiding drastic global warming would likely require a complete overhaul of our energy system. Fossil fuels currently provide just over 80 percent of the world’s energy. To zero out emissions this century, we’d have to replace most of that with low-carbon sources like wind, solar, nuclear, geothermal, or carbon capture.

Beyond that, we may have to electrify everything that uses energy and start pulling greenhouse gases straight from the air.

That’s a staggering task, and there are huge technological and political hurdles standing in the way. As such, the world's nations have been slow to act on global warming — many of the existing targets for curbing greenhouse gas emissions are too weak, yet many countries are falling short of even these modest goals.

2) How do we know global warming is real?

The simplest way is through temperature measurements. Agencies in the United States, Europe, and Japan have independently analyzed historical temperature data and reached the same conclusion: The Earth’s average surface temperature has risen roughly 0.8° Celsius (1.4° Fahrenheit) since the early 20th century.

But that’s not the only clue. Scientists have also noted that glaciers and ice sheets around the world are melting. Satellite observations since the 1970s have shown warming in the lower atmosphere. There’s more heat in the ocean, causing water to expand and sea levels to rise. Plants are flowering earlier in many parts of the world. There’s more humidity in the atmosphere. Here’s a summary from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration:

These are all signs that the Earth really is getting warmer — and that it’s not just a glitch in the thermometers. That explains why climate scientists say things like, “Warming in the climate system is unequivocal.” They’re really confident about this one.

3) How do we know humans are causing global warming?

Climate scientists say they are more than 95 percent certain that human influence has been the dominant cause of global warming since 1950. They’re about as sure of this as they are that cigarette smoke causes cancer.

Why are they so confident? In part because they have a good grasp on how greenhouse gases can warm the planet, in part because the theory fits the available evidence, and in part because alternate theories have been ruled out. Let's break it down in six steps:

1) Scientists have long known that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere — such as carbon dioxide, methane, or water vapor — absorb certain frequencies of infrared radiation and scatter them back toward the Earth. These gases essentially prevent heat from escaping too quickly back into space, trapping that radiation at the surface and keeping the planet warm.

2) Climate scientists also know that concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have grown significantly since the Industrial Revolution. Carbon dioxide has risen 45 percent. Methane has risen more than 200 percent. Through some relatively straightforward chemistry and physics, scientists can trace these increases to human activities like burning oil, gas, and coal.

3) So it stands to reason that more greenhouse gases would lead to more heat. And indeed, satellite measurements have shown that less infrared radiation is escaping out into space over time and instead returning to the Earth’s surface. That’s strong evidence that the greenhouse effect is increasing.

4) There are other human fingerprints that suggest increased greenhouse gases are warming the planet. For instance, back in the 1960s, simple climate models predicted that global warming caused by more carbon dioxide would lead to cooling in the upper atmosphere (because the heat is getting trapped at the surface). Later satellite measurements confirmed exactly that. Here are a few other similar predictions that have also been confirmed.

5) Meanwhile, climate scientists have ruled out other explanations for the rise in average temperatures over the past century. To take one example: Solar activity can shift from year to year, affecting the Earth's climate. But satellite data shows that total solar irradiance has declined slightly in the past 35 years, even as the Earth has warmed.

6) More recent calculations have shown that it’s impossible to explain the temperature rise we’ve seen in the past century without taking the increase in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into account. Natural causes, like the sun or volcanoes, have an influence, but they’re not sufficient by themselves.

Ultimately, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded that most of the warming since 1951 has been due to human activities. The Earth’s climate can certainly fluctuate from year to year due to natural forces (including oscillations in the Pacific Ocean, such as El Niño). But greenhouse gases are driving the larger upward trend in temperatures.

And as the Climate Science Special Report, released by 13 US federal agencies in November 2017, put it, “For the warming over the last century, there is no convincing alternative explanation supported by the extent of the observational evidence.”

More: This chart breaks down all the different factors affecting the Earth’s average temperature. And there’s much more detail in the IPCC’s report, particularly this section and this one.

4) How has global warming affected the world so far?

Here’s a list of ongoing changes that climate scientists have concluded are likely linked to global warming, as detailed by the IPCC here and here.

Higher temperatures: Every continent has warmed substantially since the 1950s. There are more hot days and fewer cold days, on average, and the hot days are hotter.

Heavier storms and floods: The world’s atmosphere can hold more moisture as it warms. As a result, the overall number of heavier storms has increased since the mid-20th century, particularly in North America and Europe (though there’s plenty of regional variation). Scientists reported in December that at least 18 percent of Hurricane Harvey’s record-setting rainfall over Houston in August was due to climate change.

Heat waves: Heat waves have become longer and more frequent around the world over the past 50 years, particularly in Europe, Asia, and Australia.

Shrinking sea ice: The extent of sea ice in the Arctic, always at its maximum in winter, has shrunk since 1979, by 3.3 percent per decade. Summer sea ice has dwindled even more rapidly, by 13.2 percent per decade. Antarctica has seen recent years with record growth in sea ice, but it’s a very different environment than the Arctic, and the losses in the north far exceed any gains at the South Pole, so total global sea ice is on the decline:

Global, Arctic and Antarctic Sea Ice Area Spiral February 2018 #GlobalWarming #ClimateChange pic.twitter.com/gayoLFSJ5u — Kevin Pluck (@kevpluck) March 1, 2018

Shrinking glaciers and ice sheets: Glaciers around the world have, on average, been losing ice since the 1970s. In some areas, that is reducing the amount of available freshwater. The ice sheet on Greenland, which would raise global sea levels by 25 feet if it all melted, is declining, with some sections experiencing a sudden surge in the melt rate. The Antarctic ice sheet is also getting smaller, but at a much slower rate.

Sea level rise: Global sea levels rose 9.8 inches (25 centimeters) in the 19th and 20th centuries, after 2,000 years of relatively little change, and the pace is speeding up. Sea level rise is caused by both the thermal expansion of the oceans — as water warms up, it expands — and the melting of glaciers and ice sheets (but not sea ice).

Food supply: A hotter climate can be both good for crops (it lengthens the growing season, and more carbon dioxide can increase photosynthesis) and bad for crops (excess heat can damage plants). The IPCC found that global warming was currently benefiting crops in some high-latitude areas but that negative effects are becoming increasingly common worldwide. In areas like California, crop yields are estimated to decline 40 percent by 2050.

Shifting species: Many land and marine species have had to shift their geographic ranges in response to warmer temperatures. So far, several extinctions have been linked to global warming, such as certain frog species in Central America.

Debated impacts

Here are a few other ways the Earth’s climate has been changing — but scientists are still debating whether and how they’re linked to global warming:

Droughts have become more frequent and more intense in some parts of the world — such as the American Southwest, Mediterranean Europe, and West Africa — though it’s hard to identify a clear global trend. In other parts of the world, such as the Midwestern United States and Northwestern Australia, droughts appear to have become less frequent. A recent study shows that, globally, the time between droughts is shrinking and more areas are affected by drought and taking longer to recover from them.

Hurricanes have clearly become more intense in the North Atlantic Ocean since 1970, the IPCC says. But it’s less clear whether global warming is driving this. 2017 was an exceptionally bad year for Atlantic hurricanes in terms of strength and damage. And while scientists are still uncertain whether they were a fluke or part of a trend, they are warning we should treat it as a baseline year. There doesn’t yet seem to be any clear trajectory for tropical cyclones worldwide.

5) What impacts will global warming have in the future?

It depends on how much the planet actually heats up. The changes associated with 4° Celsius (or 7.2º Fahrenheit) of warming are expected to be more dramatic than the changes associated with 2°C of warming.

Here’s a basic rundown of big impacts we can expect if global warming continues, via the IPCC (here and here).

Hotter temperatures: If emissions keep rising unchecked, then global average surface temperatures will be at least 2ºC higher (3.6ºF) than preindustrial levels by 2100 — and possibly 3ºC or 4ºC or more.

Higher sea level rise: The expert consensus is that global sea levels will rise somewhere between 0.2 and 2 meters by the end of the century if global warming continues unchecked (that’s between 0.6 and 6.6 feet). That’s a wide range, reflecting some of the uncertainties scientists have in how ice will melt. In specific regions like the Eastern United States, sea level rise could be even higher, and around the world, the rate of rise is accelerating.

Heat waves: A hotter planet will mean more frequent and severe heat waves.

Droughts and floods: Across the globe, wet seasons are expected to become wetter, and dry seasons drier. As the IPCC puts it, the world will see “more intense downpours, leading to more floods, yet longer dry periods between rain events, leading to more drought.”

Hurricanes: It’s not yet clear what impact global warming will have on tropical cyclones. The IPCC said it was likely that tropical cyclones would get stronger as the oceans heat up, with faster winds and heavier rainfall. But the overall number of hurricanes in many regions was likely to “either decrease or remain essentially unchanged.”

Heavier storm surges: Higher sea levels will increase the risk of storm surges and flooding when storms do hit.

Agriculture: In many parts of the world, the mix of increased heat and drought is expected to make food production more difficult. The IPCC concluded that global warming of 1°C or more could start hurting crop yields for wheat, corn, and rice by the 2030s, especially in the tropics. (This wouldn’t be uniform, however; some crops may benefit from mild warming, such as winter wheat in the United States.)

Extinctions: As the world warms, many plant and animal species will need to shift habitats at a rapid rate to maintain their current conditions. Some species will be able to keep up; others likely won’t. The Great Barrier Reef, for instance, may not be able to recover from major recent bleaching events linked to climate change. The National Research Council has estimated that a mass extinction event “could conceivably occur before the year 2100.”

Long-term changes: Most of the projected changes above will occur in the 21st century. But temperatures will keep rising after that if greenhouse gas levels aren’t stabilized. That increases the risk of more drastic longer-term shifts. One example: If West Antarctica’s ice sheet started crumbling, that could push sea levels up significantly. The National Research Council in 2013 deemed many of these rapid climate surprises unlikely this century but a real possibility further into the future.

6) What happens if the world heats up more drastically — say, 4°C?

The risks of climate change would rise considerably if temperatures rose 4° Celsius (7.2° Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels — something that’s possible if greenhouse gas emissions keep rising at their current rate.

The IPCC says 4°C of global warming could lead to “substantial species extinctions,” “large risks to global and regional food security,” and the risk of irreversibly destabilizing Greenland’s massive ice sheet.

One huge concern is food production: A growing number of studies suggest it would become significantly more difficult for the world to grow food with 3°C or 4°C of global warming. Countries like Bangladesh, Egypt, Vietnam, and parts of Africa could see large tracts of farmland turn unusable due to rising seas. Scientists are also concerned about crops are crops getting less nutritious due to rising CO2.

And humans could struggle to adapt to these conditions. Many people might think the impacts of 4°C of warming will simply be twice as bad as those of 2°C. But as a 2013 World Bank report argued, that’s not necessarily true. Impacts may interact with each other in unpredictable ways. Current agriculture models, for instance, don’t have a good sense of what will happen to crops if increased heat waves, droughts, new pests and diseases, and other changes all start to combine.

“Given that uncertainty remains about the full nature and scale of impacts,” the World Bank report said, “there is also no certainty that adaptation to a 4°C world is possible.” Its conclusion was blunt: “The projected 4°C warming simply must not be allowed to occur.”

7) What do climate models say about the warming that could actually happen in the coming decades?

That depends on your faith in humanity.

Climate models depend on not only complicated physics but the intricacies of human behavior over the entire planet.

Generally, the more greenhouse gases humanity pumps into the atmosphere, the warmer it will get. But scientists aren’t certain how sensitive the global climate system is to increases in greenhouse gases. And just how much we might emit over the coming decades remains an open question, depending on advances in technology and international efforts to cut emissions.

The IPCC groups these scenarios into four categories of atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations known as Representative Concentration Pathways. They serve as standard benchmarks for evaluating climate models, but they also have some assumptions baked in.

RCP 2.6, also called RCP 3PD, is the scenario with very low greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere. It bets on declining oil use, a population of 9 billion by 2100, increasing energy efficiency, and emissions holding steady until 2020, at which point they’ll decline and even go negative by 2100. This is, to put it mildly, very optimistic.

The next tier up is RCP 4.5, which still banks on ambitious reductions in emissions but anticipates an inflection point in the emissions rate around 2040. RCP 6 expects emissions to increase 75 percent above today’s levels before peaking and declining around 2060 as the world continues to rely heavily on fossil fuels.

The highest tier, RCP 8.5, is the business-as-usual scenario, with no policy changes. It expects a global population of 12 billion and triple the rate of carbon dioxide emissions compared to today by 2100.

Here’s how greenhouse gas emissions under each scenario stack up next to each other:

And here’s what that means for global average temperatures, assuming that a doubling of carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere leads to 3°C of warming:

As you can see, only RCP 3PD is the only trajectory that keeps the planet below 2°C of warming. Recall what it would take to keep emissions in line with this pathway and you’ll understand the enormity of the challenge of meeting this goal.

8) How do we stop global warming?

The world’s nations would need to cut their greenhouse gas emissions by a lot. And even that wouldn’t stop all global warming.

For example, let’s say we wanted to limit global warming to below 2°C. To do that, the IPCC has calculated that annual greenhouse gas emissions would need to drop at least 40 to 70 percent by midcentury.

Emissions would then have to keep falling until humans were hardly emitting any extra greenhouse gases by the end of the century. We’d also likely need to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.

Cutting emissions that sharply is a daunting task. Right now, the world gets 87 percent of its primary energy from fossil fuels: oil, gas, and coal. By contrast, just 13 percent of the world’s primary energy is “low carbon”: a little bit of wind and solar power, some nuclear power plants, a bunch of hydroelectric dams. That’s one reason global emissions keep rising each year.

To stay below 2°C, that would all need to change radically. By 2050, the IPCC notes, the world would need to triple or even quadruple the share of clean energy it uses — and keep scaling it up thereafter. Second, we’d have to get dramatically more efficient at using energy in our homes, buildings, and cars. And stop cutting down forests. And reduce emissions from agriculture and from industrial processes like cement manufacturing.

The IPCC also notes that this task becomes even more difficult the longer we put it off, because carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases will keep piling up in the atmosphere in the meantime, and the cuts necessary to stay below the 2°C limit become more severe.

9) What are we actually doing to fight climate change?

A global problem requires global action, but with climate change, there is a yawning gap between ambition and action.

The main international effort is the 2015 Paris climate accord, of which the United States is the only country in the world that wants out. The deal was hammered out over weeks of tense negotiations and weighs in at 31 pages. What it does is actually pretty simple.

The backbone is the global target of keeping global average temperatures from rising 2°C (compared to temperatures before the Industrial Revolution) by the end of the century. Beyond 2 degrees, we risk dramatically higher seas, changes in weather patterns, food and water crises, and an overall more hostile world.

Critics have argued that the 2-degree mark is arbitrary, or even too low, to make a difference. But it’s a starting point, a goal that, before Paris, the world was on track to wildly miss.

Paris is voluntary

To accomplish this 2-degree goal, the accord states that countries should strive to reach peak emissions “as soon as possible.” (Currently, we’re on track to hit peak emissions around 2030 or later, which will likely be too late.)

But the agreement doesn’t detail exactly how these countries should do that. Instead, it provides a framework for getting momentum going on greenhouse gas reduction, with some oversight and accountability. For the US, the pledge involves 26 to 28 percent reductions by 2025. (Under Trump’s current policies, that goal is impossible.)

There’s also no defined punishment for breaking it. The idea is to create a culture of accountability (and maybe some peer pressure) to get countries to step up their climate game.

In 2020, delegates are supposed to reconvene and provide updates about their emission pledges and report on how they’re becoming more aggressive on accomplishing the 2-degree goal.

However, many countries are already falling behind on their climate change commitments, and some, like Germany, are giving up on their near-term targets.

Paris asks richer countries to help out poorer countries

There’s a fundamental inequality when it comes to global emissions. Rich countries have plundered and burned huge amounts of fossil fuels and gotten rich from them. Poor countries seeking to grow their economies are now being admonished for using the same fuels. Many low-lying poor countries also will be among the first to bear the worst impacts of climate change.

The main vehicle for rectifying this is the Green Climate Fund, via which richer countries, like the US, are supposed to send $100 billion a year in aid and financing by 2020 to the poorer countries. The United States’ share was $3 billion, but with President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris accord, this goal is unlikely to be met.

The agreement matters because we absolutely need momentum on this issue

The Paris agreement is largely symbolic, and it will live on even though Trump is aiming to pull the US out. But, as Jim Tankersley wrote for Vox, “the accord will be weakened, and, much more importantly, so will the fragile international coalition” around climate change.

But the Paris accord isn’t the only international climate policy game in town

There are regional international climate efforts like the European Union’s Emissions Trading System. However, the most effective global policy at keeping warming in check to date doesn’t have to do with climate change, at least on the surface.

The 1987 Montreal Protocol, which was convened by countries to halt the destruction of the ozone layer, had a major side effect of averting warming. In fact, it’s been the single most effective effort humanity has undertaken to fight climate change. Since many of the substances that eat away at the ozone layer are potent heat-trappers, limiting emissions of gases like chlorofluorocarbons has an outsize effect.

And the Trump administration doesn’t appear as hostile to Montreal as it does to Paris. The White House may send the 2016 Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol to the Senate for ratification, giving the new regulations the force of law. If implemented, the amendment would avert 0.5°C of warming by 2100.

Further reading:

Avoiding catastrophic climate change isn’t impossible yet. Just incredibly hard.

Reckoning with climate change will demand ugly tradeoffs from environmentalists — and everyone else

Show this cartoon to anyone who doubts we need huge action on climate change

It’s time to start talking about “negative” carbon dioxide emissions

A history of the 2°C global warming target

Scientists made a detailed “roadmap” for meeting the Paris climate goals. It’s eye-openingIt’s going to happen again. There will be another mass shooting in America.

It’s tragic to even write those words, but this is the clear pattern I’ve seen since I began covering mass shootings for Vox in 2014: A horrific tragedy happens. There are calls for action. Maybe something gets introduced in Congress. The debate goes back and forth for a bit. Then people move on — usually after a week or two. And so there’s eventually another shooting.

As a reporter, I have become eerily attuned to this horrible American ritual. I do the same thing every single time we get news of a mass shooting: verify reports, write a “what we know” article, and then begin to update our old pieces on guns. I do this almost instinctively at this point — and that terrifies me. No one should get used to this.

There are signs that the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in Parkland, Florida, which killed 17 people, could have a different outcome. With the March for Our Lives in March and school walkouts on Friday, students with highly sympathetic stories are speaking up. The sense of outrage this time seems more sustained — and that may buck the trend.

“Politicians who sit in their gilded House and Senate seats funded by the NRA telling us nothing could have ever been done to prevent this, we call BS,” Emma Gonzales, a student survivor, said in a speech at a February gun control rally that went viral. “They say that tougher gun laws do not decrease gun violence. We call BS. They say a good guy with a gun stops a bad guy with a gun. We call BS. They say guns are just tools like knives and are as dangerous as cars. We call BS. … They say that no laws could have been able to prevent the hundreds of senseless tragedies that have occurred. We call BS.”

But at least so far, nothing has changed. Congress has passed no significant gun reforms — and it still doesn’t look likely to do so, even as kids take to the streets and walk out of their schools

This is typical. The federal government did nothing after 6- and 7-year-olds were killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, where a gunman killed 20 children, six adults, and himself in 2012. Since then, there have been more than 1,600 mass shootings. Many of these events led to protests and calls for actions, but Congress refused to budge every time.

As I see it, the core issue is that America as a whole refuses to even admit it has a serious problem with guns and gun violence. And more than that, lawmakers continue acting like the solutions are some sort of mystery, as if there aren’t years of research and experiences in other countries that show restrictions on firearms can save lives.

Consider President Donald Trump’s initial speech responding to the Florida shooting: His only mention of guns was a vague reference to “gunfire” as he described what happened. He never even brought up gun control or anything related to that debate, instead vaguely promising to work “with state and local leaders to help secure our schools and tackle the difficult issue of mental health.”

This is America’s elected leader — and he essentially, based on his first public response, ignored what the real problem is. And although the White House has come around to bipartisan proposals to very slightly improve background checks and ban bump stocks, the compromises amount to fairly small changes to America’s weak gun laws.

In my coverage of these shootings, I’ve always focused on solutions through studies and policy ideas that would tamp down on the number of shootings. The good news is there are real solutions out there.

But America can’t get to those solutions until it admits it has a gun problem and confronts the reality of what it would mean to seriously address it.

1) America has a unique gun violence problem

The US is unique in two key — and related — ways when it comes to guns: It has way more gun deaths than other developed nations, and it has far higher levels of gun ownership than any other country in the world.

The US has nearly six times the gun homicide rate of Canada, more than seven times that of Sweden, and nearly 16 times that of Germany, according to United Nations data compiled by the Guardian. (These gun deaths are a big reason America has a much higher overall homicide rate, which includes non-gun deaths, than other developed nations.)

Mass shootings actually make up a small fraction of America’s gun deaths, constituting less than 2 percent of such deaths in 2013. But America does see a lot of these horrific events: According to CNN, “The US makes up less than 5% of the world’s population, but holds 31% of global mass shooters.”

The US also has by far the highest number of privately owned guns in the world. Estimated in 2007, the number of civilian-owned firearms in the US was 88.8 guns per 100 people, meaning there was almost one privately owned gun per American and more than one per American adult. The world’s second-ranked country was Yemen, a quasi-failed state torn by civil war, where there were 54.8 guns per 100 people.

Another way of looking at that: Americans make up less than 5 percent of the world’s population yet own roughly 42 percent of all the world’s privately held firearms.

These two facts — on gun deaths and firearm ownership — are related. The research, compiled by the Harvard School of Public Health’s Injury Control Research Center, is pretty clear: After controlling for variables such as socioeconomic factors and other crime, places with more guns have more gun deaths. Researchers have found this to be true not just with homicides, but also with suicides (which in recent years were around 60 percent of US gun deaths), domestic violence, and even violence against police.

For example, a 2013 study, led by a Boston University School of Public Health researcher, found that, after controlling for multiple variables, each percentage point increase in gun ownership correlated with a roughly 0.9 percent rise in the firearm homicide rate.

This chart, based on data compiled by researcher Josh Tewksbury, shows the correlation between the number of guns and gun deaths (including homicides and suicides) among wealthier nations:

Guns are not the only contributor to violence. (Other factors include, for example, poverty, urbanization, and alcohol consumption.) But when researchers control for other confounding variables, they have found time and time again that America’s high levels of gun ownership are a major reason the US is so much worse in terms of gun violence than its developed peers.

2) The problem is guns, not mental illness

Supporters of gun rights look at America’s high levels of gun violence and argue that guns are not the problem. They point to other issues, from violence in video games and movies to the supposed breakdown of the traditional family.

Most recently, they’ve focused particularly on mental health. This is the only policy issue that Trump mentioned in his speech following the Florida shooting.

But as Dylan Matthews explained for Vox, people with mental illnesses are more likely to be victims, not perpetrators, of violence. And Michael Stone, a psychiatrist at Columbia University who maintains a database of mass shooters, wrote in a 2015 analysis that only 52 out of the 235 killers in the database, or about 22 percent, had mental illnesses. “The mentally ill should not bear the burden of being regarded as the ‘chief’ perpetrators of mass murder,” he concluded. Other research has backed this up.

The problem, instead, is guns — and America’s abundance of them.

As a breakthrough analysis by UC Berkeley’s Franklin Zimring and Gordon Hawkins in the 1990s found, it’s not even that the US has more crime than other developed countries. This chart, based on data from Jeffrey Swanson at Duke University, shows that the US is not an outlier when it comes to overall crime:

Instead, the US appears to have more lethal violence — and that’s driven in large part by the prevalence of guns.

”A series of specific comparisons of the death rates from property crime and assault in New York City and London show how enormous differences in death risk can be explained even while general patterns are similar,” Zimring and Hawkins wrote. “A preference for crimes of personal force and the willingness and ability to use guns in robbery make similar levels of property crime 54 times as deadly in New York City as in London.”

This is in many ways intuitive: People of every country get into arguments and fights with friends, family, and peers. But in the US, it’s much more likely that someone will get angry at an argument and be able to pull out a gun and kill someone.

3) The research shows that gun control works

The research also suggests that gun control can work. A 2016 review of 130 studies in 10 countries, published in Epidemiologic Reviews, found that new legal restrictions on owning and purchasing guns tended to be followed by a drop in gun violence — a strong indicator that restricting access to firearms can save lives.

Consider Australia’s example.

In 1996, a 28-year-old man walked into a cafe in Port Arthur, Australia, ate lunch, pulled a semiautomatic rifle out of his bag, and opened fire on the crowd, killing 35 people and wounding 23 more. It was the worst mass shooting in Australia’s history.

Australian lawmakers responded with legislation that, among other provisions, banned certain types of firearms, such as automatic and semiautomatic rifles and shotguns. The Australian government confiscated 650,000 of these guns through a mandatory buyback program, in which it purchased firearms from gun owners. It established a registry of all guns owned in the country and required a permit for all new firearm purchases. (This is much further than bills typically proposed in the US, which almost never make a serious attempt to immediately reduce the number of guns in the country.)

Australia’s firearm homicide rate dropped by about 42 percent in the seven years after the law passed, and its firearm suicide rate fell by 57 percent, according to a review of the evidence by Harvard researchers.

It’s difficult to know for sure how much of the drop in homicides and suicides was caused specifically by the gun buyback program and other legal changes. Australia’s gun deaths, for one, were already declining before the law passed. But researchers David Hemenway and Mary Vriniotis argue that the gun buyback program very likely played a role: “First, the drop in firearm deaths was largest among the type of firearms most affected by the buyback. Second, firearm deaths in states with higher buyback rates per capita fell proportionately more than in states with lower buyback rates.”

One study of the program, by Australian researchers, found that buying back 3,500 guns per 100,000 people correlated with up to a 50 percent drop in firearm homicides and a 74 percent drop in gun suicides. As Matthews explained, the drop in homicides wasn’t statistically significant because Australia already had a pretty low number of murders. But the drop in suicides most definitely was — and the results are striking.

One other fact, noted by Hemenway and Vriniotis in 2011: “While 13 gun massacres (the killing of 4 or more people at one time) occurred in Australia in the 18 years before the [Australia gun control law], resulting in more than one hundred deaths, in the 14 following years (and up to the present), there were no gun massacres.”

4) State and local actions are not enough

A common counterpoint to the evidence on gun control: If it works so well, why does Chicago have so much gun violence despite having some of the strictest gun policies in the US?

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders made this argument after the 2017 Las Vegas mass shooting: “I think if you look to Chicago, where you had over 4,000 victims of gun-related crimes last year, they have the strictest gun laws in the country. That certainly hasn’t helped there.”

It’s true that Chicago has fairly strict gun laws (although not the strictest). And it’s true that the city has fairly high levels of gun violence (although also not the worst in the US).

This doesn’t, however, expose the failure of gun control altogether, but rather the limits of leaving gun policies to a patchwork of local and state laws. The basic problem: If a city or state passes strict gun control measures, people can simply cross a border to buy guns in a jurisdiction with laxer laws.

Chicago, for example, requires a Firearm Owners Identification card, a background check, a three-day waiting period, and documentation for all firearm sales. But Indiana, across the border, doesn’t require any of this for purchases between two private individuals (including those at gun shows and those who meet through the internet), allowing even someone with a criminal record to buy a firearm without passing a background check or submitting paperwork recording the sale.

So someone from Chicago can drive across the border — to Indiana or to other places with lax gun laws — and buy a gun without any of the big legal hurdles he would face at home. Then that person can resell or give guns to others in Chicago, or keep them, leaving no paper trail behind. (This is illegal trafficking under federal law, but Indiana’s lax laws and enforcement — particularly the lack of a paper trail — make it virtually impossible to catch someone until a gun is used in a crime.)

The result: According to a 2014 report from the Chicago Police Department, nearly 60 percent of the guns in crime scenes that were recovered and traced between 2009 and 2013 came from outside the state. About 19 percent came from Indiana — making it the most common state of origin for guns besides Illinois.

This isn’t exclusive to Chicago. A 2016 report from the New York State Office of the Attorney General found that 74 percent of guns used in crimes in New York between 2010 and 2015 came from states with lax gun laws. (The gun trafficking chain from Southern states with weak gun laws to New York is so well-known it even has a name: “the Iron Pipeline.”) And another 2016 report from the US Government Accountability Office found that most of the guns — as many as 70 percent — used in crimes in Mexico, which has strict gun laws, can be traced back to the US, which has generally weaker gun laws.

That doesn’t mean the stricter gun laws in Chicago, New York, or any other jurisdiction have no effect, but it does limit how far these local and state measures can go, since the root of the problem lies in other places’ laws. The only way the pipeline could be stopped would be if all states individually strengthened their gun laws at once — or, more realistically, if the federal government passed a law that enforces stricter rules across the US.

5) America probably needs to go further than anyone wants to admit

America’s attention to gun control often focuses on a few specific measures: universal background checks, restrictions on people with mental illnesses buying firearms, and an assault weapons ban, for example. It is rare that American politicians, even on the left, go much further than that. Something like Australia’s law — which amounts to a confiscation program — is never seriously considered.

As Dylan Matthews previously explained, this is a big issue. The US’s gun problem is so dire that it arguably needs solutions that go way further than what we typically see in mainstream proposals — at least, if the US ever hopes to get down to European levels of gun violence.

If the fundamental problem is that America has far too many guns, then policies need to cut the number of guns in circulation right now to seriously reduce the number of gun deaths. Background checks and other restrictions on who can buy a gun can’t achieve that in the short term. What America likely needs, then, is something more like Australia’s mandatory buyback program — essentially, a gun confiscation scheme — paired with a serious ban on specific firearms (including, potentially, all semiautomatic weapons).

But no one in Congress is seriously proposing something that sweeping. The Manchin-Toomey bill, the only gun legislation in Congress after Sandy Hook that came close to becoming law, didn’t even establish universal background checks. Recent proposals have been even milder, taking small steps like banning bump stocks or slightly improving the existing system for background checks.

Part of the holdup is the Second Amendment. While there is reasonable scholarly debate about whether the Second Amendment actually protects all Americans’ individual right to bear arms and prohibits stricter forms of gun control, the reality is the Supreme Court and US lawmakers — backed by the powerful gun lobby, particularly the NRA — widely agree that the Second Amendment does put barriers on how far restrictions can go. That would likely rule out anything like the Australian policy response short of a court reinterpretation or a repeal of the Second Amendment, neither of which seems likely.

So the US, for political, cultural, and legal reasons, seems to be unable to take the action that it really needs.

None of that is to say that milder measures are useless. Connecticut’s law requiring handgun purchasers to first pass a background check and obtain a license, for example, was followed by a 40 percent drop in gun homicides and a 15 percent reduction in gun suicides. Similar results — in the reverse — were reported in Missouri when it repealed its own permit-to-purchase law. It’s difficult to separate these changes from long-term trends (especially since gun homicides have generally been on the decline for decades now), but a review of the evidence by RAND linked milder gun control measures, including background checks, to reduced injuries and deaths — and that means these measures likely saved lives.

There are also some evidence-based policies that could help outside the realm of gun control, including more stringent regulations and taxes on alcohol, changes in policing, and behavioral intervention programs.

But if America wants to get to the levels of gun deaths that its European peers report, it will likely need to go much, much further on guns in particular.This month, Washington lawmakers overwhelmingly passed a narrow bill that seeks to crack down on sex trafficking online. To most, it seemed like a no-brainer: Sex trafficking is obviously bad. The law, however, changed Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996, a 20-year-old communications law that is the basis of the free internet as we know it.

On April 11, President Donald Trump signed the bill — a combination of bills passed by the House and Senate, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA) and the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act (SESTA) — into law.

The legislation opens more avenues for victims of online sex trafficking to legally pursue websites that facilitate trafficking by amending Section 230, making it easier for federal and state prosecutors and private citizens to go after platforms whose sites have been used by traffickers.

FOSTA-SESTA, however, isn’t without its detractors: Some sex workers say it will actually put them in further danger and push illicit activity into even deeper corners of the internet, and free internet proponents worry that platforms might censor or pull content preemptively just to avoid risk.

FOSTA-SESTA was particularly aimed at Backpage.com, a website that has long been known for its sex worker advertisements, but it has made a number of platforms nervous. Multiple websites have censored or banned parts of their platforms preemptively, not necessarily because the sites were promoting ads for prostitutes, but because policing them under the new law would be too hard. Federal authorities took down Backpage before FOSTA-SESTA was actually signed.

Section 230, however, presents a broader issue in the context of FOSTA-SESTA than meets the eye. The law creates an exception to Section 230 that means platforms would be responsible for third-party content related to sex trafficking or conduct that “promotes or facilitates prostitution.” (Vox’s Aja Romano has a complete explainer on the bill.)

Originally, Section 230 was intended to shield tech platforms from liability for content posted by their users. It treats internet companies like libraries: A library isn’t responsible for the content of the books it carries. The bill was co-authored by former Republican Rep. Chris Cox (CA) and Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and was received as a forward-thinking principle that would help shape the growth of the then-nascent internet. Beyond the legislation itself, FOSTA-SESTA has also spurred speculation that more attempts to poke holes in Section 230 may be on the horizon.

The statute has been lauded as a “core pillar of internet freedom” and “the most important law protecting free speech online” that “gave us the modern internet.” But it has become more and more imperiled, not only with FOSTA-SESTA but also in light of increased scrutiny on Facebook and the advent of platforms such as Airbnb and Yelp, where third-party content is the business model.

“I think 230 is going to be the central discussion point for the next two to five years on what the internet looks like,” one congressional aide told me.

Despite concerns, FOSTA-SESTA passed Congress pretty easily. It flew through the Senate on a 97-2 vote, with just Wyden, one of Section 230’s authors, and libertarian Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) voting against it. A number of high-profile celebrities spoke out in favor of the bill, including actress Amy Schumer and late-night comedian Seth Meyers, who took part in a public service announcement supporting it.

“Ultimately, what we saw is that it is politically almost impossible to do anything but support a bill that says it will stop child sex trafficking,” Emma Llanso, director of the Center for Data & Technology’s (CDT) free expression project, told me.

Ever seen The Wolf of Wall Street? That’s where Section 230 comes from.

Section 230 was born from a couple of 1990s court cases that decided whether tech companies at the very beginning of the internet were responsible for what people were sharing on the platforms they had created.

In 1991, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled in Cubby Inc. v. CompuServe Inc. that CompuServe, the United States’ first major commercial online service provider, wasn’t liable for hosting defamatory content on one of its forums after a columnist posted negative comments about a competitor.

Four years later, in 1995, a new court case popped up, this time involving Stratton Oakmont, the investment firm featured in the 2013 film The Wolf of Wall Street. When chatter on a forum hosted by Prodigy Services popped up that Stratton Oakmont was up to criminal activity, the firm sued. And in Stratton Oakmont Inc. v. Prodigy Services Co., the New York Supreme Court decided the online host was indeed liable for the content posted there.

The argument: Prodigy was moderating its online message boards and deleting some messages, while CompuServe was acting like a blind host, not touching anything. And so legislators saw a need for a clear law to outline what the then-blossoming internet ecosystem was and wasn’t responsible for.

They found their opportunity in the Communications Decency Act, a 1996 law intended to regulate pornographic material, obscenity, and indecency online. Much of the act was struck down in 1997, when the Supreme Court held that it violated the First Amendment’s free speech guarantee. But Section 230, which had been added as an amendment to the law by Cox and Wyden (initially proposed as an alternative to it), survived.

“It was intended as the right way to ensure that platforms could maintain healthy and strong community standards while not restricting people’s civil liberties online,” said Elliot Harmon, an activist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a nonprofit organization focused on civil liberties in the digital space.

The statute declares that “no provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as a publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider” — in other words, tech companies aren’t responsible for what users put on their platforms. On the flip side, it also ensures companies have the space to police their own sites and restrict or take down material they consider obscene, violent, or otherwise objectionable. But platforms can’t wash their hands entirely — federal criminal laws apply, and there are carve-outs for arenas such as intellectual property.

“It’s basically the fundamental framework for how we think about the legal liabilities of intermediaries around user-generated content,” said Llanso, from the CDT.

The tech community views Section 230 as one of the most important principles of the internet.

“Intermediary liability protections are fundamental to the internet — for both consumers and the internet sector,” said Michael Beckerman, president and CEO of the interest group the Internet Association, adding that they “enable virtually all user-generated content online.”

FOSTA-SESTA might be a one-time deal in terms of amending Section 230. The fear is it’s just the beginning.

There are concerns that FOSTA-SESTA could lead to the further erosion of internet freedom and safe harbor protections. “The larger question is whether this is part of a case for more extensive regulation on different intermediaries, and I think we just don’t know the answer to that yet,” said Harvard law professor Rebecca Tushnet.

Multiple lawmakers touted the bill at Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s appearance at a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Senate Commerce committees in April. Zuckerberg testified before the joint Senate committee hearing and a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee about a wide range of issues, including data privacy, content handling, and its business practices.

Sen. John Thune (R-SD), chair of the Commerce Committee, said the bill “should be a wake-up call for the tech community” and seemed to open the door to more action. “We want to hear more, without delay, about what Facebook and other companies plan to do to take greater responsibility for what happens on their platforms,” he said.

Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) brought up Section 230 direction in the context of inquiring whether Facebook has a liberal bias. “The predicate for Section 230 immunity under the [Communications Decency Act] is that you’re a neutral public forum,” Cruz said. “Do you consider yourself a neutral public forum, or are you engaged in political speech, which is your right under the First Amendment?”

Many lawmakers, especially in the Senate, appeared confused about what Facebook does, exactly what problems they wanted to fix about it, and how they might begin to regulate it. It is also worth noting that US lawmakers have historically been reluctant to regulate technology, as opposed to Europe, which has been much more aggressive.

“There have clearly been some obvious threats that members of Congress want to do something like FOSTA-SESTA for terrorist content or for hate speech,” said Harmon, from the EFF. “That’s clearly been a theme that has come up again and again: How can Congress shift more liability onto platforms to have them spend more time policing their users’ speech? That is definitely a concern, and I wouldn’t be surprised if you start seeing bills like that.”

Others say internet freedom advocates who have expressed alarm about a Pandora’s box of Section 230 attacks are getting out over their skis. “When you look at the original purpose of Section 230, I think this amendment is very minor and is not a boding of things to come,” said Mary Leary, a law professor at Catholic University. “Everyone agrees that Section 230 was never intended to provide this kind of protection to companies that were engaged in sex trafficking.”

In September, Oracle wrote a letter supporting FOSTA-SESTA, saying the state of technology today makes monitoring content easier than it was in the 1990s and expressing surprise at the debate over the legislation. “Your legislation does not, as suggested by the bill’s opponents, usher the end of the internet,” wrote Oracle senior vice president Kenneth Glueck. “If enacted, it will establish some measure of accountability for those that cynically sell advertising but are unprepared to help curtail sex trafficking.”

The Internet Association, an internet industry lobbying group, initially lobbied against FOSTA-SESTA but backed off in September and then came out in support of the Senate bill, citing “important changes” made to the legislation. (It is worth noting it did so days after officials from Facebook, Google, and Twitter testified on Capitol Hill about Russian meddling in the 2016 election.)

What happens next might depend on how FOSTA-SESTA plays out and what it actually affects about the internet — though there have already been some casualties. Craigslist removed its entire personals section from its platform two days after SESTA’s passage in the Senate, citing the difficulty of adhering to new changes to the law; Reddit banned multiple subreddits; VerifyHim, a screening site for online dating that sex workers use to verify clients, shut down its advertising “newsreel”; Microsoft, which owns Skype and Xbox, has banned “offensive language.” Backpage, a Craigslist-type site that had a controversial sex work section, was shut down and seized by the FBI before FOSTA-SESTA became law.

N’jaila Rhee, an educator and sex worker who hosts The Cuntcast Podcast, said the closures and bans are making sex workers less safe, not more. Instead of being able to vet their clients and make their own decisions about where and when to work and with whom, it pushes them toward intermediaries who find clients for them — but take away the choices they can make when working on their own.

“It seems mostly it’s avenues being closed for sex workers that want to work independently and safe,” she said. “People who are used to working independently now are trying these more dangerous avenues of working, and they have no experience in doing so.”

Some sex workers have turned to Switter, a sex community-friendly social network hosted in Australia, but its future is uncertain. The corporate internet security software company Cloudflare banned Switter last week because of FOSTA-SESTA, which Cloudflare told Motherboard is a “very bad law.” (Cloudflare previously banned the neo-Nazi website the Daily Stormer.)

FOSTA-SESTA is perhaps especially bad for some of the most vulnerable sex workers already, namely, transgender and undocumented people, Rhee said. “I don’t see this as any different than the war on drugs, if we can admit that that was racist hogwash,” she said. “The criminalization of sex work is here to target women, target transgender people, target gay people.”

What’s next for Section 230 is up in the air

There’s no question that Section 230 is one of the pillars of the open internet. Along with net neutrality, it helps level the playing field in tech by allowing new entrants to get into the market without huge barriers.

Eroding Section 230 and increasing companies’ liabilities for content shared on their platforms by their users is likely to ding small players and new startups — not the mega companies such as Facebook, Google, and Twitter. They have billions of dollars, lobbyists, and extensive legal resources behind them.

“Laws that require automated filtering of content and other types of moderation at scale might be something a giant platform could handle, but it could make it very difficult for a smaller competitor or startup to be successful,” Llanso, from the CDT, told me.

In his testimony before the joint Senate committees and the House Energy and Commerce Committee last week, Zuckerberg said that Facebook is “responsible for the content” on its platform — though it’s likely he was speaking of a moral responsibility, not a legal one.

“One of the best ways to ensure that Facebook faces no further competition is to put extensive regulations on companies that do what Facebook does, because Facebook is the only one with billions of dollars of revenue that it can put into satisfying these requirements,” said Tushnet, the Harvard law professor.

In the end, the questions about the future of Section 230 revolve around whether we believe the internet in its current form is worth preserving — whether it should be open, free, a place for dissent — or whether it’s grown into a jungle of ideas and information that needs to be put under control.

The US has traditionally been a leader in the tech industry; it is the birthplace of the biggest companies and many of the most important innovations in the world, in large part because of principles such as Section 230 and net neutrality, which help level the playing field and spur growth. And free speech under the First Amendment is a basic American value.

Perhaps one of the best arguments for Section 230 is laid out in one of the first major federal court cases to discuss it, Zeran v. America Online Inc., in 1997:

Whenever one was displeased with the speech of another party conducted over an interactive computer service, the offended party could simply “notify” the relevant service provider, claiming the information to be legally defamatory. In light of the vast amount of speech communicated through interactive computer services, these notices could produce an impossible burden for service providers, who would be faced with ceaseless choices of suppressing controversial speech or sustaining prohibitive liability.

“Section 230 is a sword and shield,” said Sen. Wyden in a speech on the Senate floor in March. “It offers protection for liability, but it also gives companies the power — and the responsibility — to foster the sort of internet Americans want to be part of.”

Congress has made one successful attempt to chip away at Section 230, and there’s a growing appetite for regulating the internet and tech. A recent poll from the market research firm Harris X found that 84 percent of Americans think tech companies should be legally responsible for the content they carry, and 83 percent think there should be tougher regulations. They might not realize what that means giving up.