WASHINGTON—The Senate approved Andrew Wheeler as deputy administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, confirming him to the agency’s No. 2 post with the support of three Democrats.

The vote was 53-45.

The chamber had been expected to confirm Mr. Wheeler’s nomination but the stakes have recently risen as the agency’s chief, Scott Pruitt,...2:33

Here are the tax-saving strategies that most Americans don't know

When it comes to taxes, ignorance is not bliss. Here's what most people don't know about their taxes, which ends up costing them hundreds or even thousands of dollars in missed tax savings.4/11/2018 11:31AM

House Speaker Paul Ryan: This Year Will Be My Last2:33

Here are the tax-saving strategies that most Americans don't know

When it comes to taxes, ignorance is not bliss. Here's what most people don't know about their taxes, which ends up costing them hundreds or even thousands of dollars in missed tax savings.WASHINGTON—The Trump White House, confident that its hard-line strategy is succeeding, is planning to ratchet up the pressure on China by focusing on new tariffs and threatening to block Chinese technology investment in the U.S., according to officials familiar with the strategy.

The additional moves come as President Donald Trump has told his senior aides to investigate the possibility of joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a move that would reverse a Trump campaign promise and further challenge China, which isn’t part...WASHINGTON—A dispute between Congress and the Justice Department about access to law-enforcement documents has further ratcheted up pressure on Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who is already a target of President Donald Trump’s criticism.

The president and his allies have accused Mr. Rosenstein of stonewalling Congress and allowing special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election to stray beyond its scope. While leaders in both parties have publicly said...Blackstone Group LP CEO Stephen Schwarzman has dropped his stipulation that his high school be renamed after him as a condition for his $25 million gift, the largest known gift to an individual public school.

The condition, which wasn’t disclosed when Mr. Schwarzman announced his gift in February, ran into objections from the community in Abington, Pa., after the school board disclosed it last month. Plans for the gift include paying for a major renovation at Abington Senior High School in Abington, Pa., where Mr. Schwarzman...New Jersey lawmakers Thursday unlocked several bills that have long been stuck in Trenton, greenlighting everything from subsidies for the state’s nuclear-power industry to mandatory paid sick leave.

Another measure would allowed so-called Dreamers, meaning people who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children by their parents, to apply for state financial aid for higher-education costs.

And...A recent burst of successful technology IPOs has led some richly valued companies that were content to dwell in the private markets to take steps toward going public.

The solid debuts of firms such as Spotify Technology SA, Dropbox Inc. and Zscaler Inc. have helped catalyze a shift among private-company CEOs and senior executives toward viewing public markets as a hospitable place to raise capital, said bankers, lawyers and investors in interviews. That comes after years of relatively weak issuance, particularly among tech...Twinkies and Ding Dongs maker Hostess Brands Inc. has named a veteran consumer packaged-goods leader as its next president and chief executive starting next month.

The Kansas City, Mo., company said Andrew “Andy” Callahan will become CEO May 7. Executive Chairman C. Dean Metropoulos had been serving in the role on an interim basis since March 31, after Bill Toler retired. Mr. Toler had been tapped by the private-equity firms that bought Hostess out of liquidation to help revive the sweets maker. Hostess returned to being a...The New York Philharmonic currently is offering a lively all-Mozart affair, with excerpts from symphonic works, operas and the choral masterpiece, the “Requiem.”

But this isn’t a concert as such: It’s a night at the movies.

The Philharmonic is showing the Oscar-winning 1984 Miloš Forman film “Amadeus” with live orchestral accompaniment.

...U.K. regulators said Thursday that Walt Disney Co. must make an offer for all of Sky PLC, the British broadcaster, if its proposed acquisition of assets from 21st Century Fox Inc. proceeds.

Disney has agreed to pay some $52 billion for a big chunk of Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox, including the company’s current 39% stake in Sky. Separately, Fox has been trying to win regulatory and shareholder approval for an agreement to consolidate its ownership of Sky, by buying the 61% it doesn’t already own.

...Coal magnate Robert Murray, after warning his company could be pushed into bankruptcy if the Midwest coal industry failed to get a bailout from federal regulators, said he now expects his company to thrive whether or not the Trump administration intervenes.

Mr. Murray, chief executive and controlling owner of Murray Energy Corp. and a major Trump supporter, said in an interview that surging demand for coal in Asia, along with his company’s growing exports to that region, have revived his business. Growing Chinese imports, and a recovering global economy, drove up coal prices, offsetting a long-term decline in U.S. demand.

Murray Energy also is ramping up sales in India with help from a London-based trading firm that the company helped open in 2015.

“I’ve got the best coal company in the world,” he said.

That optimistic outlook marks a strong contrast to what Mr. Murray has said about his business not long ago. Last summer, he told the White House that his company’s Appalachian mines might close without an emergency lifeline for the power-plant fleet at FirstEnergy Corp. , a major coal-burning customer of Murray Energy. A FirstEnergy subsidiary requested federal intervention last month and the Energy Department is weighing a response.

Mr. Murray rose to prominence after acquisitions made his company the largest privately owned U.S. coal miner earlier this decade.

After Mr. Trump was elected president, Mr. Murray has injected himself into the center of a national debate about what the Trump administration might do to save the shrinking coal industry.

He has personally asked Mr. Trump to arrange an emergency order—one designed for times of war and natural disasters—to keep unprofitable coal-fired plants open, saying losing them creates a national-security risk. But natural gas-burning plants, solar farms and wind turbines are beating coal in competitive power markets, and Mr. Murray’s critics say intervention undermines free competition and distorts markets.

An emergency request in front of the Energy Department—formally filed by a FirstEnergy subsidiary would benefit many of the plants in Ohio and the surrounding states that buy Murray coal. He has already revived his company through a series of acquisitions and by creating a trading house, Javelin Global Commodities Ltd., just as prices started to rebound. Mr. Murray spent much of 2016 and 2017 publicly fretting he may miss payments on more than $4 billion in debt at Murray and a sister company, and another $2 billion in retiree obligations, but now he is making them without trouble, he told the Journal.

The country’s electricity grid is in the middle of a historic transformation, one drawing increasing attention from policy makers in Washington and several state capitals. Rapid technological advancements have made gas-fired and renewable power dramatically cheaper, running dozens of nuclear and coal-fired competitors out of business. The viability of a number of corporations—and thousands of jobs—are on the line.

Some states have approved help for nuclear-power plants, and FirstEnergy has forced a similar decision on the Trump administration. In late March it asked the Energy Department to declare an emergency under a lightly used, 83-year-old law to guarantee profits for its nuclear and coal-fired plants and dozens of others across the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic states. Its FirstEnergy Solutions power-generation businesses running nuclear and coal-fired power plants, known as FES, filed for bankruptcy protection two days later.

FES operates coal-powered plants in Ohio and Pennsylvania with combined capacity over 4,700 megawatts. It was bankruptcy warnings from FES last year that prompted Mr. Murray to warn last year that Murray Energy, too, could go under. He said an FES chapter 11 would tip Murray Energy into an “immediate bankruptcy” as well.

But Murray Energy hasn’t filed for bankruptcy protection and doesn’t need to now, Mr. Murray told the Journal. It isn’t clear whether Murray Energy’s supply deals with FES will survive those businesses’ bankruptcy. An FES spokesman declined to comment. Creditors want the coal plants sold.

Mr. Murray said his company and FirstEnergy Corp. weren’t making a politically calculated move to force Mr. Trump into a direct decision on whether to provide emergency help for coal. But he also noted that many of the plants that would be affected are in Ohio and Pennsylvania, swing states crucial to Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign.

“If he doesn’t do it, the president is going to have a problem,” Mr. Murray told the Journal. “It’s important for the president to support the people who supported him.”

Mr. Murray and his company have been generous donors to Mr. Trump’s political groups, Federal Election Commission records show.

Murray Energy gave $1 million last August to America First Action, a super political-action committee that supports Mr. Trump. The company gave $300,000 to the president’s inauguration fund and $200,000 to a 2016 super PAC backing Mr. Trump.

The company’s PAC donated $250,000 to the Republican convention at which Mr. Trump accepted the Republican presidential nomination. Both the company PAC and Mr. Murray also contributed to Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign.

—Julie Bykowicz contributed to this article.Broadcom Ltd.’s board authorized buying back up to $12 billion in shares over the next 18 months, a move that comes after its deal to take over Qualcomm Inc. fell apart.

The move Thursday detailing plans for some of its cash sent shares up more than 4% to $249.70 in after-hours trading.

“We are maintaining our policy of delivering 50% of...WASHINGTON—An appeals court appeared skeptical Thursday that the interim director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could independently run the bureau given his other role as head of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget.

A three-judge panel heard oral arguments in a case challenging the authority of Mick Mulvaney, a Trump appointee, to head the CFPB as acting director. The title of acting director is also claimed by Leandra English, who has worked for the CFPB since the Obama administration. Ms. English...Facing the added challenge of dealing with legacy information-technology systems, many older firms worry about losing ground in the race to tap artificial intelligence, blockchain and other emerging IT tools.

Just over half of senior-level decision makers at companies in business for 30 years or more say they “feel outdated” in the digital era, compared to 40% of officials at younger firms, according to a survey by IT consulting and developing firm PointSource.

The survey polled 679 senior officials at U.S.-based businesses in a range of industries, roughly a quarter with more than $500 million in annual revenue and 15% with more than $1 billion.

Nearly 40% of the businesses surveyed are more than 30 years old.

All told, 90% of all survey respondents said digital technologies play a “central role” in their business goals, while 94% said they have boosted their focus on shifting to digital capabilities in the past year alone.

That aligns with recent IT spending forecasts. Gartner last week projected worldwide IT spending this year would reach $3.7 trillion, a 6.2% increase over 2017. The gains are being driven by corporate spending on digital transformation efforts, Gartner said.

Yet, for many older firms, that process comes with added headaches, according to the PointSource survey.

On a daily basis, it found, older firms are far more likely to waste take longer tracking down and sharing data, or other digital assets, across their organization – as a result of insufficient or incompatible technologies, or a lack of staff training in the latest tools.

Older firms are also more likely to be wrestling with aging and often highly-customized IT systems that predate cloud-era capabilities, an issue not faced by younger, cloud-native competitors.

Tyson Food Inc. recently told CIO Journal about ongoing efforts to consolidate disparate IT systems and deploy new technologies, which the 83-year-old meat producer hopes will enable it to move faster, better predict demand and spur innovation.

Likewise, Patrick Benson, CIO of golf and country club operator ClubCorp Holdings Inc., founded in 1957, told CIO Journal in February that legacy IT systems at different clubs across the country caused lengthy delays in modernization efforts, including some with membership data stored on paper forms.Qualcomm Inc. QCOM, +0.35% shares shot up 3.3% in after-hours trading Thursday following a CNBC report that former chairman and chief executive Paul Jacobs is leading a fund-raising effort to buy the chipmaker and take it private. Jacobs, whose father co-founded the company, was ousted from the board in March after expressing his plan to go private. CNBC said Jacobs is talking to strategic investors and sovereign wealth funds to put together a bid within the next couple of months. Under Jacobs' plan, the company would remain based in the U.S. and he would take over as CEO, a role he had from 2005 to 2014, CNBC said. Last month, Broadcom Ltd.'s bid to buy Qualcomm fell apart after it was blocked by President Donald Trump. Qualcomm shares ended the regular trading session up slightly, at $55.20.Don’t miss these top money and investing features:

What if not everything, but the most important things, to know about a stock-market crash fit on a simple, single 3”x5” note card? Would this knowledge change how you invest?

Some of us find that our fears dissolve when shown the facts, while others are unmoved. There’s no right or wrong; it’s just a measure of your risk tolerance. Read this week’s lead story and pay attention to how you respond. Then, check out a winning mutual fund manager’s favorite stocks, get tips on managing your finances without investing a lot in time and hassle, and learn what insiders know about saving money on taxes.

— Jonathan Burton

INVESTING NEWS & TRENDS

Panicked about a stock-market crash? What you need to know fits on one note card

The recent turbulence in the U.S. stock market no doubt has a lot of investors searching for a strategy to navigate the volatility and protect their capital. The good news: the best tactic most investors can take is easier than they may expect.

Panicked about a stock-market crash? What you need to remember fits on one note card

If active mutual-fund managers are ship captains, their index rivals are NASA

“Index-fund managers are the underappreciated rock stars of finance,” observes indexing expert Dave Nadig.

If active mutual-fund managers are ship captains, their index rivals are NASA

Why there’s no ETF for you to cash in on a trade war

While there are nearly 5,500 exchange-traded funds currently trading on the market, none of them are explicitly designed to offer investors to way to invest around the prospect of a trade war involving the United States.

Why there’s no ETF for you to cash in on a trade war

There are nearly 5,500 ETFs. Here’s what experts say is still missing

There have been nearly 120 exchange-traded funds launched thus far in 2018, averaging out to more than one new fund a day, and building on the 466 funds that debuted globally over the course of 2017.

There are nearly 5,500 ETFs. Here’s what experts say is still missing

How to find ‘coming of age’ companies whose stocks could rise 10-fold

Amy Zhang has led a big turnaround at the Alger Small-Cap Focus Fund by finding innovative companies

How to find ‘coming of age’ companies whose stocks could rise 10-fold

Use this trick to win any argument about stock investing

Market performance depends on your time frame.

Use this trick to win any argument about stock investing

How to manage your money in just 30 minutes a month

These tips from a money coach can give you a stronger grip on your finances.

How to manage your money in just 30 minutes a month

Here’s what you can learn from my financial mistakes

Costly stock loss spurs a novice investor to learn to manage her money.

Here’s what you can learn from my financial mistakes

Ask these questions to avoid hiring a bad (or unethical) financial adviser

The wrong adviser could cost you tens of thousands of dollars.

Ask these questions to avoid hiring a bad (or unethical) financial adviser

Watch for these unethical tactics used by some financial advisers

What some advisers do may be legal, but it’s still unethical because it’s not in your best interest.

Watch for these unethical tactics used by some financial advisers

Don’t have a 401(k) at your job? Your state could come to the rescue

New York is the latest to create a state-run retirement savings plan.

Don’t have a 401(k) at your job? Your state could come to the rescue

Saving for retirement: How auto-IRA plans may secure the future

Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.

Saving for retirement: How auto-IRA plans may secure the future

Only 4% of families talk regularly about money — and that’s a problem

Money avoidance is prevalent among American families. Here’s why that can have dangerous consequences for their finances.

Only 4% of families talk regularly about money — and that’s a problem

Here are the tax-saving strategies that most Americans don’t know

When it comes to taxes, ignorance is not bliss. Here’s what most people don’t know about their taxes, which ends up costing them hundreds or even thousands of dollars in missed tax savings.

Here are the tax-saving strategies that most Americans don’t knowIn his upcoming book, former FBI Director James Comey blasts President Donald Trump as an “unethical” pathological liar who is obsessed with personal loyalty, like a mob boss.

“Flashbacks to my earlier career as a prosecutor against the Mob. The silent circle of assent. The boss in complete control. The loyalty oaths. The us-versus-them worldview. The lying about all things, large and small, in service to some code of loyalty that put the organization above morality and above the truth.” James Comey, in ‘A Higher Loyalty”

The bombshell tell-all book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership,” will be released Tuesday, but some media organizations, including the Washington Post, New York Times and Los Angeles Times, got hold of advance copies Thursday and published excerpts.

“What is happening now is not normal,” Comey writes. “It is not fake news. It is not okay,” he says, describing “the forest fire that is the Trump presidency.”

In the book, Comey — who Trump fired last May — offers a scathing look at the president, who Comey says is driven almost entirely by ego.

It includes a number of unflattering personal descriptions of Trump, from his “too long” tie to the “bright white half-moons under his eyes” on his otherwise orange face. Comey even notes the size of Trump’s hands, which he said were “smaller than mine, but did not seem unusually so.”

Read: Comey says Trump asked him to disprove ‘pee tape’ allegations

Comey describes how, in one meeting, Trump was seemed more concerned with “how they would spin” reports of Russian election-meddling, rather than how the problem could be avoided in the future, and how in another meeting Trump demanded his loyalty.

“I need loyalty. I expect loyalty,” Trump said, according to Comey. “I was determined not to give the president any hint of assent to this demand, so I gave silence instead,” he writes. “I stared at the soft white pouches under his expressionless blue eyes. I remember thinking in that moment that the president doesn’t understand the FBI’s role in American life.”

Comey also said Trump asked him to disprove the “pee tape” allegations that were in the controversial Steele dossier, saying that he was a germaphobe and would never allow people to urinate near him.

His book is already No. 1 on Amazon.com AMZN, +1.50% , and Walt Disney Co.’s DIS, -0.41% ABC News is scheduled to air an hour-long interview with Comey at 10 p.m. Sunday that sources have said is “going to shock the president and his team.”Speaker Paul Ryan’s announced departure, and the unprecedented number of congressional Republicans choosing not to run this November, has me thinking, again, of where the GOP is.

Its essential problem is that it doesn’t know what it stands for. It doesn’t know what it is. It is philosophically and ideologically riven, almost shattered, and the one piece that still coheres—represented in the House by the Freedom Caucus—is least reflective of the broader base, and the country.

...Michelle Louie late last year was appointed to co-manage a mammoth stock fund that is one of the most important in the U.S. financial system.

But you won’t see her sounding off on where the market is headed. The portfolio manager, despite overseeing hundreds of billions of dollars in assets, won’t say whether she believes the stock market to be overvalued or inexpensive. During the recent testimony of Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, she paid only cursory attention. When markets plummeted in March on issues ranging...Corporate officers and directors are more bearish about their own companies’ stock than they have been in many years.

That is the conclusion reached by Nejat Seyhun, a finance professor at the University of Michigan who studies corporate insiders. He estimates that, based on the recent behavior of company officers and directors, the stock market in 12 months’ time will have fallen 5% from the end of March.

Insiders...