AI is already helping decide who gets a job or whether somebody gets out of jail. But how objective are the algorithms behind these often life-altering decisions? And what happens when technology inherits all the biases of its creators?U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

The Trump administration’s close coordination with France and the U.K. to plan the strikes on the Syrian regime underscores an alignment between the U.S. and its European allies despite deep divisions over other issues.

The three countries launched airstrikes late Friday against Syrian regime targets in retaliation for a suspected chemical-weapons attack near the capital, Damascus, a week ago that killed at least 43 civilians and injured hundreds more.

...Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, left, meets with Ali Akbar Velayati, an adviser to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in Damascus on April 12.

Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, left, meets with Ali Akbar Velayati, an adviser to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in Damascus on April 12. Photo: Uncredited/Associated Press

BEIRUT—Syria’s government retains its ability to conduct its most lethal attacks on rebels and civilians, even after the U.S., France and Britain launched missile strikes that the Pentagon said disabled the regime’s chemical-weapons capabilities.

While chemical-weapons facilities were the target of the military strikes, President Bashar al-Assad’s main tool of war has been conventional arms such as rockets, barrel bombs and mortars.

Those have caused the vast majority of more than 400,000 deaths in a seven-year civil war and helped him win back large parts of the country. By contrast, chemical weapons have killed fewer than 2,000 people, according to activist and human rights groups.

The U.S. and its allies made it clear the strikes weren’t meant to deter Mr. Assad’s conventional army but were a one-time retaliatory strike a week after a suspected attack with chlorine and a nerve agent killed 43 people in the city of Douma, on the outskirts of Damascus.

The Assad regime has been accused of using chemical weapons repeatedly during the war, charges it has denied.

“Unfortunately the American strike was a message to the regime that it can continue killing with all kinds of weapons except for chemical,” said Mustafa Sejari, a commander with the U.S.-backed Mutasim Brigade rebel group based in northern Syria.

With its grip on power tightening, Mr. Assad’s regime tried to showcase a country going about its daily business.

Hours after the missile strikes, a nine-second video of Mr. Assad walking into work, briefcase in hand, was posted on his Twitter account, garnering over 1 million views. In Damascus, pro-government rallies were held in the streets with convoys of vehicles waving the Syrian flag. In Homs, Syrians flashed the victory sign and crowded the city’s vegetable markets.

U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

Regime forces on Saturday took full control of Douma, where rebels who until last week controlled the city said the suspected chemical attack prompted them to surrender and withdraw. Syrian state media showed Saturday regime soldiers and security forces driving past bombed out buildings and waving the Syrian flag.

In a call reported by Syrian state media, Mr. Assad told Iranian President Hassan Rouhani that Western powers launched the strikes because “they have lost control and credibility in front of their people and the world.”

U.S., British and French officials labeled the strikes a success. At around 4 a.m. local time, over 100 missiles struck three targets, sending booming explosions resounding across Damascus’s hills.

U.S. military officials said the three targets struck Saturday morning are all directly connected to the regime’s chemical-weapons program and arsenal—which it was supposed to have relinquished years ago as part of a deal to avert U.S. airstrikes in 2013.

They included a scientific research center used to develop and produce chemical and biological agents and a chemical-weapons storage facility, according to the Pentagon. The third target contained both a chemical-weapons storage facility and military command post.

“This is going to set the Syrian chemical weapons program back for years,” said Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie at a Pentagon news conference on Saturday. Of a facility in Barzeh, near Damascus, he said: “It does not exist anymore. They’ve lost a lot of equipment. They’ve lost a lot of material.”

Syria’s state media said its air-defense systems had intercepted 13 incoming missiles, but acknowledged that a research center north of Damascus had been hit, and laboratories and a building used for teaching had been destroyed. It reported that three civilians had been injured. Gen. McKenzie called the Syrian antimissile effort “largely ineffectual.”

Such focused strikes seem unlikely to alter the course of the conflict, which has turned largely in favor of the Assad regime ever since Russia intervened on its behalf in late 2015, according to opposition leaders.

The strikes are also unlikely to deter the Assad government forces’ deadliest form of warfare: airstrikes from its numerous military bases. The regime launches rockets from airplanes and drops barrel bombs from helicopters. It has launched these weapons indiscriminately at markets, schools and hospitals.

Before and during the strikes, the U.S.-led coalition—which is focused solely on battling Islamic State militants—told rebel groups that it backs in Syria that the attack shouldn’t be interpreted as a shift to war against the Assad regime. About 2,000 U.S. troops are stationed in Syria to defeat the extremist group.

The U.S. coalition feared “we will attack the regime as well,” said Muhannad al-Talla, the commander of the Pentagon-backed Maghawir al-Thawra group based in eastern Syria.

Muzahim Salloum, a former spokesman of the Maghawir group, said he was sent a similar message to relay to rebels, which he did via Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp.

“We are not at war with regime forces,” the message he relayed on behalf of the coalition read. “Do not attack regime forces. If anyone attacks regime forces you will not be supported by the coalition forces.”

The U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for the U.S. coalition operations in the Middle East, declined to comment.

—Nazih Osseiran in Beirut contributed to this article.

Write to Raja Abdulrahim at raja.abdulrahim@wsj.comU.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

Syrians reacted with a mix of defiance and disappointment to early-morning missile strikes from the U.S., U.K. and France, demonstrating how divided the country has become over seven long years of civil war.

Antiaircraft tracers lit up the skies over Damascus and explosive sounds bounced off the city’s hills, mixing with the mosques’ calls to prayer. Journalists in Damascus reported loud explosions shaking the capital for nearly an hour before falling quiet shortly before dawn.

...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

PARIS—The French government published a dossier Saturday providing what it described as evidence that the Assad regime was behind a deadly chemical attack in Syria last week, in an effort to bolster France’s justification for conducting airstrikes over Damascus.

The seven-page report, released by the Foreign Ministry, said French intelligence services concluded with a “high degree of confidence” that the government of President Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons in an attack on the town of Douma on April 7.

...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

In carrying out airstrikes in Syria on Saturday, the U.S. and its allies were trying to maintain a careful balance: upholding their red line against the use of chemical weapons, without crossing Moscow’s red lines against toppling President Bashar al-Assad or targeting Russian forces.

The attack was larger than President Donald Trump’s previous strike against Syria in April 2017. About twice as many bombs were dropped, compared with last year. And this time, the U.S. didn’t go it alone but carried out the attacks along with...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

Allied missile strikes in Syria struck “at the heart” of Bashar al-Assad chemical-weapons program, the Pentagon said Saturday, but officials acknowledged that not all of the regime’s chemical infrastructure had been targeted and the Syrian military was still capable of carrying out poison gas attacks against civilians.

President Donald Trump hailed the strike, in which the U.S., France and Britain fired 105 missiles at three targets as a “mission accomplished.”

...President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer negotiated a deal in late 2017 to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who said she was impregnated by a top Republican fundraiser, according to people familiar with the matter.

Michael Cohen, whose office, home and hotel room were raided by federal agents this week, arranged the payments to the woman on behalf of Elliott Broidy, a deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee with ties to Mr. Trump, the people familiar with the matter said. Mr. Broidy, a Los Angeles-based...Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy on Friday resigned from his post as deputy national finance chairman at the Republican National Committee, a person familiar with the matter said, following a Wall Street Journal report that he agreed to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who said Mr. Broidy had impregnated her.

The deal was negotiated in late 2017 by Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s longtime lawyer who also serves on the RNC’s finance committee, the Journal reported. Mr. Cohen remains in his post, according...Federal agents this past week seized materials largely focused on Michael Cohen’s “personal business dealings” as part of a grand-jury investigation into President Donald Trump’s longtime lawyer, prosecutors revealed for the first time in a filing Friday, as a dispute between the government and Mr. Cohen’s attorneys unfolded in federal court.

The filing from the Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office said prosecutors had undertaken a monthslong investigation of Mr. Cohen for “criminal conduct,” and followed the seizure earlier this...The Justice Department’s internal watchdog concluded in a report that former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe misled investigators who were probing his role in providing information in October 2016 to a reporter for The Wall Street Journal.

The report, which was sent to Congress on Friday, says Mr. McCabe lacked candor in conversations about the leak with top FBI officials and the bureau’s internal investigators as well as those from the Justice Department’s inspector general.

...The Trump administration is deploying civil-rights laws in new ways to defend health-industry workers who object to medical procedures on religious grounds.

Roger Severino, an administration appointee to the Department of Health and Human Services, is heading a new division at the department that will shield health-care workers who object to abortion, assisted suicide, or other procedures they say violate their conscience or deeply held religious beliefs.

...The Trump administration’s push toward a more conservative approach to health policy has sparked a debate over what patients can expect from their health workers, and when health workers can refuse service for reasons of conscience.

Both supporters and opponents bolster their arguments with testimonials, such as the two that follow. The first is an example of what conservative activists say is a health worker forced to assist in a procedure that ran counter to her beliefs. The second is an example of what liberal activists...The U.S. will provide $16 million in aid to Venezuelans who have fled their homeland amid a growing humanitarian and economic crisis, Vice President Mike Pence said Friday as he arrived in Peru for a day of talks with Latin American leaders.

“We are with the people of Venezuela and will continue to do everything in our power to provide sustenance and support to those who have fled,” Mr. Pence said. The U.S. funds will go to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and on to communities in Colombia and Brazil flooded...SAN FRANCISCO—It was supposed to be the dawn of a new era of “smart guns.”

Spurred by the deaths of 20 young children in the 2012 Sandy Hook elementary school shooting, Silicon Valley set out to make safer, technologically advanced weapons that could only be fired by their owners.

Venture-capital luminary Ron Conway, known for his early investments...SPOKANE, Wash.—House Speaker Paul Ryan might not be the only member of the House GOP leadership not returning to Washington next year.

Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the No. 4 Republican in the House and the highest-ranking GOP woman, is locked in an unexpectedly competitive race this year in her eastern Washington district. Republicans are running on the recently passed tax cuts and the growing economy but face energized Democratic voters, putting seats held by longtime, powerful lawmakers into play.

...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump on Friday pardoned a former top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney who was convicted in 2007 of lying to a grand jury and obstructing justice in a case that culminated in the leaking of a CIA officer’s identity.

I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, now 67 years old, was sentenced to 30 months in prison. Then-President George W. Bush commuted that sentence, describing it as “excessive,” but he didn’t issue a pardon, despite entreaties from Mr. Cheney. Mr. Libby’s conviction capped a four-year investigation...President Donald Trump is talking again about getting the U.S. into a Pacific Rim trade agreement. But any serious effort to do so would be fraught with difficulty, not least because Mr. Trump is demanding a “substantially better” deal than what Washington got two years ago.

After the U.S. dropped out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership last year, the remaining 11 nations struck their own TPP deal, and sealed it at a March ceremony in Chile. Each country is now moving ahead with ratification. Mr. Trump’s suggestion Thursday that...PROVIDENCE, R.I.—A Rhode Island dress rehearsal for the 2020 census is turning into an early battleground for the Trump administration’s recent decision to ask respondents if they are U.S. citizens.

Last month, residents in Providence County began receiving a federal mailer asking them to answer 10 questions about their age, race and the size of their household. It is a trial run for the Census Bureau’s decennial population count, which will reshape the congressional district map and determine where billions of dollars a year...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump’s top economic adviser said Friday he is optimistic the U.S. can avoid a broader trade fight with China and said the White House was close to securing a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico.

Lawrence Kudlow, the director of the White House National Economic Council, said Mr. Trump’s trade dispute with China is “high risk, high return,” in an interview. He acknowledged he wasn’t sure how the standoff would end, but said he believed “calmer heads would...John F. Ring, shown testifying before the Senate Health Commitee in March, has been named by President Donald Trump to be the chairman of the National Labor Relations Board. He was confirmed this week by the Senate to join the board.

John F. Ring, shown testifying before the Senate Health Commitee in March, has been named by President Donald Trump to be the chairman of the National Labor Relations Board. He was confirmed this week by the Senate to join the board. Photo: Ron Sachs/Zuma Press

President Donald Trump will replace his own appointee at the helm of a body that oversees union-employer disputes, elevating a seasoned corporate lawyer over a government attorney with ties to congressional Republicans.

John Ring, who has decades of experience representing businesses before the National Labor Relations Board he will lead, takes the chairmanship from Marvin Kaplan, who has held the role since December.

“John Ring is the most qualified board member to be chairman,” a White House spokesman said Friday. He “has unrivaled credentials when it comes to how the law applies to collective bargaining and unfair labor practices.”

Mr. Ring was confirmed by the Senate this week to join the board, with the White House announcing its intention late Thursday to make him chairman. Mr. Kaplan, previously a lawyer for House Republicans and the independent federal Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, said Friday he would remain a member.

The shake-up in leadership doesn’t represent a change in direction for the board, employment lawyers said, which remains under Republican leadership.

It is unusual for presidents to replace their own appointees. Mr. Kaplan’s term as chairman of less than four months is among the shortest, according to the board’s website. The last similarly short term was John C. Miller, one of President Ronald Reagan’s recess appointments to the board.

Mr. Kaplan said he supported Mr. Ring’s nomination to the board and had expected the new member would become chairman if confirmed.

“I welcome his leadership and look forward to working with him until the end of my term,” he said in a statement provided to The Wall Street Journal.

Mr. Kaplan’s most notable act in his short time as chairman was siding with Democrats in overturning a high-profile ruling concerning joint employment, after the board’s ethics officer determined that William Emanuel, a Republican nominated by Mr. Trump, should have been disqualified from participating in the 2017 case.

Peter Schaumber, a former Republican chairman of the board appointed by President George W. Bush, said he disagreed with Mr. Kaplan’s decision to vacate that case, saying he should have left it to an appeals court to decide.

That decision, however, was likely less important to Mr. Trump’s choice than Mr. Ring’s deeper experience, employment lawyers said.

“Ring is significantly more experienced on labor issues and in the National Labor Relations Act,” Mr. Schaumber said. “I think there is a comfort level with that.”

Wilma Liebman, a Democrat and former chairwoman of the board, said, “I’m sure John Ring will be a reliable business vote, but he’s well qualified.” In addition to large corporations, Mr. Ring also listed two affiliates of the Teamster union as clients in his ethic disclosure.

Ms. Liebman said Mr. Kaplan lacked the typical experience needed to be named chairman, so she had expected his tenure in that position would be short.

A spokesperson for the board didn’t respond to ​a ​request for Mr. Ring to comment.

Michael Lotito, a employment law attorney at Littler Mendelson P.C. who practices before the board, said Mr. Kaplan’s close ties with members of Congress may have been seen by the administration as giving him a quicker path to confirmation last year. Appointing Republicans to the board was key part of the president’s strategy to roll back Obama-era regulations on businesses.

Mr. Ring takes a seat that allows him to serve until late 2022, putting him in position to serve longest among the current members.

Charles Cohen, a colleague of Mr. Ring’s at law firm Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP and himself a former labor board member appointed as a Republican, said the board “will be in good hands” with Mr. Ring.

“Because John Ring has management experience at the law firm and is a seasoned practitioner, it was not surprising to me to that John would be designated to chairman,” he said.

Write to Eric Morath at eric.morath@wsj.com4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street JournalThis is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. This is the environment in Washington today: –President Donald Trump, according to his aides, spent this week seething […]This is the web version of the WSJ’s daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here. In today’s issue, the Trump administration applies more pressure on China, China and the U.S. seek economic allies, the trade gap soars, Europe and oil markets worry, U.S. wage gains are picking up (a little), and the number […]4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street JournalFinancial Inclusion in America Ep.8 April 11, 2018

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

By Emily B. Hager and Clara Ritger April 11, 2018 9:30 am More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.

Financial Inclusion in America Nearly one-fourth of U.S. adults can't pay their monthly bills, and have little or no access to a bank. Many more have no retirement savings. This video series highlights Americans' economic struggles and efforts to provide them with greater financial security.4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street Journal4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street JournalPresident Donald Trump said the recent suspected chemical attack in Syria was the crime of a “monster” and the strikes aim to deter the production and use of chemical weapons. Photo: AP

U.S., U.K. and French forces launched airstrikes targeting sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities, a reprisal for an attack last week that killed at least 43 civilians and injured hundreds more.

The decision to strike was aimed at cutting off the production and use of chemical weapons in the country, President Donald Trump said at the White House on Friday night.

Mr....President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer negotiated a deal in late 2017 to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who said she was impregnated by a top Republican fundraiser, according to people familiar with the matter.

Michael Cohen, whose office, home and hotel room were raided by federal agents this week, arranged the payments to the woman on behalf of Elliott Broidy, a deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee with ties to Mr. Trump, the people familiar with the matter said. Mr. Broidy, a Los Angeles-based...Dear Meghan,

Congratulations on finding your Prince Charming! I don’t want to be the bad fairy at the festivities, but we need to have a serious talk about taxes.

Meghan, I know you lived as a U.S. citizen in Canada and may be aware of tax issues faced by the seven million or so Americans living abroad. And I know you’re committed to Harry,...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

The Syrian government’s staunch allies strongly condemned the overnight airstrikes on Assad regime targets, with Iran’s supreme leader branding as “criminals” President Donald Trump, U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May and French President Emmanuel Macron.

Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced the attack in a statement Saturday. “With their actions, the U.S. is deepening a humanitarian catastrophe in Syria,” he said, calling for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss the situation.

...Online shopping has made it easy for consumers to affordably buy highly concentrated caffeine in bulk, whether to mix it into a workout shake or using it as an alternative to a morning coffee.

However, a U.S. regulator said that small amounts of pure caffeine products have proven to be dangerous and even fatal. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has issued guidance banning the sale of pure or highly concentrated caffeine in powder or liquid forms as a dietary supplement in large quantities directly to consumers, calling...4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street Journal4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street JournalFinancial Inclusion in America Ep.8 April 11, 2018

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

By Emily B. Hager and Clara Ritger April 11, 2018 9:30 am More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.

Financial Inclusion in America Nearly one-fourth of U.S. adults can't pay their monthly bills, and have little or no access to a bank. Many more have no retirement savings. This video series highlights Americans' economic struggles and efforts to provide them with greater financial security.4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street Journal4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street Journal4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street Journal4:17

From Bust to Boomtown: Life in a Comeback City

Elkhart, Ind., was once the poster child for the recession. Now the economy is booming thanks to strong sales of RVs, the main industry here. And that's created a new challenge: a shortage of qualified workers. Photo: David Kasnic for The Wall Street JournalHarlan Coben on the golden age of TV: ‘For me, it’s like a novel on the screen’Kentucky lawmakers on Friday overrode Gov. Matt Bevin’s vetoes of tax and budget bills that boost spending on public education with the help of additional tax revenue, in a victory for teachers.

As they have several times this year, hundreds of Kentucky teachers descended on Frankfort, the capital, on Friday to urge lawmakers to override the governor’s vetoes. Some demonstrated inside the state Capitol, while others chanted “Fund our schools” outside.

...As a teenage engineering whiz, Kai Kloepfer was dubbed “the Mark Zuckerberg of guns” by venture capitalist Ron Conway for the handgun he invented with a fingerprint reader on the grip.

The now 21-year-old Mr. Kloepfer appears to be the only one moving forward—even as he majors in business and computer science at MIT. He made Forbes’ “30 Under 30” list, but struggled at first to get private investment for his company Biofire Technologies.

...Michigan State University interim president John Engler offered a woman $250,000 to settle her sexual-abuse lawsuit against the university and former MSU doctor Larry Nassar, without her lawyer present, the woman told the school’s board of trustees Friday.

The woman, Kaylee Lorincz, also said Mr. Engler played down the behavior of William Strampel, Dr. Nassar’s boss and the former dean of MSU’s College of Osteopathic Medicine, who himself has been arrested and charged with sexual misconduct. Mr. Strampel was arraigned March...The National Football League has asked a federal judge to appoint a special investigator to probe what it describes as a widespread fraud that has resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in false claims to a fund meant to compensate former players for head injuries.

The motion alleges fraudulent schemes by doctors, lawyers and players to illicitly tap the uncapped fund, which is potentially valued around $1 billion. The league established the fund as part of a settlement agreement with players, and the NFL has so far...BROOKFIELD, Conn.—A decade after the recession, Lana Corsano is still nervous.

The owner of Bolt Printing & Embroidery, a growing T-shirt printing company based in western Connecticut, is debt-free, with no single customer accounting for more than 1% of her overall revenue. She pays cash for her equipment, which she buys used and refurbishes.

“I’m...Czech filmmaker Milos Forman, whose movies “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest” and “Amadeus” won a deluge of Academy Awards, including best-director Oscars, died Saturday. He 86.

Mr. Forman died about 2 a.m. ET Saturday at Danbury Hospital, near his home in Warren, Conn., according to a statement released by the former director’s agent, Dennis Aspland. Mr. Aspland said Mr. Forman’s wife, Martina, notified him of the death.

When...Athletic fields, like boiled eggs, have a range of hardness.

Too soft, and they slow down runners. Too hard, and they increase the risk of concussion.

Because of that, the NFL, the NCAA and researchers at multiple universities are paying attention to how, and how often, playing surfaces contribute to injuries.

...Worries about how the Trump administration’s trade policies will impact the U.S. economy prompted a dip in consumer confidence this month, although sentiment remained at a historically high level.

The University of Michigan on Friday said the preliminary result of its consumer-sentiment index was 97.8 in April, down from a 14-year high of 101.4 in March. The preliminary April reading fell short of the 100.0 that economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal expected.

...President Donald Trump’s ordered review of the U.S. Postal Service’s finances will likely show that Amazon.com Inc. isn’t the only one getting a good deal on package deliveries.

Aside from Amazon, two of the largest users of the agency’s parcel-delivery business are FedEx Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc. All three receive comparable rates on a service that lets them drop truckloads of packages at a local post office for the last leg of delivery.

...Mayor Bill de Blasio extended his hallmark neighborhood policing program on Thursday, moving it underground to the city’s subway system.

Standing alongside police officials at the entrance to the Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center subway stop in Brooklyn, the mayor said the program, which directs officers to establish relationships with community members to hear their needs and gain information about crimes, would expand to subway stations and lines in the Bronx and Brooklyn.

...Sandra Goldstein, a New York litigator at the center of major M&A deals, is taking her practice from longtime home Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP to Kirkland & Ellis LLP, according to a person familiar with the matter.

The move is the latest example of partners leaving Wall Street law firms that operate on a lockstep pay system to firms willing to lure stars with top dollars.

Ms....Benjamin Harris (@econ_harris) is a visiting associate professor at the Kellogg School of Management and was the Chief Economist to Vice President Joe Biden. The market for retirement insurance products is slowly and silently disappearing. From annuities to long-term-care insurance to employer-provided health insurance, insurance products are becoming both less available and less popular. Older Americans […]U.S. stocks slipped Friday but notched gains for the week, buoyed by rallying energy shares and signs that a trade spat between the world’s top economies was easing.

Trading was quiet for much of the day, with just 5.7 billion shares changing hands on exchanges owned by the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. It was the quietest full trading session so far in 2018.

Despite...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

The Syrian government’s staunch allies strongly condemned the overnight airstrikes on Assad regime targets, with Iran’s supreme leader branding as “criminals” President Donald Trump, U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May and French President Emmanuel Macron.

Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced the attack in a statement Saturday. “With their actions, the U.S. is deepening a humanitarian catastrophe in Syria,” he said, calling for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss the situation.

...Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy on Friday resigned from his post as deputy national finance chairman at the Republican National Committee, a person familiar with the matter said, following a Wall Street Journal report that he agreed to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who said Mr. Broidy had impregnated her.

The deal was negotiated in late 2017 by Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s longtime lawyer who also serves on the RNC’s finance committee, the Journal reported. Mr. Cohen remains in his post, according...VIENNA, Va.—Four years ago, on a truck barreling toward the forest hideout of Boko Haram, teenager Kauna Bitrus made a desperate move to avoid the fate of the more than 200 other schoolgirls abducted from Chibok, Nigeria, that day.

She jumped.

When Kauna landed, months later, in the pine-shaded town of Grundy, Va., she was among the lucky...Lower taxes, a boost in lending income and a flurry of trading activity sparked by market volatility propelled profits higher at three of the U.S.’s biggest banks in the first quarter.

JPMorgan Chase & Co. led the charge, reporting net income of $8.7 billion—up 35% from a year earlier and a record for the largest U.S. bank by assets. While the performance benefited from a quarter-billion dollars in savings from a lower tax rate, Chief Executive James Dimon said the results also reflected a brightening economic and business...Over the past several weeks, the Palestinian “March of Return,” initiated by the Islamist group Hamas, has drawn tens of thousands of protesters to the Gaza-Israel border, where they have clashed with the Israel Defense Forces. Hamas says that the marches will continue until mid-May, when Israel will celebrate its 70th anniversary and Palestinians will mourn what they call the Nakba, or catastrophe, the refugee crisis that resulted from the Arab war against Israel’s creation.

In monitoring the dramatic scenes of recent weeks,...LONDON—The uproar over how Facebook Inc. protects user data has spurred an unusual sideshow: a public spat between the social network and one of the world’s oldest academic institutions.

In testimony on Capitol Hill this week, Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said the firm would probe whether problems with data harvesting may have extended beyond a single researcher at the University of Cambridge.

The...What’s a hot trend in high-end fashion? Getting shoppers to pay just as much for used clothes as they do for new ones.

Many designers are putting luxury spins on second-hand clothing, repurposing them under the mantle of sustainability to appeal to socially conscious customers. Their pitch: Getting a handle on the waste generated by an industry that doubled its clothing production between 2000 and 2014, according to McKinsey & Company.

...IMAGINE YOU are a piece of birch veneer plywood, 4x8 feet, ¾-inch thick, lying quietly in the lumber department of your local home-improvement store. So far life as a wood-based product is not bad. Birch veneer, that’s the good stuff.

Suddenly, a bright light. A man heaves you onto a trolley. The lady with the price-reader zaps your behind and then you’re outside. You brace yourself for the chilly ride in the back of a pickup, but no: Your new master clicks the remote and a power hatchback rises in the parking lot. It can’t...Aluminum ingots shaped in Quebec smelting plants are shipped to Kentucky factories that roll them into sheets. Some are sent to Mexico, where they are installed in cars that later head through the Americas and to Asia. U.S. semiconductor manufacturing equipment that includes Chinese parts is shipped back to Asia, where manufacturers use them to churn out chips later installed in electronics that allow American teenagers to send selfies across the world.

...Some hospitals and nursing homes are seeing the light—and rethinking the dim glow that illuminates most patients’ rooms.

Once an afterthought, lighting is getting attention as researchers see how it affects a person’s mood, energy and sleep. A clinical trial at Mount Sinai Health System in New York City is testing whether brighter lights in cancer patients’ rooms in the morning can make them feel less tired and depressed and help them sleep through the night.

...If there’s one thing we learned from the past week’s marathon congressional inquisition of Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, it’s this: The inner workings of Facebook’s data-harvesting behemoth are so byzantine, that in some ways Mr. Zuckerberg is just as confused as the rest of us about how it all works.

In his testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook doesn’t store a history of websites its users have visited.

...LAST AUGUST headlines blasted that French president Emmanuel Macron had spent approximately $30,000 on a personal makeup artist during his first three months in office. That’s about $330 a day. On makeup. For a man. (The Élysée did not respond to requests for comments on this matter.) Although male politicians and TV anchors have long used makeup for public appearances, Mr. Macron’s eyebrow-raising budget (and tawny, photogenic face) sent a message that powerful men are going to great lengths to look their best. But even among non-heads of state, the once-absurd notion that makeup can reasonably be part of a man’s grooming...THE ENORMOUSLY trendy Instant Pot, a pressure cooker with programmable functions to help simply and easily make just about anything—from soups to roasts and even yogurt—has given homecooked meals a new aura. It vows to largely eliminate sweaty, grease-splattering slavery in the kitchen thanks to its “smart” steel-encased bowl. This ingenious element knows what you’ve dropped in and how long it should cook, and can automatically change its settings to keep dinner warm when you’re stuck in traffic.

Instant Pot’s popularity...Paul Kelly, a quadriplegic handcyclist, crosses the Atlantic Beach Bridge en route to Morehead City, N.C., as part of his training for the 2018 Boston Marathon. The strenuous climb across the Intercoastal Waterway can take up to 10 minutes.

Paul Kelly, a quadriplegic handcyclist, crosses the Atlantic Beach Bridge en route to Morehead City, N.C., as part of his training for the 2018 Boston Marathon. The strenuous climb across the Intercoastal Waterway can take up to 10 minutes. Photo: Justin Cook for The Wall Street Journal

Most runners will complain about aching quads after tackling the legendary hills of the Boston Marathon on April 16. Paul Kelly is anticipating burning biceps. He’s one of 60 handcyclists competing in the 2018 race. He estimates that he’ll make over 12,000 revolutions on his handcycle to complete the 26.2-miles.

Mr. Kelly, 62, is a quadriplegic due to a spinal-cord injury he suffered 40 years ago. He experiences paralysis in all four limbs, but can still use a few arm, shoulder and back muscles to operate a handcycle, essentially a bicycle powered by the upper body rather than the legs.

A retired avionics engineer in Beaufort, N.C., Mr. Kelly discovered handcycle racing while watching his niece compete in the 2006 Marine Corps Marathon in Washington, D.C. “I had a few years of denial when I kept expecting I’d wake up and be better,” he says. “I eventually had to accept this was my situation. Watching those handcyclists inspired me to start my own marathon career.”

Since 2007, Mr. Kelly has competed in over 100 half and full marathons. Photo: Justin Cook for The Wall Street Journal

Mr. Kelly purchased a front wheel and hand cranks to attach to his wheelchair and began using it around his neighborhood. “I went about 30 feet and nearly coughed up my lungs,” he recalls. “It was like trying to run with your arms.”

He competed in his first half marathon in 2007. Mr. Kelly has competed in over 100 half and full marathons and has raised more than $85,000 as a member of Team Hope for the Warriors, a nonprofit that provides assistance to service members wounded in combat. He qualified for Boston with a personal-best time of 2 hours, 42 minutes and 13 seconds at the 2017 Fort Lauderdale A1A Marathon.

Kirk Bauer, executive director of Disabled Sports USA in Rockville, Md., says the racing community has debated whether handcycling should be allowed in running races. “Many people argue that cycles should be left to bike races,” he says. Mr. Kelly has had people tell him he shouldn’t be racing alongside runners, but he hasn’t been deterred.

Competing in the Boston Marathon has been on Mr. Kelly’s race bucket list. “I won’t be the fastest, but I like to tell people I get to enjoy the event longer than most,” he says.

Mr. Kelly with his wife, Sally, at Mile 10 of the 2017 Marine Corps Marathon in Arlington, Va. Photo: Kathryn Palmer

The Workout

On average, Mr. Kelly logs 100 miles on his handcycle each week. He tries to get in at least two three-hour workouts a week and a pair of two-hour workouts. “Boston requires you to train for the hills,” he says. “That’s tough when you live in eastern North Carolina, one of the flattest place in the country.”

Mr. Kelly trains about 20 minutes from his home on the Carolina coast. “It’s Nicholas Sparks-worthy scenery with its marshes, waterways, inlets and small islands,” he says. “There’s not sustained elevation gain, but I get a lot of short little ups and downs and a few short, steep sections that allow me to get into my climbing gears.” He tries to power downhill to make up for his slow uphill slogs.

Because of his injury, Mr. Kelly doesn’t sweat and has to keep himself cool and hydrated by dousing himself with water. “In the summer months I’ve been known to ride through the neighbor’s lawn sprinkler to cool down,” he says. He emphasizes that training is a team effort. “I wouldn’t be able to get on and off the bike without my wife Sally, ” he says.

Mr. Kelly has limited use of his fingers and cannot grasp handles. Custom QuadGrips allow him to push and pull the bike using his wrists. Photo: Justin Cook for The Wall Street Journal

The Diet

Mr. Kelly admits that he could be healthier. Breakfast is usually scrambled eggs and cheese with bacon, ham or sausage and coffee. On the weekends he might have seafood quiche. Living in North Carolina, he’s a barbecue fanatic, especially at lunch. He tries to eat light at dinner. “Sometimes I just have finger food like nuts and cheese,” he says. Protein shakes fuel him through long workouts. “During a race, Snickers are both fuel and motivation,” he says.

The Gear & Cost

Mr. Kelly cycles along East Atlantic Avenue in Atlantic Beach, N.C., during a March training ride. Photo: Justin Cook for The Wall Street Journal

New handcycles can range from $1,500 to $10,000. Mr. Kelly started with a cycle attachment that cost him $1,200. “It was slow, but I didn’t need someone to help get me in and out of my wheelchair and into the bike,” he says. “I still use it for routine exercise.”

After trying different models, he settled on a Freedom Ryder FRH-1 (retail $4,000) and had it customized with what he calls quad-mods, including thoracic supports for trunk stability. He also had the brake and shifter levers mounted on an accessory bar in front of the hand pedals. Mr. Kelly doesn’t have working triceps and says this positioning minimizes his need to push anything.

Mr. Kelly’s paralysis impedes his lower extremities’ ability to create body heat. While training in cold weather he has to keep his legs insulated while allowing his upper body to ventilate. He uses hand-warmers in his gloves and in the legs of his pants to keep warm.

Anyone Can Try a Handcycle The handcycle may be the most underused piece of cardio equipment at the gym. “Almost everyone does arm curls, which produce strength gains, but often muscle endurance by those same muscle groups is neglected,” says Walter Thompson, president of the American College of Sports Medicine in Atlanta. The handcycle, he says, works the biceps, the brachialis, which aids elbow flexion, and the triceps, as well as the shoulder-stabilizing muscles, including the rotator cuff and the deltoids. It’s an incredibly efficient upper-body workout. High-intensity interval training (HIIT) workouts are another way to push those muscles. People with lower-extremity impairment looking to take their workout outdoors have a variety of handcycle options, from front-wheel- or rear-wheel-driven to bikes that put the user in an upright, lying or kneeling position, says Chris Wiegand, cycling manager at Adaptive Adventures in Lakewood, Colo. Mr. Wiegand says riders often push or pull too hard, forcing the steering to wander. Many seat themselves too far from the pedals. “You want to have a slight bend in the elbow, similar to the extension and flexion of the leg for a two-wheel bicycle,” he says. A helmet is a must, and he says handcyclists should have a flag at a driver’s eye height or a pedestrian’s head height to help be seen.

Write to Jen Murphy at workout@wsj.comThe second in a two-part series on wine fraud.

“I’VE NEVER DONE this before. I don’t think anyone has done this before,” said Bill Koch as we sat down to taste 10 Burgundies and Bordeaux pulled from his cellar. Mr. Koch is certainly accustomed to tasting rare wines, but in this case, five bottles were authentic, five were counterfeit. He’d paid a total of $56,351.85 for them, though the collective amount would be much greater today. In the end, however, the fakes cost him even more dearly.

...U.S. companies are scrambling to figure out how to sell more natural gas abroad. Meg Gentle thinks she has the answer.

To ship liquefied natural gas, companies are constructing terminals where they can superchill gas and load it onto tankers. Houston-based Tellurian Inc., where Ms. Gentle is chief executive, is one of them. But she is taking it a step further by building out the ability to produce natural gas as well.

To...New technology, more transparency and fresh regulations are deepening the divide between winners and losers among global investment banks. The winners are big or small, and generally American; the losers are European banks that are stuck in the middle.

Winning may only be relative for banks like Goldman Sachs because the biggest pressures are on trading with financial clients like asset managers and hedge funds. Losers like Deutsche Bank face the same problems, but are weighed down by a dreadful combination of higher costs,...The board of WPP PLC is weighing contingency plans in the event Chief Executive Martin Sorrell leaves the company, people familiar with the matter said, as the advertising giant’s longtime leader deals with an allegation of misconduct.

If Mr. Sorrell departs, the board is considering tapping WPP veterans Mark Read and Andrew Scott to be co-CEOs, the people said. The appointments would likely be on an interim basis while a search is conducted, one of the people said.

...BEIJING—China is slowing reviews of multibillion-dollar takeover deals being pursued by Qualcomm Inc. and Bain Capital, people familiar with the matter say, as U.S.-China trade tensions escalate.

The delay could end up quashing Qualcomm’s planned $44 billion purchase of Dutch semiconductor company NXP Semiconductors NV—a deal widely seen as critical to Qualcomm’s future—according to a person familiar with the matter.

China...SÃO PAULO—As former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva ends his first week jailed for corruption, scores of other senior Brazilian politicians who are suspects in the same sweeping graft investigation, including the current leader Michel Temer, are still free and ruling the country.

That disparity has sparked allegations of a political witch hunt against Mr. da Silva—a working-class icon and would-be presidential candidate—and growing calls to try the accused.

...Staring at pictures of stricken children last weekend, President Donald Trump knew right away he wanted reprisals against Syria for a suspected chemical weapons attack that killed 43 civilians and left scores more injured.

He vowed Sunday that the Syrian regime and its patrons, Russian and Iran, would “pay” for the assault.

“Another humanitarian...Palestinians clashed with Israel’s military on Friday, throwing Molotov cocktails and planting explosive devices at the fence dividing the Gaza Strip and Israel, as thousands gathered again despite the past two demonstrations turning deadly.

One person was killed and some 700 Gazans were treated for injuries, including 163 from live fire, Palestinian authorities said.

The...The amount of lead in the drinking water of Flint, Mich., has fallen again, according to a study released Friday, as the city works to replace old pipes and takes other measures to ensure the city’s water quality is safe.

The Natural Resources Defense Council released a report Friday that found lead levels well below the federal action level of 15 parts per billion in a sample of 92 homes. A researcher at Michigan State University found a lead level of 4 ppb at the homes tested.

...President Donald Trump said the recent suspected chemical attack in Syria was the crime of a “monster” and the strikes aim to deter the production and use of chemical weapons. Photo: AP

WASHINGTON—In a speech to the nation Friday night, President Donald Trump said the U.S., France and United Kingdom decision to launch strikes in Syria was aimed at the eliminating the nation’s ability to use chemical weapons, deterring the use and spread of such weapons and sending a message to two of Syria’s international patrons, Russia and Iran.

“We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” Mr. Trump said at the White House on Friday.

...President Donald Trump said the recent suspected chemical attack in Syria was the crime of a “monster” and the strikes aim to deter the production and use of chemical weapons. Photo: AP

U.S., U.K. and French forces launched airstrikes targeting sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities, a reprisal for an attack last week that killed at least 43 civilians and injured hundreds more.

The decision to strike was aimed at cutting off the production and use of chemical weapons in the country, President Donald Trump said at the White House on Friday night.

Mr....International Maritime Organization Secretary-General Kitack Lim says the agreement “may not be satisfactory to all” but offers “a strong middle ground” for vessel operators and exporters.

International Maritime Organization Secretary-General Kitack Lim says the agreement “may not be satisfactory to all” but offers “a strong middle ground” for vessel operators and exporters. Photo: European Pressphoto Agency

The shipping industry made a historic step toward cleaner air on Friday with a deal to cut greenhouse gas emissions by half by 2050, after a politically charged debate at the industry’s global regulator in London.

Shipping and aviation were excluded from the Paris climate agreement adopted under a United Nations framework in 2015, with governments entrusting the International Maritime Organization to come up with a consensus on carbon reduction measures from ocean going vessels.

The aviation sector reached a deal on carbon emissions two years ago, but it took shipping much longer as ocean carriers and regulators considered measures such as the adoption of clean-burning fuels or electric propulsion, slower sailing speeds and hull design improvements at a cost of hundreds of billions of dollars.

The deal puts the agreement into force world-wide, with no other action needed by the regulatory body. The final pact was a compromise between groups and countries including the European Union, China, and other Asia and Pacific nations that pushed for reductions in emissions by as much as 70% and the U.S., Argentina, Brazil and Saudi Arabia, among others, that pushed for lower targets.

Of the 173 IMO-member states, only the U.S. and Saudi Arabia, objected to the draft IMO agreement that was circulated late Thursday and seen by The Wall Street Journal. They didn’t explain their objections.

“The text may not be satisfactory to all but it represents a strong middle ground,” said Kitack Lim, the IMO’s secretary-general. “This compromise is a solution that should be able to keep everyone on board.”

Shipping contributes about 3% of total annual carbon dioxide, or CO2, world-wide emissions, about the same as an economy the size of Germany, according to an IMO study. But vessel emissions are projected to increase by between 50% and 250% by 2050 as global trade grows and carriers add capacity without any action to intervene.

The IMO reductions would aim to cut carbon emissions to half the 2008 carbon dioxide levels.

The emission cuts will also affect thousands of exporters world-wide. Brazil, for example, exports large amounts of iron ore to China and fears strong caps will push up freight rates, helping rival Australia, whose iron exports sail half the distance to China.

Slow steaming, in which ships purposely throttle back to slower speeds, is also an anathema for countries exporting perishable goods like cherries from Chile and meat from Argentina.

‘The plan is far from perfect, but the direction is now clear—a phaseout of carbon emissions.’ —Veronica Frank of Greenpeace.

Some countries with big shipping registries like the low-lying Marshall Islands, that want to stop the effects of climate change, led the call for strong cuts.

Shipping executives warned that some operators won’t be able to afford the cost of the emission cuts and may face bankruptcy or abandon operations altogether.

The carbon cost comes on top of an estimated $40 billion bill for the industry to cut sulfur emissions, either by using cleaner fuels or by installing a device that treats a ship’s exhaust before releasing it. The deadline for the sulfur cuts in Jan. 1, 2020.

Environmental groups like Greenpeace said the IMO deal is a first step, but more needs to be done.

“The plan is far from perfect, but the direction is now clear—a phaseout of carbon emissions,” Greenpeace adviser Veronica Frank said in a statement. “The initial deal will be revised in 2023 and reviewed again in 2028, giving opportunities to strengthen the targets.”

Write to Costas Paris at costas.paris@wsj.comTo see why global-supply chains have supplanted domestic manufacturing, look no further than Transformers action figures and Barbie dolls—and employee-pay figures publicly traded companies are disclosing for the first time.

Hasbro Inc., which sells Transformers, as well as Star Wars and My Little Pony figures and many other toys and games, paid a typical worker about $74,000 last year.

Meantime,...Tronc Inc.’s largest shareholder, Michael Ferro, has agreed to sell his stake to a relative of the McCormick family that built the company’s flagship newspaper, the Chicago Tribune, into a media powerhouse in the early 20th century, the company said.

The sale would end Mr. Ferro’s short but rocky stewardship of the company that saw him rename the famed Tribune Publishing Co. to Tronc, fend off a takeover bid by Gannett Co. and agree to sell its prized asset, the Los Angeles Times, earlier this year.

...When Lara Wechsler was a teenager, she used to spend hours gabbing with her friends on the phone. Now, she sees her 14-year-old son Shane doing the same thing—only instead of a phone, he is chatting through a videogame machine.

“I like that he’s always talking to someone rather than playing on his own,” said Ms. Wechsler, a 50-year-old court reporter in Brooklyn, N.Y., whose ninth-grader uses a headset to chat with gamers about school and sports while racking up kills.

...Netflix Inc. and Comcast Corp., once bitter rivals, are more closely binding their fortunes together after a couple of years of detente.

The companies said Friday that Comcast will begin bundling Netflix with plans for cable TV, phone and internet starting this month. The integration effectively allows customers to pay for both Netflix and Comcast services on one bill, through Comcast.

The...If every jobless worker in the U.S. could be matched with every available job, the unemployment rate would fall to near zero. That will never happen in reality, but the jobs are there.

On Friday, the Labor Department reported that there were 6.1 million open jobs in the U.S. at the end of February—0.9 for every unemployed worker. That compares with 0.75 per unemployed worker a year earlier, and 0.15 when the recession ended in 2009. And, in a sign that companies are struggling to fill positions, the share of hires per job...The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note edged down Friday but logged its second straight weekly gain, reflecting improved risk-appetite among investors and signs the Federal Reserve is confident about reaching its inflation target.

The yield on the 10-year note settled at 2.828%, down from 2.831% Thursday but up from 2.779% the previous Friday.

Yields,...Doug Band , President Bill Clinton’s longtime adviser, has paid $20 million for the Manhattan townhouse of the late banking chief David Rockefeller, according to two people familiar with the transaction.

The house on East 65th Street originally came on the market for $32.5 million last June. It served as the home to Mr. Rockefeller and his wife Peggy for almost seven decades, according to the listing. Mr. Rockefeller, the onetime chief executive of Chase Manhattan Bank and the grandson of industrialist John D. Rockefeller,...AIGLE, Switzerland—David Lappartient was barely an hour into his job presiding over cycling’s world governing body when his phone rang with a crisis. Chris Froome, the four-time Tour de France champion and one of cycling’s most famous names, had failed a doping control.

He turned to his wife, who had heard him curse under his breath. “I’ve already got trouble on the way,” he said. Lappartient hadn’t even visited his new office.

That...The NBA playoffs are overwhelming.

This weekend alone, there are back-to-back-to-back-to-back marathons on both Saturday and Sunday, which amounts to 12 straight hours on the couch watching basketball, refreshing Twitter and trying to remind yourself there are still two months of NBA games in this season that began with LeBron James calling President Donald Trump “u bum” and hasn’t calmed down since then.

It...U.S. and Allies Strike Syria The U.S., the U.K. and France launched airstrikes against sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities.IRISH-BORN artist Francis Bacon (1909-1992), famous for his abstract, emotionally charged figurative work, might seem an unlikely source of inspiration for an April arrangement, but early spring can be agitating. One day it’s generously warm, the next it cruelly snows; through rainy, gray weeks, we wait restlessly for the season’s blooms to burst from dormancy. Bacon’s beautifully raw 1969 painting “Lying Figure” (on display Apr. 29-Sept.2 at Fondation Beyeler, in Basel, Switzerland) sums up the feeling of expectancy, its sweet palette foreshadowing the colors of spring proper.

I...Good morning. Ever wondered why computer bugs, ransomware and viruses often carry such oddball names? The Wall Street Journal’s Robert McMillan explores how security experts and techies lean on puns and punchy wordplay to make their discoveries stand out. There’s even an awards show, the Pwnies, which recognizes the best bug branding. Hmmm, if this gig doesn’t work out…

Mark Zuckerberg’s two days of hourslong hearings on Capitol Hill are over, and although the Facebook founder was poised throughout, he must be feeling relieved to return to Silicon Valley, where people understand how tech works. That said, the session Wednesday before the House Energy and Commerce Committee did get a lot more into the nitty-gritty of the company’s business model than the previous day’s grilling.

My top five highlights:

1) Mr. Zuckerberg revealed his own personal data was caught up in the Cambridge Analytica incident. Refreshing to know even our tech overlords (or one of Mr. Zuckerberg’s pals) can’t resist a fun personality quiz.

2) “Shadow profiles” were brought up in a line of questioning about how Facebook collects data about people who don’t use its services. Mr. Zuckerberg (who said he wasn’t familiar with the term) said that Facebook tracks nonuser data for “security purposes” and its ad network and that anyone can opt out of data collection for ads.

3) GDPR was once again a hot topic. Mr. Zuckerberg said he believes the regulation will be “a very positive step for the internet” by putting privacy controls in front of people “repeatedly” and making sure people give affirmative consent.

4) On Cambridge Analytica improperly obtaining data from a Cambridge University researcher, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook had found “a whole program” associated with the university where researchers were building similar apps. “We do need to understand whether there was something bad going on at Cambridge University overall that will require stronger action from us,” he said. Cambridge University responded to the Zuck dunk with a statement and told the BBC it found no evidence its researchers were obtaining personal data illicitly. “Facebook is making allegations but is not presenting us with any evidence,” the university said.

5) Mr. Zuckerberg didn’t take all the questions in his stride. Wired tallied up 43 separate occasions over the past two days when the Facebook founder deferred to his team for a follow-up. Those include responses on the specific regulations Facebook would propose for the tech industry, the principles Facebook will use to guide the development of artificial intelligence, exactly how Facebook plans to implement the part of GDPR that lets users opt out of their data being shared for marketing purposes in the U.S., and how many like and share buttons there are on non-Facebook webpages.

Spend a Little Time With Me

Facebook may have some other issues closer to home, too. An analysis of Nielsen digital consumption data for January carried out by Pivotal Research analyst Brian Wieser found Facebook’s share of U.S. consumer time spent on digital media fell 2 percentage points from the prior year to 16.3%. That figure also includes consumption on Messenger, Instagram and WhatsApp. Consumption on Google properties, which include YouTube and Waze, rose 3 percentage points to 27.4%. Mr. Wieser notes the Nielsen data can sometimes be flawed, given methodological tweaks that may occur in any given period and that content consumption doesn’t directly relate to monetization, as platforms can tweak their products, ad loads, pricing and so on. You’ll remember Facebook did warn us time spent on its platform was going to decline as it focused its efforts on providing “meaningful interactions.” Nevertheless, advertisers and investors will be watching the engagement trends closely, not least if the current spotlight on Facebook user privacy leads to people opting to share less of their data.

Thank You for Smoking

E-cigarettes are a relatively new advertising category, but much of the creative is borrowing from techniques used by Big Tobacco in what now seems like a bygone era. The Smithsonian National Museum of American History has an archive of more than 50,000 tobacco ads dating back from the turn of the 20th century. The curator of that archive, Robert Jackler, an ear, nose and throat surgeon from Stanford University, recently started adding e-cigarette ads to his collection—and he’s worried about what he sees, dubbing the category an “unregulated Wild West.” He points to some e-cigarette advertisers using the kind of questionable health references and youth appeal the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act largely stubbed out decades ago. E-cigarettes come within the oversight of the Food and Drug Administration, which in March was sued by public health groups for its decision to delay its regulation of e-cigarettes. Expect e-cigarette companies to keep testing the boundaries in their marketing for some while yet.

Best of the rest

The U.K. Takeover Panel has ruled that Disney must make an offer to buy all of Sky if it succeeds in its bid to acquire 21st Century Fox’s assets. The panel also said Disney must match Fox’s £10.75-a-share offer for the 61% of Sky it doesn’t own already. [Reuters]

A look at how one quiz maker was using Facebook’s current advertising tools to glean information from users. [BuzzFeed News]

Cambridge Analytica’s acting chief executive, Alex Tayler, told the company’s leadership Wednesday that Julian Wheatland, the chairman of its British affiliate, would take over as the next CEO, according to people familiar with the matter. Former CEO Alexander Nix, who was suspended last month, has officially resigned from his position, according to a person close to the company. [WSJ]

Jay Penske’s Penske Media Corporation and Barry Diller’s IAC are reportedly interested in buying some of the assets of Fusion Media Group. [Vanity Fair]

U.K.-based events marketing company Verve has acquired JusCollege for $25 million in cash and equity. JusCollege has a network of “campus reps” who recruit their fellow students to take group trips to destinations like Las Vegas. [CMO Today]

Spotify and Hulu are launching a $12.99-a-month bundled subscription in the U.S. [TechCrunch]

Marketers are pulling back from buying so-called long-tail inventory to minimize their exposure to ad fraud and brand safety risks. Some 80% of programmatic dollars will flow through private marketplaces and direct deals by 2019, according to eMarketer. [AdExchanger]

Ad tech company Index Exchange plans to hire 200 staffers by the end of this year. [Ad Age]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @larakiara, @VranicaWSJ, @alexbruell,@BenMullin, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.comA 'prosthetic hand' from BrainRobotics, controlled by signals sent from the residual muscles on an amputee's limb is displayed at the 2017 Consumer Electronic Show in Las Vegas.

A 'prosthetic hand' from BrainRobotics, controlled by signals sent from the residual muscles on an amputee's limb is displayed at the 2017 Consumer Electronic Show in Las Vegas. Photo: Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

Artificial intelligence feels different from previous technologies as it forces us to explore the very boundaries between machines and humans. Will AI lead to whole new jobs and industries and a higher standard of living? Or are we facing a dystopian future, as smart machines increasingly encroach on activities and cognitive capabilities that not long ago were viewed as the exclusive domain of humans?

A new book, “Human + Machine: Reimagining Work in the Age of AI” by Accenture executives Paul Daugherty and Jim Wilson, looks at artificial intelligence’s potential to transform the workplace, citing examples from the leading edge and drawing parallels between today’s human-machine collaborations and how businesses in the past adopted–and were in turn transformed by–earlier technologies. There’s some good news: The “Age of AI” will not come at the expense of human workers as some fear.

Like electricity, IT and the internet, AI is becoming one of, if not the most important technology of the next few decades. But we’re still learning how to best deploy it throughout the economy and society. A recent McKinsey study found few firms deploying artificial intelligence in production at scale. History shows that even after crossing over into mainstream markets, it takes considerable time for transformative technologies like AI to be widely embraced across companies and industries.

“The simple truth is that machines are not taking over the world, nor are they obviating the need for humans in the workplace,” Mssrs. Daugherty and Wilson write. “In this current era of business process transformation, AI systems are not wholesale replacing us; rather, they are amplifying our skills and collaborating with us to achieve productivity gains that have previously not been possible.”

Electricity and standardized processes ushered the first wave of business transformations about 100 years ago. Manufacturing was decomposed into a set of processes and reassembled into the assembly line, leading to the age of mass production. Artificial intelligence, or what the authors call the “third wave,” promises to deliver bigger changes, particularly in business processes.

“Now, the third wave involves adaptive processes,” they write. “This third era, which builds on the previous two, will be more dramatic than the earlier revolutions enabled by assembly lines and digital computers, and will usher in entirely new, innovative ways of doing business… This adaptive capability is being driven by real-time data rather than by an a priori sequence of steps. The paradox is that although these processes are not standardized or routine, they can repeatedly deliver better outcomes.”

As part of their research, the authors surveyed more that 1,500 practitioners, and found that the leading companies in various industries, around 10% of their surveyed sample, already are “reimagining their processes to be more flexible, faster, and adaptable to the behaviors, preferences, and needs of their workers at a given moment… in doing so, they are changing the very nature of work, requiring us to manage our operations and employees in dramatically different ways.”

Key is what the authors call the missing middle, a space where humans and machines collaborate to attain major increases in business performance. In this hybrid space of human-machine activities, humans work closely with their smart machines, each doing what they do best. But, the authors call it missing because only a fraction of companies are seriously pursuing this approach.

“Humans, for example, are needed to develop, train, and manage various AI applications. In doing so, they are enabling those systems to function as true collaborative partners. For their part, machines in the missing middle are helping people to punch above their weight, providing them with superhuman capabilities, such as the ability to process and analyze copious amounts of data from myriad sources in real time. Machines are augmenting human capabilities.”

The book studied what leading firms are doing to benefit from human-machine collaborations and found that they’ve succeeded by adopting five key principles: mindset, experimentation, leadership, data, and skills.

Mindset. Work must be reimagined, with people helping to improve the AI-based applications and tools while the smart machines help augment human capabilities. This is quite different from using technology to automate specific tasks in a job or workflow. The focus instead is on reinventing traditional business processes, making them much more flexible and responsive to real-time conditions.

Experimentation. Looking for ways where AI can improve an existing process and the overall human-machine collaboration. Standard business processes, even best-in-class practices are no longer enough. Rather, companies must continually conduct trial-and-error experiments to learn what works best for their unique set of conditions.

Leadership. AI involves a complex set of new, powerful technologies which must be carefully applied. It’s important to always keep in mind that ultimately it’s the humans working with the AI technologies that are in charge and accountable for the overall decisions and actions. One must always consider the ethical, moral, and legal implications of relying on these advanced technologies. AI systems must be able to explain their behavior and recommendations to the satisfaction of their human partners. This will require people with the proper skills and training.

Data. AI requires extensive volumes and variety of data. Accumulating and preparing the needed information is one of the biggest challenges faced by companies using AI. The needed data may be siloed within different departments in a firm, or only available from a potential data supply chain partner. One must also watch out that the data does not introduce serious, unintended biases.

Skills. To succeed in this third wave of human-machine collaboration, companies need to hire and develop a new set of skills, including “knowing how best to ask an AI agent questions, across levels of abstraction, to get the insights you need”; “teaching AI agents new skills while also undergoing on-the-job training to work well within AI-enhanced processes”; “choosing a course of action amid machine uncertainty”; and “thinking of novel ways to overhaul work, processes, and business models to obtain exponential increases in improvement.”

“For years, the dream of many researchers was to create an artificial intelligence that could rival that of people,” wrote the authors in the books’s concluding chapter. “However, we’re seeing that AI is instead becoming a tool to extend our own human capabilities. In turn, we’re guiding AI systems to evolve into better tools that further extend our capabilities.”

Irving Wladawsky-Berger worked at IBM for 37 years and has been a strategic advisor to Citigroup and to HBO. He is affiliated with MIT, NYU and Imperial College, and is a regular contributor to CIO Journal.Every week, CIO Journal offers a glimpse into the mind of the CEO, whose view of technology is shaped by stories in management journals, general interest magazines and, of course, in-flight publications.

New disruptions. In predicting technology’s impact on jobs in the decades to come, Barclays plc looks backwards. “As new technologies make existing ones obsolete, they typically drive new job creation in related sectors,” they write in a new report. Take the modern automobile. It killed the horse-and-buggy industry, but new businesses—and new jobs—arose to meet new consumer demands. Few make bridle reins. Those scented trees sold for car interiors? Today they are part of a half a billion dollar industry in the U.S. For the short term, it is the smaller, incremental advances, what Barclays calls “soft automation,” that deserve attention. History shows that the first few decades of disruption often bring depressed wages, as “most path-breaking technologies end up automating specific tasks within a job, not the job itself.” This “soft automation” hit the textile industry in 19th century England and now it is hitting the taxi and truck industries in the form of cruise control, rear-view cameras and mobile GPS

Virtual reality’s first heyday was in the steampunk era. Technology enabled museum-goers in Victorian-era England to experience Michelangelo’s David, while the statue itself sat 1,000 miles away in Florence, and walk around–even touch– Mayan hieroglyphs, even as those carvings lay somewhere in Guatemala’s steamy jungles. Starting in the late 1860s, cultural London was a hub for what the Economist’s Tom Standage calls the “Victorian equivalent of virtual reality” — and what everyone else calls making plaster copies of famous sculptures. Mr. Standage finds similarities. Like today’s virtual reality, plaster-casting was on-trend until suddenly it wasn’t. The reproductions also offered people a simulacrum of the real thing. Today, as pollution disfigures original artifacts, scientists are tapping their inner steampunk, applying 21st century digital 3d-scanning technology to 19th century Victorian casts so artifacts “can now be scrutinized online and in modern-day virtual reality.”

Beyond control? In the end, members of Congress, blackbelts all in the artful dodge, may have found themselves stumped by the torrent of bromides. “It’s not enough to connect people,” Facebook Inc. CEO Mark Zuckerberg this week in opening statements on Capitol Hill. “We have to make sure those connections are positive.” The FT’s John Gapper writes that Facebook is too large to do more than hope for spreading positive vibes. The company can plug away, but “other things cannot be fixed because they are beyond Mr Zuckerberg’s control, lost in myriad encounters among Facebook’s 2bn users. The technical term is emergence, the powerful and unpredictable outcome of millions of users interacting freely with others.”Good morning, CIOs. The Defense Department’s winner-take-all cloud contract raises questions that all CIOs must address as they move IT resources to the cloud. The issue is how to balance the ease of working with a single vendor vs. the merits of a more competitive, multi-vendor strategy. The Pentagon will release a revised list of requirements in the coming days for its Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure cloud contract, a hotly contested, multibillion-dollar contract to move its data into the cloud, the Journal reports. The deal, which the Pentagon says will be awarded to a single vendor, has sparked a lobbying fight among odds-on favorite Amazon.com Inc. and rivals Oracle Corp. and Microsoft Corp., say the Journal’s Ted Mann and Brody Mullins.

Advantage AWS? Only Amazon so far has received government approvals to house its most highly classified data in the cloud. Also, AWS has been raking in contracts as part of a multiyear shift in which federal government bodies go to the cloud.

Google Cloud may be in the running. But a recent employee protest over the company’s involvement in a smaller Air Force project could make the tech giant less attractive to government decision-makers, says DefenseOne.

More on the complexities of the multi-cloud world can be found here. As CIO Journal’s Angus Loten reported last year, “a growing number of companies are working with multiple cloud vendors, spurring a wave of tech partnerships and new tools aimed at helping them integrate and manage diverse cloud-based infrastructure and software.The strategy, which is spreading despite added costs and headaches, in part reflects a shifting view of the cloud from a more efficient, cost-cutting tool, to a source of business innovation and new revenue.”

Older firms feeling ‘outdated’ in digital era. Just over half of senior-level decision makers at companies in business for 30 years or more say they “feel outdated” in the digital era, compared to 40% of officials at younger firms, according to a survey by IT consulting and developing firm PointSource. On a daily basis, it found, older firms are far more likely to waste take longer tracking down and sharing data, or other digital assets, across their organization – as a result of insufficient or incompatible technologies, or a lack of staff training in the latest tools.

Cisco, researchers develop new security techniques to thwart quantum attacks. Cisco Systems Inc. is partnering with Isara Corp., a Canadian startup founded by former BlackBerry Ltd. security executives to develop new cryptographic algorithms that could help enterprises protect expense report systems, human resources platforms, internal communications and other applications against a potential attack by a quantum computer. “We don’t know if quantum computers are going to exist within four years or 10 years, but we’re seeing a lot of research taking place in this space, and we want to be prepared,” said Panos Kampanakis, technical marketing engineer at Cisco, tells CIO Journal’s Sara Castellanos.

Tyson Foods Chief Technology Officer Scott Spradley, inside the company’s new building in downtown Springdale, Ark. Steven Norton / The Wall Street Journal

DOWNLOAD EXTRA: Your high school football schedule could help Tyson sell more chicken.

As Tyson Foods re-tools its IT infrastructure to take advantage of advanced analytics, the meat processor is thinking about all the data that might help it predict future demand. Reams of historical data can certainly inform forecasting models, but in an age where cloud computing allows companies to crunch ever-growing piles of information, new data points could improve those models significantly.

“You start looking at generational metrics, diversity metrics, population density metrics, weather metrics, and things as trivial to some as baseball schedules or football schedules or wedding schedules,” CTO Scott Spradley said.

All that data could give Tyson a more nuanced idea of what drives demand and help it deliver the right amount of product to the right places. Imagine, for example, being able to predict an uptick in chicken consumption based on the number of clear-weather days below 90 degrees when a major sporting event is scheduled. An analyst sees a spike in beef consumption on a particular October in Dallas? It might correlate with a rise in the number of people between the ages of 23 and 33 who have birthdays that month, or an increase in the number of home football games.

“That affects our supply chain, and we can plan for that and build for that so we can supply that kind of capacity whereas in the past it would have been an unknown unknown,” Mr. Spradley said.

“We have that technology available to us now, and we’re getting that in place for Tyson so that we can actually execute.” - Steven Norton

TECHNOLOGY NEWS

Staff in Jakarta at Tokopedia, an internet shopping site that has drawn big investments from China. DIMAS ARDIAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS

Silicon Valley’s money machine has a challenger. Asian investors, most from China, directed nearly as much money into startups last year as American investors did—40% of the record $154 billion in global venture financing versus 44%, the Journal’s Phred Dvorak and Yasufumi Saito report. The surge positions Asia’s investors to win stakes in markets that Western companies covet, or that have national security implications, such as artificial intelligence.

In five to 10 years… “All the rest of the world will basically be a land grab between the U.S. and China,” Kai-Fu Lee, a veteran tech executive and founder of Beijing-based venture-capital firm, Sinovation Ventures tells the WSJ. “The U.S. approach is: We’ll build a better product and just win over all the countries,” he said. The Chinese approach is “we’ll fund the local partner to beat off the American companies.”

Tech IPO market shows signs of warming. The solid debuts of firms such as Spotify Technology SA, Dropbox Inc. and Zscaler Inc. have helped catalyze a shift among private-company CEOs and senior executives toward viewing public markets as a hospitable place to raise capital, says the Journal’s Maureen Farrell.

Tesla, safety agency feud over fatal-crash probe. The National Transportation Safety Board said Thursday that it tossed Tesla Inc. from an investigation into last month’s crash of a Model X sport-utility vehicle that killed the driver near Mountain View, Calif., the WSJ reports. The automaker contends it dropped out, saying restrictions on disclosures could jeopardize public safety by blocking the timely release of relevant information to the public including about its semiautonomous driving system, called Autopilot.

Cops can now unlock iPhones. A number of police departments and federal government agencies around the country have acquired a tool for bypassing encryption on iPhones. Motherboard reports that the availability of a tool like GrayKey, which costs between $15,000 and $30,000, raises questions over why the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been demanding that Apple Inc. install an encryption backdoor into its devices.

Self-driving cars are ‘student drivers,’ says Uber chief. Uber Technologies Inc. Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi said the ride-hailing firm is “absolutely committed” to its self-driving-car program after one of its autonomous vehicles struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona last month. “Ultimately, self-driving cars will be safer than humans,” Mr. Khosrowshahi said on NBC’s “Today” show Thursday. “But right now self-driving cars are learning. They’re student drivers.” The Journal’s Cara Lombardo has more.

Singapore embraces surveillance. The island-state plans to a install surveillance cameras with facial recognition software to 10,000 lampposts, Reuters reports.

Putting roads to work. Bloomberg reports that China’s Qilu Transportation Development Group. Co., which developed a mile-long test road studded with solar panels capable of powering highway lights and nearby homes, is looking into making roadways smarter. The plan is add sensors and chargers capable of relaying traffic updates, better mapping and even charging vehicles of the future.

WHAT YOUR CEO IS READING

A visitor uses a Virtual Reality (VR) headset during the “Laval Virtual” virtual reality, augmented reality and 3D techonology show on April 6, 2018, in Laval, northwestern France. Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

Every week, CIO Journal offers a glimpse into the mind of the CEO, whose view of technology is shaped by stories in management journals, general interest magazines and, of course, in-flight publications.

New disruptions. In predicting technology’s impact on jobs in the decades to come, Barclays plc looks backwards. “As new technologies make existing ones obsolete, they typically drive new job creation in related sectors,” they write in a new report. Take the modern automobile. It killed the horse-and-buggy industry, but new businesses—and new jobs—arose to meet new consumer demands. Few make bridle reins. Those scented trees sold for car interiors? Today they are part of a half a billion dollar industry in the U.S. For the short term, it is the smaller, incremental advances, what Barclays calls “soft automation,” that deserve attention. History shows that the first few decades of disruption often bring depressed wages, as “most path-breaking technologies end up automating specific tasks within a job, not the job itself.” This “soft automation” hit the textile industry in 19th century England and now it is hitting the taxi and truck industries in the form of cruise control, rear-view cameras and mobile GPS

Virtual reality’s first heyday was in the steampunk era. Technology enabled museum-goers in Victorian-era England to experience Michelangelo’s David, while the statue itself sat 1,000 miles away in Florence, and walk around–even touch– Mayan hieroglyphs, even as those carvings lay somewhere in Guatemala’s steamy jungles. Starting in the late 1860s, cultural London was a hub for what the Economist’s Tom Standage calls the “Victorian equivalent of virtual reality” — and what everyone else calls making plaster copies of famous sculptures. Mr. Standage finds similarities. Like today’s virtual reality, plaster-casting was on-trend until suddenly it wasn’t. The reproductions also offered people a simulacrum of the real thing. Today, as pollution disfigures original artifacts, scientists are tapping their inner steampunk, applying 21st century digital 3d-scanning technology to 19th century Victorian casts so artifacts “can now be scrutinized online and in modern-day virtual reality.”

Beyond control? In the end, members of Congress, blackbelts all in the artful dodge, may have found themselves stumped by the torrent of bromides. “It’s not enough to connect people,” Facebook Inc. CEO Mark Zuckerberg this week in opening statements on Capitol Hill. “We have to make sure those connections are positive.” The FT’s John Gapper writes that Facebook is too large to do more than hope for distilling such positive vibes. The company can plug away, but “other things cannot be fixed because they are beyond Mr Zuckerberg’s control, lost in myriad encounters among Facebook’s 2bn users. The technical term is emergence, the powerful and unpredictable outcome of millions of users interacting freely with others.”

EVERYTHING ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW

Former FBI Director James Comey describes President Donald Trump as a “deeply flawed person and leader” in a new memoir that also compares him to a Mafia boss and characterizes his presidency as a “forest fire.” (WSJ)

Facebook doesn’t expect the recent uproar over its users’ digital privacy to affect sales significantly, a top advertising executive for the global social-media platform says. (WSJ)

The world’s robust appetite for oil could be significantly dented by the escalating trade dispute between the U.S. and China, the International Energy Agency has warned. (WSJ)

President Donald Trump issued an executive order Thursday creating a task force to recommend reforms in the U.S. Postal Service, following tweets accusing the agency of giving a sweetheart deal to Amazon. (WSJ)

The Morning Download is edited by Tom Loftus and cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each weekday morning by clicking http://wsj.com/TheMorningDownload.Boats in a marina in Oranjestad, Aruba, on Aug. 27, 2013. Photo: LUIS ACOSTA/AFP/Getty Images

An Aruban official living in Florida pleaded guilty Friday to money-laundering charges connected with his role in an a scheme to take bribes to influence telecommunications contracts, prosecutors said.

Egbert Yvan Ferdinand Koolman, who lived in Miami, was the product manager of the government-owned Servicio di Telecommunicacion di Aruba NV, or Setar. Mr. Koolman admitted that he received $1.3 million in bribes over the course of a decade in exchange for using his position to award mobile-phone and accessory contracts, the U.S. Justice Department said.An image of the home page of the website Backpage.com shows logos of U.S. law enforcement agencies after they seized the site.

An image of the home page of the website Backpage.com shows logos of U.S. law enforcement agencies after they seized the site. Photo: Reuters

A daily roundup of corruption news from across the Web. We also provide a daily roundup of important risk & compliance stories via our daily newsletter, The Morning Risk Report, which readers can sign up for here. Follow us on Twitter at @WSJRisk.

Bribery:

A former top Chinese official, once considered a potential presidential contender, pleaded guilty to taking bribes. (AFP, RFA, SCMP, Bloomberg, Reuters, AJE, AP)

The new Angolan leader is targeting bribery, so common that illicit payments are known as “gasosa,” the Portuguese word for a fizzy drink. (Bloomberg)

The U.K. Serious Fraud Office “hired” an artificial intelligence lawyer. (IoB)

A Ukrainian lawmaker was granted victim status after he allegedly was entrapped into paying bribes. (Interfax)

Local cases: A former aide to the New York governor will keep his pension despite his corruption conviction. A Detroit-area businessman blamed politicians he bribed while seeking leniency. A Long Island corruption trial continues. (Syracuse, WXYZ, Freep, Newsday)

Fraud:

Brazilian police arrested 10 people in an investigation into alleged fraud. (Reuters)

Vietnam’s deputy prime minister ordered an investigation into allegations of a cryptocurrency scam. (Bloomberg)

Money Laundering:

Backpage.com co-founder Michael Lacey was released on $1 million bond after pleading not guilty to money laundering and other charges. The company’s CEO pleaded guilty and agreed to testify. (Reuters, AP, BuzzFeed, NBC, SB)

Has the needle moved in the fight against financial crime? (Bloomberg)

Former U.S. Rep. Steve Stockman (R., Texas) was convicted of money laundering. (TT)

The U.S. is concerned about anti-money laundering enforcement in Trinidad, Guyana, St. Lucia and Belize. (Pride, SPS)

Shuttered FBME Bank Ltd. helped a former Kazakh mayor and his family launder millions, court documents allege. (AS)

Pakistani lawmakers received an update about a money-laundering probe of a diploma mill. (News)

A Nigerian court tossed a gubernatorial candidate’s motion to dismiss money-laundering charges. (PM, NN)

Bangladeshi judges ordered authorities to resolve a money-laundering case. (BDNews24)

A Virginia business owner was sentenced to 10 years in prison. (VP)

U.K. authorities are targeting Russian billionaires. The U.K. and Nigeria are working together against money laundering. (BW, NT)

A woman was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted for laundering millions for a cocaine trafficker. (MG)

A Japanese cryptocurrency exchange is tightening its know-your-customer compliance program. (CD)

The U.S. State Department said there are ongoing deficiencies in the Philippine casino sector. The country’s defenses will be examined soon. (Casino, MT, GMA)

A Microsoft Corp. network engineer faces money-laundering charges. His lawyer said the company knows about the allegations but said he doesn’t work in cybersecurity. (SS)

Sanctions:

A U.S. congressman wants Treasury to investigate whether Kalashnikov USA, which makes AK-47-style guns in Florida, violated sanctions. (SS, Bloomberg)

Prosecutors accused an Iranian banker charged with violating sanctions of grossly underestimating his assets. He pleaded not guilty. (Bloomberg)

U.S. sanctions on Russia are likely to cause headaches for soccer teams in the World Cup. The ruble is volatile. How will one Russian oligarch navigate sanctions? The measures have sent aluminum prices skyrocketing. (Reuters, AP, Reuters, CNN)

The U.S. wants to extradite a Bulgarian man arrested for allegedly violating Syria sanctions. (BI, release)

Venezuelan officials warned the U.S. will impose sanctions ahead of the country’s elections. (PL)

While warning of tough sanctions, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the measures wouldn’t necessarily mean the end of the Iran nuclear deal. (RFE/RL, Reuters)

Transparency:

Will a Malaysian law targeting fake news make it impossible to report on the 1MDB scandal?

Is there a growing consensus for beneficial-ownership reform? (FCPABlog)

Sri Lanka is setting up a beneficial-ownership registry. (EN, AT)

Whistleblowers:

The whistleblower who exposed corruption at a Maltese bank won’t be extradited. (MI)

General Anti-Corruption:

The U.S. special counsel’s probe continues. The nominee for secretary of state confirmed he was questioned in the investigation. If the president fires the deputy attorney general, this is who oversees the probe. (Intercept, NBC, Bloomberg, Guardian, WP, CNN, NBC, MJ)

Then-Gen. John Kelly in 2015 made allies in Honduras despite corruption concerns. (AP)

Pakistan may face U.S. aid cuts over human trafficking. (Reuters)

Namibia’s president rejected the allegations in a French corruption probe. (Bloomberg, RFI)

Activists urged Hungary to get rid of corruption conducted through fake political parties. (Euronews)

The Vatican wants Buddhists to work with Christians against corruption. (AP)XPO Logistics holds the biggest share of the market for “non-conveyable goods home delivery,” with 9% of the business.

XPO Logistics holds the biggest share of the market for “non-conveyable goods home delivery,” with 9% of the business. Photo: Mark McQueen/XPO Logistics

More big trucking companies are looking to cash in on home delivery of bulky items as consumers grow more comfortable shopping online for furniture and other goods too big for conventional parcel networks.

Ryder System Inc. R -0.24% is the latest operator to jump into the business, paying $120 million this month to buy MXD Group, a logistics firm that specializes in “final mile” delivery of big items to consumers’ doorsteps.

The deal extends Ryder’s bid to move into areas beyond its well-known truck-leasing business, and reflects the growing attraction of a sector that has been transformed by e-commerce.

Shoppers accustomed to getting online purchases in days, not weeks, and tracking those packages, now look for similar service when they buy big items like couches, washing machines and exercise equipment. Such objects often require installation or special handling, and may not fit in the highly automated systems that carriers like United Parcel Service Inc. UPS 0.24% and FedEx Corp. FDX 1.07% use to sort millions of packages each day.

That has drawn in large trucking operators who want to use their scale to lure large retailers as customers for home-delivery services.

Furniture is one of the fastest-growing segments of U.S. online retail, with Amazon.com Inc., AMZN -1.22% Wayfair Inc. W -1.34% and other e-commerce firms competing for market share with big-box stores and furniture chains like Crate and Barrel.

“Last-mile has taken off like crazy,” says Daniel Sayne, director of sales at Fidelitone Inc., which delivers furniture for Amazon, Wayfair, and others. Newer entrants to the segment include Green Bay, Wis.-based Schneider National Inc., one of the largest U.S. truckload operators, as well as Richmond, Va.-based less-than-truckload carrier Estes Express Lines.

Home delivery poses big challenges for trucking companies, however.

‘Home delivery is more finicky, more risky and more costly,’ —Paul Thompson, chairman of Transportation Insight

Operators with business models built on delivering goods by the pallet or truckload to industrial loading docks must send drivers on irregular routes down residential streets to hit specific delivery times. Workers may have to enter homes and take the time to install products.

“Home delivery is more finicky, more risky and more costly,” said Paul Thompson, chairman of Transportation Insight LLC, a supply-chain management and logistics firm. “To really have a cost-efficient last-mile network, you have to have density.”

For the trucking companies, however, the service helps them move into one area in the retail world that is growing rapidly as digital sales carve away business from brick-and-mortar stores.

“Our strategy is to penetrate all six of those big-box retailers that have a lot of density and a lot of delivery on big and bulky products,” Nicholas Hobbs, president of dedicated contract services at J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc., JBHT -1.23% said at an investor conference last month.

J.B. Hunt, which has long offered last-mile delivery to customers such as appliance-maker Whirlpool Inc., expanded its reach last year by buying provider Special Logistics Dedicated LLC for $136 million. The company expects between $300 million to $350 million in final-mile revenue this year, up from about $250 million in 2017.

Ryder was already doing a small number of consumer deliveries for customers in its supply-chain and dedicated trucking segments. The MXD deal gives Ryder a national network of 109 e-commerce fulfillment facilities, including 21 cross-docking hubs. The carrier also inherits MXD’s customers—retailers selling furniture and appliances online and by catalog—providing an opportunity for selling those companies other Ryder services.

“We saw this as a space where we could be a leader,” Ryder Chief Executive Robert Sanchez said in an interview. “Customers that we are currently running distribution centers for, customers where we’re doing delivery to retail stores, this is another piece of that puzzle.”

XPO Logistics Inc., XPO -1.73% the U.S. market leader in big-and-bulky home delivery, is now rolling that service out in Europe, where many urban consumers lack cars and depend on delivery to get big purchases such as refrigerators home.

Much of the sector is made up of smaller carriers. Bigger fleets often rely on a combination of company trucks and networks of contractors to deliver bulky goods across wide swaths of the country.

Noël Perry, a transportation economist and principal at consulting firm Transport Futures, estimates the final-mile market for bulky items, currently about $3.7 billion to $4 billion, will expand to about $12 billion over the next decade. That’s still just a niche in a U.S. trucking industry that counts around $676 billion in annual gross freight revenue.

“It’s too early for this kind of thing to have the kind of growth or profitability that acquirers are expecting,” said Mr. Perry.

Write to Jennifer Smith at jennifer.smith@wsj.comHell, it turns out, isn’t the kind of place you breeze in and out of. (Don’t believe me? Just ask Orpheus.)

So when Tesla’s (TSLA) Elon Musk invoked it recently in a series of tweets in which he said that he was sleeping at the factory to help boost Model 3 production—and noted that the “car biz is hell”—it was sure to stick with him for a while.

Sure enough, the Economist brought the term back in a recent story about the Barron’s Next 50 stock, which likened the company’s current situation to the “next circle of hell,” returning to questions of whether Tesla would need to raise more money this year to keep running and scoffing at its claim that its growth likens the 3 to Ford’s Model T.

The company’s “bluster,” the Economist wrote, “does not withstand scrutiny.”

Musk, it turns out, is an Economist reader—though, clearly, a critical one. “The Economist used to be boring,” he tweeted (early) this morning in reply, “but smart with a wicked dry wit. Now it’s just boring (sigh).”



He also made news, using the tweet to take head-on questions of his company’s financial health and near-term future. “Tesla will be profitable & cash flow+ in Q3 & Q4, so obv no need to raise money,” Musk wrote. (We’ll set aside the journalist’s inevitable jealousy at seeing a social media superstar with 21 million Twitter followers point readers to another publication’s story, though “RIP your mentions” and all that.)

Musk, and Tesla, have lately made some pretty big pronouncements: It won’t need to raise money; Model 3 production will reach 5,000 a week around midyear; they’ll be profitable in the second half of 2018. Those pronouncements go to the heart of critics’—and many investors’—concerns about, and hopes for, the company.

Guidance from leadership goes a long way toward establishing management’s credibility; a recent Bloomberg commentary took on Tesla’s history of issuing, and often missing, targets. Musk’s unusually combative personal style throws a monkey wrench into the traditional guidance game.

Shares of Tesla, down about 8% in 2018 through Thursday’s close, were up more than 2% in early trading today following Musk’s tweet.

Following—or, perhaps, even running—the company may at times seem hellish. But it’s never boring.

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.“Like Uber…but for Harleys.”

That’s what motorcycle makers like Harley-Davidson (HOG) might need to kindle millennial interest in motorcycles as they struggle with student debt and move through life stages—that typically contribute to bike purchases—later, according to a Friday report from Bernstein Research.

In the report, Bernstein’s analysts suggested five reasons millennials are buying, and are likely to continue buying, fewer motorcycles. They saw two as the biggest factors:

Newsletter Sign-up

• They’re more likely than previous generations to attend college—which means they’re more likely to have student debt. That, naturally, leads to less discretionary income. “The difference between $15K and $26K of student debt is $130/month, which is equivalent to a monthly loan payment on a ~$8,000 bike,” the analysts wrote.

• millennials generally appear to be moving through traditional “life stages” later than previous generations, the analysts wrote. “Motorcycle usage follows predictable patterns over time, with peaks immediately before family formation and immediately after children leave the house (the classic “midlife crisis”),” they wrote. “One could argue their dampened propensity to ride in their mid-20s has less to do with the attractiveness of the activity than it has to do with their developmental progress.”

• Other possible contributing factors, they wrote, include decreased use of dirt bikes, which could be seen as a “gateway drug,”; fewer motorcycle-rising mass media role models; and a trend toward urbanization—the latter which they doubt, because motorcycles are small and comparatively easy to park in crowded areas.

“Perhaps millennials prefer ‘experiences’ over ‘things’ because they cannot afford to buy ‘things.’ Perhaps they don’t like owning cars and houses because they do not want the burden of debt that accompanies the ownership of those things,” the analysts wrote.

How to fix it? They had two suggestions: “If Harley and other manufacturers want to attract more young riders, the mode of delivery might need to change,” they wrote. “That is, instead of loans being the primary means of financing, try leases. Or, experiment with some of the concepts embodied by the sharing economy.”

And if that doesn’t work, they wrote, they might have to try something more creative—perhaps subsidizing kids’ dirt bikes or producing a TV show with a “young, cool” motorcycling protagonist. “What’s to lose,” they wrote, “other than a generation of riders?” (A possible third option: Sponsoring more “American Chopper” memes.”)

Shares of Harley-Davidson are off nearly 20% in 2018, well off the pace of the S&P 500. The company has recently warned of the potential effects of tariffs on its business and cautioned investors about slow sales.

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.With the start of the first-quarter earnings season, U.S. stock-market investors are waiting to see whether the results point to a business environment that is thriving and supportive of the market’s rally over the past several years, or whether the move has been overdone.

Turns out, both bulls and bears have data they can marshal in their favor.

According to data from FTSE Russell and Thomson Reuters, the U.S. stock market was recently trading at its most expensive levels since the dot-com era, and — even after the first correction for the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.50% and the S&P 500 SPX, -0.29% in about two years — it continues to trade one standard deviation above a historical range. The data is based on the forward price-to-earnings ratio for stocks, which is currently above 17, compared with the long-term average of about 15.

This measure of valuation can be seen mapped out in the following chart. The recent peak of the forward P/E represented a nearly 20-year high, per FTSE Russell.

Courtesy FTSE Russell

In another potential warning sign for investors, the cyclically-adjusted price-to-earnings (CAPE) ratio gives the S&P 500 a ratio of 31.6, nearly twice its long-term mean of 16.85, and at its highest level since the dot-com era.

Related: Why stocks could fall nearly 40% over the coming 18 months

Don’t miss: Do stocks or bonds offer the better value over the coming decade?

Both of these statistics may give investors pause, as they suggest a market’s that is overstretched and could have more room to fall. However, they only tell half the story.

The forward P/E comes at a time when first-quarter earnings growth isn’t just expected to be strong, but coming in at its strongest rate in years. According to FactSet, earnings for companies in the S&P 500 are estimated to grow 17.3% in the first quarter, while sales grow 10%. For both, such rates would represent the fastest pace of growth since the first quarter of 2011.

Accounting for that high level of expansion paints a very different picture for stock valuations, so much so that they go from being at or near multiyear highs, to being at multiyear lows.

FTSE Russell also provided the following chart to MarketWatch, which looks at the market in terms of its PEG, or a P/E ratio that accounts for earnings growth. Based on this metric, stocks have a PEG of 1.2, which means they’re not only trading one standard deviation below their long-term average of a little more than 1.3, but also at their cheapest level since 2012.

Courtesy FTSE Russell

“If you just look at P/E, then you might be able to say that the market looks expensive. But if you look at PEG, the U.S. doesn’t look as extended as people perceive it to be,” said Philip Lawlor, managing director of global markets research at FTSE Russell, who emphasized that he was simply analyzing the data, and not making a market prediction.

One thing boosting earnings growth, and the PEG along with it, is the recently passed tax-reform bill, which cut corporate tax rates, delivering an immediate boost to profitability. Compared with the growth rate of 17.3% that is currently expected, analysts were looking for growth of 11.4% at the end of December, back when the bill was passed, according to FactSet.

Analyzing the market through a P/E or a PEG lens makes U.S. stocks look markedly differently, including in comparison with other countries. While the U.S. forward P/E is the highest of any region, it doesn’t rank that lofty on a PEG basis. By that metric, an index for Europe that excludes the UK is the most expensive major market, even though that region’s P/E is lower than the U.S. This occurs because the Europe ex-UK region has lower earnings growth than the U.S.

Courtesy FTSE Russell

Lawlor also played down the apparent high reading of the CAPE ratio, which compares stock prices with corporate earnings over the past 10 years. He noted that the past 10 years includes the financial crisis, and the massive drop in profits that were seen in 2008. Next year, the rolling 10-year period will begin in 2009, when markets bottomed in the crisis and profits started to recover.

“Once 2008 is excluded,” he said, “the CAPE will automatically drop” without any change to current economic conditions or fundamentals. Lawlor added that while the CAPE provided a reasonable predictor of future returns over the coming decade, it shouldn’t be used as a short-term market-timing tool.President Donald Trump attacked James Comey on Friday, calling the former Federal Bureau of Investigation chief “a weak and untruthful slime ball” after Comey likened the president to a mob boss in his forthcoming memoir. See full story.

What U.S. and allied strikes on Syria mean for your stock-market investments

Markets in crisis typically recover quickly from investors’ panic, writes Mark Hulbert. See full story.

Romaine lettuce is the culprit in E. coli outbreak sickening people in at least 11 states

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has identified romaine lettuce grown around Yuma, Ariz., as the cause of an E. coli outbreak that has sent 22 people to the hospital and made 13 more sick. See full story.

Netflix earnings: Another ‘beautiful quarter,’ or are subscriber expectations too high?

Netflix Inc. reported a “beautiful quarter” in January that pushed its market cap past $100 billion for the first time, but that success has pushed expectations even higher for subscriber growth in the quarter Netflix will report after the bell on Monday. See full story.

Paul Ryan is just two years away from collecting a federal pension — here’s how much he’ll get

Paul Ryan stands to collect an annual pension of nearly $85,000 after he leaves Congress. See full story.

A video of two African American men being removed by at least six officers from a Philadelphia Starbucks as they were reportedly waiting for a business associate has drawn outrage on social media See full story.President Donald Trump wanted James Comey to investigate the infamous “pee tape” allegations — to reassure Melania that he hadn’t actually paid Russian hookers to urinate on a hotel bed, the former FBI chief claims in his upcoming book.

“He brought up what he called the ‘golden showers thing’ … adding that it bothered him if there was ‘even a one percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true,” Comey writes in “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” a copy of which was obtained by The Post.

“He just rolled on, unprompted, explaining why it couldn’t possibly be true, ending by saying he was thinking of asking me to investigate the allegation to prove it was a lie. I said it was up to him.”

Read: How Republicans are planning to discredit Comey

The conversation took place during the same private dinner on Jan. 27, 2017, where Comey as claims the president demanded “loyalty” — and just days after the publication of an intelligence dossier alleging that the Kremlin had a tape of Trump paying prostitutes to perform the dirty deed on a bed once occupied by President Barack Obama.

Comey says he warned Trump an investigation might “create a narrative that we were investigating him personally,” the former top G-man writes.

Also see: James Comey is about to ‘shock the president and his team’

The president replied that he “might be right” — but kept asking him to consider the idea, and said he would as well, according to Comey.

Comey said he privately wondered why Melania might think there was even a 1 percent chance the allegations were true, claiming there is “zero chance” his own wife would believe such a claim.

“In what kind of marriage, to what kind of man, does a spouse conclude there is only a 99 percent chance her husband didn’t do that?” he writes in the book, which hits shelves April 17.

This report originally appeared on NYPost.com.Fairfax, Va.

If America listened to Bryan Caplan, he’d probably have to find another job. And he loves his job.

Mr. Caplan, 47, is a professor of economics at George Mason University, a public institution in the Washington suburbs. He enjoys exploring against-the-grain ideas, as evidenced by the titles of his books: “The Myth of the Rational...Federal law enforcement did not cover itself in glory—again—in the just-concluded trial of Noor Salman, wife of the Pulse nightclub mass murderer in Orlando, Fla.

A judge scolded prosecutors during the trial for withholding exculpatory evidence. At her original bail hearing, the FBI had relied on a confession, extracted from Ms. Salman in an 11-hour interrogation, that she had helped Omar Mateen scope out the gay nightclub in advance of the shooting. As was subsequently revealed, the FBI was already in possession of cellphone...As colleges announce admissions decisions for the fall, we asked experts to help answer readers’ questions on paying for college and the best use of tax-advantaged “529” savings accounts.

How can I appeal financial-aid decisions made by the college? How should the appeal be phrased in writing?

Sometimes the financial-aid package a college...Markets

Journal Reports: Funds & ETFs Ask Encore Don’t Stop Saving Just Because You’ve Retired Also: Answers to reader questions on IRA contributions and Social Security disability benefits

Retirees probably don’t need to save as much as they did when they were working. But they do need something. Illustration: Sonia Pulido for The Wall Street Journal In a recent column about spending in retirement, you noted that many people stop saving money after they leave work. I’m getting close to retiring, and I’m trying to figure out if I can cut back on how much I save, or if I can simply stop putting money aside for later life. Any advice? There is one very important reason why all of us should continue saving at least some money in retirement: We will need to replace, in all probability, a number of big-ticket items. Ask a Question Have a question about planning for and living in retirement? Email askencore@wsj.com Think about it: Retirement easily could last 20 years or more. That is 20 years in which your stuff—your car, the furnace in your basement, your washer and dryer, your computer—can wear out, break down or simply die. Yes, you can always borrow money to pay for these items. But taking on debt in later life, when the health of your nest egg (and, thus, your income) likely hinges on the vagaries of the markets, is almost always a bad idea. Building a “replacement reserve” makes it easier to meet these needs when the time comes. How to do this? There’s a nice tool at analyzenow.com (click on “Computer Programs” and, then, “Free Replacement Budgeting”) that can help. To start, make a list of all big-ticket items in your household (new and future) with their expected lifespans. Divide the current cost by the expected lifespan, and the resulting figure is the amount of money you should budget, or “hold in reserve,” each year to replace those items as needed. Nest-Egg Numbers Asked how much money they think they will need to accumulate to live comfortably in retirement, these percentages of surveyed workers said: Under $250,000 21% $1.5 million or more 22% $1 million– $1.49 million 15% $250,000– $499,999 15% $500,000– $999,999 27%

Let’s say you have a new $5,000 furnace that you think will last for 15 years. Dividing $5,000 by 15, we get $333.33. That’s the amount you should set aside each year (or about $28 a month) for a future furnace.

To get back to the original question, you probably can’t (and don’t need to) save as much in retirement as you did in the past. But emergencies don’t care that you’re retired, and outlays for, say, new carpeting or painting your house will follow you into later life. So draw up and continue to follow a savings plan in retirement. Your nest egg will thank you.

***

I was told by my accountant to document, as well as possible, all of my deductions every year—and if they don’t qualify in year one, save them and add them to my deductions in year two. Essentially, I would be accumulating the itemized deductions until they are over the standard deduction for married filing jointly. It sounds like a good idea. Thoughts?

It might sound like a good idea, but you can’t do this.

Let’s say I had $5,000 in medical expenses in 2017, and they don’t rise to the level where I can itemize these costs on my tax return. I can’t “save” these $5,000 in expenses and “add” them to whatever medical expenses I might have in 2018.

Yes, some people “bunch” deductions, notes Jeffrey A. Porter, a certified public accountant in Huntington, W.Va. And that’s perfectly legal. (Perhaps this is what your accountant had in mind.) For instance, if you plan to donate $7,000 to various charities in 2018—and realize those gifts aren’t large enough to itemize on your tax return—you might skip the donations this year and bunch them with your planned donations in 2019.

In short, timing is the key. The Internal Revenue Service is interested in when the money actually leaves your pocket.

Itemized deductions “have to be claimed in the year they were paid,” Mr. Porter says. “You can’t accumulate them.”

***

I had surgery in February and might not be able to return to work. People tell me I have to hire a lawyer to apply for disability benefits through Social Security. Is that correct?

No, you don’t need to hire a lawyer. You can apply online at ssa.gov, or call the Social Security Administration at 800-772-1213, or visit your local Social Security office.

FYI: You will need a fairly large number of documents. As such, first read the agency’s “Disability Starter Kit.” This resource spells out the paperwork and information you should have in hand.

As for the people saying you need a lawyer, they might be thinking about instances where an application for disability benefits is denied. In such cases, some people hire legal help if they wish to file an appeal.

***

I’m 73 years old and long retired. My wife retired last year at 66. I have a bright idea and want your blessing. Until April 17 of this year, she can contribute for 2017 a total of $6,500 to her individual retirement account, and $6,500 to mine. That reduces our income by $13,000, and our taxes by $3,250 (25% bracket). Then when we eventually withdraw that money in an anticipated 10% bracket it will cost us only $1,300. Does this appear legal and worthwhile to you? Have I missed some Internal Revenue Service traps?

I’m afraid you can’t have our blessing. But all isn’t lost.

To start, you have the date right. A person has until April 17—instead of the usual deadline of April 15—to contribute to an IRA or Roth IRA for 2017. (Note: There is no extension on this deadline for IRA contributions, even if you have filed for an extension for your personal tax return.)

That said, you don’t qualify for an IRA contribution because of your age. Traditional IRA contributions can’t be made for the year in which a person turns age 70½, or any year thereafter, notes Ed Slott, an IRA expert in Rockville Centre, N.Y. If you were under 70½, then yes, even though you didn’t have earned income in 2017 (which seems to be the case, given that you are retired), you could qualify for a spousal IRA contribution based on your wife’s earned income, assuming she earned at least $13,000. But again, the age limitation knocks you out of the box.

People should draw up and continue to follow a savings plan in retirement. Your nest egg will thank you, says retirement columnist Glenn Ruffenach. Photo: iStockphoto/Getty Images

Here’s something you can do, though. You can make (using funds from your wife) a contribution instead to a Roth IRA, where there is no age limit on contributions, Mr. Slott says. Yes, there is a limit on how much you can earn and still contribute to a Roth, but the ceiling is quite high—and it seems, from your question, that you and your wife would be well under the total income limit. For 2017, you can’t contribute to a Roth IRA after income exceeds $196,000 (married filing jointly) or $133,000 (single). Meanwhile, your contribution to a Roth (if you decide to make one) has no effect on your wife; she is free to contribute to an IRA of her choosing.

You don’t get a tax deduction for the Roth IRA contribution, but you will likely benefit in the long run, Mr. Slott notes. To begin, you would be moving $6,500 from your taxable funds to a tax-free account. (Income earned in a Roth IRA isn’t subject to taxes.) What’s more, you aren’t required to withdraw funds annually from a Roth—as you are with a traditional IRA—after reaching 70½.

Mr. Ruffenach is a former reporter and editor for The Wall Street Journal. His column examines financial issues for those thinking about, planning and living their retirement. Send questions and comments to askencore@wsj.com.