U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

BEIRUT—Syrian armed forces on Sunday unleashed airstrikes against rebels and shelled what rescue workers said were civilian homes, as President Bashar al-Assad sought to demonstrate his regime’s continued strength a day after a U.S.-led missile attack.

The American, French and British barrage of missiles on Saturday destroyed much of Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities, U.S. Defense Department officials said, but left Mr. Assad’s conventional military intact. American officials said the strikes were retaliation for a suspected...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

WASHINGTON—Congressional lawmakers reacted swiftly to President Donald Trump’s decision to launch missiles against Syria in responses that reflected the partisan divide over foreign policy, military intervention and Mr. Trump’s role as commander-in-chief.

Many Democrats complained that the president lacked a larger strategy for how to end the civil war in Syria and charged that the White House had used military force without adequately consulting Congress.

...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump continued his attacks on James Comey on Sunday morning, accusing the former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation of telling lies in a “badly reviewed” book.

Mr. Trump denied seeking a personal commitment of loyalty from Mr. Comey, whom he fired over what he said were concerns he was doing a poor job. Democrats have said the firing amounted to an attempt to impede investigations into Mr. Trump’s campaign and business associates, and Russian interference in the 2016 election.

...Democratic voters are showing a higher level of interest in the 2018 midterm elections than are Republicans, with three-quarters of Democrats saying their vote for Congress is intended as a message of opposition to President Donald Trump, a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll finds.

While Democratic interest in the election rose from March, the spike didn’t translate into gains for the party in a broader measure of the political climate: Asked which party should control the next Congress, voters favored Democrats over the...WASHINGTON—House Speaker Paul Ryan blamed Republicans as well as Democrats for practicing politics that try to “exploit divisions between people” and said he had hoped to show an alternative.

In an interview broadcast on Sunday, Mr. Ryan (R., Wis.) said liberal politicians had crafted what he termed “identity politics,” but that conservatives later did the same.

“I...2:30

Five Ways to Shut Your Phone Up... For a While

Your phone is addictive on purpose, and it can be hard to ignore. WSJ's David Pierce has a few tricks and tips to pull yourself back into the real world. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal2:30

Five Ways to Shut Your Phone Up... For a While

Your phone is addictive on purpose, and it can be hard to ignore. WSJ's David Pierce has a few tricks and tips to pull yourself back into the real world. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal2:30

Five Ways to Shut Your Phone Up... For a While

Your phone is addictive on purpose, and it can be hard to ignore. WSJ's David Pierce has a few tricks and tips to pull yourself back into the real world. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal2:30

Five Ways to Shut Your Phone Up... For a While

Your phone is addictive on purpose, and it can be hard to ignore. WSJ's David Pierce has a few tricks and tips to pull yourself back into the real world. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street JournalBOISE, Idaho—Laura Johansen has always loved the easiness of life in her hometown: The first-rate hiking and rafting a short drive from her front door. The quick commute to her job at a local hospital. The affordability.

But when Ms. Johansen, who was renting her home, decided to buy a house earlier this year, the Idaho native was shocked. The median price of a single-family home in Boise’s Ada County had shot up to almost $300,000, well-above the $200,000 homes she was eyeing when she first considered homeownership two years...Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was questioned for almost 10 hours by senators and representatives over the company's privacy policies. Here are some of the important moments. Photo: EPA/AFP

If there’s one thing we learned from the past week’s marathon congressional inquisition of Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, it’s this: The inner workings of Facebook’s data-harvesting behemoth are so byzantine, that in some ways Mr. Zuckerberg is just as confused as the rest of us about how it all works.

In his testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook doesn’t store a history of websites its users have visited.

...U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

BEIRUT—Syrian armed forces on Sunday unleashed airstrikes against rebels and shelled what rescue workers said were civilian homes, as President Bashar al-Assad sought to demonstrate his regime’s continued strength a day after a U.S.-led missile attack.

The American, French and British barrage of missiles on Saturday destroyed much of Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities, U.S. Defense Department officials said, but left Mr. Assad’s conventional military intact. American officials said the strikes were retaliation for a suspected...Martin Sorrell has stepped down as chief executive of WPP PLC following the conclusion of an investigation into an allegation of personal misconduct, ending his more than three decades of leadership atop the world’s largest advertising company.

Roberto Quarta, chairman of WPP’s board, will take on the role of executive chairman until a new CEO is appointed, the company said. Mark Read, chief executive of WPP agency Wunderman, and Andrew Scott, WPP’s corporate development director and chief operating officer for Europe, have...2:30

Five Ways to Shut Your Phone Up... For a While

Your phone is addictive on purpose, and it can be hard to ignore. WSJ's David Pierce has a few tricks and tips to pull yourself back into the real world. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal1/30/2018 11:04AM

Global Leaders on Workplace Diversity and Inclusion2:30

Five Ways to Shut Your Phone Up... For a While

Your phone is addictive on purpose, and it can be hard to ignore. WSJ's David Pierce has a few tricks and tips to pull yourself back into the real world. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street JournalSmall and midsize merchants collect hundreds of billions of dollars a year selling their wares through Amazon.com Inc.’s online marketplace and others like it. That business could be shaken up by a Supreme Court case that may subject consumers on these marketplaces to state sales taxes they have largely avoided until now.

In the case, South Dakota v. Wayfair Inc., the state is seeking to overturn a 26-year-old precedent under which states can’t require retailers to collect sales taxes unless the companies have a physical presence...TOKYO—Japan’s prime minister has worked hard to build close ties with President Donald Trump. Now, as Shinzo Abe heads to the U.S. for another summit meeting, differences over trade and North Korea are testing that relationship.

Mr. Abe is due at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort for two days starting Tuesday. The Japanese leader raced to arrange the meeting after Mr. Trump surprised many by agreeing to talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, a summit now slated for May or June.

...Recognizing the 50th anniversary of the student occupation and strike at Columbia University that ended with 700 arrests and 150 injuries is a delicate task.

The university is planning a three-day conference later this month, called “50 Years After the Revolution.” It has a Twitter feed that posts about events from the turbulent year and an exhibit at the Rare Book and Manuscript Library about 1968 in general. Last month, 150 people took a walking tour around campus that was followed by a panel discussion with some of the...Cynthia Nixon, the actress and Democratic activist, got a boost in her bid to be the next governor of New York when leaders of the progressive Working Families Party endorsed her over the weekend.

More than 91% of party’s state committee members voted to support her at a meeting in Albany on Saturday. Those same members will vote again next month on formally nominating her for the party’s line on the ballot.

...He was once grounded for playing hooky, and he flunked a freshman course in college. Now just days into his new job as chancellor of New York City schools, Richard Carranza offered a glimpse of experiences that could shape his approach.

Mr. Carranza, 51 years old, is the son of a sheet metal worker and a hairdresser, and grandson of immigrants from Mexico. He grew up in Tucson, Ariz., with an identical twin brother, and began his career teaching social studies and music, working his way up to superintendent in Houston.

...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump defended the use of the phrase “mission accomplished” after the U.S., U.K. and France conducted airstrikes Friday night that targeted the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack.

“The Syrian raid was so perfectly carried out, with such precision, that the only way the Fake News Media could demean was by my use of the term “Mission Accomplished,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Sunday morning. “I knew they would seize on this but felt it is...WASHINGTON—White House efforts to rejoin the Trans-Pacific Partnership face big challenges and negotiations that could stretch out beyond President Donald Trump’s first term, trade experts say.

The president first mentioned the possibility of re-entering TPP at a January conference of business elites in Davos, Switzerland. There was no follow-up of any kind, administration officials say, adding that TPP wasn’t a priority.

This...Zachary Lippman, a plant biologist at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, stood among 2 acres of his experimental crops, including some altered with a gene-editing technology called Crispr-Cas9, one of the most ambitious efforts yet to improve on what nature created.

He plucked a tomato, held it up and asked: “Will people eat it?

That question...Tesla Inc.’s TSLA 2.13% public feud with a top safety investigator is highly unusual in business, but classic Elon Musk.

The chief executive’s split with the National Transportation Safety Board this past week over its investigation into a Tesla car crash is the kind of brash move that Mr. Musk has made repeatedly in the 14 years since the electric-car maker was founded. From the kinds of cars he sells to how he makes them to how he promotes his company, Mr. Musk has made defiance of convention a point of pride, and made dismissing of barriers to his vision of progress into a point of principle.

The from-the-hip approach has largely worked so far for Mr. Musk, who has built the scrappy upstart into a global luxury brand whose market value has at times exceeded that of General Motors Co. But some observers question the style’s suitability to a company of Tesla’s size and age, and some investors are growing impatient for Mr. Musk to deliver on his promises, including the protracted production ramp-up for the new Model 3 sedan.

”I love that Elon Musk isn’t bound by tradition—that’s part of his brilliance,” Rebecca Lindland, a longtime automotive-industry analysts at Kelley Blue Book, said. But “they need to get out of the startup realm and start behaving like a company that’s worth more than GM.”

Little about Mr. Musk follows normal business logic, starting with the fact that he also runs another major company, Space Exploration Technologies Corp., and has founded several smaller startups all while trying to disrupt the auto industry. “If one were to do a risk-adjusted rate of return estimate on various industry opportunities, I would put basically building rockets and cars pretty close to the bottom of the list,” Mr. Musk said recently. “They would have to be the dumbest things to do.”

Where management textbooks counsel delegation, Mr. Musk micromanages, boasting about sleeping at the factory so he can help fine-tune production. And while many CEOs are guarded in their public statements, Mr. Musk often fires off Twitter posts rebutting critics or making sometimes enigmatic statements about his business plans.

His unorthodox style was on display in tweets over the past couple of weeks, where Mr. Musk has joked about the company going bankrupt on April Fools’ Day, criticized coverage of Tesla by publications including the Economist and The Wall Street Journal, and predicted in a post after 1 a.m. one night that the company, which has never reported an annual profit, will be profitable in the third and fourth quarters this year.

Even by his standards, the battle with the NTSB is risky. Mr. Musk’s public sparring with NTSB, which he claimed is more concerned about headlines than safety, puts Tesla at odds with an influential agency whose report on Last month’s fatal crash of a Model X sport-utility vehicle could influence public perception and policy.

That controversy comes as Tesla is struggling to prove that it can mass produce electric cars. In recent weeks, questions about Tesla’s cash needs amid delays in ramping up production of the Model 3 have intensified, including Moody’s Investors Service downgrading its credit rating.

Mr. Musk’s early bet with Tesla was that a sexy sports car could excite buyers for an electric vehicle. His more recent Model 3 bucks tradition as well, with a minimalist design aesthetic in a cockpit dominated by a 15-inch touch screen that resembles an oversize iPad, displaying information such as speed and offering controls for temperature and other functions.

Mr. Musk has also eschewed franchised dealership, arguing that the direct relationship with the customer is important and plowing a new way of selling cars in company-owned stores and online as dealers have fought the approach across the country.

Some industry traditionalists find Mr. Musk’s approach vexing. Mike Jackson, CEO of AutoNation Inc., the nation’s largest dealership group, pointed to Tesla’s marketing of the Model 3 on its website as starting at $35,000, even though the current version of the Model 3 starts in the U.S. at $49,000.

“You can’t advertise something at a price point and then not have it at that price point,” he said in an interview. “It’s like you have the normal world and then you have this Tesla bubble world where the rules don’t apply.”

“We’ve been very clear since we launched Model 3 last year about the price of current Model 3 configurations, which has been repeatedly mentioned in reviews of the car, and that the $35,000 base model would come as production ramps,” a Tesla spokeswoman said. “We are working as quickly as we can to introduce less expensive Model 3 variants.”

Like Mr. Musk, his fans revel in dismissing skeptics. Trip Chowdhry, an analyst for Global Equities Research, often sends notes to investors with messages such as one on April 7: “Betting against Elon Musk is not only insane but total stupidity—equivalent to committing a `Career Suicide,’’’ he wrote.

Along with being unpredictable, Mr. Musk is sometimes unrealistic. Tesla this month reported that during the first quarter it again missed its production target for the Model 3, which it has revised multiple times, though it said it is on track to reach about 5,000 a week around the end of the second quarter.

In an interview with CBS This Morning that aired on Friday, Mr. Musk blamed some of the troubles on too much automation at the factory—something he has championed in the past—and for putting too much new technology into the sedan.

“We got complacent about some of the things we thought were our core technology,” he said. “We put too much new technology into the Model 3 all at once—this should’ve been staged.”

Mr. Musk told CBS he is feeling optimistic about where Tesla is now. “At this point I can have a clear understanding of the path out of hell and I did not until recently have a clear understanding,” he said.

Write to Tim Higgins at Tim.Higgins@WSJ.comVolatility is returning to a corner of the foreign-exchange market that has largely been resilient to recent stock and bond tumult, with currencies from Russia to Hong Kong posting outsize moves amid worries over global trade and interest rates.

Hong Kong’s dollar last week hit the lowest level allowed under a more than three-decade-old U.S. dollar-peg agreement, forcing the de facto central bank to step in to defend the Hong Kong currency. Other currencies, from Russia’s ruble to Kazakhstan’s tenge, fell last week as investors...When Tony Xu, chief executive of food-delivery company DoorDash Inc., began raising funding late last year, he told investors he expected to raise up to $250 million to support his growing, five-year-old business.

He misjudged the market. SoftBank Group Corp. and Singapore sovereign-wealth fund GIC, both competing to invest heavily in startups, pushed up the size of the fundraising round to $535 million, people familiar with the deal say.

...BOSTON—When I meet Mike Emrick at a hotel in Boston, in between Games 1 and 2 of the Bruins-Maple Leafs Stanley Cup playoff series, the beloved NBC hockey broadcaster is dressed sharply in a dark coat, dark sweatshirt, and dark slacks over a spiffy pair of black Nikes. I can’t decide if he looks like an extra from “The Matrix” movies—or a hit man here to “take care” of me.

But why am I telling you what “Doc” Emrick’s wearing? What matters is The Voice.

...U.S. securities regulators have opened an investigation into Guggenheim Partners LLC’s asset-management arm that includes questions about an $85 million home in Malibu, Calif., co-owned by Guggenheim Chief Executive Mark Walter, according to people familiar with the matter.

The Securities and Exchange Commission, three of these people said, has shown interest in that real-estate transaction and a series of other deals involving ABS Capital Co. LLC, a Miami firm owned by two former Guggenheim managers. ABS Capital and Mr. Walter...BOISE, Idaho—Laura Johansen has always loved the easiness of life in her hometown: The first-rate hiking and rafting a short drive from her front door. The quick commute to her job at a local hospital. The affordability.

But when Ms. Johansen, who was renting her home, decided to buy a house earlier this year, the Idaho native was shocked. The median price of a single-family home in Boise’s Ada County had shot up to almost $300,000, well-above the $200,000 homes she was eyeing when she first considered homeownership two years...Starbucks Corp. is facing pressure following the arrest Thursday of two black men at one of its locations in Philadelphia.

On the Starbucks website Saturday, Chief Executive Kevin Johnson apologized, said the company would investigate and said he planned to meet with the two men and offer an apology after the “reprehensible outcome.”

Mr....Former first lady Barbara Bush is in failing health and has decided not to seek additional medical treatment, according to a family spokesman.

Mrs. Bush, 92 years old, has had a recent series of hospitalizations, spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement Sunday. He said that after consulting with her family and doctors, she decided to not seek additional medical treatment and instead will focus on “comfort care.”

“It...When Federal Reserve officials gathered last month for Jerome Powell’s first meeting as central bank chairman, not a single official among 15 saw a downside risk to inflation.

It marked a milestone.

The Fed’s mind-set has been shaped during the entire post-financial crisis era by a fear of Japan-like deflation, a downward drift in consumer...West Virginia attorney John Barrett really wants his clients to know he won a $61 million verdict against Dish Network Corp. on their behalf after a company contractor badgered people with marketing phone calls.

There is just one hitch: His clients keep hanging up when he calls to convey the good news.

One woman said “that’s ridiculous”...Edgewater, N.J.—Only one shopper had walked into the spacious Men’s Wearhouse store here in the first hour after it opened on a recent Wednesday. But Will Muñoz, the store’s manager, chatted with 13 customers.

That is because the struggling apparel chain is starting to deploy its army of salespeople on shoppers browsing its website. Using their smartphones, the store workers can message, video chat and send photos of shirts or ties—and then get paid commissions for online orders the same way they do for ringing up items at...billion

$1.5

1.2

0.9

0.6

0.3

0.0

’15

’16

’17

2014

Merck says it has scrapped work in other diseases to put resources into Keytruda, marking a big cultural change for the company, according to people who have worked there.

“I said to everyone, ‘Whatever other projects you’re working on, you can stop now, because we’re going to be doing this, and we’re going to put a lot of muscle behind this,’” Dr. Perlmutter said. He said he based the decision on early clinical data showing that Keytruda shrank some tumors effectively, and on the knowledge that rival Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. had already released positive study results of its rival drug, Opdivo.

Dr. Perlmutter moved scientists and money into Keytruda and shed projects he considered less promising, he said, such as an experimental drug for psoriasis that Merck licensed in 2014 to Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc.

“Before Keytruda, Merck’s R&D strategy was to bring as many drugs to market as they could,” said Bernard Munos, a pharmaceutical R&D consultant who previously worked at Eli Lilly & Co.

Some analysts and investors worry Merck is becoming too reliant on Keytruda, a factor they say is behind the 8.7% slide in the company’s stock price over the past year, versus a 1.3% decline in the S&P Pharmaceuticals Select Industry index.

Credit Suisse analysts predict Keytruda annual global sales will surpass $10 billion in 2022, making up 22% of Merck’s total revenue. Sales of some of Merck’s other best-selling drugs, including Remicade and Vytorin, have declined amid generic competition, and more drugs are likely to face such competition in coming years.

“Unfortunately for Merck, the rest of the business is not that strong,” said Credit Suisse analyst Vamil Divan.

Merck’s R&D chief Roger Perlmutter Photo: Dominick Reuter for The Wall Street Journal

Dr. Perlmutter acknowledges the risk of investing so much in Keytruda but says Merck continues to conduct R&D in other areas. The company has more than 40 other drugs in clinical testing, including potential treatments for infectious diseases and diabetes.

“This is a very easy business to make mistakes in, and you can always make investments that don’t yield major contributions to human health,” he said in an interview at a Merck site in Rahway, N.J., where oncology R&D is based. “I do feel that we have a responsibility with Keytruda to ensure that we fully demonstrate what this drug can do.”

Few brand-name drugs have been subjected to as many studies as Keytruda. More than 600 trials are listed for Keytruda’s closest competitor, Bristol-Myers’s Opdivo, and more than 500 for AbbVie Inc.’s Humira anti-inflammatory drug, according to ClinicalTrials.gov, a database run by the National Institutes of Health.

Dr. Perlmutter, who previously ran R&D at Amgen Inc., identified Keytruda as a priority soon after Merck Chief Executive Kenneth Frazier hired him to lead R&D in 2013.

To help oversee the Keytruda trials, Merck boosted its in-house U.S. oncology leadership to about 100 specialists, from about 20 in 2013, said Roy Baynes, head of global clinical development. About 27,000 patients are enrolled in the Merck-sponsored Keytruda studies, with targeted enrollment of 62,000, a spokeswoman said.

One closely watched study could help signal whether Merck’s strategy is sound. The company is expected to report Monday detailed results of a trial of Keytruda combined with chemotherapy to treat advanced lung cancer. Merck said in January the combination improved patient survival but it didn’t disclose details.

Merck also has provided the drug for free to outside researchers running their own trials. One study by researchers at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore showed Keytruda was effective in patients with a variety of cancer types whose tumors share a rare genetic defect.

Keytruda trial results haven’t been uniformly positive. The drug failed to prolong survival in some studies, including one in gastric-cancer patients that Merck disclosed in December. And last year the FDA ordered Merck to stop two Keytruda trials after more blood-cancer patients receiving the drug died than those on other treatments.

“I question our strategy all the time,” Dr. Perlmutter said. But on balance, he said, “we have really good data.”

Write to Peter Loftus at peter.loftus@wsj.com

Popular on WSJMartin Sorrell, shown in June, has been at the helm of WPP since he founded the company in 1986.

Martin Sorrell, shown in June, has been at the helm of WPP since he founded the company in 1986. Photo: eric gaillard/Reuters

Martin Sorrell has stepped down as chief executive of WPP WPP 0.49% PLC following the conclusion of an investigation into an allegation of personal misconduct, ending his more than three decades of leadership atop the world’s largest advertising company.

Roberto Quarta, chairman of WPP’s board, will take on the role of executive chairman until a new CEO is appointed, the company said. Mark Read, chief executive of WPP agency Wunderman, and Andrew Scott, WPP’s corporate development director and chief operating officer for Europe, have been appointed as joint-chief operating officers of WPP.

Mr. Sorrell’s departure is being treated as a retirement, the company said. The board is conducting a search for internal and external candidates for a new CEO with “no set time frame,” the company said.

“Obviously I am sad to leave WPP after 33 years. It has been a passion, focus and source of energy for so long,” Mr. Sorrell said. “However, I believe it is in the best interests of the business if I step down now.”

Mr. Sorrell’s exit is a shocking turn of events and a sudden end to the career of a man who had become one of the oracles of the advertising business. The 73-year-old Mr. Sorrell had been at the helm since he founded the company in 1986, helping to transform a little-known U.K. wire-shopping-basket manufacturer called Wire & Plastic Products into the largest advertising holding company in the world. It boasts a host of blue-chip creative agencies like J. Walter Thompson and Young & Rubicam as well as powerhouse media-buyer GroupM.

On April 3, WPP said an independent counsel had been appointed to look into “an allegation of personal misconduct” after The Wall Street Journal reported on the probe. The Journal reported that the board was looking into whether Mr. Sorrell misused company assets. WPP said the allegation didn’t involve sums that were material to the company. Mr. Sorrell at the time issued his own statement denying any financial impropriety. He couldn’t be reached for comment on Saturday.

The probe wasn’t related to client business, and the details of the investigation will remain confidential, the company said in a memo to WPP’s top executives.

“The investigation had no connection to or impact on our operations or clients. Our work for clients is unaffected and continues uninterrupted,” the memo said.

Mr. Sorrell’s successor will be left to navigate difficult straits. WPP’s stock has dropped more than 30% over the past 12 months following a string of disappointing financial results. In its most recent quarter, WPP logged its worst performance since the financial crisis, as net sales fell slightly compared with a year earlier. The firm said it is setting budgets for 2018 on the assumption of no growth in revenue and net sales.

Across the industry, the business model Mr. Sorrell pioneered by snapping up an alphabet soup of ad agencies is being called into question. Marketers are pressuring agency holding companies to revamp organizational structures that are out of step with the digital age. At the same time, marketing clients are cutting back on the fees they pay for ad services or taking more of the work in-house to save money and give themselves greater control.

WPP works on behalf of major marketing clients such as Ford Motor Co. , Unilever and Procter & Gamble Co. , the world’s largest advertiser. P&G has reduced marketing costs by about $750 million in recent years and plans to cut its agency and production costs by an additional $400 million over three years.

Moreover, ad companies have grappled with a scandal over the transparency of the industry’s ad buying practices, and the sector is dealing with the power of tech giants Facebook Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google.

“As I look ahead, I see that the current disruption we are experiencing is simply putting too much unnecessary pressure on the business,” Mr. Sorrell said in a letter to WPP staff Saturday.

“That is why I have decided that in your interest, in the interest of our clients, in the interest of all shareowners, both big and small, and in the interest of all our other stakeholders, it is best for me to step aside,” he said.

Neither Mr. Sorrell nor WPP made any comment about the findings of the investigation. When the board’s probe was initially disclosed, Mr. Sorrell said publicly that he recognized the board had a duty to investigate the complaint and hired two law firms at his own expense.

Mr. Sorrell, one of the most highly paid executives in the world, isn’t walking away empty-handed. His stock option awards will be prorated and will vest over the next five years, based on the achievement of the company’s performance targets, WPP said.

Mr. Sorrell has played a huge role at WPP, cutting deals and micromanaging its far-flung operations. Mr. Sorrell has embedded himself into every aspect of the business from coming up with M&A targets to wooing marketers.

“It’s hard to imagine WPP without Martin. Everything that we do has his stamp on it,” one WPP executive said.

WPP said Mr. Sorrell would be available to assist through the transition.

Mr. Sorrell never penned a jingle or crafted a TV commercial, but the cerebral, finance-minded executive rose to the top of Madison Avenue by being an astute serial acquirer, buying up firms across advertising, marketing, public relations, media, research and technology.

He has not only been the face of WPP, but the face of the advertising business. Mr. Sorrell is a fixture at events where the business elite gather from the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, to Allen & Co.’s media summit in Sun Valley, Idaho. Business leaders around the world have sought his advice on broader economic trends.

Today, the ad giant has a market value of £15 billion ($21.3 billion) and employs more than 200,000 people, including associates and companies in which WPP has an investment, in more than 112 countries. More than 400 companies are part of WPP.

Corrections & Amplifications

Mark Read and Andrew Scott have been appointed joint-chief operating officers of WPP. An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that they had been appointed joint-CEOs. (April 14, 2018)

—Alexandra Bruell contributed to this article.

Write to Nick Kostov at Nick.Kostov@wsj.com and Suzanne Vranica at suzanne.vranica@wsj.comA small manufacturer is stocking up on raw materials. A trucking company is paying $1,500 more for new trailers. A machine-tool company put off plans to build a $5 million headquarters.

The potential for a trade war with China is already rippling through the U.S. economy as leaders of the two countries continue to threaten new tariffs on hundreds of items, from dishwashers to soybeans. Small-business owners aren’t waiting for either side to make good on their saber rattling. They are taking steps to blunt the pain of higher...U.S. sanctions on certain Russian oligarchs and firms are rippling across the economy, threatening to punish more than a dozen other Russian companies that need to refinance $22.8 billion in international bonds over the next 18 months.

Bond investors penalized some companies not explicitly mentioned in the most recent sanctions because they are connected through corporate or familial ties to targeted entities. They sold the debt of other firms out of fear the U.S. Treasury Department might target other individuals in Russian...Bank lobbyists are pushing Congress to relax regulations for the industry, especially for small lenders. Mary Ann Scully, who runs a community bank in Maryland, is unimpressed.

“It does next to nothing for my bank,” Ms. Scully, chief executive of Baltimore-based Howard Bank, said of the proposed legislation.

The bill would represent the most...Gold prices are locked in a tug of war, with investors piling in during periods of political stress only to pull out when interest rates look poised to rise.

Bullion has stayed between $1,303 and $1,362 a troy ounce this year, based on front-month futures prices. And while the S&P 500 entered correction territory in February and is down 7.5% from its Jan. 26 all-time high, gold is down 0.5% during that time.

That...Exchange giant CME Group Inc. is facing scrutiny over its political clout and hardball tactics as a 14-year-old lawsuit nears trial.

The suit contends that two big Chicago futures exchanges—now both part of CME Group—illegally colluded to prevent a foreign rival, Eurex, from intruding on their home turf. Eurex’s U.S. exchange filed the suit in October 2003 against the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. It later revised the suit to accuse CME and CBOT of manipulating regulators and politicians to sabotage...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump took aim at former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey on Friday, calling him a “weak and untruthful slime ball” days ahead of the publication of a new book by Mr. Comey that refers to the president as a “deeply flawed person and leader.”

In a pair of early morning posts on Twitter, the president used a series of derogatory adjectives and nouns to describe Mr. Comey while also accusing him of lying to Congress and leaking classified information, and called for him to be prosecuted.

...The rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl in Jammu and Kashmir state has sparked vigils across India.

The rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl in Jammu and Kashmir state has sparked vigils across India. Photo: jagadeesh nv/epa-efe/rex/shutter/EPA/Shutterstock

NEW DELHI—Protests over the handling of the rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl spread across India on Sunday as the government came under pressure to ensure justice in a case that has shocked the country.

The girl was kidnapped in January and held in a Hindu temple in the northern state of Jammu and Kashmir while she was drugged, gang-raped and murdered, according to a police charge sheet posted on a local media website.

The case vaulted to national attention after a group of lawyers were reported to have initially obstructed the filing of the charge sheet at a local courthouse last week. Seven people including four police officials have been arrested in connection with the case, along with one juvenile, police said. The accused or their lawyers couldn’t be contacted. The first hearing in the case is set to take place Monday.

The case has threatened to stoke emotions between Muslims and Hindus in a state where religious tensions are already high. The girl was from a nomadic Muslim tribe, and the charge sheet filed in court said that one of the accused wanted to drive the tribe from the area.

Protesters gathered Sunday in the capital New Delhi, the western city Mumbai, and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, with demonstrations planned at others sites across the country. Protesters held signs saying, “No Country for Women,” and “Daughter is a daughter whether she is Hindu or Muslim.”

Online, Bollywood celebrities posted pictures of themselves holding up signs saying, “I am Hindustan. I am ashamed. #justiceforourchild.” “Hindustan” is another word for India.

Two Jammu and Kashmir local government ministers from Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party resigned Friday after taking part in a rally in support of the accused. Mr. Modi’s party, which has Hindu nationalist roots, is in coalition with the ruling People’s Democratic Party in Jammu and Kashmir.

Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday led a candlelit vigil in New Delhi for the girl, and for the victim of another alleged rape in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh.

In a second case that sparked outrage, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, a local lawmaker from Mr. Modi’s BJP in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, is in custody facing charges of the rape of a 17-year-old girl and conspiracy to kill her father, who died after allegedly being beaten by Mr. Sengar’s brother and some of his aides.

A woman accused of taking the girl to Mr. Sengar has also been arrested, an official from the Central Bureau of Investigation said. Mr. Sengar and the woman deny the accusations.

Political commentators said the two cases could harm the BJP’s chances of winning national elections due in 2019.

“The elected representatives are themselves accused of rape or are involved in defending the accused,” said Narayana Sukumar, professor of political science at the University of Delhi. “People are losing faith in the governance model of the present government and its promises for women’s security.”

Some activists said the attack on the 8-year-old girl wasn’t just sexual violence but also a hate crime targeting the Muslim community that she came from.

“It’s a culmination of anti-Muslim politics conducted by the BJP and Prime Minister Modi himself,” said Kavita Krishnan, secretary of the All India Progressive Women’s Association.

Mr. Modi condemned the incidents Friday, without referring to them by name. “These kind of incidents are shameful for any civilized society. I want to assure the country that no criminal will be spared. Whatever happened to those girls, they will get justice for that,” he said.

Mehbooba Mufti, chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, said in a tweet from her verified Twitter account she would “bring a new law that will make the death penalty mandatory for those who rape minors.”

The gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old student on a bus in New Delhi in 2012 sparked outrage across India and led to the government increasing the punishment for rape to the death penalty.

Violence against women and girls remains common in India. According to the latest available data from India’s National Crime Records Bureau, 38,947 incidents of rape of women were reported across India in 2016, up 61% from 24,206 in 2011.

—Vibhuti Agarwal and Debiprasad Nayak contributed to this article.

Write to Corinne Abrams at corinne.abrams@wsj.com and Krishna Pokharel at krishna.pokharel@wsj.comU.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

UNITED NATIONS—The United Nations Security Council rejected a Russian-backed resolution to condemn U.S.-led airstrikes in Syria Saturday, after a two-hour debate in which the U.S. said it was poised to strike again if the government of Bashar al-Assad repeats its use of chemical weapons.

Only Russia, China and Bolivia voted for the resolution, which called the airstrikes an aggression against Syria. Eight members opposed the resolution, including the U.S.and European allies on the council. Four members abstained.

...LOS ANGELES—Dwayne Johnson’s “Rampage” this weekend became the latest big-budget Hollywood offering to underperform in the U.S. but make up lost ground in overseas markets like China.

“Rampage,” a videogame adaptation starring the former wrestler alongside a giant, computer-generated gorilla, collected a so-so $34.5 million domestically on its opening weekend but a robust $114.1 million internationally. Those preliminary box-office estimates were released by the studio behind the film, Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.

...Starbucks Corp. issued an apology following the arrest of two black men at a Starbucks store in Philadelphia and said it would launch an investigation into the incident.

Chief Executive Kevin Johnson said he planned to meet with the two men and offer an apology after the “reprehensible outcome.”

“The video shot by customers is very hard...Companies in many industries are testing blockchain technology, best known as the ledger behind cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, to improve data-sharing and conduct transactions more quickly. Above, a coffee plantation in Brazil. Photo: Bloomberg News

Do you take your coffee with cream, sugar or blockchain?

Denver’s Coda Coffee Co. this week is offering what it calls “the world’s first blockchain-traced coffee,” giving customers access to a cloud-based ledger that tracks every stop along their coffee’s supply chain. By scanning a QR code associated with the batch of coffee they bought, customers can see the date and location of every transaction—from collection at the farm to washing and drying, milling, export, roasting and retail.

“A lot of people put information on their bags that they haven’t personally verified,” said Tommy Thwaites, co-founder of Coda Coffee. “This allows the customer, right there, on demand, to trace their coffee back to the farmer.”Dear Meghan,

Congratulations on finding your Prince Charming! I don’t want to be the bad fairy at the festivities, but we need to have a serious talk about taxes.

Meghan, I know you lived as a U.S. citizen in Canada and may be aware of tax issues faced by the seven million or so Americans living abroad. And I know you’re committed to Harry,...Bank of America Corp. is expected to report its first-quarter results before the market opens on Monday. Here’s what you need to know.

1. Earnings Expected To Jump

Earnings of 59 cents a share is the consensus of analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, above the 45 cents earned in the same period a year ago.

...IF YOU GREW UP in New York City, as chef Mashama Bailey did, the aroma of fennel-laced sausages cooked with sweet bell peppers will likely trip an emotional switch; carts selling the combo are a street-fair fixture. This food is just one point of reference that Ms. Bailey shares with John O. (aka Johno) Morisano, another native New Yorker and her business partner at one of the South’s most talked-about restaurants, the Grey, in Savannah, Ga.

“Johno’s family is Italian-American,” said Ms. Bailey. “We both found food as a...Good morning. Vice’s TV channel Viceland hasn’t exactly been a ratings juggernaut so far. But the network has big ambitions for its second annual “Weed Week.” “It’s our ‘Shark Week’,” Viceland Senior Director of Marketing Michele Beno told the Drum. The five days of marijuana programming produced the channel’s best ratings last year, and Viceland is hoping new commercials, which used 20 pounds of the green stuff (453 felony offenses in Florida, Ad Age points out), plus an event in Washington, D.C. today where fans can “Smoke Weed With Jeff Sessions” (not the attorney general, but a guy with the same name) will get viewers hooked this time around.

Never Gonna Give You Up

Now that we’ve had time to digest Mark Zuckerberg’s trip to Capitol Hill, how are advertisers reacting as the Cambridge Analytica scandal continues to unravel? We heard last month that a handful of brands suspended advertising on Facebook. Ad Age reported 20th Century Fox also canceled a planned Facebook Messenger Chatbot launch for its “Deadpool” brand, fearing users may be concerned about the data they were sharing in light of recent headlines. Despite the smattering of small holdouts, overall, advertisers aren’t pulling back. Data from media planning and buying platform 4C suggests ad spend on Facebook increased 7.2% week-on-week from March 17 (when the Guardian’s first Cambridge Analytica article dropped) to March 23. Facebook ad spend from March 24 to March 30 rose 14.5% week-on-week. “As long as ROI (return on investment) is there, advertisers won’t stop investing in Facebook altogether,” 4C Chief Marketing Officer Aaron Goldman said. Indeed, Facebook Vice President of Global Marketing Solutions Carolyn Everson said Thursday at The Wall Street Journal CEO Council in London, “We are not anticipating major changes to our overall revenue and business model.”

—Open Heart Surgery—

But might the Cambridge Analytica fallout cause Facebook ad revenue pain in the long term? Dean Crutchfield, a New York-based independent branding consultant, likened the Capitol Hill hearings to “open heart surgery:” While the patient (Facebook) will be closed up and there might not be an immediate impact on its business, there will still be a scar, which eventually could find its form in regulation or a dent in perception of the company among consumers. One of the biggest issues for the advertising community is that the data-driven business model of digital advertising has become a dinner-table conversation and some consumers are now actively checking and reducing the amount of data they share, Mr. Crutchfield said. (Ms. Everson said Thursday that users largely haven’t changed their privacy settings in the past four weeks.) One senior ad buyer, speaking to CMO Today’s Alex Bruell, said questions still remain around whether lawmakers pass restrictive regulations on tech companies, “If indeed the U.S. adopts a Euro-like law, that’s bad news for advertisers with limited information about their own customers. No more shortcuts via third-party data. Advertisers who have invested a lot in CRM (customer-relationship management) efforts will fare best.”

President Iger

The small matter of Disney’s $52.4 billion deal to acquire 21st Century Fox assets appears to have stopped short Chief Executive Robert Iger’s bid for the U.S. presidency. That’s the key revelation in Vogue’s profile of Mr. Iger, who was seriously exploring a run. “I really, really pushed him to run for president, so much so that I said to him, ‘Gee, if you ever decide to run for office, I will go door to door carrying leaflets. I will go sit and have tea with people,’” Mr. Iger’s pal Oprah Winfrey said. Elsewhere in Disney-related news, ESPN launched its direct-to-consumer service ESPN+ on Thursday. ESPN’s challenge will be to attract viewers who don’t want to pay for cable without losing the business of those who currently do, WSJ’s Shalini Ramachandran reports. The target market falls in three categories of sports fans: core ESPN users hungry for more sports; fans of niche sports like rugby; and the underserved fan who can’t find sports from his or her alma mater on traditional TV.

It’s Not About the Money, Money, Money

CMO Today’s Alex Bruell reports: From client cutbacks to new marketing challenges, 2017 was a tough year for the CEOs of the top ad holding companies, including Interpublic Group of Cos. and Omnicom Group. Their pay packets took a hit, too. According to Omnicom’s proxy filing, Chief Executive John Wren received total compensation of almost $24 million, including cash bonus, equity and base salary, down from almost $26 million in 2016. Also of note in the proxy, filed Thursday, Omnicom said Bruce Crawford will be retiring as chairman this year, with Mr. Wren replacing him. At IPG, CEO Michael Roth received total compensation of almost $17 million in 2017, compared with about $18 million the year before. Mr. Wren’s total compensation was approximately 596 times the pay of Omnicom’s median employee, who earned a little more than $40,000 last year. This year marks the first time companies are required by law to disclose such a pay ratio. Mr. Roth’s compensation was approximately 264 times higher than the median employee, who earned almost $64,000 last year.

Best of the rest

Facebook updated the terms and conditions for its Business Tools earlier this week. Here’s a handy guide on the changes marketers need to be aware of. [Marketing Land]

A publisher source says their views on Snapchat’s Discover section have dropped by “more than half” since the app’s redesign. [New York Magazine]

Amplitude, AppsFlyer, Braze and mParticle have formed a consortium called OpenGDPR that will supply clients with a framework to ready themselves for the forthcoming EU data protection regulation. [Adweek]

A judge has dismissed a lawsuit from Anthony Pompliano, a former Snap employee who had accused the company of juicing its growth metrics. The judge granted Snap’s motion to move the matter into private arbitration. [Variety]

Univision laid off more than 150 people Thursday across the business, including at Fusion Media Group. [The Information]

Tronc laid off several dozen employees Thursday. Also out the door is Tribune Interactive Chief Content Officer Lewis D’Vorkin who said the decision to leave the company was mutual. [Los Angeles Times]

WPP’s MediaCom retained Sky’s estimated £425 million business earlier this week, after a monthslong review. Sky UK Chief Executive Stephen van Rooyen said the partnership sets “industry-leading standards for the transparency and accountability of media-buying practices.” [Campaign]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @larakiara, @VranicaWSJ, @alexbruell,@BenMullin, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.comA video of two black men being handcuffed and led out of a Philadelphia Starbucks for “trespassing” earlier this week drew fierce backlash on social media and ultimately led to an apology from CEO Kevin Johnson on Saturday.

After #BoycottStarbucks began trending on Twitter TWTR, -0.83% over the weekend, Johnson released a statement calling the situation a “reprehensible outcome” and said he hoped to meet the men to offer a “face-to-face apology.” He also vowed to “make any necessary changes” to prevent such instances from happening again.

The video in question has been viewed almost 9 million times.

@Starbucks The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing. pic.twitter.com/0U4Pzs55Ci — Melissa DePino (@missydepino) April 12, 2018

Before that video was filmed, the two men had apparently walked into the Starbucks SBUX, -0.32% and asked to used the toilet, but they were turned down because they hadn’t bought anything. They were eventually asked to leave, but they didn’t — because they were waiting for a friend. That’s when the police were called.

Prosecutors reviewed the case and opted not to charge the men because of “a lack of evidence that a crime was committed,” according to the New York Times.

Johnson’s apology did little to quell the outrage on Twitter, where several familiar names chimed in with their thoughts:

Message to the @Starbucks in Philadelphia....Our city is shining bright like a diamond right now. Please make this situation right. I repeat please make this situation right!!!!!!! Once again MAKE THIS RIGHT — Kevin Hart (@KevinHart4real) April 15, 2018

What the Starbucks manager did was bad enough. It’s really the police who are at fault. How could they do this? I don’t care what your political party is, this is terrible. https://t.co/R40L7spW9S — Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) April 15, 2018

I am going to go to Starbucks today and sit down for a little while and try not to buy anything. It's going to be hard because I really need coffee, but there is a principle at stake. — David Simon (@AoDespair) April 15, 2018A startup that specializes in facial-recognition technology and claims to be 99.9% accurate in identifying individuals, even in fast-moving group settings. A company that is developing lip-reading technology that can decipher speech in real-world, and even noisy, environments.

What sounds like a peek into a Silicon Valley accelerator is actually a glimpse at high-tech companies that have set up shop in Belfast, the capital of Northern Ireland, as it moves to adapt to a post-Brexit world and expand a private sector that remains underdeveloped after the long period of conflict known as “The Troubles.”

Business-development agency Invest Northern Ireland has been working with a range of parties to attract foreign direct investment to the smallest of the four countries that make up the United Kingdom, and to reduce an overreliance on public-sector jobs. The task includes revitalizing Belfast’s city center to make it more inviting for business visitors and tourists, who are newly arriving in cruise ships.

“Belfast used to be listed with Beirut, Baghdad and Bosnia as places for tourists to avoid, but now it’s more likely to be linked with Berlin and Barcelona,” said Gerry Lennon, chief executive of Visit Belfast. “It has been a big transformation.”

Northern Ireland Tourist Board Titanic Belfast was named as a top tourist attraction at the World Travel Awards in 2016.

For investors, Northern Ireland’s selling points include a young and highly educated workforce. About 77% of Northern Irish high-school students go on to third-level education, and about 55% of the population of 1.8 million is below the age of 40.

“We’re very happy with the talent and the low cost base,” said Paul Hill, director of software engineering at Bazaarvoice, an Austin, Texas–based company that opened an office in Belfast last year. The company, which offers a customer review software-as-a-service product for retailers and brands, is one of a growing number of Texas companies that are opting to make Northern Ireland their European base.

Dallas-based Crossvale Inc., an IT consulting firm, has a software e-engineering center in Belfast; OneSource Virtual, a Dallas-based business process-as-a-service provider, has offices in Derry, the second-biggest city in Northern Ireland; and Simply Nuc Inc., another Austin company that acts as a reseller for Intel Corp.’s INTC, -1.63% Next Unit of Computing, is setting up an operations center.

“Availability of high-quality technology professionals with industry skills was a key consideration when we were looking at locations for our new center,” said NUC Chief Executive Aaron Rowsell. “Northern Ireland has a high-performing [information and communications technology] sector and a strong supply of talent from the local universities.”

Northern Ireland Tourist Board The River Foyle in Derry.

The effort to develop real-world skills is being driven by Belfast’s Centre for Secure Information Technologies (CSIT), a venture that is supported by Invest NI and housed in the ECIT Institute at Queens University with the aim of matching researchers and Ph.D. students with experienced entrepreneurs.

Northern Ireland has a long history as a manufacturing base, as home to the famed shipbuilder Harland & Wolff, for example, which is best known for building the Titanic. Today, the country is aiming to be a hub for cybersecurity investment, big data, fintech (as well as legaltech), and aviation technology, offering investors a gateway to the U.K. market.

Watch this video: This security attack costs companies over $3 billion in losses

Read now: Brexit countdown: Here’s how U.K. assets have fared since the vote to leave the EU

In the last full year for which data are available, a record 22 new investors came to Northern Ireland, many of them making that decision after the Brexit vote. And, while figures have yet to be finalized for the current financial year, it looks set to exceed that record with expectations of up to 25 new investors, said Peter Harbinson, Invest NI’s executive director for communications.

“ ‘New’ investors mean companies that have come to Northern Ireland for the first time — an important pipeline for future growth as more than 80% of companies who set up operations in the region reinvest in the region — and often repeatedly,” said Harbinson.

Disk-drive and data-storage company Seagate Technology PLC STX, +1.24% , for example, has operated a facility in Derry, also known as Londonderry, since 1993, investing more than 1 billion pounds in that period and employing more than 1,300 people.

Seagate is now creating new heat-assisted magnetic recording (HAMR) technology at the Derry facility that aims to deliver greater storage capacity. The project marks the first time the company has developed new technology outside of its U.S. home base.

Northern Ireland Tourist Board Belfast’s port.

Reading lips

One recent spinout from CSIT is Liopa, a leader in lip-reading technology that can assist when voice-controlled systems are compromised by background noise, according to Fabian Campbell-West, the company’s head of R&D. Liopa — the name is the Gaelic word for lip — is developing software and systems that can read lips, a movement that is unique to each individual, much like a fingerprint.

The company is betting that the car industry will be interested in its technology, which requires the simple addition of a camera to a dashboard, to add visual recognition to audio recognition and improve the accuracy of in-car commands. The technology could also be adopted by car insurers and mobile-phone vendors, said Campbell-West.

Then there is Anyvision, a facial-recognition technology developer, which started life as an Israeli company in 2015 before opening a sister company in Belfast, where co-founder and Chief Technology Officer Professor Neil Robertson is based today.

Anyvision has a team of data scientists and developers in Belfast, according to Robertson, a professor at ECIT’s Centre for Data Science and Scalable Computing, who conceded that high-tech ventures “are not what you expect to be happening in Belfast.”

AnyVision’s advisory board includes Tamir Pardo, a former head of the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad. The company has a valuation of $400 million and is aiming to become a unicorn, a company with a valuation of at least $1 billion, according to Robertson. The company’s ambitions go beyond security surveillance to commercial uses, including ATM fraud prevention and linking retailers with shoppers.

The peace dividend

One new and growing sector for Northern Ireland is tourism, which has expanded exponentially since the signing of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, the pact that created a Northern Ireland Assembly and new crossborder institutions with the Republic of Ireland. (The six counties of Northern Ireland remained part of the U.K. when Ireland gained its independence in 1922.)

One advantage of Belfast’s history is that it’s a city that most people have heard of, said Visit Belfast’s Lennon: “Awareness is high.” The number of overnight visitors to the city has grown to 1.5 million in 2016 from about 500,000 in 1999, boosting tourism spending to $334 million from $84 million. Tourism now accounts for about 6.6% of Northern Ireland’s GDP and supports more than 18,000 jobs.

The most recent boost came from travel guide Lonely Planet, which named Belfast its No. 1 place to visit in 2018, along with the Antrim coast, home to the famous Giant’s Causeway basalt rock formation, and to many of the landscapes that form the backdrop to the HBO series “Game of Thrones.” The award-winning series begins at Winterfell, home to the Stark family, which is filmed at Castle Ward in County Down.

Getty Images The Giants Causeway.

Cruises are increasingly adding Belfast and Derry to their ports of call. Ninety-four cruise ships dropped 158,000 passengers and crew off for visits to Belfast in 2017, and more than 100 ships are expected this year. And next year Disney DIS, -0.04% is planning to include Belfast to the stops to be made by its 1,754-passenger ship Disney Magic.

The cruise business has benefited MJM Group, a fit-out specialist based in Northern Ireland, that has won a multimillion-pound contract from Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. RCL, -0.86% and operator Azamara Club Cruises to completely refit the Azamara Pursuit liner in Belfast, marking one of the first major refits of a cruise ship in a U.K. dry dock.

Belfast City Council has been working with public and private partners to make sure those visitors have a thriving city to visit, sprucing up the city’s traditional quarters and adding new ones to draw in retail and restaurant and bar businesses.

The council was behind the move of the campus of Ulster University to Belfast’s central Cathedral Quarter, bringing 15,000 students and staff into the city center. More than 6,000 student rooms are planned, with an aim of spurring further commercial and residential investment.

“A student population changes the dynamic and is usually a precursor for residential investment,” said James Collier, development manager for Belfast City Council. “It feels like Belfast is doing a lot of things really fast to meet all the pent-up demand.”

In December, Belfast won a U.K. Region City Deal, which will allow it to negotiate with central and regional governmental units to secure up to £1 billion in funding to boost economic growth.

To match the growth in tourism, Belfast has added hotel rooms at a fast clip, and occupancy rates are high. The city had 3,640 hotel rooms at the end of 2017, compared with 1,132 in 1999, and an 81.6% occupancy rate. Another 11 new hotels are expected to come online in 2018, adding another 1,300 new rooms.

One popular attraction is Titanic Belfast, a museum opened in 2012 that allows visitors to wander through nine interactive galleries on the site of the former shipyard where the ill-fated ship was built. The museum attracted 800,000 visitors in its first year.

Northern Ireland Tourist Board

Still, there are challenges ahead for Northern Ireland, not least of which is Brexit and the fate of the current open border with the Republic of Ireland, an EU member.

Read also: Booming Irish whiskey market draws Diageo back after two-year break

There is also the political stalemate that has left Northern Ireland without an Assembly since January of 2017, following a dispute about an energy scheme. Talks between the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin to restore their power-sharing agreement fell apart because of a disagreement about an Irish-language act.

Invest NI’s Harbinson is confident that the border issue will be resolved: “It’s in everyone’s best interests to be pragmatic and to ensure the continued movement of goods and people,” he said.Starbucks Corp. was downgraded to market perform from outperform at Cowen on Friday, with analysts citing concerns about the competition the company will face as it increasingly turns its attention to craft coffee.

Cowen lowered its price target on Starbucks’ SBUX, -0.32% stock to $65 from $68.

Craft coffee has become more important as Starbucks tries to give its loyalty efforts a jolt.

“Starbucks experienced a seasonally light period of Starbucks gift card activations during the Holiday 2017 period, which we believe to be a leading indicator of the success of loyalty efforts for the following year,” the note said. As a result, Starbucks is targeting both new and lapsed customers.

Read: Apple, Nike and 18 other U.S. companies have $158 billion at stake in China trade war

Don’t miss: How to cut your cancer risk and save money at the same time

However, with more craft coffee players, it will be difficult for Starbucks to recapture lapsed customers.

“Our optimism behind an Americas same-store sales rebound is diminishing as our work suggests craft coffee competition is intensifying while the timeline and magnitude of success with wider loyalty efforts is uncertain,” analysts said.

RBC Capital Markets analysts, on the other hand, are hanging on to hope that efforts to drive digital usage will also boost sales in the U.S. Reasons for optimism include Starbucks’ partnership with JPMorgan Chase, a debit card that is coming soon, and a new mobile app option for easy checkout.

“We believe having a larger group of consumers with this entry-level relationship could increase the base of consumers within Starbucks’ digital marketing reach,” RBC analysts led by David Palmer wrote.

Analysts bemoaned the “low visibility” of some recent beverage creations. But, “the company is transitioning marketing dollars away from short-term ‘sparks’ like Frappuccino Happy Hour in favor of platform innovation (e.g. Nitro),” analysts said.

See: Starbucks tried, and failed, to make this the next Unicorn Frappuccino

RBC rates Starbucks shares outperform with a $65 price target.

One place where Starbucks is shining right now is the coffee aisle. Market share in the ground coffee category was 13.2% for the four weeks ending March 24, up from 12.5% for the year prior, according to a Wells Fargo note published last week.

“Despite increased competition, we continue to believe Starbucks is solidly executing on its packaged coffee strategy with a compelling loyalty program and premium brand equity,” the note said.

Wells Fargo rates Starbucks shares outperform with a $65 price target.

Starbucks shares are down nearly 2% for the last three months, but are up 3% for the last 12 months. The S&P 500 index SPX, -0.29% has rallied 14.1% in the past year.Senate Republicans staged a five-month filibuster in 2011-12 against Jesse Furman, whom President Obama had nominated as a New York-based trial judge. They didn’t question his qualifications but objected to his past writings, including a piece titled “Bang, Bang, You’re Dead! The NRA Supplied the Lead!” During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Furman said: “I wrote those words as an 18-year-old with no legal experience or training and, frankly, spoke with more confidence than was warranted.” The Senate eventually confirmed him.

Now...Congress was right to call on Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg to explain how a political-consulting firm was able to harvest personal information from 50 million users. But to protect Americans from a far greater data-mining threat, lawmakers must question another tech titan next: Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos.

Amazon is amassing consumer data at an alarming rate as it expands from online retail into new ventures like home security, and Americans have entrusted the company with their most sensitive personal information. As major data breaches...