At a Wall Street Journal gathering of business leaders in London a few days ago, John Sawers, a career British diplomat and former head of the MI6 intelligence service, delivered a sober warning: For the first time in living memory, there is a realistic prospect of a superpower conflict.

His declaration came as the Western missile strike at Russia’s friends in Syria was imminent. But that confrontation is only a small part of the troubling equation he described.

...WASHINGTON—The three-country coalition that launched airstrikes in Syria came together despite persistent trans-Atlantic tensions—a period of unity made possible, White House officials said, because of good relations between the U.S. and French presidents and an alliance against Russia that eased strains with the U.K.

The coalition was rooted in the shared goal of ending the use of chemical weapons in Syria. French President Emmanuel Macron was the first of the three countries’ leaders to lean publicly in to a military response...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump deferred to his Pentagon chief’s caution and tempered his preference for a more robust attack on Syria over allegations it used deadly gas on civilians, the first hints at the direction of his revamped national-security team.

The decision late last week, detailed by people familiar with the process, marked the first substantive test of the group now that John Bolton is serving as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser.

...The U.S. said Monday it was concerned Russian officials may have tampered with the site of an alleged chemical attack in Syria before investigators could reach the area.

Western governments called on Russia and Syria to give unfettered access to Douma, the site of the alleged attack. The U.K. reported that investigators from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons hadn’t yet been allowed access to the site.

The...On Apr. 14, the U.S., France and the U.K. launched 105 missiles against three targets connected to Syria’s chemical weapons program, in the biggest Western intervention against Bashar al-Assad’s regime since the war started in 2011. The aim of the mission was to cripple the regime’s ability to carry out attacks like the one it is suspected of having conducted in Douma a week earlier, killing at least 43 people, possibly with chlorine and a nerve agent.

The U.S. said 76 of its missiles hit a research-and-development center...WASHINGTON—A $43,000 soundproof phone booth for Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt violated the law, a government oversight body said Monday, because the agency didn’t notify Congress before making the purchase.

The finding, by the Government Accountability Office, comes as Mr. Pruitt has come under fire for his spending on items such as first-class air travel at taxpayer expense. The White House is reviewing Mr. Pruitt’s activities, and the Office of Government Ethics has urged the EPA to investigate possible...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump is set to announce Monday two nominees to the Federal Reserve Board, including Columbia University economist Richard Clarida as vice chairman, according to White House officials.

Mr. Clarida is a Republican economist and monetary policy specialist. If confirmed by the Senate, he would serve as the No. 2 to...Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, used the same Delaware limited-liability company in two secret deals relating to alleged sexual encounters involving his clients, according to people familiar with the matter.

Venture capitalist Elliott Broidy paid an initial installment of $62,500 to the company, Essential Consultants LLC, as part of Mr. Cohen’s $250,000 total fee for negotiating a nondisclosure agreement related to Mr. Broidy’s affair with a former Playboy model who alleged he had impregnated her,...6:19

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.This is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. Here’s what’s happening today: -President is traveling to Florida today to host a roundtable on the new tax […]This is the web version of the WSJ’s daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here. In today’s issue, the Fed now sees little risk of deflation, currency markets spark concerns, the U.S. will need more than talk to get back into the Trans-Pacific Partnership, President Trump’s top economic adviser thinks calmer heads will […]6:19

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.6:19

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

BEIRUT—Syrian armed forces on Sunday unleashed airstrikes against rebels and shelled what rescue workers said were civilian homes, as President Bashar al-Assad sought to demonstrate his regime’s continued strength a day after a U.S.-led missile attack.

The American, French and British barrage of missiles on Saturday destroyed much of Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities, U.S. Defense Department officials said, but left Mr. Assad’s conventional military intact. American officials said the strikes were retaliation for a suspected...Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, used the same Delaware limited-liability company in two secret deals relating to alleged sexual encounters involving his clients, according to people familiar with the matter.

Venture capitalist Elliott Broidy paid an initial installment of $62,500 to the company, Essential Consultants LLC, as part of Mr. Cohen’s $250,000 total fee for negotiating a nondisclosure agreement related to Mr. Broidy’s affair with a former Playboy model who alleged he had impregnated her,...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump deferred to his Pentagon chief’s caution and tempered his preference for a more robust attack on Syria over allegations it used deadly gas on civilians, the first hints at the direction of his revamped national-security team.

The decision late last week, detailed by people familiar with the process, marked the first substantive test of the group now that John Bolton is serving as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser.

...On Apr. 14, the U.S., France and the U.K. launched 105 missiles against three targets connected to Syria’s chemical weapons program, in the biggest Western intervention against Bashar al-Assad’s regime since the war started in 2011. The aim of the mission was to cripple the regime’s ability to carry out attacks like the one it is suspected of having conducted in Douma a week earlier, killing at least 43 people, possibly with chlorine and a nerve agent.

The U.S. said 76 of its missiles hit a research-and-development center...BOISE, Idaho—Laura Johansen has always loved the easiness of life in her hometown: The first-rate hiking and rafting a short drive from her front door. The quick commute to her job at a local hospital. The affordability.

But when Ms. Johansen, who was renting her home, decided to buy a house earlier this year, the Idaho native was shocked. The median price of a single-family home in Boise’s Ada County had shot up to almost $300,000, well-above the $200,000 homes she was eyeing when she first considered homeownership two years...LONDON—U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday defended her decision to attack chemical-weapons facilities in Syria alongside the U.S. and France, in the face of criticism that she should have first sought the backing of Parliament.

British warplanes fired missiles at a military facility in Syria in the early hours of Saturday, as part of a broader strike aimed at knocking out President Bashar al-Assad’s ability to use chemical weapons. The assault came a week after chlorine gas was allegedly used on civilians in the Syrian...Lawyers for President Donald Trump say they should be allowed to review the material seized by the Federal Bureau of Investigation last week from Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer Michael Cohen before government investigators begin their ​own, according to a court filing late Sunday.

The filing asks​ a Manhattan federal judge to stop the government from using a “taint team” of prosecutors to review the evidence for documents protected by attorney-client privilege and to issue an order allowing Mr. Cohen, Mr. Trump and their legal...The retail industry is undergoing another major shift -- to e-commerce. How did we get here? Photo: Associated Press

Spending at U.S. retailers bounced back in March, but the broader trend in consumer spending shows only moderate growth despite a solid labor market and growing worker paychecks.

Retail sales—a measure of outlays at stores, restaurants and websites—increased a seasonally adjusted 0.6% in March from the prior month, the Commerce Department said Monday, beating economist expectations.

Part...‘I’ve never had to work fast food,’ says high-schooler Thayer McCollum, 17, here during his work shift at Avionics Specialists. Matt Nager for The Wall Street Journal

Facing Historic Labor Shortages, Companies Snap Up Teenagers The U.S. is facing a severe worker shortage, forcing employers big and small to explore the labor market’s youngest echelon, which is piling into the workforceWall Street’s most crowded trade could be splitting up.

Since Facebook Inc.’s revelation last month that millions of users’ data were compromised, stock-picking fund managers have soured on the social-network’s stock, with some either partially or completely abandoning their positions.

Although the plunge in Facebook shares has pulled down...When Facebook Inc.’s share price tumbled last month following reports that a voter-profiling firm had improperly obtained profile information of tens of millions of users, many investors were stunned.

But a handful of funds that pick stocks based on good governance scorecards weren’t at all surprised. They were forewarned by index provider MSCI Inc., whose analysts wrote in a June report that Facebook was “exceptionally vulnerable” to backlash from users and regulators because of its focus on “monetizing personal information.”...LONDON—U.S. and British officials both issued warnings over giant Chinese telecommunications-equipment ZTE Corp. on Monday, signaling sharply escalating Western scrutiny of the sector.

British cybersecurity officials warned U.K. phone carriers here to stay clear of ZTE’s equipment and services, citing national-security concerns. The U.S. Commerce Department said it banned American companies from selling products to ZTE because the company violated the terms of a deal last year settling allegations of sanctions busting.

...The Federal Communications Commission is considering a new rule to further curb the U.S. business of Huawei Technologies Co., making it harder for small and rural carriers to purchase gear from Chinese telecom-equipment makers, according to people familiar with the matter.

Such a move would escalate the government’s campaign against the cellular-technology giant and its Chinese peers over what the Trump administration says are national-security concerns.

...In miserable cold and driving rain, Desiree Linden on Monday became the first American woman to win the Boston Marathon in 33 years, breaking the tape in an unofficial time of 2:39:54.

Linden, 34, of Rochester Hills, Mich. is the first U.S. woman to win the prestigious race since Lisa Larsen Weidenbach did so in 1985. Linden’s victory is her best result in a marathon since she was runner-up in Boston, by just two seconds, in 2011.

...One day last winter, Jane Wilcox’s partner, Roger Landers, interrupted her while she was doing laundry and said he’d like to take her out to a nice dinner. Then he paused for a moment and continued: “I’m not going to be around much longer.”

Mr. Landers had been battling liver cancer for three years. He’d stopped riding his beloved motorcycle. Recently, his oncologist had told him that chemotherapy wasn’t working.

Ms....Philadelphia

The first time it caught his eye, Sixers guard T.J. McConnell was confused. There was something odd about the Philadelphia 76ers’ practice courts.

“What is this line doing here?” he thought.

It...It’s not unusual after eating that the symptoms set in for Lee Graham: severe stomach pain and worse.

“It’s always sort of a game of Russian roulette when you go out to eat,” says Ms. Graham, executive director of the National Celiac Association, a Needham, Mass.-based nonprofit that advocates for people with celiac disease.

What’s frustrating...Every spring like clockwork, Bridget Cusick receives a package from her father. This year, she opened it to find two manila envelopes, stamped and pre-addressed; one to New York state; one to the Internal Revenue Service. Her address was written in the top left-hand corners. There were forms, too: three stacks, held together by paper clips. A Post-it Note stuck to one said, “your copies.”

“It’s very turnkey for me,” says Ms. Cusick. “He puts little sticky arrows that say, ‘sign here.’ ”

...Saudi Arabia wants to do more than export oil. So it’s importing popcorn machines.

On Wednesday, when moviegoers in Riyadh take their seats to watch a screening of Walt Disney Co.’s “Black Panther,” it will be the first time a Hollywood movie has played in a theater in Saudi Arabia in 35 years. AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., the world’s largest movie theater company, is the first to operate in Saudi Arabia since a longtime ban on cinemas was lifted five months ago.

...At the Saudi Film Days event in Los Angeles, Saudi date merchants, wearing traditional dress, mingled with those in the film industry.

At the Saudi Film Days event in Los Angeles, Saudi date merchants, wearing traditional dress, mingled with those in the film industry. Photo: Saudi Film Days

LOS ANGELES—Hollywood turned a little bit Saudi this week, down to the white wine glasses full of mineral water.

That was the drink of choice at one of many events hosted by a delegation from Saudi Arabia feting the country’s film industry, which until a few months ago hardly existed. Now, with cinemas about to open in the kingdom after a three-decade ban and billions of dollars committed by the government to entertainment, two very different worlds are coming together for the first time.

At a Saudi film festival in a theater owned by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, a “deep tech” DJ from the Hollywood Hills with shoulder-length hair and a black fedora sipped a fruit juice while chatting with date merchants in traditional Saudi dress.

“Most Hollywood parties have a lot more Champagne,” said the DJ, Chris Fitzmorris.

The event, held in a theater owned by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, coincided with a trip by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Photo: Saudi Film Days

From the virgin cocktails to the grandiose plans for sprawling soundstages across the Saudi desert, the week was a sneak preview of what the Saudi-Hollywood relationship might look like: a bit surreal but potentially lucrative.

It coincided with the visit of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to California. He is here to pitch the kingdom as a business destination, part of his plan to transform the conservative petrostate into an open, 21st-century economy. To do that, he needs Hollywood’s help.

Theater-chain executives, studio chiefs and soundstage managers attended a symposium organized by the Saudi delegation at the Four Seasons in Beverly Hills on Wednesday. The Saudis are trying to secure partnerships between their country and executives at companies like Walt Disney Co. and studios Warner Bros. and Universal Pictures.

Related Video Saudi Arabia's crown prince Mohammed bin Salman is on a tour of the United States, as he presses ahead with his plans to reform Saudi Arabia from an ultraconservative petrostate to a country that is open to business and eager for foreign investment. WSJ's Niki Blasina reports. Photo: Getty.

Such a partnership occurred, albeit on a much smaller scale, on “Jaber.” The short film brought together Saudi director Abdulrahman al-Jandal and Burbank, Calif.-based producer Nicholas Joseph Cunha. Set between Los Angeles and the Eastern Saudi city of Alkhobar, the film was shot in California.

Mr. Cunha, who mostly works on hip-hop videos, said the Saudi market provided a fresh set of opportunities. “It’s a place that’s never been touched,” he said, finishing a cardamom-infused Arabic coffee at Wednesday’s event.

Guests sipped cocktails featuring chia seeds and maple syrup and named after classic films like “Singing in the Rain” and “Casablanca.” Snacks included “salty Saudi pancakes” and spiced rice with lamb—a Saudi staple, here served in little jars.

A variety of dates were on hand, brought to Hollywood from the Saudi oasis town of Al Hasa. “These are my signature products,” said farmer Khalid al Ramadan, pointing to dates with pistachio filling covered in white chocolate and rose petals.

It is Mr. Ramadan’s first time in the U.S., but he says American culture feels familiar to him. “It’s because of Hollywood,” he said.

Panelists at Saudi Film Days discussed the future of the Saudi film industry, which until recently only existed underground. Photo: Saudi Film Days

But California’s gender-neutral bathrooms and LGBTQ-friendly culture is an odd match for Saudi Arabia, home to an austere interpretation of Sunni Islam where gender segregation is still widely practiced, with unrelated men and women not officially allowed to mix in public, and heterosexual relations outside marriage are banned.

Under Prince Mohammed, Saudi Arabia’s strict social rules are relaxing—a push partly intended to make the kingdom more attractive to foreign investors. From June, women will be allowed to drive. And later this month, the country’s first commercial cinema in 35 years will open, courtesy of AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. Executives expect a box office of about $1 billion within five years, potentially turning the country into a new trove of found money for Hollywood.

Questions remain about the economics of the market, including how much money from ticket sales will flow back to studios or what censorship requirements Saudi officials will demand.

The country is looking to build its entertainment industry in other ways. Its sovereign-wealth fund is moving to buy a stake in Endeavor LLC, a company that includes the world’s largest talent agency, Saudi officials have said.

Until recently, the Saudi film industry only existed underground. Religious conservatives vociferously opposed attempts to lift the country’s ban on cinemas, and aspiring filmmakers at best could hope to show their films in theaters abroad, or in rare private screenings inside the kingdom.

“Lots of companies are coming to this market. It’s a big market—people are thirsty for entertainment,” said Ahmed Almulla, the organizer of a film festival in the kingdom. “But for Saudi artists who make their own films, it will be hard. The competition will not be fair and easy.”LOS ANGELES—Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has courted a slew of American tech and entertainment heavyweights to bring everything from data centers to cinemas to Saudi Arabia, part of his push to transform the country into a more open and dynamic society.

Over the past week, he has met top business executives—from Amazon.com Inc.’s Jeff Bezos and Microsoft Corp.’s Satya Nadella to Walt Disney Co.’s Robert Iger.

In...RIYADH, Saudi Arabia—At this catwalk show, only women are allowed to watch, skirts can’t show off the knees and cleavage is strictly forbidden.

Welcome to Fashion Week, Saudi-style.

Saudi Arabia is hosting its first-ever Arab Fashion Week, an event that is testing the limits of what is acceptable in a profoundly religious country where women...A little-known private-equity executive will steer WPP PLC through one of its stormiest periods following the weekend resignation of Martin Sorrell, the ad giant’s high-profile founder and chief executive.

Roberto Quarta, until Saturday WPP’s chairman, has assumed the role of executive chairman pending the appointment of a new CEO, effectively putting him in charge of a global company struggling with a fast-changing advertising market.

...Volkswagen AG’s commercial-vehicles unit said it is considering a full takeover of Navistar International Corp., one of America’s largest truck makers with a market value of nearly $4 billion—an ambitious move for the German auto maker just days after naming a new chief executive.

Volkswagen Truck & Bus GmbH already owns just shy of 17% of Illinois-based Navistar and officials at the unit said Monday it could raise that stake or even launch a full takeover.

...A Bertucci’s employee pulling a catering cart through Boston’s Financial District on Feb. 9, 2017. Photo: Associated Press

Bertucci’s Corp., the Massachusetts-based pizza chain, has filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and plans to sell its business in a deal valued at roughly $20 million.

The company said Monday that an affiliate of Chicago-based investment firm Right Lane Capital LLC has agreed to purchase the brick-oven pizza chain’s assets, but that bid will be tested at a bankruptcy-court supervised auction.

The chain’s 59 restaurants are open for business but the company plans to reject 29 money-losing leases and hasn’t ruled out closing some locations, according to court papers.

The company hired Hilco Real Estate LLC in January to review its leases and negotiate better terms. Since then, Bertucci’s has saved $3.5 million on 17 leases, according to Brian Connell, the chain’s chief financial officer.

Despite the cost-cutting efforts, Mr. Connell said in court papers the restaurant’s sales have been falling since 2011, and a forbearance agreement with lenders expired earlier this year.

Bertucci’s joins a number of other casual eateries—including Romano’s Macaroni Grill, Così Inc. and Logan’s Roadhouse—that have sought bankruptcy protection in recent years.

Traditional casual-dining chains in the U.S. have struggled in recent years as consumers’ dining habits have shifted toward restaurants perceived as offering healthier alternatives.

As part of the filing in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del., the company is seeking approval for $4 million in financing from Right Lane so it can continue to meet its obligations during bankruptcy proceedings.

Right Lane’s offer includes $1.7 million cash, a credit in the amount of whatever bankruptcy financing is outstanding at closing, and $14 million in new second-lien debt.

Bertucci’s is owned by Levine Leichtman Capital Partners, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm that last year bought Round Table Pizza on the West Coast. The restaurant chain has about $119 million in debt, a court filing shows.

The first Bertucci’s opened in Somerville, Mass. in 1981. By the end of the 1990s, the Boston-based chain had grown to over 100 restaurants. The company has 969 full-time employees and 3,245 part-time employees. The company said Brian Wright will stay on as chief executive, and Mr. Connell will continue as CFO.

A Bertucci’s representative couldn’t be reached for immediate comment.

The law firms Landis Rath & Cobb LLP and Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP are handling Bertucci’s chapter 11 bankruptcy. Judge Mary F. Walrath has been assigned the case, number 18-10894.

Write to Becky Yerak at becky.yerak@wsj.comBank of America Corp. said Monday that a boost from the U.S. tax law and continued rising interest rates helped push first-quarter profit 30% higher, extending the string of better-than-expected results from the nation’s biggest banks.

Quarterly profit at the Charlotte, N.C.-based bank rose to $6.92 billion from $5.34 billion a year ago. Per-share earnings were 62 cents; analysts had expected 59 cents per share. Revenue came in at $23.13 billion, up from $22.25 billion a year ago. Analysts had expected $23.06 billion.

...Bristol-Myers Squibb shareholders have a valuation problem.

Shares dove 8% Monday after the company unveiled mixed clinical data in a carefully watched trial for patients with lung cancer. Bristol-Myers announced its combination of immunotherapy drugs significantly reduced the risk of disease progression or death in a small subset of patients, but results were weaker in other arms of the trial.

Mixed...Russian stocks are dirt cheap. Should you buy them?

The question is likely to provoke a hollow laugh from many investors as they ponder the prospect of a renewed Cold War between east and west. Send capital there? Are you mad?

It is true that Russia looks like a terrible place to invest based on both politics and long-term fundamentals: It...Shares of trucking companies boosted major indexes Monday, as some strong corporate-profit reports helped investors look past simmering geopolitical tensions.

Old-economy companies, such as trucking firms and rail-road operators, helped lead the S&P 500 higher after J.B. Hunt Transport Services reported stronger-than-expected revenue for the first three months of the year.

J.B....News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services

Why No One Wants to Back the Gun of the Future

https://www.wsj.com/articles/just-how-widespread-is-the-housing-shortage-1523876401

U.S. Homebuilding Isn’t Keeping Up With Growth, Development Group Says Arizona, Utah among states that haven’t built enough housing Construction workers frame a new home at a Woodside Homes site in Saratoga Springs, Utah, in May 2017. Utah is among the 22 states that built too little housing in the 15 years since 2000. Photo: Kim Raff for The Wall Street Journal America’s housing shortage is more wide-ranging than cloistered coastal markets, stretching from pricey locales such as California and Massachusetts to more surprising places, such as Arizona and Utah. Some 22 states and the District of Columbia have built too little housing to keep up with economic growth in the 15 years since 2000, resulting in a total shortage of 7.3 million units, according to research to be released Monday by an advocacy group for loosening building regulations. California bears half of the blame for the shortage: The state built 3.4 million too few units to keep up with job, population and income growth. Shortage by State Some 22 states and the District of Columbia didn't build enough housing from 2000 to 2015. Production fell short by 7.3 million homes, or 5.4% of the total housing market. Underproduction as a percentage of 2015 housing stock 5.1–10% 10.1–15% 2–5% >15% D.C.

The research was commissioned by Up for Growth National Coalition, a newly formed group that includes real-estate developers and owners such as Holland Property Group in Vancouver, Wash., and Essex Property Trust Inc. in California, along with affordable-housing builder BRIDGE Housing. It also includes local California chambers of commerce and TechNet, a network of technology-company executives.

The data adds details to a housing-shortage picture painted by government data, industry results and economists. Home construction per household remains near the lowest level in 60 years of record-keeping, according to Jordan Rappaport, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.

There is growing awareness that the housing shortage is widespread and it affects states not often thought of as being especially anti-development. Home prices nationally rose 6.2% in the year that ended in January, roughly twice the rate of incomes and three times the rate of inflation, according to the S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller National Home Price Index.

“The artificial barriers to housing production aren’t constrained just to California,” said Mike Kingsella, executive director of the Up For Growth National Coalition. “As we dug into the numbers behind this, at a local market level, we’re seeing a pronounced affordability challenge in places like even Arizona.”

Arizona and Utah are among the states that have built too little housing in the 15-year period, according to the report. The shortage in these places likely reflects strong demand as they become top destinations for retirees and people priced out of the Northeast and California.

At the same time, it is becoming more difficult to build all across America due to shortages of land, labor and materials.

Southern Nevada has about a two months’ supply of homes for sale at the current sales pace, when about six months is considered a balanced market between sellers and buyers. Las Vegas saw home prices rise 11% in the year ended January, making it the second-fastest growing market for home prices in the country, according to Case-Shiller.

Las Vegas has historically swung from extreme home-building binges to severe busts, but a decade after the housing crash it looks more like the rest of the country. Builders have been more cautious about putting up new homes, and the economy has become more diverse.

“We have home builders that are building like crazy trying to keep up with demand, and they can’t build fast enough,” said Chris Bishop, president of the Greater Las Vegas Association of Realtors, which isn’t part of the advocacy group.

Developers who are part of the Up for Growth coalition have a vested interest in advocating for loosening planning regulations; they stand to make money from increased housing production.

The Up for Growth report, conducted by ECONorthwest, an economic consulting firm, examines how much housing was built in the U.S. compared with economic drivers of housing demand, such as home prices, population growth and incomes. It compares production from 2000 to 2015 with rates of production since the 1970s.

Economists who have reviewed the report caution that measuring the present need for housing by extrapolating from past production is imperfect. Western states that were sparsely populated 60 years ago and experienced huge building booms in the latter half of the 20th century may not need to build at such a rapid clip today.

Housing shortages also are difficult to measure because most people will find somewhere to live by doubling up with family or roommates or moving to areas where homes are abundant but jobs may be scarce.

Nonetheless, the data underscore what economists say is a clear trend. “We have a housing deficit,” said Chris Herbert, managing director at Harvard University’s Joint Center for Housing Studies. “I think we can all agree we should be building more.”

The Phoenix metropolitan area has about three months of supply at the current sales pace. Prices rose 5.9% in the year ended January, according to Case-Shiller. In Boise, Idaho, buyers are reporting bidding wars and some are paying in cash, a new phenomenon for what was once a sleepy market.

California has environmental and other regulations that can add years and tens of thousands of dollars to development costs. That has collided with a booming technology sector to help the median price of a home in the state more than double to nearly $540,000 since 2000.

Most recently, California state Sen. Scott Wiener proposed allowing developers to build taller buildings near public transit even if local zoning doesn’t permit it, in an effort to promote more housing near transportation.

“California is certainly the poster child of what happens when you don’t build enough housing and when you don’t fund enough affordable housing,” the Democrat said. ”It’s going to take years and frankly decades to truly resolve the problem.”

Write to Laura Kusisto at laura.kusisto@wsj.comSeven inmates were killed and 17 others injured in a series of fights at a rural South Carolina prison, the latest incident in a prison system that officials say is dangerously understaffed.

The fights at Lee Correctional Institution in Bishopville began at 7:15 p.m. Sunday and lasted until 2:55 a.m. Monday, according to the state’s Department of Corrections. No employees or law-enforcement officers were injured, the department said. Emergency workers from a half-dozen regional agencies assisted in treating the injured inmates,...Lawmakers in Maine seeking to broaden access to an opioid overdose-reversal drug are pushing back against the latest limits supported by Gov. Paul LePage, who has long argued greater availability could enable addicts.

In the latest fight, the legislature passed a bill that removes an age restriction on who can get naloxone, the reversal drug, from a pharmacist. Mr. LePage had sought to limit access to people 21 years or older, after lawmakers passed prior laws to expand access through pharmacies.

...WASHINGTON—In endorsing his top lieutenant as his successor, House Speaker Paul Ryan has sought to project an air of inevitability around Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and lock in the California Republican’s status as the heir apparent.

It is a perception that could be hard to sustain.

Many members of the House Republican conference say the...U.S. ambassador at large for religious freedom, Sam Brownback (C), speaks to journalists in front of the Aliaga court and prison complex during the trial of U.S. pastor Andrew Brunson. Photo: OZAN KOSE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES

An American pastor who has spent 18 months in Turkish custody appeared for the first time in court Monday, denying accusations of espionage and contacts with terrorists in a case that has exacerbated tense relations between Washington and Ankara.

Turkish prosecutors allege Andrew Brunson colluded with a group Turkey blames for the 2016 failed military coup against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as well with Kurdish militants Turkey regards as terrorists. He faces up to 35 years in prison.

The evangelical pastor, who has lived in Turkey for over two decades and ran a small Presbyterian church in the coastal city of Izmir when he was detained in October 2016, said he was never involved in any illegal activity.Last fall, Oleg Deripaska ramped up Russia’s presence in Western markets when he pulled off London’s second-biggest corporate listing of the year. Now the metals billionaire is on a U.S. sanctions list and that firm has lost roughly half its value.

The reversal of fortune reflects the arc of the Kremlin’s efforts to build political and financial relations with the West over the past two decades.

Mr....I am standing alone in a sparsely furnished living room when a man I’ve never seen before walks in. He takes several strides in my direction, his footsteps ringing out on the bare floor, and looks me up and down. “What the hell are you doing?” he asks in a British accent. “Have you seen yourself?”

Stunned, I glance at my reflection in the full-length mirror to my left. Staring back at me is a woman I don’t recognize. She wears tight black pants and an unflattering tan T-shirt that clings to the flesh around her stomach. Her...Everyday life is incredibly complex—filled with unexpected events, nuanced problems and new skills to be mastered. Fortunately for us, the brain is very good at processing new information. AI, on the other hand, isn’t. A computer can teach itself to master a narrow, predetermined skill, such as identifying dogs in photos or translating from English to French. But that same machine would be at a loss when faced with even the simplest unexpected task outside its area of expertise. That’s because AI lacks the brain’s plasticity—its remarkable ability to adapt and evolve.

Until...The U.S. said Monday it was concerned Russian officials may have tampered with the site of an alleged chemical attack in Syria before investigators could reach the area.

Western governments called on Russia and Syria to give unfettered access to Douma, the site of the alleged attack. The U.K. reported that investigators from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons hadn’t yet been allowed access to the site.

The...The coffee industry is fighting the suggestion its products could cause cancer.

A Los Angeles judge’s recent ruling in a lawsuit over cancer labels has galvanized coffee brands and retailers, including Starbucks Corp., to push harder to avoid carrying the labels.

The companies say that trace amounts of the chemical acrylamide in their brew...Combining new immune-boosting cancer drugs with each other or with older drugs improved survival in patients with lung cancer, compared with traditional chemotherapy, new studies found.

The benefits of the new cocktails, which include immunotherapies from Merck & Co. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., come with high price tags because they combine already expensive drugs, a trend that worries doctors even as they welcome advances in treating lung cancer, the deadliest type of tumor.

...When Federal Reserve officials gathered last month for Jerome Powell’s first meeting as central bank chairman, not a single official among 15 saw a downside risk to inflation.

It marked a milestone.

The Fed’s mind-set has been shaped during the entire post-financial crisis era by a fear of Japan-like deflation, a downward drift in consumer...In the week ahead, the U.S. will see data on retail sales and industrial production, while overseas, China will release its report on first-quarter gross domestic product and the eurozone will get a consumer confidence reading.

MONDAY: The Commerce Department releases data on March retail sales. In February, retail sales fell 0.1%, marking...WPP faced serious disruption to its business long before Chief Executive Martin Sorrell faced allegations of personal misconduct and then stepped down. His exit won’t clear away those problems, but it might set the company on the path to addressing them.

The disruption the world’s biggest advertising agency faces isn’t just about advertising’s digital revolution. It is also about the exceptional wave of major customer accounts coming up for renewal this year.

...After scooping up bankrupt casinos at discount prices, Carl Icahn’s company is cashing in its chips, selling everything in the sector except a small Atlantic City casino that isn’t operating.

Icahn Enterprises LP said Monday it has reached deals to sell its majority-owned subsidiary, Tropicana Entertainment Inc., for $1.85 billion. The company owns about 84% of Tropicana, which operates eight casinos and resorts in the U.S. and Aruba, including its flagship property, Tropicana Atlantic City.

...Good morning. The “end of an era” is an overused cliché, but it’s what I kept hearing and reading this weekend in reaction to Martin Sorrell’s resignation as chief executive of WPP. While the current focus is on Mr. Sorrell’s legacy on the ad business and the stunning turn of events that led to his departure, questions linger about a successor and what the future of WPP—and even the wider ad-agency company holding model—will look like.

The WSJ previously reported the WPP board appointed an independent counsel to look into an “allegation of personal misconduct” by Mr. Sorrell and whether he had misused company assets. Mr. Sorrell denied any financial impropriety at the time. WPP says the details of the investigation will remain confidential and that it had “no connection or impact on our operations or clients.” Few would have predicted the oracle of the ad industry and the longest-serving CEO on the FTSE 100 would have stepped aside in such an abrupt fashion. In an email to staff Saturday, Mr. Sorrell nodded to a famous quote from former Liverpool Football Club manager Bill Shankly, saying “WPP is not just a matter of life and death, it was, is and will be more important than that.”

—What Now—

Not a man with a reputation for sitting still, it will be difficult to imagine what Mr. Sorrell will do on his first day of retirement. (Interestingly, WSJ reports Mr. Sorrell’s contract with the company didn’t have a noncompete clause.) As for WPP, life will now be very different without its talisman who had grown the company from a small manufacturer of wire baskets into the biggest ad agency firm in the world. No word on a replacement CEO just yet, but the company has elevated Wunderman CEO Mark Read and WPP’s corporate development director and chief operating officer for Europe, Andrew Scott, to joint chief-operating officer roles. They must stabilize a business in shock at the departure of a leader whose position seemed set in stone. They’re also tasked with turning around a recent run of poor performance — WPP’s share price dropped more than 30% over the past year. And they must weather disruption ranging from cost-cutting clients concerned with ad-agency transparency, to growing demand for data and digital services, and increasing competition from consulting firms and other new entrants vying for marketers’ budgets.

3 Must-Reads on Martin Sorrell’s Exit:

WSJ’s Nick Kostov and Suzanne Vranica report on how Mr. Sorrell’s resignation unfolded.

A former Campaign journalist looks back at “how an outsider shaped the global ad industry.”

Campaign also offers a deep dive on WPP’s new joint chief operating officers and the task that lays ahead of them.

Starbucks Siren

The last thing on your mind when dropping into Starbucks for a meeting is leaving the place in handcuffs. On Thursday, two black men were arrested in a downtown Philadelphia store—an incident than quickly went viral on social media, where people accused the company and police of racial discrimination. The city’s police commissioner said employees called the authorities after staff declined to let the men use the restroom because they hadn’t bought anything, and allegedly refused to leave. Starbucks initially issued a statement apologizing to the two individuals and said it was reviewing its policies. CEO Kevin Johnson later issued a far stronger statement saying the incident had led to a “reprehensible outcome” and added that he personally would meet with partners, customers, law-enforcement and community leaders. He also plans to offer the two arrested men a face-to-face apology. Jeff Hunt, partner at consulting firm PulsePoint Group, tells me, “Starbucks’ response shows that corporate entities are capable of sensitivity and compassion, something we need more of in the world, and perhaps Starbucks needs more of in its training and store policies.”

Better the Devil You Know

Netflix is arguably the biggest disrupter to the cable and TV businesses of recent times. The streaming titan is paying out gobs of money for talent and content, persuading consumers to cut the cord and forcing big media companies to rethink their decades-long strategies. So Netflix and Comcast might, at first glance, appear to be strange bedfellows. On Friday, the pair announced Comcast will begin bundling Netflix with its cable, TV, phone and internet plans—Netflix’s first billing integration with a U.S. cable operator. From a marketing perspective, Comcast wants Netflix bingers to pony up for fast broadband packages. And as the streaming market matures in the U.S., Netflix hopes the partnership will make it easier for people who haven’t signed up yet to get its service into their living rooms.

Best of the rest

Tronc’s largest shareholder, Michael Ferro, agreed to sell his stake to a relative of the McCormick family that built the company’s flagship newspaper, the Chicago Tribune, into a media powerhouse in the early 20th century. [WSJ]

Local broadcasters are turning to live-streaming to reflect changing TV viewing habits. [Adweek]

Hulu is sponsoring the NBA playoff games on TNT to promote its live TV service. [Deadline Hollywood]

A group of Google Maps advocates say the problem of fake reviews, ghost listings and other scams on the platform is getting worse. Google said it’s in a “constant race with local business spammers” and that it’s “heavily invested” in getting users to contribute and flag issues, alongside using manual and automated systems to detect fraud.” [CNBC]

Google is expanding its “Funding Choices” tool that helps publishers generate revenue from ad-block users. [Digiday]

How Spotify and Pandora stack up on the ad tech front. [Ad Age]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @larakiara, @VranicaWSJ, @alexbruell,@BenMullin, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.comXerox Corp.’s board told Chief Executive Jeff Jacobson in November to stop negotiations with Fujifilm Holdings Corp. because it was considering firing him, a newly amended lawsuit alleges.

Instead, the suit says, the executive raced to strike a complex deal that would leave him in charge, and cede control of the American icon to the Japanese company, a move that has been criticized by two of Xerox’s biggest investors.

Though...The Canadian dollar and Mexican peso rose against the dollar Monday, reflecting fresh optimism on trade negotiations with the U.S.

The dollar was recently down 0.1% against the Mexican peso to 18.03, its lowest level since late September. The U.S. currency was down 0.2% against the Canadian dollar to C$1.2577, hovering near a two-month low.

Some...U.S. government bond prices fell Monday as investor risk appetite improved after the U.S., Britain and France engaged in only limited airstrikes in Syria and a report showed retail sales grew in March.

The yield on the benchmark Treasury 10-year note rose to 2.841%, according to Tradebook, from 2.828% Friday. Yields rise as bond prices fall.

Yields...When the U.S. launched a joint bid to host the 2026 soccer World Cup with Canada and Mexico last year, it looked like the biggest open goal in the game.

The tournament was expanding to 48 teams for the first time and here was a bid with enough hulking stadiums, hotels, practice facilities and functioning airports to host it at a moment’s notice. Plus, the North Americans had nailed their timing. With the rest of the world losing interest in hosting major sporting events, theirs was the only bid.

...Manchester City this season has produced some of the most breathtaking soccer the Premier League has ever seen. Combining speed, guile, power and more speed, it has blown away opponents and redefined what anyone thought was possible in the English game.

But on Sunday afternoon, as it clinched the Premier League title, the club did none of those things. In fact, it didn’t even play a game.

The...News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information servicesGood morning, CIOs. It may seem hard to remember, but just a few years ago, there was a common understanding that consumers in the U.S. weren’t all that concerned about data privacy. Individuals happily downloaded apps to their mobile phones, seemingly without any concern for the data that was being collected or how it was being used. This was true until it wasn’t.

The uproar over the way Facebook Inc. handles user data should be a lesson for all companies that collect information. Public sentiment can change, and change fast. A survey from International Business Machines Corp. and the Harris Poll offers a snapshot into where those views stand now.

The poll of 10,000 consumers found that 78% of U.S. respondents say a company’s ability to keep their data private is extremely important and only 20% completely trust organizations they interact with to maintain the privacy of their data, IBM said. It found that 60% are more concerned about cybersecurity than a potential war, according to IBM. For CIOs, the lesson is clear. They must make data governance and compliance with regulations such as the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation an even greater priority, keeping track of data and making sure that the corporation has the ability to monitor its use, and should the need arise, delete it.

Human + Machine: The impact of AI on business transformation. While we’re still learning how to best deploy artificial intelligence throughout the economy and society, early business implementations confirm that AI is set to have a huge impact on business processes, CIO Journal Columnist Irving Wladawsky-Berger writes.

TECHNOLOGY NEWS

David Paul Morris/Bloomberg News

Oracle co-CEO sounds off on multi-cloud. Safra Catz said she talked with President Donald Trump about the Pentagon’s decision to award a multibillion-dollar cloud contract to a single vendor. “It just made no sense,” she told journalists, including Bloomberg. “I never heard of something like a single cloud and I would challenge anyone to point at a significant commercial customer who has one cloud.” Ms. Catz also said the company’s own cloud business is set to accelerate, citing a new cloud model that results in higher than projected license growth. Reuters has more.

Rewriting the java script. With far-flung suppliers around the world and complicated supply chains involving wholesale markets and regional distributors, it was only a matter of time before someone put coffee on the blockchain. The WSJ Logistic Support’s Erica E. Phillips writes that Denver’s Coda Coffee Co. this week is offering what it calls “the world’s first blockchain-traced coffee,” giving customers access to a cloud-based ledger that tracks every stop along their coffee’s supply chain.

The tide turns. Following the recent successful public debuts of Spotify and Dropbox Inc., Silicon Valley venture capitalists expect the good times to continue, the New York Times reports. Among the heavies planning, or talking or hinting at going public: Uber Technologies Inc., Airbnb Inc., and Lyft Inc.

Enter the 21st-century suit salesman. Apparel chains are starting to deploy sales staff armed with mobile devices that can allow them to video chat and send photos of shirts or ties. The new set up lets sales staff get paid commissions for online orders the same way they do for ringing up items at the cash register, the WSJ’s Khadeeja Safdar reports.

Online shoppers prepare for tax hit. Billions of dollars of goods sold each year by independent merchants on Amazon.com Inc. and other online marketplaces would be vulnerable to state sales taxes for the first time if justices reverse a quarter-century-old precedent. The Journal’s Richard Rubin and Laura Stevens have more.

China delays deals. As U.S.-China trade tensions escalate, China is slowing reviews of multibillion-dollar takeover deals being pursued by Qualcomm Inc. and Bain Capital, the Journal reports. The delay could end up quashing Qualcomm’s planned $44 billion purchase of Dutch semiconductor company NXP Semiconductors. China is the only country that hasn’t yet signed off on the Qualcomm deal and on Toshiba Corp.’s planned $19 billion sale of its chip unit to a consortium led by U.S. private-equity firm Bain Capital.

Goldman Sachs comes to the app store. The Wall Street firm bought personal-finance app Clarity Money, acquiring a mobile storefront for its growing consumer bank, the Journal’s Liz Hoffman and Peter Rudegeair report. Clarity Money uses algorithms and artificial intelligence to help consumers cancel or lower their bills, find a better credit card, and set savings goals.

What happens when Beijing gets annoyed by Chinese tech firms. Last week Beijing shut down the app Neihan Duanzi, produced by Beijing Bytedance Technology, because it contains “vulgar” content. It didn’t end there. The WSJ’s Jacky Wong reports that the company’s founder had to publish an apology saying the company had been “overemphasizing the value of technology without realizing that technology must be guided by socialist core values.”

Why no one wants to back the gun of the future. Both the firearms industry and now Silicon Valley investors have shied away from smart guns, technologically-advanced weapons that only allow the gun owners to fire them. “The gun industry is not fond of [the smart gun] because it’s change, and Silicon Valley isn’t fond of it because it’s guns,” Jonathan Mossberg, former executive at shotgun maker O.F. Mossberg & Sons, tells the Journal’s Zusha Elinson and Joe Palazzolo.

Stop leaking, warns Apple in leaked memo. In a memo originally posted on its internal blog, the company said last year it “caught 29 leakers.” Twelve of those individuals were arrested, Bloomberg reports.

EVERYTHING ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW

Global stocks were mixed, while oil and bond prices fell amid expectation that U.S.-led strikes on Syria late last week wouldn’t escalate into a broader conflict. (WSJ)

Oil companies will benefit from a Trump administration decision to roll back a century-old law designed to save migratory birds. Up to one million birds die every year in open oil pits. (Washington Post)

More than 200 million eggs distributed to restaurants and grocery stores in nine states have been recalled because of bacterial contamination. (WSJ)

James Comey, former FBI director, in an interview with ABC News that aired Sunday night, called Donald Trump “morally unfit” to be president. (WSJ)

The Morning Download is edited by Tom Loftus and cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each weekday morning by clicking http://wsj.com/TheMorningDownload.If you can’t beat them, join them—or at least steal their script.

Justin Danhof a conservative shareholder advocate, is harnessing a regulatory “first-come, first-served” provision to sideline left-leaning investors from proxy ballots by lodging nearly identical proposals, but getting them in first. The tactic is helping Mr. Danhof promote and engage with company management on conservative social-policy issues.

Mr....Foreign entities that own property in the U.K. will need to disclose the beneficial owners of the assets in a public register or face criminal charges under a proposed law.

Parliament will draw up legislation for the proposed register, the first of its kind in the world, later this year. A fully accessible register of beneficial owners of U.K. real estate isn’t expected to go live until 2021, but current property owners need to start working to comply, attorneys said.

“Current overseas investors will have to go through an audit and self-report exercise to make sure they comply with the new rules,” said David Seymour, a partner in the real-estate investments and transactions group at Ropes & Gray LLP in London. “If they don’t, it’s potentially a criminal offense and it will restrict transactions down the line,” he said.

The U.K. is trying to free its real-estate market of those who use it as a vehicle to launder proceeds of corruption. Property has a “particular appeal to high-end money launderers” who wish to conceal large amounts of money using only a few transactions, according to a national risk assessment of money laundering and terrorism financing released last year.

The push for transparency on beneficial ownership is part of a broad effort by the government to stamp out corruption in the U.K. Transparency International found in 2015 that 75% of properties whose owners were under investigation for corruption involved companies registered overseas.

The plan for a register follows the establishment of a public central registry of ultimate controllers of U.K. companies in June 2016. A month earlier, David Cameron, prime minister at the time, hosted the Anti-Corruption Summit, a global gathering of leaders from governments and civil society groups.

Various other European countries have since set up registers of ultimate beneficial ownership of companies, a requirement under the E.U.’s Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which became effective last year.

For the register of property owners, the U.K. will define a person of significant control as an individual or legal entity that ultimately owns or controls more than 25% of a company’s shares or voting rights, or exercises control over management of a firm.

“One of the essential aspects of the register [is] that it is publicly and easily accessible in order to improve transparency and accountability of overseas legal entities operating in the U.K.,” the government said in a paper setting out its views on the register in late March.

Individuals may be able to keep their details out of the register in certain cases, according to a client notice by London-based attorneys at Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner. Cases include those that could pose a safety risk.

The government also signaled that beneficial owners of personal and family trusts that have provided details to the HM Revenue and Customs could remain private under the new register, in cases where confidentiality is needed. Details of ultimate owners in trusts are only shared with law enforcement, said the attorneys.

Under the proposed system, foreign entities investing in property will have to disclose their ultimate beneficial owners to Companies House, a public register of U.K. companies—private and public. They will have to provide minimum information on the individual stakeholder, including full name and address, nationality and date of birth.

Investors will use their Companies House registration to record their property holdings with HM Land Registry. Only then will a legal title be provided.

If a foreign entity fails to comply with the registration, “it is likely that, at a minimum, a restriction will be placed on the registered title to prevent a future transaction affecting the real estate,” said the Bryan Case attorneys.

The registry will cover residential and commercial property, as well as firms seeking government contracts.

Write to Mara Lemos Stein at mara.lemos-stein@wsj.com. Follow her on Twitter at @LikelyMara(This is a quarterly analysis of trends in anti-bribery enforcement by The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Clearinghouse, a database operated by Stanford Law School. The views presented here are those of the author alone, not those of Dow Jones or the Wall Street Journal.)

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act enforcement is off to a slow start this year.

The U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed fewer enforcement actions in the first three months of 2018 than in any first quarter since 2013. Nonetheless, the SEC and DOJ continue to investigate dozens of companies for potential FCPA violations, and several companies announced new investigations since the start of the year. At least three companies are likely to settle FCPA actions with the DOJ, the SEC or both in the coming months, based on accounting accruals disclosed in SEC filings.

Enforcement statistics

The DOJ filed one FCPA enforcement action against a company and one related action against an executive at that firm in the first three months of 2018, while the SEC filed two corporate FCPA enforcement actions. The DOJ unsealed indictments filed in August 2017 against five individuals charged with FCPA violations and filed charges against one new defendant in an existing FCPA action.

The three corporate actions were settled at the time of filing, while prosecutions of the seven individuals remain ongoing.

Figure 1 shows all the enforcement actions filed or unsealed between January and March.

Photo: FCPA Clearinghouse

Two of the three corporate actions initiated this year (Kinross Gold and Elbit Imaging) are based solely on violations of the FCPA’s accounting provisions, which do not require proof of bribery and are not subject to the same jurisdictional restraints as the statute’s anti-bribery provisions. Most of the FCPA cases that allege violations of one or more of the accounting provisions are predicated on evidence of bribery.

Nonetheless, a few FCPA cases fall into the category of “pure” accounting violations. In these actions, the government alleges only that the company created a heightened risk of bribery by maintaining faulty books and records and insufficient internal controls, and not that the company actually made or offered to make improper payments to a foreign government official.

At least three cases can be characterized as “pure” accounting violations cases with no allegations of bribery: In the Matter of Elbit Imaging (2018); In the Matter of Hyperdynamics (2015); and SEC v. Oracle (2012). In each of these cases, the SEC charged the company with violating the FCPA’s accounting provisions by keeping shoddy records of transactions where bribery could have occurred, or for not implementing proper internal controls to ensure bribes weren’t being paid.

The four enforcement actions filed in the first quarter represent a decline compared with typical first-quarter enforcement activity. Over the last 10 years the DOJ and SEC initiated, on average, eight enforcement actions during the first three months of each calendar year, which is double the number of actions filed since the start of 2018. First-quarter enforcement activity was the lowest since 2013 and tied for the second lowest in a decade.

Figure 2 depicts the number of enforcement actions filed in the first quarter for each of the last 10 years.

Photo: FCPA Clearinghouse

Sanctions

First-quarter sanctions were also significantly lower than those imposed in any other first-quarter period during the last ten years. The government settled three FCPA cases in the first quarter of 2018 and imposed total sanctions of $3.45 million, compared with total sanctions of $69.6 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $499.2 million in the first quarter of 2016.

Figure 3 shows total sanctions imposed in enforcement actions initiated in the first quarter of the calendar year, for each of the last ten years.

Photo: FCPA Clearinghouse

As of the end of the first quarter, U.S. authorities were investigating at least 62 different entity groups for possible FCPA violations, including five entity groups that first disclosed an investigation in 2018.

Figure 4 shows all entity groups that disclosed new FCPA investigations in the first quarter.

Photo: FCPA Clearinghouse

In the first quarter the SEC and DOJ resolved 12 FCPA-related investigations involving nine different entity groups. According to publicly available information, the SEC concluded two investigations by filing enforcement actions and closed four investigations without taking further action.

The DOJ filed one enforcement action and closed five investigations without taking further action (although the department actually notified one company of the closure in late 2017). The DOJ did not resolve any criminal investigations pursuant to the revised FCPA Corporate Enforcement Policy.

Figure 5 shows all investigation resolutions that were disclosed in the first quarter of 2018.

Photo: FCPA Clearinghouse

What’s next

At least three settlements are looming. In its Form 20-F filed on Feb. 27, Fresenius Medical Care & Co. KGaA disclosed it accrued €200 million ($246 million) in anticipated settlement costs to resolve FCPA-related investigations by the DOJ and SEC dating back to at least October 2014.

Similarly, in an 8-K report filed on Nov. 16, Walmart Stores disclosed it accrued $283 million in anticipated settlement costs to resolve FCPA-related investigations by the DOJ and SEC dating back to at least May 2012.

Notably, Walmart already disclosed $877 million in legal fees and expenses related to the FCPA investigation, which is more than three times the dollar value of the anticipated sanctions. Though the timing of these settlements is uncertain, disclosure of the accruals indicates enforcement actions may be imminent.

Finally, though it received notice last year the DOJ had concluded its investigation, Vantage Drilling International disclosed in its Form 10-K filed on March 29 it reached a tentative agreement to resolve the SEC’s FCPA investigation. Vantage further disclosed it accrued $5 million for the anticipated settlement, which the company expects to occur in the second quarter.

William T. Garrett is content and data analytics manager for the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Clearinghouse, part of the Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford Law School. The clearinghouse is a free public database developed by researchers at Stanford Law School in collaboration with attorneys at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. The database is available at http://fcpa.stanford.edu.Remember when everyone you knew had an opinion about Crocs —and were just dying to share it with you?

Whether they thought Crocs heralded the decline of civilization, were the most comfortable things imaginable, or, somehow, were both simultaneously, you could find someone with something to say about those distinctive orange things.

It’s been a while—nearly a year—since Barron’s wrote about Crocs (CROX), but they’re definitely Still A Thing. ”Crocs Might Now Be Cool,” a headline from the tastemaking publication read last summer, “and It’s Tearing GQ Apart.”

The company’s shares, meanwhile, have also been A Thing, rising more than 150% over the last 12 months as investors have bought into management’s plans to cut costs, close stores, improve revenue quality and strengthen its product mix and message. By many measures, it worked in 2017.

On Monday, however, the shares fell more than 3% as of around midday as analysts asked whether people were expecting too much. Susquehanna Group downgraded the shares to “negative,” with a $12 price target around 25% off current levels; investors, they said, were paying for “much more future progress than is realistic.”

Their thinking roughly boils down to the ideas that the market expects a combination of revenue and profit margin growth that doesn’t seem likely given their sense of demand for sandals and clogs, with the company still closing stores, and with a restructuring that’s showing positive signs.

A potential wrinkle is the possibility that another company might step in and buy Crocs, but the analysts don’t think that’s likely either. They figure that a likely takeout price would require a multiple far higher than comparable deals have commanded; management might not be in a rush to sell with a turnaround showing signs of working; and the stock’s run-up rules out deep value buyers.

“The stock,” they wrote, “is currently priced for perfection.”

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.Sure, Apple might like to be able to keep increasing iPhone prices. But it might also have to.

That’s the argument in a Monday not from Raymond James analysts, who reiterated their “market perform” rating on the Barron’s Next 50 company’s shares. “We think Apple is struggling with the rising cost of adding new features, necessitating higher iPhone prices,” they wrote.

It’s clear why Apple (AAPL) would be happy to increase iPhone prices on average, giving customers willing to pay up for the latest and greatest an option while maintaining other, cheaper, offerings to get some new people in the door. Still, some observers have wondered whether consumers are souring on high-end phones.

“We think iPhone’s average selling price increase is a combination of ‘because they can’ and ‘because they have to,’” the analysts wrote.” Clearly, some percentage of the iPhone user base will be willing to pay much higher prices, and Apple is smart to apply such price discrimination.”

“But we think part of the reason for the higher prices is also because component costs aren’t coming down.” As a result, they wrote, “Apple has to increase pricing to add new features.…If you have to increase price, the trick of course is to add features that a majority of customers are willing to pay for.”

The analysts don’t think Apple has managed that with its latest offerings. “iPhone X didn’t provide much incremental value aside from aesthetics. It’s a fantastic phone, no doubt. But iPhone 8 possesses almost the same functionality (albeit with a different screen and a different method of unlocking the phone), for a much lower price.”

Their takeaway: They’re waiting to see what changes to the iPhone selection Apple announces. “We don’t expect the stock to perform well until the new lineup is released,” they wrote. (Apple’s shares, near flat Monday morning, have just outperformed the S&P 500 in 2018.)

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.Photo: Bloomberg News

Walmart is already known as a cut-price retailer—and now it might be cutting further.

In a Monday note, Raymond James analysts reported the results of a survey, conducted every eight weeks, of prices on a basket of food and personal care products at Walmart (WMT) and a range of other retailers, including discounters, grocers and drug and convenience stores, in the Atlanta area.

Newsletter Sign-upGetty Images Russian River Brewing Co. customers clink beer glasses before drinking Pliny the Younger triple IPA.

Obamacare is delivering an increase in preventative-care utilization — but also an upturn in risky drinking.

That’s the finding of a new working paper published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, from researchers at Georgia State University, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Kentucky and Impaq International.

They used what’s called the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, a massive study conducted each year between 2011 and 2016 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

The good and not really surprising news is that health insurance, by lowering the portion of medical costs borne by a patient, has triggered an upturn in the use of preventative care and related medications and counseling services.

Between 17% and 50% of newly insured individuals increased their preventive-care usage, such as scheduling healthy-patient doctor visits and seeking flu shots, the researchers found. The effects are particularly pronounced for those with below-median incomes.

The downside is there is a 1.6-percentage-point increase in the probability of being a risky drinker, defined as 60 drinks per month for men and 32 drinks for women, or any episodes of binge drinking.

Higher-than-median incomes more broadly have been engaged in worse behavior, not just drinking more but smoking more as well.

The researchers posit that moral hazard is at play — if things get bad, people have decided others will pay the cost.

Another interesting development is the finding that the package of national reforms including regulations in the non-group insurance market, mandates and subsidized health insurance exchanges are drivers of these behavior changes.

The Medicaid expansion by some states hasn’t, which could be because Medicaid historically pays providers much less than private insurers do, the researchers found. But the researchers also pointed out that Medicaid increased its payment rates to match those of Medicare in 2013 and 2014.

The working paper has not been peer reviewed.President Donald Trump is set to announce Monday two nominees to the Federal Reserve, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing White House officials. He'll nominate Richard Clarida as vice chairman, and Michelle Bowman to fill the spot reserved for a community banker or regulator of community banks. Clarida, a Republican economist, had long been expected to be tapped for the vice chairman role. Bowman is Kansas' bank commissioner.U.S. stocks rallied on Monday, with major indexes gaining 1% as optimism persisted over the first-quarter earnings season and as geopolitical tensions showed signs of fading.

Need to know: This jumpy stock market may have found a bottom—here’s why

What are the main benchmarks doing?

The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, +1.24% rose 310 points, or 1.3%, to 24,671. The blue-chip average climbed above its 50-day moving average, a level it hasn’t breached since March 13, and which it hasn’t closed above since March 9. The level is a closely watched gauge of short-term momentum, and closing above it could suggest a corner has been turned in terms of sentiment.

The S&P 500 SPX, +1.07% added 29 points to 2,685, a rise of 1.1%. While the benchmark index remained a few points below its own 50-day moving average, it returned to positive territory for the year and was set for its highest close since March 22.

The Nasdaq Composite Index COMP, +0.90% rose 67 points, or 1%, to 7,173.

Gains were broad-based, with all 11 primary S&P 500 sectors higher on the day and eight of them rising at least 1%. The Cboe Volatility Index VIX, -5.46% fell 5% and was on track for its lowest close in about a month.

What’s driving markets

Geopolitical issues remain in focus after the U.S. joined with France and Britain to launch missiles that destroyed much of Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Saturday. The strikes left much of President Bashar al-Assad’s conventional military facilities intact, which may ease fears of an escalation in tensions with Russia, a backer of Syria’s regime.

Corporate earnings are likely to be more important for investors, however. A number of bellwether names, including Netflix Inc. NFLX, -1.67% and General Electric Co. GE, -1.33% are scheduled to report in the coming days, joining Bank of America, which reported early Monday.

According to FactSet, earnings for companies in the S&P 500 are expected to grow 17.3% in the first quarter, while sales grow 10%. For both, such rates would represent the fastest pace of growth since the first quarter of 2011.

Read: Netflix earnings: Another ‘beautiful quarter,’ or are subscriber expectations too high?

Which stocks are in focus?

Bank of America Corp. BAC, +1.16% rose 0.6% after beating profit and revenue expectations. The results follow JPMorgan Chase & Co. JPM, +0.76% Citigroup Inc. C, -0.46% and Wells Fargo & Co. WFC, +0.67% all of which lost ground Friday even after posting earnings that were either in line with forecasts or better than expected. Some say that could be due to concerns that earnings growth has peaked.

The financial sector rose 0.8% on Monday.

And: Tax cuts were supposed to juice the economy, but banks aren’t seeing it

Merck & Co. MRK, +2.34% gained 2.4% after it released late-stage results showing that a cancer drug combination using its Keytruda reduced patients’ risk of death by half, a significant improvement. The stock was one of the biggest boosts to the Dow.

U.S.-listed shares of WPP PLC WPP, -5.32% fell 5.4% after Chief Executive Officer Martin Sorrell resigned over a probe into an allegation of personal misconduct.

Icahn Enterprises L.P. IEP, +0.39% rose 0.8% after announcing its majority-owned Tropicana Entertainment Inc. had entered a deal to sell its real estate to Gaming and Leisure Properties Inc. GLPI, +4.13% for $1.85 billion. It will also merge its gaming and hotel business into Eldorado Resorts Inc. ERI, +17.37% Shares of Eldorado jumped 6% in premarket trading.

Alkermes PLC ALKS, +3.69% jumped 3% after the Food and Drug Administration accepted the biopharmaceutical firm’s new drug application for its treatment for depression.

MoviePass majority owner Helios & Matheson Analytics Inc. HMNY, +5.45% rallied 3% in premarket trading, extending a gain that started after Verizon Communications Inc. VZ, +1.49% disclosed a large equity stake in the company.

Navistar International Corp. NAV, +11.20% rose 11% after Volkswagen AG’s commercial-vehicles business said it is considering increasing its stake in the U.S. truck company to more than 17%.

NewLink Genetics Corp. NLNK, -7.83% tumbled 7.8% after the company said it won’t proceed as planned with a late-stage trial of its indoximod drug for advanced melanoma.

What are analysts saying?

“With trade headlines dying down, for now, the market still closer to the lower end of our target valuation range, and likely continued earnings momentum ahead, we remain tactically bullish,” wrote Michael Wilson, chief U.S. equity strategist at Morgan Stanley. “We think first-quarter earnings season should deliver on high expectations and help the market move higher toward a cyclical top in equities we expect to occur later this year.”

What is on the economic docket?

Sales at U.S. retailers rose 0.6% in March to end a streak of three straight declines, the Commerce Department reported Monday, underscoring the improved financial picture of American households and the resiliency of an economic expansion that could turn out to be the longest ever.

Separately, the Empire State manufacturing index gave up most of the gains in April that it saw in the prior month, the New York Fed said Monday. The index slipped to a reading of 15.8 in April from 22.5 in March.

Read: Americans are spending again after lying low for a few months

Meanwhile, Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal published Monday, said he expects inflation will soon hit the central bank’s 2% target, making it easier to push on with interest-rate hiking plans.

What are other markets doing?

Asian markets surrendered much of an early lead, led by falls for China and Hong Kong. European stocks SXXP, -0.39% edged lower.

Read: These cheap European stocks yield up to 8.1%

Gold futures GCM8, +0.18% GCM8, +0.18% inched lower, while the ICE U.S. Dollar Index DXY, -0.42% DXY, -0.42% lost ground. Oil prices CLK8, -1.35% pulled back as Syria worries eased somewhat and investors cashed in on some of last week’s big gains.Speaker Paul Ryan has announced his retirement, but he still has time to pass legacy-defining legislation. He should focus his final months in office on alleviating the poverty trap, wherein people who try to leave welfare become cornered as they face a loss of benefits and unduly high marginal tax rates.

Previous efforts at reform have been halted by demagoguery, but a bipartisan plan that also addresses the U.S. economy’s means of wealth distribution has a chance of success. Call it the Escape From Poverty Plan.

A large portion of wealth creation today is distributed through equity markets. Since it hit bottom in 2009, the S&P 500 stock index has nearly quadrupled, but tens of millions of Americans don’t own stocks. For those at the bottom, stock ownership is largely nonexistent. Meanwhile, wages have remained relatively flat.

In coming decades, an increasing portion of the world’s economic dynamism will be powered by the tech revolution, much of which will occur outside the U.S. Many of the fastest-growing economies are in Africa. India could become a 21st century juggernaut.

Photo: iStock/Getty Images

Affluent Americans whose stock portfolios include a global component will tap directly into this wealth creation. Mere wage earners and those at the bottom economic rungs will not. The challenge is to enable more Americans to own securities.

Less than a decade ago, Congress was close to taking a modest first step. A remarkable bipartisan coalition in the Senate—from Jeff Sessions to Chuck Schumer—backed legislation that would have established “American Birthright Accounts.” These accounts would have given newborn Americans a $500 “baby bond.” But the proposal fell to the wayside.

Congress should consider a revamped version of this initiative that offers future Americans the opportunity to become stockholding capitalists. The federal government could set up a tax-free stock-investment account for each child born in the U.S. It would begin with, say, a $5,000 low-interest loan as seed capital, to be paid back in 50 years. The loan would include a modest interest rate, with the interest balloon payment due at the end of the loan period. (A lot of details would need to be established to prevent abuse of the program and to protect participants.)

The plan should offer a small selection of diversified U.S. and global index fund investment choices, all overseen by the U.S. Treasury. Within strict limits, an account holder could use some of the profits for education after turning 18. On the government’s books, the transaction would be a loan, not an expenditure.

Big Wall Street banks were offered massive amounts of low-interest loans to repair their balance sheets during the financial crisis. Why not do the same for children of working-class families? Those families earning less than $60,000 in joint income should also pay no federal tax on any stock or bond investment income. And Congress should explore better ways to encourage companies, large and small, to initiate or expand employee investment programs.

There are no guarantees here. Equity markets correct and sometimes collapse. Birthright accounts alone are no magic formula for ending poverty. Still, since 1930 the U.S. stock market—even factoring in the Depression-ridden 1930s and stagflation-plagued 1970s—increased by an average annual rate of about 7% after inflation. In the future Warren Buffett predicts average annual long-term equity market returns, including reinvested dividends, of up to 7%. It would be reasonable to expect that a global, indexed birthright investment account could, after decades of compounding, become a sizable nest egg.

Can index funds capture global, tech-driven wealth creation? Mr. Buffett’s recent public bet showed the return on index funds to be superior to those achieved by the best, most specialized traders. And the bull market of recent years has demonstrated one thing: A relatively few tech stocks can drive the broader indexes.

Some conservatives may object, but there is a precedent for this approach. The Homestead Act of 1862, signed by President Lincoln, gave out public land grants at little or no cost, setting the stage for mass property ownership that underpins American democracy. It may be the most important piece of economic legislation in U.S. history.

To expand opportunity, average Americans must have better access to the financial-market growth wave. In a global economy in which digitization and artificial intelligence could produce significant economic disruption, families on the lower rungs need a user-friendly way to tap into the world’s future wealth generation. They need to become more familiar with the investment economy.

Combining welfare and entitlement reform with some form of birthright accounts could be a first step toward a policy that brings that economic security to all Americans—while eliminating poverty traps.

Mr. Smick, chairman and CEO of Johnson Smick International, is author of “The Great Equalizer: How Main Street Capitalism Can Create an Economy for Everyone” (PublicAffairs, 2017).I like to think I was a considerate colleague when I worked in an office. I paid attention to cultural and gender differences. I made an effort to run inclusive meetings and write inclusive articles.

But for all my attention to diversity, I didn’t pay attention to one crucial form of difference: the way people think.

It took my autistic son...Success often has a way of building upon itself. When it comes to negotiating deals, however, that isn’t always the case.

A recent study published in the Journal of Applied Psychology found that when people engage in back-to-back negotiations with different counterparts, the residual glow of success from one negotiation can lead to a bad outcome in the next.

...Sarah Kunst is founder and CEO of Proday. She is a former venture capital investor and can be reached at @sarahkunst.

As an employee, burning the midnight oil and churning out work around the clock may earn major points with the boss. When I became the boss, however, my insomnia-fueled 2 a.m. productivity spurts had a negative side effect: making my employees and service providers worry that I expected them to be available around the clock.

As an entrepreneur with a flextime, geographically diverse workforce, I want my people to do good work and have it done on time. But they don’t have the opportunity to give me face time or punch a clock. So they can easily feel obliged to respond rapid-fire to my weekend emails with a promise to get right on whatever I was asking about.

I’ve had to develop clear, consistent messaging to make sure my people know when to hit reply and when to ignore me until they’re back on the clock. Here’s what I’ve found works best without driving my team insane:

Find the right people. Some employees love the flexibility of our expectations and thrive. Others have found it really stressful and prefer a traditional 9-to-5 environment with a desk to sit at and paper to push. Those people have largely moved on from the company to a job that is a better fit for their work style. We screen for independence when we hire. People who’ve worked remotely before or are successful freelancers usually make the leap better than company men and women. Once we find the right people we make sure they know they’re free to use the “snooze” button on Slack and that we’re a results-based organization without a lot of busy work.

Balance your “always-on” style. Despite my night-owl productivity jags, I try to model more-relaxed expectations by not immediately responding when I’m busy and making it clear that my life has work-life balance. When someone wants to call me and I respond that I’m on a run at 2 p.m. on a Tuesday, I’m sending a message that at our company, we work really hard when it works for us, and we take the time to take care of ourselves.

Clarify the escalation protocol. A midnight email from me might mean I had an after-dinner coffee or it might mean that I was in another time zone. But a standard email never means someone should drop everything and respond. If something is urgent, I mark it as such. If it’s really time-sensitive, I’ll call or text. That happens maybe twice a year so people know if my name shows up on their caller ID at an odd hour, it’s serious and they’ll take the call.

Play to your strengths. Because I’m often up late and don’t mind sleeping late some mornings, when it came time to find great engineers I was happy to look overseas. My Prague-based tech team does calls and chats well after midnight Pacific time, but it’s prime workday for them. If I had to sleep a solid eight hours between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., this schedule would never work. But because I know my ability to sync with their schedule when needed, I can get a great team who would otherwise not be a fit.

Use tech tools to time shift. There are times when I don’t want to show up in people’s inboxes outside of office hours. In those cases, I’ve found a few great strategies to time shift when I send so I can still work on my own time. There are several services that allow you to draft emails and set a time in the future to send them. Boomerang and Outlook are popular for this and give the best of both worlds—write when you want and send when it’s convenient for others to open. I’ve tested a couple of programs with mixed results but do frequently save email drafts until I have more information or it’s a better time to send. I also use calendar apps to set up calls and meetings across different time zones. I’d never expect my California-based lawyer to have a work call with me in the middle of the night, but for a recent business call with a German company, I was quickly able to pinpoint that 1 a.m. Pacific time was exactly the right time for us both.

Being the boss is a bit like being the paycheck-signing elephant in the room. No one wants to point out your flaws so you tend to assume you have none. It took me a while to realize that my off-hours communications were stressing my team out, but once I did and we talked through the misperceptions, I stopped unintentionally ruining their evenings and weekends.

Read the latest Leadership Report.Sales of the city’s office towers, apartment buildings, development sites and other properties rose to $12.42 billion in the first quarter, a 70% increase from the same period last year, according to real-estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield.

Manhattan transactions more than doubled to $8.9 billion.

Google’s $2.4 billion purchase...NEW YORK—A well-known gay rights lawyer and environmental advocate burned himself to death in New York City on Saturday in a grisly protest against ecological destruction.

The charred remains of 60-year-old David Buckel were found by passersby in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park. Police said he was pronounced dead.

The Daily News reports that Mr....6:19

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.6:19

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.6:19

Saving for Retirement: How Auto-IRA Plans May Secure the Future

More than 30 million full-time workers don't have access to a retirement plan at their workplace, nor do millions of part-time or independent contractors. Oregon is among five states in the country now requiring employers to automatically enroll workers in a Roth IRA retirement savings plan. Employees can opt out, but if too many do, the plans could fail.