U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

WASHINGTON—Many lawmakers have expressed support for the recent missile strikes against Syria, launched without congressional approval, but a number harbor concerns that the White House believes it now has broad authority to undertake further, riskier attacks that could lead to full-blown war.

They say the Trump administration has expressed an expansive view of presidential authority to wage war without Congress, and fear Congress’s constitutional role in authorizing and overseeing military action has been sidelined.

...WASHINGTON—A bipartisan group of House lawmakers worked Wednesday to exert pressure on House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.) to bring immigration legislation up for a vote.

Rep. Jeff Denham (R., Calif.) said Wednesday that he had secured the support of 240 lawmakers, including 50 Republicans, for a bipartisan proposal to vote on a series of immigration bills on the House floor.

“The...NEW YORK—Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley warned Wednesday there would be no happy endings to the U.S. engaging in a trade war with other nations.

The central banker said he has “nothing against us negotiating hard” to protect U.S. interests, but cautioned against letting the situation devolve into rounds of retaliatory trade actions.

“A...To read the full story, Join Now or Sign In

Join Now Sign In

Members Only

This is the kind of news coverage and analysis you can access exclusively as a WSJ Pro Member.Among President Donald Trump’s most deeply held economic convictions is that trade deficits are bad, yet his signature economic policy—a major tax cut—likely will deepen the trade deficits he abhors for years to come.

For now, that’s more a problem of optics than economics, albeit one that may prompt Mr. Trump to dial up trade tensions with...Lawyers for Michael Cohen and for the government have proposed candidates for a third-party “special master,” who may be appointed by a federal judge to review the materials seized from President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer for records protected by attorney-client privilege.

Mr. Cohen’s legal team named four former Manhattan federal prosecutors as candidates: Bart Schwartz of Guidepost Solutions LLC, Joan McPhee of Ropes & Gray LLP, Tai Park of Park Jensen Bennett LLP and George Canellos of Milbank Tweed Hadley &...Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar has been admitted to a hospital for diverticulitis for the second time in recent days, but he remains in contact with his department’s leadership and the White House, according to a statement released Wednesday.

Mr. Azar was first hospitalized Sunday night following a “minor infection” for observation and intravenous antibiotics “out of an abundance of caution,” HHS said Sunday. He was discharged Monday from St. Vincent’s Hospital in Indianapolis.

...Tony Podesta in a stairwell of his former office in Washington, D.C., in 2002, flanked by ‘Serie Personagens’ by artist Valeska Soares, left, and ‘Paraora’ by artist Beatriz Milhazes, at right.

Tony Podesta in a stairwell of his former office in Washington, D.C., in 2002, flanked by ‘Serie Personagens’ by artist Valeska Soares, left, and ‘Paraora’ by artist Beatriz Milhazes, at right. Photo: The Washington Times/ZUMA PRESS

Tony Podesta was in line to be king of K Street.

His lobbying firm ended 2015 as the third largest in Washington, D.C., with nearly $30 million in revenue from more than 100 clients, spanning Alphabet Inc.’s Google to Wells Fargo & Co. With his longtime friend Hillary Clinton expected to win the White House, 2016 promised to be even better.

Mr. Podesta, a conspicuous presence in his red shoes and Italian suits, hosted lawmakers and power brokers at his flat in Venice during the Art Biennale. It was one of many homes around the globe, including the Washington mansion where he displayed a collection of museum-grade artwork. In early 2016, he was ready to buy a $7.4 million condo overlooking Madison Square Park in New York City.

Tony Podesta dancing a year ago at the National Museum of Women in the Arts 30th Anniversary Gala in Washington, D.C. Photo: Erin Schaff for The Washington Post/Getty Images

Then he fell, a calamitous collapse propelled by unexpected blows, delivered by fate and made worse by hubris. Financial problems, legal threats and the election of President Donald Trump took it all away—the clients, the firm and, finally, Mr. Podesta’s position as one of Washington’s most influential players.

His troubles, some long hidden, surfaced in the summer of 2016. The Podesta Group lost its banker over news the firm did work for the U.S. subsidiary of a Russian bank under sanctions. Then came headlines that the firm’s work with Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, and an associate may have violated government rules. And in October, WikiLeaks published 20,000 pages of emails stolen from his brother John Podesta, chairman of Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign.

The string of embarrassing news accounts disturbed many of the Podesta Group’s corporate clients, companies that preferred to stay clear of such publicity. Mr. Podesta operated as if the whole mess would soon blow over.

He spent most of the fall traveling the world. He returned to the U.S. on Election Day but skipped Mrs. Clinton’s campaign party. Her victory would go a long way to fixing many of his problems. She lost that night, and Mr. Podesta, like many who had banked on her victory, did too.

Clients who had hired him for access to a new Clinton administration fell away. By the end of the year, the departures cost the firm more than $10 million in annual business, according to an internal Podesta Group accounting viewed by The Wall Street Journal.

Hillary Clinton and John Podesta in Washington, D.C., a month after Mrs. Clinton’s defeat in the 2016 presidential election. Photo: Tom Williams/Congressional Quarterly/ZUMA PRESS

Years of spending on art, vacations and real estate left Mr. Podesta overleveraged and deeply in debt when he finally closed the doors of his 62-person firm at the end of last year. He is selling his New York City condo, along with some of his prized sculptures.

Mr. Podesta responded to questions through a spokeswoman for the Podesta Group. Mr. Podesta’s clients, colleagues, friends, and “even many of his political adversaries through the years continue to rely on his wise counsel,” the spokeswoman said. “When he stepped down from the firm he expressed his ongoing gratitude to all of them and his commitment to continue his advocacy for the issues and ideals he’s always fought for.”

This account of Mr. Podesta’s rise and fall is based on interviews with dozens of former employees of his firm and his associates, as well as internal financial documents, calendars and communications viewed by the Journal.

Joining forces

Anthony Thomas Podesta, 74 years old, and his younger brother John grew up in Chicago, raised by first-generation parents from Italy and Greece. Their father, who didn’t finish high school, operated a cardboard-cutting machine in a factory that made advertising displays for grocery stores.

The brothers gravitated to politics, working with Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham on the 1970 Senate campaign of a Democratic Party candidate in Connecticut. They moved to Washington, D.C., where the brothers attended law school at Georgetown University and then worked in government—John in the Justice Department, and Tony in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Washington, D.C.

They founded Podesta Associates, a lobbying firm, in 1987. John Podesta left in 1993 to work in the Clinton White House, later rising to chief of staff.

Tony and Heather Podesta at home in 2004, with ‘The Arch of Hysteria’ by Louise Bourgeois and, in back, an untitled photo by Michal Rovner. Photo: Robert A. Reeder/Washington Post/Getty Images

Tony Podesta built up his lobbying firm over the years—renamed the Podesta Group in 2007—with such blue-chip clients as General Electric Co. , Boeing Co. and the Washington trade group for the U.S. drug industry.

At age 59, he married Heather Miller, a congressional staffer 26 years younger. The April 2003 marriage was his second, her third. Mrs. Podesta started her own lobbying firm, Heather Podesta + Partners, and they emerged a Washington power couple. In 2006, they bought a $4 million home in the upscale Kalorama neighborhood and spent millions more renovating it to showcase their art collection.

The Kalorama house—two doors from where the Obamas now live—was the crown jewel of Mr. Podesta’s real estate portfolio that over the years included apartments in New York City, the Venice flat, and houses in Sydney and Tasmania as well as on Lake Barcroft in Virginia. He owned a townhouse on Capitol Hill for entertaining and fundraising.

Mr. Podesta drew an annual salary of more than $2 million and made millions more in commissions and bonuses. He and Heather Podesta together donated more money to the Democratic Party and its candidates than any other Washington lobbyists in the past decade, fundraising records show.

The Podesta Group grew from the 20th largest lobbying firm to third in three years, in terms of domestic and foreign lobbying revenues, propelled by business during President Barack Obama’s first term. The leap was impressive, given competition from global giants that employed hundreds. During the Obama administration, the Podesta Group took in more than $40 million a year at its peak. The firm leased $200,000-a-month offices on two floors, joined by a custom spiral staircase.

Mr. Podesta operated as a lifestyle concierge for clients. He had a regular table at Tosca, a popular Italian restaurant, and was part-owner of Centrolina, an Italian restaurant in a new billion-dollar development.

The Podestas’ 1,300-piece art collection included photographs by Andreas Gursky, as well as eight sculptures by Louise Bourgeois valued at an estimated $25 million. The Podestas donated Shepard Fairey’s original “Hope” portrait of Mr. Obama to the National Portrait Gallery.

Washington's Kings of Clout Top lobbying firms ranked by annual fees $50 million Akin, Gump et al $39.0 million 40 Brownstein, Hyatt et al $28.7 million Squire Patton Boggs $24.1 million 30 BGR Group $23.6 million 20 Holland & Knight $22.1 million Cornerstone Government Affairs $19.3 million 10 Podesta Group $18.4 million 0 ’11 ’13 ’15 ’09 2007 ’17 $50 million Akin, Gump et al $39.0 million Brownstein, Hyatt et al $28.7 million 40 Squire Patton Boggs $24.1 million 30 BGR Group $23.6 million Holland & Knight $22.1 million 20 Cornerstone Government Affairs $19.3 million 10 Podesta Group $18.4 million 0 2007 ’09 ’11 ’13 ’15 ’17 $50 million Akin, Gump et al $39.0 million Brownstein, Hyatt et al $28.7 million 40 Squire Patton Boggs $24.1 million 30 BGR Group $23.6 million Holland & Knight $22.1 million 20 Cornerstone Government Affairs $19.3 million 10 Podesta Group $18.4 million 0 ’17 ’15 ’13 ’11 ’09 2007 Akin, Gump et al $39.0 million $50 million Brownstein, Hyatt et al $28.7 million 40 Squire Patton Boggs $24.1 million 30 BGR Group $23.6 million Holland & Knight $22.1 million 20 Cornerstone Government Affairs $19.3 million 10 Podesta Group $18.4 million 0 ’13 ’11 2007 ’17 ’15 ’09

“Tony’s view of investment diversification is multiple artists,” Mrs. Podesta said in a 2004 Washington Post profile with the headline “Married with Art.”

The Internal Revenue Service determined that in 2007 and 2008, the Podesta Group paid more than $300,000 for the shipping and handling of art bought by Mr. Podesta—money that was improperly reported as a business expense, according to documents viewed by the Journal. Later, Mr. Podesta began billing his firm $360,000 a year to rent pieces displayed at the office. The firm also paid part of the salary of Mr. Podesta’s art curator.

Employees of the Podesta Group set up a system to prevent Mr. Podesta from being reimbursed by the company for personal expenditures. A 36-page instruction manual for Mr. Podesta’s executive assistants included this directive: “It is up to you and your best judgment as to what gets reimbursed.”

Mr. Podesta’s passion for art drove a wedge in the marriage after Mrs. Podesta learned he was secretly making purchases, according to people familiar with the matter. In 2014, the couple filed for divorce, with the art collection caught in a legal tug of war.

In the settlement, Mr. Podesta kept most of the collection. He gave up homes in Washington and Manhattan, and nearly $5 million in retirement savings. He agreed to pay his former wife $200,000 every three months for five years.

Workers install Shepard Fairey's portrait of President-elect Barack Obama at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C., before Mr. Obama’s inauguration in January 2009. Photo: Jewel SAMAD/AFP/Getty Images

The day the divorce was final in July 2014, Mr. Podesta took a loan from Citigroup Inc., using some of his art as collateral, public records show. That month, Mr. Podesta told senior employees the firm could make more money by agreeing to represent clients unpopular with Democrats, such as tobacco companies and the National Rifle Association.

The discussion prompted one lobbyist to quit, costing the firm more than $2 million in yearly revenue from his former clients, according to public records and former employees.

Firm employees approached Mr. Podesta in early 2014 about selling them a share of the business. The Podesta Group was worth at least $50 million at the time, former employees estimated. Over dinner, Mr. Podesta told them he was open to the idea and suggested they meet with lawyers.

On the day of the meeting, employees gathered in the firm’s conference room. Mr. Podesta didn’t show.

Mr. Podesta sought out higher-paying clients, including foreign governments, according to public disclosure reports. By 2015, the year after his divorce, Mr. Podesta had doubled his overseas business from four years earlier to $5 million. Firm clients included the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Republic of Iraq and the government of South Sudan, according to foreign-agent reports filed with the Justice Department.

D.C. Power Couple Tony Podesta and Heather Podesta together donated more money to the Democratic Party and its candidates than any other Washington lobbyists in the past decade. $600 thousand Other contributions 500 Tony Podesta Heather Podesta

400WASHINGTON—White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said Wednesday that he will investigate findings that the Environmental Protection Agency violated the law when it bought a $43,000 soundproof phone booth for administrator Scott Pruitt.

Mr. Mulvaney’s statement to the House Appropriations Committee makes him the latest in a string of officials digging into Mr. Pruitt’s spending, ranging from first-class air travel to allegations that he rented a Washington apartment from the family of an energy lobbyist at below-market...South Korean security forces participated in a civil defense drill in Seoul last year. One former U.S. ambassador says the hardest part of an evacuation is not getting American civilians across the Pacific. ‘The challenge is getting out of Seoul,’ a sprawling city that is home to roughly half of South Korea’s 50 million people.

South Korean security forces participated in a civil defense drill in Seoul last year. One former U.S. ambassador says the hardest part of an evacuation is not getting American civilians across the Pacific. ‘The challenge is getting out of Seoul,’ a sprawling city that is home to roughly half of South Korea’s 50 million people. Photo: Lee Sang-Ho/Xinhua/ZUMA Press

The U.S. is testing procedures for the emergency evacuation of its citizens from South Korea in an unusual military exercise in which a small group of Americans will be flown to Dallas in conditions meant to simulate preparation for conflict.

With a possible summit meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un approaching and inter-Korean talks nine days away, U.S. officials have sought to play down the exercise. Dubbed “Focused Passage,” the exercise began without fanfare earlier this week.

The U.S. mission to defend South Korea remains in place and the long-planned exercise will enable the military and a host of government agencies to coordinate the movement of about 100 civilians from the country to an air base in Japan, and from there to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.

U.S. evacuation exercises have been carried out from South Korea on a regular basis, but this is the first time the evacuees are being brought all the way to the U.S.

Dependents of U.S. troops in South Korea boarded a transport plane during a 2016 evacuation exercise. Photo: Yonhap News/Newscom/ZUMA Press

“If we were required to conduct a NEO off the Korean Peninsula, these procedures would be important,” said one military official, using the acronym for a noncombatant evacuation operation. “It is the first time that all the links in the chain have been connected in this way.”

Under the best of circumstances, any mission to evacuate Americans would be a difficult undertaking. “The numbers are staggering,” Adm. Harry Harris, the head of the U.S. Pacific Command, told Congress in February, noting that there are more than 200,000 U.S. civilians in South Korea.

Adding to the challenge, the U.S. has understandings with some allies that American forces will evacuate their citizens as well, according to a former U.S. official.

Related Video A meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un could be a diplomatic breakthrough, but both men are nothing if not unpredictable.

Even without a mass evacuation, moving people around South Korea is a challenge. The Seoul area is a sprawling, traffic-clogged metropolis that is home to roughly half of South Korea’s 50 million people. A main evacuation route from Seoul to the southern port city of Busan consists of rail lines and one major highway. At the peak of holiday traffic, it can take more than eight hours to drive the roughly 250 miles there by car.

In a crisis, an evacuation might occur at a time when the U.S. military is bringing in tens of thousands of troops. If fighting broke out, the U.S. also might be dealing with civilian casualties, some of whom could be contaminated by North Korea’s chemical and biological weapons.

“The challenge is not transportation across the Pacific,” said James Laney, who served as U.S. ambassador to South Korea from 1993 to 1996. “The challenge is getting out of Seoul. It is one thing to have a practice evacuation when everything is normal. It would be quite another thing to do that effectively when bombs are bursting all around.”

Some critics have warned that preparations for an evacuation could escalate tensions on the peninsula during a crisis; others say evacuation planning adds to the U.S. ability to deter North Korea.

“You have to have a system for managing the evacuation of U.S. and allied citizens for a military option to appear credible, albeit undesirable,” said Daniel Russel, vice president of the Asia Society Policy Institute and a former State Department official.

An evacuation would be easier if tensions on the peninsula built gradually over a period of months and many U.S. and allied civilians used that time to leave on their own. According to the South Korean Immigration Service, about 26,800 Canadians, 10,500 Australians, 7,800 Britons and 51,000 Japanese citizens reside in the country. There are also more than a million Chinese nationals in South Korea.

The U.S. ambassador has the authority, in consultation with the State Department, to order officials and their dependents to leave South Korea and to issue warnings to other American citizens. If an evacuation came, they would gather at designated assembly areas.

Marc Knapper is the senior U.S. diplomat in Seoul as no new ambassador has been appointed. Mr. Knapper is participating in the exercise, which involves the U.S. Army command in South Korea, the U.S. military headquarters in Japan, the Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Northern Command. It would also include the Department of Health and Human Services, which would be responsible for helping civilian evacuees once they are back in the U.S.

The U.S. military has been updating its military plans, and one purpose of the latest exercise is to test the procedures for keeping track of evacuees.

“This is an opportunity for the organization on a very small scale to test out their procedures and see if they work,” said Bruce Bennett, an expert on Korean security issues at the Rand Corp.

“What you can’t do on such a small scale is make sure you have the capacity,” he added. “Are you going to have enough ships and planes? What is the ability to get control of buses and trains to move people within South Korea? What do you do with the people you aren’t able to move right away? How do you feed all these people and provide security? Until you scale up, you cannot get a good sense of that.”

Evacuees in this exercise are volunteers, including military dependents. After arriving in Dallas, they will have the option to stay in the U.S. at their own expense, but the Army will underwrite their return to South Korea.

—Yun-hwan Chae in Seoul contributed to this article.

Write to Michael R. Gordon at michael.gordon@wsj.com and Jonathan Cheng at jonathan.cheng@wsj.comNearly a decade after the global financial crisis, the world’s economies have made essentially no progress reining in levels of government debt with little historical precedent. General government debt in advanced economies has been above 100% of gross domestic product for more than five years, levels that have only been seen one other time in […]2:55

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 92

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died at the age of 92. She was the wife of 41st president George H.W. Bush, mother of 43rd president, George W. Bush, and 2016 candidate Jeb Bush. During and after her time in the White House she championed the cause of improving literacy rates among Americans. Photo: ReutersThis is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. Here’s what’s happening today: President confirmed on Twitter that CIA Director Mike Pompeo met with Kim Jong […]Buick cars are assembled at Wuhan auto plant in Wuhan, China. China said it would ease restrictions on foreign auto makers operating in the country.

Buick cars are assembled at Wuhan auto plant in Wuhan, China. China said it would ease restrictions on foreign auto makers operating in the country. Photo: STR/AFP/Getty Images

This is the web version of the WSJ’s daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here.

In today’s issue, China eases rules for U.S. auto makers, global economic growth powers ahead, Trump taps the establishment for Fed jobs, single-family home construction stalls, and eurozone price pressures wane.

CHINA EASING RULES FOR U.S. AUTO MAKERS

Did China blink? The U.S. economic rival said it would ease rules on foreign auto makers, potentially calming trade tensions between the countries. Over the next few years, Beijing plans to scrap joint-venture rules requiring foreign auto makers to share factory ownership and profits with Chinese companies, Trefor Moss and Mike Colias report. That may open the way to higher profits for U.S. companies and could bolster President Donald Trump’s claims that pressure on China is yielding swift results.

Even so, untangling a web of partnerships forged with Chinese companies over decades may prove difficult. General Motors, for one, has no plans to back away from its 10 Chinese joint ventures even if restrictions are lifted.

BEHIND THE SCENES

One reason China may be trying to avoid a showdown with the U.S.: its leaders are worried about an economic slowdown. China’s central bank gave a green light to banks to dig into reserves to lend more, Lingling Wei reports. The move by the People’s Bank of China will unleash about $200 billion in funds. Economists and government advisers called the move a pre-emptive action aimed at bolstering growth and alleviating concerns about the potential effects of the mounting trade fight with Washington.

Comments or suggestions for Real Time Economics? Write to Jeffrey Sparshott at realtimeeconomics@wsj.com, tweet to @WSJecon and visit wsj.com/economy for the latest.

WHAT TO WATCH TODAY

The Bank of Canada releases its rate announcement and monetary policy report at 10 a.m. ET on Wednesday.

The Federal Reserve’s beige book report is out at 2 p.m. ET.

The New York Fed’s William Dudley speaks on the economy and monetary policy at 3:00 p.m. ET and Fed vice chairman Randal Quarles speaks at the Bretton Woods Committee annual meeting in Washington at 4:15 p.m. ET.

Corrections & Amplifications: The New York Fed president’s name is, of course, William Dudley. RTE had incorrectly called him by the wrong given name.

TOP STORIES

TECH FALLOUT FROM TRADE TENSIONS

The U.S.-China trade spat is more than just rhetoric for tech companies. In the latest example, Huawei Technologies said it plans to refocus on existing markets following a series of setbacks in the U.S., Dan Strumpf reports. “It is beyond myself to clearly explain what is going on between the two countries,” said Eric Xu, one of the Chinese telecom giant’s three rotating CEOs.

The U.S. government has called Huawei, the world’s largest provider of telecom equipment, a national-security threat. Recently, the U.S. said it is looking for ways to retaliate against Beijing’s restrictions on U.S. providers of cloud computing, banned American companies from selling products to Huawei rival ZTE, and blocked the takeover of Qualcomm by a Singapore-based company.

GLOBAL GROWTH

Global economic output is on course to grow 3.9% in 2018, the best year since 2011, according to the latest International Monetary Fund forecasts. The IMF is sticking to its optimistic outlook even though trade tensions between the world’s two largest economies have unsettled global stock markets, Josh Zumbrun, Chuin-Wei Yap and Paul Hannon. Economic policy makers are gathering in Washington this week for the IMF and World Bank spring meetings.

POTENTIAL GROWTH

Is 3.9% global growth sustainable? The good news is that the IMF thinks less than half of the better-than-expected growth in advanced economies in 2016 and 2017 is down to a cyclical rise in demand, with the rest due to higher potential growth.

That implies the expansion is more sustainable, Richard Barley writes. It helps explain the way in which inflation hasn’t risen much even as growth has accelerated and unemployment has fallen: a combination that has been extremely good for investors. In all, the IMF estimates potential growth has picked up by 0.4 percentage point between 2011 and 2017 for 10 large advanced economies to about 1.6%.

IRONY, THY NAME IS DEFICIT

Among President Trump’s most deeply held economic convictions is that trade deficits are bad, yet his signature economic policy—a major tax cut—likely will deepen the trade deficits he abhors. For now, that’s more a problem of optics than economics, albeit one that may prompt Mr. Trump to dial up trade tensions with other countries, Greg Ip writes.

But in the long run wider trade deficits will make Americans poorer. That’s not because foreigners are stealing American jobs, as Mr. Trump often contends. Rather, it’s because Americans will increasingly borrow from foreigners to sustain their standard of living. Paying them back will wipe out a sizable chunk of the tax cut’s benefit.

BUSH PEDIGREE IN TRUMP FED PICKS

President Trump sharply criticized the Federal Reserve during his 2016 campaign, but his picks to run the central bank point toward policy continuity and stability rather than disruption. Mr. Trump’s choice for Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, served in President George H.W. Bush’s Treasury Department and was originally tapped for the Fed’s board by President Barack Obama, Nick Timiraos writes. Three other recent nominees served in one or both of the Bush administrations.

Nominees to the Fed board are subject to Senate confirmation, which could be a hurdle for candidates who are less orthodox. One of Mr. Trump’s picks who has been more critical of the Fed’s crisis-era policies, Carnegie Mellon University economist Marvin Goodfriend, has met resistance in the Senate.

SINGLE-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION DIPS

Single-family home construction pulled back in March, bad news for buyers in a market already marked by inventory shortages and rapid price increases.

Total housing starts increased 1.9% from the previous month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.319 million, Laura Kusisto reports. But the increase was driven by a ramp up in construction of multifamily housing. Starts for single-family homes declined 3.7%.

CHART OF THE DAY: PRICE PRESSURES

Supply constraints aren’t the only thing putting pressure on home prices. The costs of labor and materials are also rising, with material prices particularly elevated over the past year. “Every $1,000 increase in price of a newly-built home crowds about 150,000 potential homebuying households from being able to purchase a home,” says National Association of Home Builders chief economist Robert Dietz.

EUROZONE INFLATION STILL WEAK

Eurozone consumer prices rose more slowly than first estimated in the 12 months through March, a fresh setback for the European Central Bank in its struggle to meet its inflation target.

Prices were 1.3% higher than a year earlier, down from an initial estimate of 1.4%, Paul Hannon reports. A combination of lower-than-expected inflation and slowing growth is likely to reinforce the ECB’s caution as it mulls when and how quickly to withdraw its stimulus measures.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

“Despite the good near-term news, longer-term prospects are more sobering. Advanced economies—facing aging populations, falling rates of labor force participation, and low productivity growth—will likely not regain the per capita growth rates they enjoyed before the global financial crisis.” – Maurice Obstfeld, the IMF’s chief economist

TWEET OF THE DAY

The biggest potential American winner in China's auto policy change is NOT Tesla, but Ford. Last yr it signed JV deal w/ Zotye (众泰) to make NEVs. Now Ford can operate on its own. Tesla main obstacle to benefiting are its own manuf problems and zero China experience. — Scott Kennedy (@KennedyCSIS) April 17, 2018

WHAT ELSE WE’RE READING

The League is one of a number of dating apps aimed at young professionals. Bloomberg Businessweek worries that they will exacerbate economic divisions in the U.S. “The services are facilitating unions between educated, affluent millennials who are clustering in such cities as San Francisco and New York. In the process, they could be helping to intensify America’s growing income inequality, as well as wealth disparities between metropolitan areas and the rest of the country.”

Why does poverty beget poverty? Economic stress may be one cause. Prenatal stress is correlated with greater usage of ADHD and anti-anxiety medications, and raises the risk of perinatal complications. “Our results suggest large welfare gains from preventing fetal stress from family ruptures and possibly from economically induced stressors such as unemployment. They further suggest that greater stress exposure among the poor may partially explain the intergenerational persistence of poverty,” Petra Persson and Maya Rossin-Slater write in the latest issue of the American Economic Review.

UP NEXT: THURSDAY

U.S. jobless claims, out at 8:30 a.m. ET, are expected to fall slightly to 225,000.

The Philadelphia Fed’s manufacturing survey for April, out at 8:30 a.m. ET, is expected to slip to 20.1 from 22.3.

Fed governor Lael Brainard speaks on regulatory reform at 8:00 a.m. ET, Fed vice chairman Randal Quarles gives supervision and regulation testimony before Senate Banking Committee at 9:30 a.m. ET, and the Cleveland Fed’s Loretta Mester speaks in Pittsburgh at 6:45 p.m. ET.

Japan’s consumer price index for March is due out at 7:30 p.m. ET.4/17/2018 8:52PM

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 922:55

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 92

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died at the age of 92. She was the wife of 41st president George H.W. Bush, mother of 43rd president, George W. Bush, and 2016 candidate Jeb Bush. During and after her time in the White House she championed the cause of improving literacy rates among Americans. Photo: Reuters2:55

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 92

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died at the age of 92. She was the wife of 41st president George H.W. Bush, mother of 43rd president, George W. Bush, and 2016 candidate Jeb Bush. During and after her time in the White House she championed the cause of improving literacy rates among Americans. Photo: ReutersA Southwest Airlines passenger broadcast a video on Facebook Live midair after an engine broke apart, apparently rupturing a window and killing a passenger.

The engine failure that killed a passenger aboard a Southwest Airlines Co. flight puts the spotlight on one of the industry’s most commonly used engines.

CFM International—a joint venture between General Electric Co. and France’s Safran SA—makes engines that have become a mainstay of commercial aviation. The engines power most of Boeing Co. and Airbus SE’s single-aisle planes, the workhorses of the industry.

On...Remember flip phones and candybars? Well, they're coming back. WSJ's David Pierce explains how a few upgrades are giving formerly dumb phones advantages that could make iPhone users jealous. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal

Hi, welcome to Phones R Us. Can I interest you in a flip phone? What’s that? Why are you laughing? Wait, please don’t leave!

OK, fine, I get it. The last time you cared about a flip phone was the early aughts, when Donald Trump was a brand new reality-TV star and the sleek Motorola Razr was the coolest gadget on the market. Now it is in a museum, a relic from before we knew the cellphone’s true potential.

Recently,...A Southwest Airlines passenger broadcast a video on Facebook Live midair after an engine broke apart, apparently rupturing a window and killing a passenger.

A passenger on a Southwest Airlines Co. flight died Tuesday after an engine broke apart at more than 30,000 feet, spraying metal pieces through the fuselage and forcing the crippled jet to make an emergency landing in Philadelphia.

It was the first fatality from a U.S. airline accident since 2009.

Details of what happened to Flight 1380 and...Rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Best Buy Co. are joining forces to sell television sets powered by Amazon’s Fire TV operating system.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Best Buy CEO Hubert Joly revealed the partnership on Tuesday at a Best Buy store in Bellevue, Wash. The companies will sell 11 models, starting this summer with TVs by Toshiba and Best Buy house brand Insignia. Best Buy will feature the Amazon-powered TVs in its stores and on its website and become the exclusive merchant of these TVs on Amazon.com.

...Israeli soldiers stood atop of an armored personnel carrier in the Golan Heights near the Israeli-Syrian border last week amid heightened tensions between the two countries.

Israeli soldiers stood atop of an armored personnel carrier in the Golan Heights near the Israeli-Syrian border last week amid heightened tensions between the two countries. Photo: atef safadi/EPA/Shutterstock

WASHINGTON—With tacit American support, the Israeli military targeted an advanced Iranian air-defense system at a Syrian base last week, said intelligence officials and others briefed on the matter, the latest sign the Trump administration is working with Israel to blunt Tehran’s expanding influence in the Middle East.

After conferring with President Donald Trump, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ordered a strike on the newly arrived antiaircraft battery to prevent Iranian forces from using it against Israeli warplanes carrying out increasing numbers of operations in Syria, some of these people said.

Israeli officials told the Trump administration about the planned strike in advance so that the U.S. was aware of their plans to directly target an Iranian base, according to two people briefed on the plans.

Israeli leaders have kept silent about the strike, but Russia, Iran and Syria all accused Israel of carrying it out. Information provided by intelligence officials and others briefed on the strike offered new details on the specific target, Israel’s goals, and the discussions with Washington.

Iranian positions in Syria TURKEY Afrin Hasakah Aleppo Raqqa Idlib IRAQ Deir Ezzour SYRIA Mediterranean Sea T4 airbase Homs Palmyra LEBANON Douma Damascus JORDAN ISRAEL 50 miles 50 km Iranian positions in Syria TURKEY Afrin Hasakah Aleppo Raqqa Idlib IRAQ Deir Ezzour SYRIA T4 airbase Homs Palmyra LEBANON Douma Damascus JORDAN 50 miles 50 km Iranian positions in Syria TURKEY Afrin Hasakah Aleppo Raqqa Idlib IRAQ Deir Ezzour SYRIA Mediterranean Sea T4 airbase Homs Palmyra LEBANON Douma Damascus JORDAN 50 miles ISRAEL 50 km Iranian positions in Syria TURKEY Aleppo Hasakah Raqqa Idlib Deir Ezzour SYRIA T4 airbase Homs Palmyra LEB. IRAQ Damascus 50 miles JOR. 50 km

Last week’s attack marked a significant escalation in Israel’s efforts to prevent Iran from cementing its military presence in Syria, where Tehran and its Hezbollah ally provide vital support for President Bashar al-Assad.

Iran has threatened to hit back at Israel, which is bracing for a wider clash with Tehran. A protracted confrontation between the two Middle East rivals could create a dangerous new dynamic in Syria, where Mr. Trump is looking to extricate American forces from a convoluted conflict that shows no signs of coming to an end soon.

Some U.S. officials worry that a broader Israel-Iran fight in Syria could trigger new spasms of conflict that envelop Lebanon and Israel.

The region is roiled by a toxic stew of conflicting alliances surrounding the war in Syria. Iran, Hezbollah and Russia are helping Mr. Assad push rebels to the brink of defeat. More than 2,000 U.S. troops whose mission is to defeat Islamic State militants work alongside Kurdish and Arab forces in Syria. And Turkey has seized another section of Syria as Ankara moves to contain Kurdish ambitions.

U.S. support for the Israeli strike comes as Mr. Trump, wary of an open-ended fight in the Middle East, is leaning on allies—especially Israel and Saudi Arabia—to play a bigger role.

An Israeli Iron dome system was recently deployed near the Israeli-Syrian border in the Golan Heights. Photo: atef safadi/EPA/Shutterstock

Iran has denied it is seeking to establish bases in Syria, but has said its forces will remain in the country to defend Mr. Assad’s government.

Syria’s government is on alert for more American or Israeli strikes, and on Tuesday launched missiles and sounded air-raid sirens for what turned out to be a false alarm.

Since taking office last year, Mr. Trump has allied himself with Mr. Netanyahu, giving Israel strategic backing for its efforts to target Iran’s expeditionary military operations in Syria, according to the people familiar with the discussions.

The Syrian base targeted by the Israeli airstrike has become an elevated concern for Israel. Known as T-4, Syria’s largest air force base hosts government forces, Russian fighters and a growing Iranian drone fleet used for reconnaissance and potential attacks, defense analysts said.

In February, Israel accused Iran’s Quds Force of using the base to launch a drone into Israel. An Israeli helicopter shot down the drone, which Israel said last week was fitted with explosives.

Israeli F-16s followed up by carrying out airstrikes that destroyed the suspected command post at the T-4 base operating the drone.

Timeline of Recent Israeli Action in Syria January 2013 Israel strike in Syria on a suspected shipment of missiles for Hezbollah, officials said. Israel doesn’t confirm or deny the attack.

Israel strike in Syria on a suspected shipment of missiles for Hezbollah, officials said. Israel doesn’t confirm or deny the attack. September 2015 Russia launches airstrikes against rebel targets. Israel and Russia agree to a coordination mechanism to avoid potential accidents.

Russia launches airstrikes against rebel targets. Israel and Russia agree to a coordination mechanism to avoid potential accidents. June 2017 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accuses Iran of setting up arms factories in Syria, which Tehran denies.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accuses Iran of setting up arms factories in Syria, which Tehran denies. August 2017 Israeli Air Force Commander Maj. Gen. Amir Eshel says Israel has attacked convoys allegedly bringing arms to Hezbollah in Syria during the past 5 years.

Israeli Air Force Commander Maj. Gen. Amir Eshel says Israel has attacked convoys allegedly bringing arms to Hezbollah in Syria during the past 5 years. September 2017 Israel strikes a Syrian military site in what former Israeli officials say is an attack to thwart military threats from Iran and Hezbollah. The strike also targets an alleged chemical weapons facility.

Israel strikes a Syrian military site in what former Israeli officials say is an attack to thwart military threats from Iran and Hezbollah. The strike also targets an alleged chemical weapons facility. October 2017 Syrian regime fires at Israeli planes over Lebanon, the Israeli army said. In response, the Israeli military strikes a Syrian antiaircraft battery.

Syrian regime fires at Israeli planes over Lebanon, the Israeli army said. In response, the Israeli military strikes a Syrian antiaircraft battery. December 2017 Israel hits a military site south of Damascus under Iranian control, according to pro-Syrian regime media. Israel doesn’t comment.

Israel hits a military site south of Damascus under Iranian control, according to pro-Syrian regime media. Israel doesn’t comment. February 2018 An Iranian drone breaches Israeli airspace and Israel mounts airstrikes in response. Syria anti-aircraft batteries down an Israeli F-16, drawing a larger-scale Israeli attack on Syrian military infrastructure.

An Iranian drone breaches Israeli airspace and Israel mounts airstrikes in response. Syria anti-aircraft batteries down an Israeli F-16, drawing a larger-scale Israeli attack on Syrian military infrastructure. April 2018 Israel mounts airstrikes against an Iranian air defense system flown from Iran to Syria, intelligence officials familiar with the operation say.

After the strikes, an Israeli jet was shot down by Soviet-era, surface-to-air missile, marking the first time one of Israel’s jets had been brought down in combat since 1982.

In response to the February strike, Iran moved to beef up its air defenses at the base. Earlier this month, Israel tracked an Iranian plane that flew a Tor missile system from Tehran to the Syrian base.

Israel moved quickly to destroy the new air defense system before Iranian forces could set it up, intelligence officials said.

Mr. Netanyahu called Mr. Trump two weeks ago to talk about Iran and Syria. Without going into detail, the White House said the two men “agreed to continue their close coordination on countering Iran’s malign influence and destabilizing activities.”

Mr. Netanyahu also told Mr. Trump about the planned strike on the Iranian base, said one person briefed on the call, but Israeli and American officials declined to provide any details.

Related Video U.S., British and French forces struck sites associated with Syria’s chemical-weapons capabilities on Friday. Video footage shows the missile launches and resulting damage. Above, a Syrian soldier films the damage. Photo: AFP/Getty

The Israeli strike came five days later, on April 9. Israel destroyed the antiaircraft system at the Syrian base and a hanger used to shelter drones, triggering denunciations from Syria, Russia and Iran. Iranian media said seven Iranian military advisers were killed, including an officer who oversaw drone operations.

Israel had begun planning the strike before a suspected Syrian chemical weapons attack on April 7. As Mr. Trump vowed to hit Mr. Assad for the chemical attack, Israel launched its strike against Iran, triggering speculation for a time that the U.S. had carried out the April 9 airstrike. An attack against chemical weapons facilities by the U.S., France and Britain followed on April 14.

Mr. Netanyahu considers permanent Iranian military bases in Syria a “red line.” Israel and the U.S. both are concerned about Iran using Syria to attack Israel and to establish a weapons supply route running from Tehran to Lebanon.

Iran is flying weapons into Khmeimim Air Base, a well-defended Russian base on the Mediterranean coast, according to intelligence officials briefed on the matter.

Iran also has rebuilt a presence at Damascus International Airport after a 2015 airstrike, and the airport also now serves as a base for Iran’s Quds Force, which has built underground storage tunnels to safeguard weaponry, these people said.

In total, Iran now works from five airfields in Syria, including Aleppo, Deir Ezzour, T-4, Damascus airport and Sayqal, located south of the capital, according to intelligence officials. At each, Iranian military transport aircraft bring weapons for Hezbollah or missiles and drones specifically for Iranian forces, these officials said.

“It’s the most serious establishment of Iranian military positions close to Israel’s border than [Israelis] have ever seen,” said James Sorene, chief executive of Bicom, a U.K.-based think tank.

The Trump administration says it will work to push Iran out of Syria, but Mr. Trump’s national security team is divided over how. The Pentagon repeatedly has dismissed suggestions that it plans to turn its focus in Syria from defeating Islamic State to challenging Iran. Pentagon officials worry that Tehran will target American forces across the region if the U.S. directly challenges Iranian forces in Syria.

However, U.S. forces in Syria haven’t always been able to avoid confrontations with Iran. Last year, U.S. warplanes shot down two Iranian-made drones viewed as a threat.

Dore Gold, former director general of Israel’s foreign ministry and president of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, said it is increasingly important that Israel “clarify its red lines in Syria in the event that the U.S. disengages from the region.”

—Felicia Schwartz and Michael C. Bender contributed to this article

Write to Dion Nissenbaum at dion.nissenbaum@wsj.com and Rory Jones at rory.jones@wsj.com2:55

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 92

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died at the age of 92. She was the wife of 41st president George H.W. Bush, mother of 43rd president, George W. Bush, and 2016 candidate Jeb Bush. During and after her time in the White House she championed the cause of improving literacy rates among Americans. Photo: Reuters2:55

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 92

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died at the age of 92. She was the wife of 41st president George H.W. Bush, mother of 43rd president, George W. Bush, and 2016 candidate Jeb Bush. During and after her time in the White House she championed the cause of improving literacy rates among Americans. Photo: Reuters2:55

Barbara Bush, Former First Lady, Dies at Age 92

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died at the age of 92. She was the wife of 41st president George H.W. Bush, mother of 43rd president, George W. Bush, and 2016 candidate Jeb Bush. During and after her time in the White House she championed the cause of improving literacy rates among Americans. Photo: ReutersA Southwest Airlines passenger broadcast a video on Facebook Live midair after an engine broke apart, apparently rupturing a window and killing a passenger.

The engine failure that killed a passenger aboard a Southwest Airlines Co. flight puts the spotlight on one of the industry’s most commonly used engines.

CFM International—a joint venture between General Electric Co. and France’s Safran SA—makes engines that have become a mainstay of commercial aviation. The engines power most of Boeing Co. and Airbus SE’s single-aisle planes, the workhorses of the industry.

On...A Southwest Airlines passenger broadcast a video on Facebook Live midair after an engine broke apart, apparently rupturing a window and killing a passenger.

Tammie Jo Shults, the Southwest Airlines Co. captain who safely landed a Boeing 737 jetliner Tuesday after an engine broke apart midflight, is being hailed as a level-headed hero.

“We owe her our lives,” passenger Marty Martinez said in a text message Wednesday. “Most people don’t get to walk away from an experience like this, but she was able to safely get us home.”

One...Jennifer Riordan’s family said, ‘Her impact on everything and everyone she touched can never be fully measured.” Photo: Marla Brose/Associated Press

The sole passenger killed on a Southwest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing Tuesday after an engine blew apart in midair, Jennifer Riordan, was a mother of two who was heading back to home to Albuquerque, N.M., where she worked as a bank executive.

Ms. Riordan, 43, was a community-relations leader for Wells Fargo in Albuquerque. She was making her way back home, where she lives with her husband, a daughter and a son, according to a family member.

“From my perspective she was the most vivacious, full-of-life person you could ever meet,” said Marianne Riordan, Ms. Riordan’s sister-in-law. “Family was first and she loved everyone, and loved life.”The oil field at the heart of the U.S. shale boom appears to be choking on its own growth, a surprising development with big ramifications for energy profits and global markets.

The Permian basin of West Texas and New Mexico has been one of the few growth engines for oil production world-wide. The region’s output is on track to rival that of Iran or Iraq and has lifted American production to all-time highs.

Output...Oil hit its highest price in more than three years Wednesday as government data showed U.S. stockpiles fell by more than analysts were expecting.

Light, sweet crude for May delivery rose $1.95, or 2.9%, to $68.47 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest close since December 2014. Brent, the global benchmark, rose $1.90, or 2.7%, to $73.48 a barrel.

On...The gap between short- and long-term Treasury yields is at its narrowest in more than a decade, reflecting investors’ confidence that the Federal Reserve will maintain its current pace of interest-rate increases despite continuing skepticism about the longer-term outlook for economic growth and inflation.

The difference between the two-year Treasury yield and the 10-year Treasury yield, known on Wall Street as the 2-10 spread, settled Tuesday at 0.428 percentage point, its tightest since 2007, before steepening modestly Wednesday....A new and dangerous extremist group spawned from al Qaeda is consolidating power in northwestern Syria, while the U.S. has focused on fighting remnants of Islamic State elsewhere in the country and striking the Assad regime’s chemical-weapons facilities.

Since surfacing as the country’s most potent militant group, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has battled Western-backed rebel groups to extend its control across Idlib province, enforcing its version of Shariah and raising funds by taxing flows of people and goods.

...The recent airstrikes against the Syrian regime, in response to a suspected poison gas attack, underscore the West's shift from pursuing a diplomatic solution to a militaristic one. Will this approach work? WSJ's Niki Blasina explains the complicated history of chemical-weapons use in Syria and the international community's response. Photo: AFP.

BRUSSELS—A United Nations security group came under assault Wednesday while examining the site of an alleged chemical-weapons attack in Syria, international inspectors said, delaying an investigation into a strike that provoked a retaliatory Western military response.

The U.N. team was attacked with small-arms fire in the town of Douma, the Damascus suburb where Syrian forces allegedly unleashed a chemical-weapons attack on April 7, said the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, a fact-finding organization...WASHINGTON—With tacit American support, the Israeli military targeted an advanced Iranian air-defense system at a Syrian base last week, said intelligence officials and others briefed on the matter, the latest sign the Trump administration is working with Israel to blunt Tehran’s expanding influence in the Middle East.

After conferring with President Donald Trump, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ordered a strike on the newly arrived antiaircraft battery to prevent Iranian forces from using it against Israeli warplanes...SEOUL—A South Korean official said Seoul could push for a more permanent peace agreement on the Korean Peninsula, potentially involving the U.S. and China, to replace the armistice that ended the Korean War.

Such a move could pave the way for a deal to end the standoff over North Korea’s nuclear weapons.

The comments from the senior security...The U.S. is testing procedures for the emergency evacuation of its citizens from South Korea in an unusual military exercise in which a small group of Americans will be flown to Dallas in conditions meant to simulate preparation for conflict.

With a possible summit meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un approaching and inter-Korean talks nine days away, U.S. officials have sought to play down the exercise. Dubbed “Focused Passage,” the exercise began without fanfare earlier this week.

...Rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Best Buy Co. are joining forces to sell television sets powered by Amazon’s Fire TV operating system.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Best Buy CEO Hubert Joly revealed the partnership on Tuesday at a Best Buy store in Bellevue, Wash. The companies will sell 11 models, starting this summer with TVs by Toshiba and Best Buy house brand Insignia. Best Buy will feature the Amazon-powered TVs in its stores and on its website and become the exclusive merchant of these TVs on Amazon.com.

...Visa Inc. and Mastercard Inc., the two largest U.S. card networks, said Wednesday that they’re planning to drop their longstanding initiatives to get online shoppers to use dedicated payment buttons.

The two payments giants instead want to create a new online option that would amount to a shared single payment button that could succeed the current pay tabs, Visa Checkout and Mastercard Masterpass.

Their...A tax partner at Ernst & Young LLP has filed a federal sexual-harassment complaint against the accounting firm, alleging another partner groped and assaulted her in 2015 and that the firm hasn’t taken the matter seriously.

Jessica Casucci, a 14-year employee and a partner since 2014, says her career has been damaged as a result of the harassment by the other partner, John Martinkat, according to the complaint filed Wednesday with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

Mr. Martinkat has been placed on administrative leave, according to the firm, as new information was brought to the firm’s attention last week.

In a statement, Ernst & Young, which brands itself as EY, said it is investigating the matter and “strong disciplinary actions” will be taken against anyone the firm determines has violated its policies or code of conduct. “We take all allegations of sexual harassment seriously,” the firm said.

Mr. Martinkat, who wasn’t a party to the complaint, couldn’t be reached for comment.

Ms. Casucci’s complaint says EY has a “lack of concern for sexual assault and harassment in the workplace.” Her attorney, Michael Willemin, said Wednesday that Ms. Casucci had had reported Mr. Martinkat’s conduct to an EY official in 2016. “’Strong disciplinary actions’ should have been taken long ago,” Mr. Willemin said.

In the alleged June 2015 incident at an EY conference in Orlando, Fla., Ms. Casucci says Mr. Martinkat lifted her up over his shoulder and aggressively groped her breasts and rear end, in front of two other EY partners who did nothing to stop it. He told her, “I know that you want to f--- me,” according to the complaint.

Ms. Casucci was “terrified, upset and deeply offended” and tried unsuccessfully to break away from Mr. Martinkat before he finally let her go, according to the complaint.

Later that evening, even though she had rejected his advances, she still received “lewd and sexual emails and text messages” from him, according to the complaint. In one of them, he called her “[o]ne of if not the hottest partner,” the complaint says.

Ms. Casucci later reported Mr. Martinkat’s conduct to an EY official but he “was subject to little or no discipline and suffered zero repercussions for his conduct,” while she had to move to a different EY team and specialty and decline work on certain projects to avoid having to work with him, the complaint alleges.

“Ms. Casucci’s career trajectory and earning potential have been adversely impacted, while EY has made sure that Mr. Martinkat’s career has not been affected at all,” according to the complaint.

Ms. Casucci claimed to have suffered stress-related insomnia over the incident, according to the complaint. It added that when Ms. Casucci returned to the same conference the following year, she passed out due to stress and anxiety from fear of running into Mr. Martinkat, and had to be rushed to an emergency room.

After a complaint is filed with the EEOC, according to its website, the commission may ask both sides to take part in mediation to resolve the matter, or it may investigate. If the EEOC determines the law may have been violated, it may try to reach a settlement with the employer; if a settlement doesn’t happen, it can file suit. If the EEOC isn’t able to determine the law was broken, the employee then has the right to sue his or her employer directly.

Write to Michael Rapoport at Michael.Rapoport@wsj.comPuerto Rico suffered an islandwide blackout Wednesday triggered by a power-line failure in the south, the latest setback in the island’s halting efforts to repair the electrical grid after last year’s hurricanes.

The Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority estimated it would take 24 to 36 hours to restore power to all customers. It is focusing first on re-establishing service for hospitals, water pumping systems, the main airport in San Juan and other critical facilities, said Prepa spokesman Carlos Monroig. The utility will...Your next salary offer might look nothing like your current pay.

Big companies like Amazon Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. say they have instructed recruiters not to ask about salary or benefits a candidate received in other positions, as more employers shift away from using past wages as a guide for setting their future pay.

The...Can you briefly describe how neural devices work?

These devices consist of electrodes that penetrate the top layers of the brain and act as an array of tiny microphones to record brain activity.

How are they used today?

The...So far, the European Union has managed to stay out of the escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China. Along with other U.S. allies, it negotiated for itself a temporary exemption from the tariffs on imported steel that President Donald Trump announced last month, citing national security concerns. Since then, the U.S. has introduced a further $50 billion of tariffs on an extensive list of Chinese imports in retaliation for what it claims is theft of intellectual property and has threatened a further $100 billion. The EU shares many of the U.S.’s concerns about Chinese trade practices and would like to work with...Bank investors are a tough crowd to please these days.

Morgan Stanley, the last of the major U.S. banks to report first-quarter earnings, posted strong-enough results to trigger a 3% bounce in its early-morning share price, something its rivals couldn’t manage. But shares quickly settled down and ended the day flat.

In a quarter when several...Most people cheat to win. Sarah Croston cheats to lose.

Ms. Croston says she resorts to deception about 45 minutes into playing another seemingly endless game of Candy Land with her dogged 5-year-old, “when I just can’t stand it anymore.” The Cambridge, Ontario, homemaker stacks the card deck to ensure her son’s selections advance him quickly to the Candy Castle—and victory.

In...The manufacturers of metal panels with combustible cores similar to those that burned last year in a deadly high rise fire in London are backing height limits for their use on buildings in the U.S.

It’s an about-face from the manufacturers’ position of nearly a decade ago, when a panel maker successfully lobbied to expand use of the panels on tall buildings, the Journal reported last year.

During...Top Starbucks Corp. executives and approximately 40 Philadelphia clergy and community leaders met on Wednesday in what local leaders say was the beginning of an effort to push the coffee company to play a leading role in addressing racial injustice.

The meeting, attended by Starbucks Chairman Howard Schultz and Chief Executive Kevin Johnson, came a few days after a social-media outcry about the treatment of two black men at a Philadelphia Starbucks last week.

...China’s announcement Tuesday that it will ease its strict joint-venture rules on foreign auto makers could benefit Tesla Inc. at the same time the Silicon Valley auto maker needs a charge.

Tesla has long sought to manufacture its electric cars in China—its second-biggest market, after the U.S. But it has shied away from conforming with China’s rules requiring a 50-50 joint venture with a local company and the sharing of any profit and technology. So its cars instead are imported from California and subject to a 25% tariff.

...Sales are growing for a type of bare-bones health policy that offers a cheaper alternative to traditional insurance but leaves buyers risking big bills if they have major medical needs.

Known as fixed indemnity plans, the products offer limited help, typically paying set amounts toward the cost of doctor visits, hospital days or other services..

They...Deutsche Bank AG said Chief Operating Officer Kim Hammonds will leave the company next month, the latest executive to depart the troubled German lender.

Earlier this month, Deutsche Bank named Christian Sewing to replace John Cryan as CEO following weeks of management tumult at the bank.

Ms. Hammonds was seen as an ally of Mr. Cryan and...Stockbrokers would face tighter restraints on conflicts that can bias investment advice to customers, under a rule proposed Wednesday by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The SEC’s plan to require brokers act in the best interest of clients is less restrictive than the Labor Department’s “fiduciary rule” affecting retirement accounts that was completed during the last days of the Obama administration, and will likely spark complaints from congressional Democrats and consumer groups that it is too permissive. The SEC’s...HAVANA—Cuba selected First Vice President Miguel Díaz-Canel as sole candidate to succeed Raúl Castro as president of Cuba, the centerpiece of an effort to ensure that the country’s single-party system outlasts the aging revolutionaries who created it.

The virtually certain unanimous approval of the National Assembly will install someone from outside the Castro family in the country’s highest government office for the first time in nearly six decades.

...The European Union is drawing up a peace offer it hopes will end trade hostilities with the White House and avoid steel and aluminum tariffs being imposed on the bloc in two weeks’ time, according to European officials.

Its centerpiece: A miniature, simplified version of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership—the controversial EU-U.S. trade agreement that was negotiated but never concluded under the Obama administration.

...CAIRO—Libyan strongman Khalifa Haftar’s disappearance from public view last week while he underwent medical treatment in Paris raised fears of turmoil in the vast section of eastern Libya he controls. Those concerns deepened Wednesday after an assassination attempt.

According to Mr Haftar’s Libyan National Army, a car bomb targeting the group’s chief of staff exploded as he traveled on the outskirts of Benghazi. The official survived, the organization said.

...Italian Senate Speaker Elisabetta Casellati leaves the Quirinal Palace in Rome after meeting with President Sergio Mattarella on Wednesday.

Italian Senate Speaker Elisabetta Casellati leaves the Quirinal Palace in Rome after meeting with President Sergio Mattarella on Wednesday. Photo: Massimo Percossi/Associated Press

Italy’s President Sergio Mattarella asked a parliamentary leader to mediate among party chiefs in an attempt to form a government supported by the 5 Star Movement and the center-right coalition, hoping a neutral figure can break the stalemate that has persisted since March’s elections.

Mediating is likely to be a tall task as the two groups have so far refused to budge from their positions, making forming a new government impossible.

On Wednesday, Mr. Mattarella asked Senate Speaker Elisabetta Casellati to attempt to bridge the differences and cobble together a coalition with a parliamentary majority. Ms. Casellati isn’t expected to lead a future government, but has been charged with facilitating its formation.

The president asked her to explore the possibility of a government supported by 5 Star and the center-right coalition that is led by the anti-immigration party League and that includes former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s Forza Italia party.

Mr. Mattarella’s move marks a new strategy after two rounds of talks with party leaders failed to yield a new government.

Early in March, elections produced a hung parliament, with the legislature’s seats divided roughly into three main blocs and no group enjoying enough support to govern alone.

The center-right coalition emerged as the largest coalition with around 37% of the vote. Five Star followed with 32%, making it the single party with the largest share, while the center-left Democratic Party trailed both.

Mr. Mattarella’s first rounds of talks stumbled over policy differences and who would have the right to seat the prime minister.

As the two largest vote-winners, 5 Star and the center-right coalition would enjoy a strong majority in parliament. However, 5 Star—which ran on an anticorruption platform—has strongly objected to governing with Mr. Berlusconi, who has long been embroiled in controversy.

As such, it is unclear whether Ms. Casellati, a member of Mr. Berlusconi’s Forza Italia and a long-time confidante of the media mogul, will manage to broker an agreement. Mr. Mattarella has asked her to report back by Friday.

Newsletter Sign-up

However, even as a deal between 5 Star and the center-right coalition looked difficult, 5 Star leader Luigi Di Maio made a fresh overture to the League, saying that his movement is interested in striking a deal with the anti-immigration group.

“We are ready to sign a government contract with the League and not with the whole center-right,” Mr. Di Maio said at the end of a meeting with Ms. Casellati on Wednesday afternoon. “He [League leader Matteo Salvini ] must take a decision by the end of this week.”

But the League isn’t budging. “We want a government that respects the vote of Italians, which is a government between the center right and the 5 Star,” said Mr. Salvini.

The president takes the final decision as to whether to ask another politician to try to form a government. If Ms. Casellati fails, Mr. Mattarella could ask another neutral figure to conduct further talks. Alternatively, he could ask a politician designated by the League or 5 Star to try to form a government.

The League and 5 Star would together have an outright majority in parliament. While the two antiestablishment parties differ on some policies and have clashed about who should have the right to the prime minister’s seat, they have edged closer in recent weeks. If Mr. Mattarella tasks a party leader with exploring a 5 Star-League government, that could prod them to iron out their differences more quickly and strike a deal.

One final option is for Mr. Mattarella to appoint a neutral high-profile figure to lead a broad coalition that could have the support of most political parties, but would be tasked with tackling only a specific set of legislation and could be limited in how long it remains in power.

If all attempts fail, Mr. Mattarella will call new elections. Meanwhile, Italy’s current prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, will remain at the helm of a caretaker government.

Write to Giovanni Legorano at giovanni.legorano@wsj.com

Corrections & Amplifications

The League and 5 Star would together have an outright majority in parliament. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said Forza Italia and 5 Star would together have an outright majority in parliament. (April 18, 2018)A Manhattan jury Wednesday convicted a former nanny of murder, concluding she understood her actions when she fatally stabbed her two young charges with a kitchen knife in 2012.

Yoselyn Ortega, 55 years old, was found guilty of two counts of first-degree murder and two counts of second-degree murder for killing 6-year-old Lucia “Lulu” Krim and her 2-year-old brother Leo. She faces life in prison.

For...Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Wednesday said he will use executive powers to grant all parolees in New York the right to vote, a measure long-sought by liberal activists.

The governor said the measure had failed in the Legislature earlier this year but he is “unwilling to take no for an answer.”

Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat running for a third term, made...BALTIMORE—Cities’ drive to expand bike lanes keeps running into a wall of opposition—even in bike-friendly places like Seattle or Boulder, Colo.

In Baltimore last week, residents of the upscale Roland Park neighborhood beseeched city transportation officials at a boisterous public meeting to remove a roughly mile-long protected bike lane that opened about two years ago along a major thoroughfare.

When...Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday called an election more than a year early, a gambit that could help him secure a new term while the nation is still clocking record economic growth.

Obtaining a fresh mandate would allow Mr. Erdogan to take on vastly expanded presidential powers that voters narrowly approved in a constitutional referendum last year and that come into force after the election.

The...BERLIN—German leaders want the Trump administration to exempt their country’s companies from tough new U.S. sanctions on Russia.

During a visit to Washington this week, Germany’s finance minister will push for special treatment and Chancellor Angela Merkel is planning to raise the issue with President Donald Trump when the two meet later this month, German officials said.

In...A Southwest Airlines passenger broadcast a video on Facebook Live midair after an engine broke apart, apparently rupturing a window and killing a passenger.

Tammie Jo Shults, the Southwest Airlines Co. captain who safely landed a Boeing 737 jetliner Tuesday after an engine broke apart midflight, is being hailed as a level-headed hero.

“We owe her our lives,” passenger Marty Martinez said in a text message Wednesday. “Most people don’t get to walk away from an experience like this, but she was able to safely get us home.”

One...Last week, federal agents raided the law office, home and hotel room of President Donald Trump’s attorney, Michael Cohen. Prosecutors obtained the search warrant after a federal magistrate judge found probable cause to believe Mr. Cohen’s materials contained criminal evidence.

Federal agents walked away with hard drives, electronic devices and as many as 10 boxes of physical documents. But it could take months or longer for the team investigating Mr. Cohen to assess what they have seized because Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump both...WASHINGTON—The Senate voted to end a rule designed to curb racial discrimination in auto financing, the latest Republican effort to roll back Obama-era consumer-finance regulations.

The measure was approved 51-47 on Wednesday largely along the party lines, with one Democrat—Sen. Joe Manchin (D., W.Va.)—joining Republicans. The House is expected to follow suit, sending it to the White House to be signed into law.

Republicans...WASHINGTON—Economic activity expanded across the U.S. in March and early April, with widespread employment growth but mostly modest wage increases, according to a Federal Reserve report released Wednesday.

All of the Fed’s 12 regional districts reported expanding economic output in recent weeks, the central bank said in its latest roundup of anecdotal information about regional economic conditions known as the beige book. The report was based on information collected through April 9.

...India is the last great untapped tech market, and the world’s biggest tech companies are investing billions in its nascent internet economy.

The country has some big challenges, such as low incomes and patchy connectivity. Still, several companies are determined to capitalize on the potential bonanza as hundreds of millions of people go online for the first time.

...MUMBAI—Tax authorities have raided the offices of McDonald’s Corp.’s biggest partner in India in what could be another setback for the fast-food giant, which is already mired in an ugly breakup with its only other licensee in the fast-growing South Asian nation.

A spokeswoman for India’s income tax department said 20 locations connected to Hardcastle Restaurants Pvt. Ltd., which runs more than 270 McDonald’s in the south and west of the country, had been raided in the western cities of Mumbai and Pune.

...Good morning. The chiefs of AT&T and Time Warner are set to take to the witness stand Wednesday to defend their proposed $85 billion merger, in what will likely be a dramatic moment in their high-stakes court battle with U.S. antitrust enforcers. Follow along with the Journal’s live coverage of the AT&T-Time Warner court action here.

We’re entering earnings season for advertising holding companies, so expect lots of questions about the departure of Martin Sorrell and the future of WPP. (On that note, Ken Auletta has a great “professional obituary” of Mr. Sorrell’s storied career.) Publicis is up on Thursday, but first, Omnicom reported a slight lift in revenue in its first quarter, meeting analysts’ expectations. On the call, one analyst asked about speculation WPP may put some of its research or data assets up for sale. Omnicom CEO John Wren said that is not a “key focus” of the company’s acquisition strategy. Omnicom *does* plan to invest in creating more custom solutions for clients that incorporate resources from various agencies and disciplines—its answer to WPP’s “horizontality” or Publicis’s “Power of One” approaches. In terms of wider trends, Mr. Wren said a lot of clients in the U.S. over the past five quarters have shifted from buying digital ads in a way that bundles media, tech fees and other services to a model that provides more itemized information about the costs. That “has an impact on reported revenue,” but Mr. Wren said this kind of transparency a good thing in the long-run.

Closing Time

Starbucks made headlines this weekend after finding itself at the receiving end of a backlash when two black men were arrested at a downtown Philadelphia location. As we reported in this newsletter Monday, CEO Kevin Johnson committed to working with outside experts and community leaders to “understand and adopt best practices.” On Tuesday, Starbucks announced it will close all its company-owned U.S. stores on the afternoon of May 29 for racial-bias training. It’s a move that some people might compare to when Chipotle closed its stores to hold a national staff meeting about food safety following its various norovirus, salmonella and E.coli issues in 2016. But in Starbucks’ case, the company isn’t just applying a Band-Aid to an unraveling crisis, but defining best practice and a leadership position, according to Davia Temin, president and CEO of management consultancy Temin and Company. “Starbucks is defining a new level of seriousness in crisis response,” she told me. “It is a unique step—not one right out of some PR playbook—that both feels and appears to be honest and real.”

So Fresh and So Clean

There is a growing sense of anger from a group of YouTube creators as the video platform continues to make the platform a safer place for marketers to place their ads. That means many channels have been “demonetized” and can no longer earn ad revenue from their videos. Earlier this month, police said bitterness over YouTube’s policies appear to have motivated Nasim Najafi Aghdam to open fire at the company’s headquarters, wounding three employees, On Tuesday, YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki addressed the creator community for the first time since the incident in a blog post, Business Insider reported. Ms. Wojcicki expressed empathy that the platform’s cleanup “has not been easy for many of you” and said YouTube is looking to improve communication with creators. YouTube is also testing sponsorships, she said, providing a new way for creators to make money beyond the usual ad revenue share deal. Judging by the comments below the post, it seems the creator community still has a lot of questions, particularly about the delays in getting their videos approved for monetization.

How Do You Like Them Apples?

Facing headwinds like the decline of the print advertising market and Facebook’s recent algorithm tweak, many publishers are looking for a savior to throw them a bone right now. You may recall back in March Apple acquired Next Issue Media and its digital-magazine-subscription service Texture for an undisclosed sum. Texture’s technology is now being integrated into Apple News and the company gearing up to launch a premium content subscription offering within the app in the next year, Bloomberg reports. It looks as though the service will adopt a similar approach to Apple Music, charging a simple monthly subscription to open up access to content from a range of different publishers. Those publishers would share a slice of the revenue, the report says. But longtime Apple analyst and co-founder of Loup Ventures, Gene Munster thinks the company will need to bring down the current $9.99 cost Texture charges to just a few dollars a month in order to boost its subscription numbers. Even then, he doesn’t think it’ll “move the needle” for Apple’s subscriptions business.

Best of the rest

Nate Silver’s politics and news site FiveThirtyEight is heading to Disney-owned ABC News after five years at (Disney-owned) ESPN. [CMO Today]

Facebook will this week start asking European users for permission to use their personal data to power features like facial recognition and targeted advertising, in preparation for the forthcoming General Data Protection Regulation. Facebook said it will allow users in the U.S. and the rest of the world to review those details in the coming months. [WSJ]

A former Cambridge Analytica employee said the firm used a number of personality quizzes, not just the one designed by researcher Aleksandr Kogan, to obtain data from Facebook. Brittany Kaiser, who was providing evidence to the U.K.’s Commons digital, culture, media and sport select committee as part of a hearing on fake news, said she believes the number of Facebook whose data was compromised this way is far larger than than 87 million reported. [The Verge]

Dunkin’ Donuts has named BBDO and Arc Worldwide as its new creative agency partners. [Adweek]

19% of ad buyers don’t know what Ads.txt is, according to an Oath-commissioned survey of 222 advertisers and agencies conducted by Advertiser Perceptions. [Digiday]

Best Buy and Amazon have formed an unlikely partnership. Best Buy will sell a new line of Fire TV Edition sets at its stores and as a merchant on Amazon.com. [WSJ]

He got his start writing jokes and co-hosting “Real People” in the ‘70s, but more recently Byron Allen has been quietly building a media empire that now owns the Weather Channel. Here’s a look at the comedian’s expansion plans for Entertainment Studios. [WSJ]

LittleThings, the women’s focused digital publisher that abrupty shut down in February following Facebook’s algorithm change, is returning after mobile gaming firm RockYou bought the company for an undisclosed sum. [Business Insider]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @larakiara, @VranicaWSJ, @alexbruell,@BenMullin, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.comWhat exactly is Facebook? It depends on when you asked Mark Zuckerberg. To see how Facebook became an election-influencing player, we dug into the archives and looked at the company's changing view of itself. Photo Illustration: Heather Seidel/The Wall Street Journal; Photos: Associated PressHONG KONG—Chinese telecommunications giant ZTE Corp. said it is delaying the release of its quarterly earnings report as it wrestles with the implications of a ban on sales of U.S. products to the company.

ZTE, China’s largest publicly traded telecommunications firm, is the fourth-largest vendor of smartphones in the U.S. The delay of its earnings, set for Thursday, is the latest result of the announcement Monday by the U.S. Commerce Department banning U.S. companies from selling products to ZTE. The department said the company...Morgan Stanley on Wednesday reported record quarterly profits, the last of the big U.S. banks to benefit from a potent cocktail of lower taxes, active markets, lower expenses and economies growing in lockstep.

The Wall Street firm’s first-quarter profits of $2.6 billion and revenues of $11.1 billion were both record highs after reflecting accounting adjustments and jettisoned businesses. Morgan Stanley’s traders had their best quarter since 2009, riding a wave of increased volume and volatility that also aided rivals, including...American Express Co. reported improvement in key profit metrics in the latest period as it focuses on rebuilding its capital, which took a hit from charges related to the U.S. tax overhaul.

Shares, which have outperformed the market over the past 12 months with a 26% gain, rose 2.4% to $97.39 in after-hours trading.

Last quarter, a roughly...In a year of rising interest rates, resurgent stock volatility and creeping political risk, many investors are taking solace in dividends.

An unsettled market outlook means companies’ capacity to deliver cash—in the form of share buybacks and dividend payments—is of key importance for shareholders.

Global stock indexes in 2018 have failed...The financial travails of the giant Chinese conglomerate HNA Group Co., which is currently trying to unload its overseas holdings, are casting a spotlight on a vast portfolio of luxury homes owned by executives of HNA and a U.S. company run by the brother of its chairman.

HNA has racked up significant debt from a long international acquisition spree. While the company has been moving to sell a large chunk of commercial assets, executives at HNA and the U.S. company are sitting on nearly $200 million in luxury homes throughout...The virtual currency bitcoin continues surging to new highs as a frenzy of investors get in on the action. WSJ's Paul Vigna explains what you need to know, and how to invest should you want to join the mania. Photo: Alexander Hotz/The Wall Street Journal.

Eager to escape the traffic and congestion of the Seattle area, Nia Collins has her eye on a model home in a new gated community in Wenatchee, Wash., about 150 miles to the east. She expects the home will go on the market for around $700,000. But she doesn’t know exactly—because nobody has returned her calls.

“There’s so much going on they can’t keep up,” says Ms. Collins, a 58-year-old interior designer.

Houses...A New York apartment that belonged to the late George Plimpton, the charismatic founding editor of the Paris Review, is coming on the market for $5.495 million.

Overlooking the East River, the co-op on East 72nd Street is known for the star-studded parties Mr. Plimpton and his wife, Sarah Dudley Plimpton, hosted there. Mr. Plimpton entertained almost constantly, hosting about one party a week, Mrs. Plimpton confirmed. The apartment served as “a nonstop salon for the New York creative class in the latter half of the 20th century,” she said. Attendees included the likes of writer Norman Mailer, boxer Muhammad Ali, conductor Leonard Bernstein and artist Andy Warhol.

Mr. Plimpton, who died in 2003 at 76, chronicled his adventures in several books, writing about his involvement in various sporting and cultural events. Photo: Getty Images

Mr. Plimpton, who died in 2003 at 76, cobbled together four apartments to form the approximately 4,700-square-foot Upper East Side duplex, according to the listing agent Ann Cutbill Lenane of Douglas Elliman. Mrs. Plimpton, 65, is selling the unit because she is downsizing and plans to move to Santa Fe, N.M., Ms. Lenane said.

The home is located in a row of almost identical five-story buildings that overlook the East River. Painted black, they are recognizable by their bright red doors. They were originally built around the turn of the 19th century, public records show. Mr. Plimpton first rented at the building in the 1950s, and then expanded his apartment to four units when the building went co-op in the early 1970s, Ms. Lenane said.

The first floor has nearly 60 feet of frontage on the river and a large living and game room for entertaining. There are four bedrooms in total as well as a maid’s room, a home office or study, a den and fireplaces throughout.

Mr. Plimpton, who began editing the Paris Review literary magazine in 1953, was known as a “participatory journalist.” He chronicled his adventures in several books, writing about his involvement in various sporting and cultural events, including boxing matches, baseball games and playing with the New York Philharmonic.

Write to Katherine Clarke at katherine.clarke@wsj.comWhen New York Mets general manager Sandy Alderson first started working in baseball in 1981, his Oakland Athletics threw 60 complete games—or one more than every team in the majors combined last season. Their typical 25-man roster included no more than 10 pitchers. The idea that they could possibly need any more seemed ridiculous.

Things look quite a bit different today. The number of pitchers that teams carry at one time has slowly crept up to keep pace with changes in strategy. The accepted sweet spot settled in at 12.

But suddenly, most organizations have determined that even a dozen arms are not enough for the modern baseball landscape. It has resulted in a new industry standard of 13 pitchers, including eight relievers, a shift in how teams utilize their assets that reflects the latest phase of the sport’s evolution.

This might not sound like a huge change, but it comes with significant ramifications and provides clear insight into how the game is played in 2018.

“In today’s game, the 13th pitcher is more valuable than the 13th player,” Alderson said.

In 2013, teams across MLB had 13 pitchers on their active rosters for 803 total games before rosters expanded in September, according to Stats LLC. That number grew to 2,243 games last season—a 179% increase—and it will almost certainly climb even further this year.

Kansas City Royals manager Ned Yost hands the ball to relief pitcher Brandon Maurer during a pitching change. Photo: Charlie Riedel/Associated Press

Relief pitchers, once considered the most interchangeable and least important parts of any team, matter more than ever, boosted by a surge of empirical evidence that proves their significance. As a result, managers turn to the bullpen earlier and more frequently than at any other point in history, with starters accounting for less than 62% of the innings in 2017, a record low. The average starter lasted just 5 1/3 innings per outing.

The data shows that performance drops dramatically when a pitcher faces an opposing batting order for a third time. Hitters posted an .801 on-base-plus-slugging percentage in those situations last season, up from .724 the first time through the lineup. In response, teams simply pull their starter before that happens, putting a greater burden on relievers.

“At some point, your worst reliever is more effective than your best starter,” Alderson said. “That crossover point is fairly early in a game often.”

This alone wouldn’t require a larger bullpen if relievers threw multiple innings at a time. But they don’t, at least not with any semblance of regularity. The average reliever pitches to about 4 1/2 batters per outing, down from five in 2000 and six in 1990, which explains why managers want as many arms as possible at their disposal. As St. Louis Cardinals manager Mike Matheny put it, “If you’re going to be blowing through guys, you better have somebody who’s ready to pitch.”

Hence, eight relievers.

“The stress of the bullpen has become so great that carrying the additional arm is where managers are most comfortable,” said John Mozeliak, the Cardinals’ president of baseball operations. “When you’re trying to eliminate fatigue or overuse, having that extra arm helps ease that.”

Once again, the reason for this change stems from the rise of analytics, which show the benefit of using relievers based on individual matchups, leading to extreme specialization. Mets left-hander Jerry Blevins, for instance, entered Wednesday night’s contest having appeared in 10 games—and seen just 12 hitters, often entering for just one lefty slugger.

Meanwhile, research shows that it is ideal for relievers to pitch in short, quick bursts, exerting maximum effort on every pitch instead of holding back for later. Last season, 110 different relievers threw at least one fastball of at least 98 mph, up from 91 in 2013. Managers would rather their relievers throw as hard as they can for a few batters at time and then bring in somebody else to do the same thing.

“You’re apt to go to that when you have a bunch of guys in the ‘pen like that,” Milwaukee Brewers manager Craig Counsell said.

Of course, an extra pitcher on the roster means teams often have one fewer option on the bench, a new normal with real implications, especially for the position players struggling to find major-league jobs. This past winter featured the slowest free-agent market ever, a freeze-out of veteran players that dominated the conversation in the baseball world all off-season.

Plenty of factors contributed to this phenomenon, but one that didn’t receive much widespread attention relates directly to the rise of the 13-man pitching staff: With smaller benches—as few as three reserves on American League teams—certain types of players who used to be coveted no longer have a place in the game.

New York Mets relief pitcher Jerry Blevins entered Wednesday night’s contest having appeared in 10 games—and seen just 12 hitters. Photo: Ron Sachs/Zuma Press

Consider Mark Reynolds, who after finishing 2017 with 30 home runs and 97 RBIs couldn’t find work until he agreed to a minor-league contract with the Washington Nationals last week. Or Adam Lind, who remains unsigned despite his .303 batting average and .875 OPS a year ago.

Both of them play first base and left field almost exclusively, offering little defensive flexibility. Mozeliak said that with so few bench spots—one of which reserved for a backup catcher—those types of players are “pretty tough to carry.”

“Positional versatility has become critical in the game,” Counsell said. “You need that player on your roster.”

For the Brewers, that player is Hernan Perez, who in his career has appeared at every position besides catcher. (Yes, he has even pitched in two games.) The previous three World Series champions have all had that sort of super-utility player: Marwin Gonzalez for last year’s Houston Astros and Ben Zobrist for the 2016 Chicago Cubs and 2015 Kansas City Royals.

Baseball executives say this is no coincidence, with every team seeking out their own version of Zobrist. It’s a must, because 13-man pitching staffs are here to stay.

Said Mozeliak: “It’s been one of those things where it’s been this natural evolution.”

Write to Jared Diamond at jared.diamond@wsj.comGronk, the NFL star, is buying a share in Gronk, the horse. And together they’re going to Churchill Downs.

New England Patriots star Rob Gronkowski will acquire a minority stake in Gronkowski, a 3-year-old colt named after him that is slated to run in the Kentucky Derby on May 5.

The deal is set to be announced on Thursday with Phoenix Thoroughbreds,...News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information servicesQ: I know that vintage watches can fetch fortunes, but I don’t hear much about used watches. What’s the difference between the two, and how do I find a good used watch?

A: Your question hits on a hot-button development that has the potential to disrupt the watch industry: the selling of used watches on new online marketplaces.

First let’s...Among the tricks of the airline trade, one of the wiliest may be which wines carriers serve to premium international business-class passengers. Top sommeliers tout selections with breathless descriptions—even for the $9 bottles.

A price check on the wine menus of a dozen top international airlines uncorked a wide array of answers. A few pour expensive bottles, some even aged in airline cellars. Others serve lesser-known, inexpensive labels with dreamy descriptions and nary a whiff of the average retail price.

...INDIO, Calif.—Electronic music is tapping an unlikely ally to help it stay relevant: actual musical instruments.

Nearly a decade after a craze for electronic dance music, or EDM, swept the U.S. festival scene, the genre has evolved as fans demand more from their live experiences than a DJ on a laptop. The shift is playing out at musical festival Coachella, where live electronic acts like Odesza and Kygo are performing with keys, vocals, strings and horns in addition to electronic equipment, on the festival’s high-profile...Omnicom CEO John Wren said that marketers are “rapidly adjusting their businesses to keep pace with technological disruption” during the company’s first-quarter earnings call.

Omnicom CEO John Wren said that marketers are “rapidly adjusting their businesses to keep pace with technological disruption” during the company’s first-quarter earnings call. Photo: Getty Images

Omnicom OMC -0.20% Group’s revenue grew slightly in the first quarter, even as the advertising company faced continuing headwinds from client losses and changing client needs.

The company reported a 1.2% increase in revenue to $3.63 billion, meeting analyst expectations. The company reported a 2.4% increase in revenue from organic growth -- a key metric that strips out acquisitions, dispositions and foreign-exchange fluctuations.

In North America, organic revenue decreased 0.1%, due to weakness in Canada and Puerto Rico, as well as client losses and shifts in spending in the U.S., said Omnicom Chief Executive John Wren.

Marketers are “rapidly adjusting their businesses to keep pace with technological disruption, new competitors and evolving consumer behaviors,” Mr. Wren said on the company’s earnings call Tuesday. “Today, our clients more than ever before, need a valued partner to help solve business problems and grow through the lens of marketing.”

The ad holding company, which owns creative agencies BBDO and DDB, as well as media buying shops OMD and PHD, reported earnings as headlines swirl around rival WPP.

WPP, the largest ad holding company in the world, in March reported its worst performance for 2017 since the financial crisis. Adding to its woes, the company this past week announced that its chief executive, Martin Sorrell, would step down amid a board probe into an allegation of personal misconduct. Mr. Sorrell has denied the allegation.

The news led to speculation about what a new leader, once appointed, will do to get WPP back on a growth track. Some analysts wondered if WPP will sell its data assets, including Kantar Media.

If WPP sells Kantar or its other data assets, Omnicom isn’t likely to be a buyer. That’s not a “key focus” for the company’s acquisition strategy, said Mr. Wren. “In many ways, I have a great deal of respect for Martin,” he said. “I know he was in the process of evaluating his own portfolio. I don’t know what conclusion the new leadership will reach.”

Omnicom said it will continue to invest in talent and technology as the “marketing environment increases in complexity.” It’s also moving toward more custom Omnicom-level solutions for clients that incorporate resources from various agencies and disciplines -- a shift from the model in which clients work with one agency. As a result, client conflicts are “far less of an issue,” he said.

Net income for the first quarter of 2018 increased 9.2%, to $264.1 million. Diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2018 increased 12 cents, or 11.8%, to $1.14 per share, compared to $1.02 per share for the first quarter of 2017.

The company said it’s still cycling through client losses from earlier in 2017. At the same time, it’s adjusting to a shift in the way some clients buy digital media. Some clients are moving from buying digital media through an offering that bundles media and other service and tech fees, to an offering that provides more transparency into the unbundled services and costs.

“That has an impact,” said Mr. Wren. If you’re just focused on top-line growth, your reaction might be, “Oh my god,” he said. However, if someone is focused on “substance and profitability of the business, it’s actually a growing area.”

Write to Alexandra Bruell at alexandra.bruell@wsj.comA hardware failure at the Internal Revenue Service on Tuesday that prevented taxpayers from filing online returns highlights the risks for chief information officers struggling with aging backend IT systems, tight budgets and growing pressure to provide innovative front-end services, federal watchdogs and industry analysts say.

“For the IRS this was a mission-critical system that processes most of our $3.3 trillion in taxes every year,” David A. Powner, director of information technology management issues at the United States Government Accountability office, told CIO Journal.

“But we still don’t see a definite plan to get it into shape,” he said.

According to Mr. Powner, the agency’s legacy hardware systems are programed with assembly language, a computer language initially used in the 1950s.

This includes the agency’s Individual Master File, or IMF, its main computer system for data on individual taxpayer accounts, he added. It is the computer system underpinning the agency’s modernized e-file system, which taxpayers use to file returns online, he said.

Despite a slew of federal IT modernization efforts in recent years, agency officials across the federal government tend to shy away from overhauling backend systems that remain operational, Mr. Powner said.

That means systems often don’t get the attention they need until they fail, he said.

Mr. Powner said he expects to meet with IRS officials to review the exact cause of this week’s outage in the days ahead.

The IRS has blamed the one-day outage on a “hardware issue,” which caused difficulties in receiving online returns from individual filers and large tax preparers, including TurboTax maker Intuit and H&R Block

Taxpayers were given an extra penalty-free day to file returns.

“IRS teams worked hard throughout the night” to get the system back online, Acting Commission David Kautter said in a statement Wednesday.

For many public-sector IT officials, adequate funding is “clearly an issue,” as budget pressures drive the need for operational cost savings, said Doug Robinson, executive director of the National Association of State CIOs.

“It’s balancing legacy and innovation, however many of the legacy systems are mission critical and must be replaced,” Mr. Robinson said.

Federal watchdog groups have been warning about aging IT systems at the IRS for many years.

Danny Verneuille, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration’s assistant inspector general for audit, told House lawmakers in October that the IRS’s main computer system has been using “outdated” code for more than 50 years.

“The IRS’s reliance on legacy systems, aged hardware and its use of outdated programming languages pose significant risks to the IRS’s ability to deliver its mission,” Mr. Verneuille told members of the House Ways and Means Committee.

“Modernizing the IRS’s computer systems has been a persistent challenge for many years and will likely remain a challenge for the foreseeable future,” he said.

As one example, he added, the agency has “no current timetable for adoption and implementation of an enterprise-wide cloud strategy.”

Beyond tech debt, federal agency CIOs tend not to be around long enough to make sweeping changes to IT systems, Mr. Powner said, adding that on average CIOs government-wide serve for just two years.

By contrast, he said, It takes roughly a year for an incoming CIO to figure out a large IT system and much of the following year creating an IT modernization plan: “By that point, they’re already gone,” Mr. Powner said.

House lawmakers are hoping to pass a series of bipartisan bills later this week, including one aimed at creating a strategic plan to update IRS technology, according to Rep. Kevin Brady (R., Texas), chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.U.K. fashion chain Primark will post higher profit margins this year on the back of favorable currency shifts and changes to purchasing policy, said John Bason, chief financial officer of the retailer’s parent company.

Primark accounts for about half of parent Associated British Food PLC’s profit and the fashion retailer is expected to boost its operating profit margin from the 10.4% recorded in 2017, Mr. Bason said Tuesday in an interview with CFO Journal. Primark’s profit margin slipped to 9.8% for the six months ended March 3, 2018, compared with 10% during the prior-year period, a sharp decline from its all-time high of 14.1% in 2006.

“It does feel like a low point,” Mr. Bason said. “I expect margins to improve in the second half of the year.”

ABF reported profit of £491 million ($696.5 million) for the six months ended March 3, down from £646 million earned in the same period of 2017. Its revenues for the period totaled £7.4 billion, up from £7.3 billion in the same period a year earlier.

Favorable trends in the foreign-exchange markets are expected to boost earnings. Primark generates the bulk of its revenues in pounds and euros, two currencies that have rallied against the U.S. dollar in recent months, reversing a prior decline.

Meanwhile, Primark incurs most of its expenses in dollars, as the chain sources its garments from several Southeast Asian countries and pays for them in dollars, a common practice in the textile industry.

Changes to Primark’s sourcing policies should also help to boost profit margins, according to Mr. Bason. “We are becoming more professional in our buying and focus on big suppliers,” he said. Primark now sources certain items from only one supplier, reducing the cost per item sold, he added.

The fashion chain places its orders six months in advance, resulting in a slight delay for the currency impact to show up in its bottom line.

An expanded retail footprint—Primark currently has 352 outlets, including eight in the U.S.—could allow the company to place larger orders with its suppliers, cutting down further on input costs, said Fintan Ryan, an analyst at Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG in London. “That would provide an upside to its margins,” said Mr. Ryan.

Primark plans to open several new stores this year, including two in the U.K., two in Germany and one in the U.S. The fashion retailer will open a store in Florida in 2019 as part of a £250 million expansion plan that began with the opening of a store in Boston in 2015.

The company is still “refining its model in the U.S.,” said Mr. Bason.

Primark is trying to find the right fit for its U.S. stores, said Alex Smith, an analyst at Barclays PLC. “The management went in with a footprint too large relative to the current brand awareness in the U.S.,” he said, adding Primark is now shrinking some of its U.S. locations.Clothes hang on the balcony of a badly damaged building in Homs, Syria, in January.

Clothes hang on the balcony of a badly damaged building in Homs, Syria, in January. Photo: Associated Press

The Trump administration accused a Syrian organization of attempting to smuggle migrants to the U.S. border, imposing sanctions on the group and its leader.

The Homs-based organization, led by Syrian Nasif Barakat, facilitated the movement since 2013 of hundreds of people from Syria and Lebanon to the U.S. border, operating through a global network of smugglers, according to the U.S. Treasury Department. The smuggling network uses a route that begins in Syria, travels through Lebanon, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, and then to Brazil, through South and Central American countries before reaching the Southwest border in Mexico, the U.S. alleged.

Mr. Barakat’s organization charged migrants an average of $20,000 per person, which included fees to obtain fraudulent documents, such as fake passports from many countries, to facilitate their movement, Treasury said.

It isn’t clear whether any migrants utilizing the network crossed into the U.S. A Treasury Department spokesman declined to comment, and representatives of U.S. Customs and Border Protection didn’t immediately reply to requests for comment.

As a result of the sanctions, all of Mr. Barakat’s U.S. assets, and those of his organization, are frozen. Americans are barred from transactions involving Mr. Barakat or his group.

Wednesday’s action, taken by Treasury under an executive order targeting transnational organized crime, follows airstrikes on Syria over the weekend in response to a suspected chemical-weapons attack that killed 43 civilians and injured hundreds. The Syrian government has repeatedly been accused of using chemical weapons on civilians during the seven-year civil war. Syria and its chief patron, Russia, have denied that chemical weapons were used in the attack.

The Trump administration has struggled in recent days to decide whether to impose sanctions on Russia over its support for the Syrian regime. The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations had said Washington was set to act, but White House officials backed off, saying the earlier comments were premature.

Refugee settlement in the U.S. of Syrians fleeing the conflict has slowed to a trickle: Only 11 were accepted so far this year, according to an NPR report citing State Department figures.

The sanctions on Wednesday also come as the administration heightens its efforts to prevent immigrants from entering the U.S. illegally. Immigration advocates have decried the crackdown.

“The day I was sworn in as attorney general, President Trump sent me an executive order to dismantle transnational criminal organizations. Many of these organizations use human smugglers to bring people across our borders with little regard to their safety or our national sovereignty,” said Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

Write to Samuel Rubenfeld at Samuel.Rubenfeld@wsj.com Follow him on Twitter at @srubenfeld.A daily roundup of corruption news from across the Web. We also provide a daily roundup of important risk & compliance stories via our daily newsletter, The Morning Risk Report, which readers can sign up for here. Follow us on Twitter at @WSJRisk.

Bribery:

Indonesian authorities questioned the former head of the national airline over bribery allegations linked to Rolls-Royce. He declined to comment. (JP)

A former Singaporean executive had his corruption sentence reduced on appeal. (Yahoo)

Local cases: Prosecutors seek to maintain corruption charges against an Indiana mayor. The jury was selected in the retrial of a former New York State lawmaker. An Indian teenager who was raped said her parents took bribes to shut her up. The article contained no comments from the parents; the mother has been arrested and the father is on the run.(PT, NWT, NYP, WP)

Cybercrime:

The White House cybersecurity coordinator is leaving that office to return to the National Security Agency. (NextGov, Axios, WP)

Up to 400 Australian companies were caught up in a cyberattack blamed on Moscow. Has Russia hacked your WiFi? (ABC, Guardian)

Fraud:

Sri Lanka arrested its sports minister amid fraud allegations; he was released on bail. None of the articles contained a response. (Menafn, IANS, NF)

A U.K. man was arrested in Morocco and extradited to the U.S. to face fraud charges. The story didn’t include a response from him. (OCCRP)

Money Laundering:

The silencing of Malta’s premier anti-corruption journalist hasn’t stopped the reporting on money-laundering scandals in the country, and Malta is protecting her killer, her widower said. The Maltese government says police are leaving no stone unturned. Europe is moving to tighten its rules against money laundering in the wake of scandals. (Reuters, NYT, TJN Guardian, Guardian, FS, FT)

The $250 million luxury yacht linked to the 1MDB investigation was ordered released by an Indonesian court. (AFP)

A second co-founder of Backpage.com was released on $1 million bond. (AP)

Irish authorities made six arrests and seized assets linked to an alleged drug ring. (Sun, Journal)

PEPWatch: A Ukrainian court unfroze funds linked to the son of the ousted former president. (KP)

Sanctions:

The flap over whether the U.S. would impose sanctions on Russia has unraveled into open conflict between U.S. officials. (WSJ, Atlantic, NYT, AFP, FT, NBC, Politico)

Moscow considers the U.S. sanctions as an asset grab and vowed to respond. Its attempt to wean itself off Western technology hit a snag. Will targeting the oligarchs be the way to inflict pain on President Vladimir Putin? (Reuters, WSJ, WSJ, MT, Reuters, Reuters, Independent)

The crackdown on ZTE will hurt Android the most. (Bloomberg, Reuters, BGR, AP)

North Korea cited the Iran nuclear deal as negotiations ramp up ahead of talks with South Korea and the U.S. (Yonhap)

A Bulgarian student says he is innocent of charges that he violated U.S. sanctions on Syria. (Reuters)

Whistleblowers:

An Angolan activist faces a trial for an article he wrote exposing alleged corruption. (enca)

General Anti-Corruption:

Slovakia’s interior minister said he would resign rather than fire a police chief. The killing of a journalist highlighted the country’s corruption problems. (Bloomberg, OCCRP, AP, TT, Reuters)

President Donald Trump‘s businesses made millions from federal agencies and political groups since 2015. (McClatchy, Splinter)

South Africa ended its auditing contracts with the firm KPMG as the local unit fights for survival. (release, FT, Bloomberg)

Rwandan lawmakers are debating anti-graft legislation. (NT)

Far more than 87 million Facebook profiles were compromised in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, U.K. lawmakers were told. The company’s former CEO refused to testify. (Guardian, AP, Guardian, AFP)

A top police officer in South Africa pleaded guilty to corruption. (TL)

Romania’s president refused to fire the anti-corruption chief. (DW, Reuters)

James Comey took on FIFA before his brawl with President Donald Trump. (USAT)

Spain’s ruling party is dealing with another corruption scandal. (Politico)

A Russian journalist who investigated corruption died in a suspicious fall from a balcony. Separately, a Russian scholar who traced the nation’s corruption died of cancer. (OCCRP, Times, Guardian, NYT)The seven-year ban on U.S. exports to Chinese telecommunications giant ZTE Corp. announced this week shook up markets and rattled the company’s suppliers, but it also illustrates the pitfalls of misleading law enforcement, said observers and attorneys.

ZTE misled the U.S. Commerce Department since striking a $1.19 billion settlement last year over export-controls and sanctions violations, the department said Monday. It accused the firm of making false statements during the settlement negotiations and the period following the agreement.

ZTE retained and paid full bonuses to employees it was supposed to discipline for the violations; the government only learned about it after the Commerce Department requested documents verifying the action, the U.S. alleged.

The Chinese company halted trading on Tuesday following the allegations. It said in a brief statement it “is assessing the full range of potential implications” of the U.S. order and is communicating with relevant parties over how to respond. ZTE relies on U.S. components for its products.

ZTE established a crisis-management team, the company’s chairman said in a memo seen by the South China Morning Post. In it he appealed for calm from the company’s 80,000 workers. “The company is actively communicating and giving its all to resolve this crisis,” said Chairman Yin Yimin in the memo.

The U.S. allegations sent the stock prices of optical-component firms sliding and placed American companies in the crossfire. The broader lesson, said observers, is the company didn’t keep the promises it made when signing the settlement.

“Law enforcement hates nothing more than being lied to,” said Douglas Jacobson, a partner at the international trade-focused firm Jacobson Burton Kelley PLLC, which represents companies that import products from, and export components to, ZTE.

There’s no grace period for exported U.S. products already in transit to ZTE, said Mr. Jacobson. Moreover, he said, it will take ZTE a long time to find equivalent non-U.S. components, if it ever does.

The Commerce Department “is sending a message,” he said. “It’ll be very difficult for them to overcome this denial order,” said Mr. Jacobson.

Companies that ignore U.S. law put their access to U.S. technology and markets at risk, said Daniel Glaser, principal at the Financial Integrity Network, a consultancy that advises governments and companies on illicit finance threats.

“Firms facing enforcement actions need to be fully forthcoming with U.S. officials and follow through on their commitments to the U.S. government, both in letter and spirit,” said Mr. Glaser, who previously served in the U.S. Treasury Department.

“It should be no surprise when the U.S. government takes decisive action against violators because the export-control regime, along with the sanctions and anti-money laundering regimes, are vital to U.S. national security,” he said.

Write to Samuel Rubenfeld at Samuel.Rubenfeld@wsj.com. Follow him on Twitter at @srubenfeld.Blame our beer-leaning tastes: When, earlier this year, we explored what was going on at Boston Beer, we took home some of the company’s new beer rather than its new Angry Orchard Rosé cider. That might’ve been an oversight.

Earlier this week, Goldman Sachs upgraded Boston Beer (SAM) to Neutral, largely based on the idea that the Barron’s Next 50 company isn’t just a beer company—and that’s a good thing right now.

Sam Adams “is still showing sizable decline in a competitive craft beer category (we model midteens decline in Boston Lager and mid-single-digit decline in total beer), though…we note that beer is now <50% of total mix,” they wrote. “Twisted Tea has maintained its #1 share in hard tea and has sustained 20%+ growth, Truly [spiked sparkling water] has maintained a mid-single-digit share of product mix in the seasonally cold months, while Angry Orchard is back to growth on Rosé.”

• Boston Beer is expected to report first quarter financial results on April 25 after the market’s close. Wall Street analysts—most who have Hold ratings on the shares, according to FactSet—expect quarterly EPS of $0.29, down from $0.45 last year, on sales up just slightly at $174 million.

• When the company reports results, investors will surely look for more details on the Rose, plus the new Sam ‘76 and New England IPA beers, seeking signs that the company’s innovative touch has helped sustain growth in early 2018—and that it’ll continue into the key midyear selling season.

“We are not yet convinced Rosé Cider and Sam ‘76 can sustain current rates of growth,” Goldman wrote.

• The shares, meanwhile, have been hot. What’s next? In a note in which Imperial Capital recently initiated coverage of National Beverage (FIZZ), Boston Beer compared favorably by several of the analysts’ valuation measures.



Illustration: Imperial Capital

Goldman set a $223 price target—right around current prices—on the stock, noting the shares run-up and wondering whether management might “reinvest some of the recent growth, limiting full flow-through to EPS.”

• The company has raced past 2018 highs set in February, after which they dropped on concerns of slowing business. Recent signals seem to have revived sentiment among investors that the company, which is getting a new CEO, has things under control.

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.Photo: Getty Images

Yahoo! once owned a big chunk of people’s time—then it didn’t. That became an unfixable problem for the company, former CEO Marissa Mayer said in a recent interview.

“I’m proud of what we achieved at Yahoo!,” said Mayer in an interview with the New York Times that was published Wednesday. “That said, we had a quickly decaying legacy business. All we really managed to do was offset the declines.

Newsletter Sign-upStarbucks has some work to do if it wants to recapture the trust of customers.

The coffee giant dropped to its lowest consumer-perception level since November 2015, according to a YouGov BrandIndex score released Wednesday. YouGov examined the daily consumer perception “buzz score” before and after two black men were forcibly removed from a Starbucks SBUX, -0.55% store in Philadelphia last week.

A video of the two men being handcuffed and removed by at least six police officers from a Philadelphia Starbucks went viral. They were reportedly waiting for a business associate. It sparked outrage on social media, with many people pointing out that Starbucks outlets are often full of people tapping away on their MacBooks AAPL, -0.22% with and without a Starbucks coffee next to them.

Related: Here’s how much it will cost Starbucks to close 8,000 stores for a May afternoon

In November 2015, Starbucks received backlash on Facebook FB, -1.36% and Twitter TWTR, -0.94% when it replaced its annual “symbols of the season” Christmas cup design with a simple two-tone red cup. (In May 2015, a diversity-awareness campaign in which baristas were encouraged to write “race together” on every single coffee cup also backfired.)

Don’t miss: You’re probably invested in gun stocks — here’s how to change that

YouGov asked, “If you’ve heard anything about the brand in the last two weeks, through advertising, news or word of mouth, was it positive or negative?” A score can range from -100 to 100 with a zero score equaling a neutral position. For example: A score of 35 means that 35% more people said they heard more positive than negative buzz about the brand.

Since last Friday, Starbucks’ “buzz score” fell from 13 to -8 on Tuesday, a drop of 21 points in four days. When the 2015 Christmas cup incident occurred, Starbucks fell from a “buzz score” of 11 to -9 in four days too, eventually hitting a bottom of -13 the next day. After a second video surfaced of an African-American man being denied bathroom access at a Starbucks in California, more movement in Starbucks’ consumer perception is likely.

Two other YouGov BrandIndex scores also declined:

• Purchase consideration: On Friday, 28% of consumers said they would consider making a purchase at Starbucks the next time they went to buy food or drink. On Tuesday, that fell to 25%.

• Reputation (”Would you be proud or embarrassed to work for this brand?”): Using the same -100 to 100 scale, Starbucks dropped from 14 on Friday to 4 on Tuesday.

YouGov measures public perception of brands, called “buzz scores,” from -100 to +100, then measures how the scores change. YouGov BrandIndex is a daily consumer perception research service of brands that interviews 4,800 people each weekday from a nationally representative sample. It conducts more than 1.5 million interviews per year.

Of the latest incident, Starbucks Executive Chairman Howard Schultz told “CBS This Morning” Wednesday CBS, +0.06% : “I’m embarrassed, ashamed. I think what occurred was reprehensible at every single level. I think I take it very personally as everyone in our company does, and we’re committed to making it right.”

Starbucks said it will close 8,000 U.S. stores for the afternoon on May 29 for racial-bias training.Sleep Number Corp. SNBR, -1.16% shares fell nearly 10% in the extended session Wednesday after the company missed revenue expectations. Sleep Number stock fell 1.2% to $36.51 during the regular session. The company reported first-quarter net income of $20.6 million, or 52 cents a share, compared with $24.5 million, or 56 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Adjusted earnings were 56 cents a share. Revenue fell to $388.6 million from $393.9 million in the year-ago period. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated 56 cents a share on revenue of $396.7 million. For the second quarter, analysts model earnings of 3 cents a share on revenue of $319 million. The company reiterated its full-year earnings outlook of $1.70 per share to $2 per share. Sleep Number stock has fallen 2.9% this year, with the S&P 500 index SPX, +0.08% rising 1.2%.By a 4 to 1 vote, the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed a rule to establish a standard of conduct for broker-dealers, which will require complying with obligations of disclosure, care and conflicts of interest. The new rules also will require registered investment advisers and broker-dealers to provide to retail investors a brief relationship summary that isn't longer than four pages, with information on issues such as fees and conflicts of interest. The SEC is also proposing new restrictions on the use of the term "adviser" by brokers. It would also clarify the definition of the fiduciary duty for investment advisers.Tuesday brought the tragic news of the death of Southwest Airlines passenger Jennifer Riordan, the first fatality in a U.S. airline accident since 2009. Tuesday also witnessed the steady and skilled leadership of Southwest pilot Tammie Jo Shults, who safely landed a Boeing 737 after one of its engines caught fire and disintegrated at more than 30,000 feet, “spraying metal pieces through the fuselage,” according to this newspaper. Adds the Journal:

Details of what happened to Flight 1380 and why metal pieces from its left engine were hurled into the cabin—apparently rupturing a window behind the wing and fatally injuring...Who’d have dreamed that with all the horrors committed by Bashar Assad, Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un, the small change of American political discourse would be whether the attorney-client privilege is being used to conceal the source of hush payments to “actresses”? But here we are.

In the 16th century, when our English forbears began resolving disputes through trial by jury rather than ordeal or battle, disputants had to rely on lawyers to present evidence and arguments. Thus the need for a rule that would encourage clients...Sallie Krawcheck has been a saver since she was a child. In third grade, she started putting away the 25 cents an hour her dad paid her to do filing in his office. Later, she graduated to babysitting and working in the family store. When she was a sophomore in high school, her parents—“solidly middle class”—borrowed money from her to replace their hot-water heater.

“By the way,” she says, “I charged them interest for repayment. Not in a mean way. But, hey, it’s not in the bank, and it was the ’70s, so you would really earn...47%

More questions worth considering can be found at the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards website, which features a Consumer Guide to Financial Planning) and at investor.gov, which offers a helpful brochure.

Finally, if you’re approaching retirement (or already retired) and interviewing a prospective adviser, I have a question of my own that I would add to your list: “What do we do when the sky falls?”

A good adviser, naturally, will have a plan for tapping your nest egg in the most tax-efficient way possible. But what if the S&P 500 falls 50% or so? (As it has done twice in just the past 16 years.) What will your sources of income be, or how might they change, in an economic calamity?

Ideally, an adviser (before you hire her/him) will be able to walk you through such a scenario—pointing out guaranteed streams of revenue that are (or should be) built into your finances, discussing when to tap your cash reserve and just how large that reserve should be. (Some advisers like to see a year or two of cash on hand; others like to see three or four.)

The recent volatility in the markets helps explain why this question is crucial. The answers aren’t something you want to learn after the fact.

***

My question is about individual retirement accounts and charitable contributions. My wife and I are required to withdraw money from our IRAs each year. If we send all or part of these required withdrawals to one or more charities, may we use these gifts to reduce our taxable income in 2018 instead of listing the gifts as charitable contributions on our tax return?

Yes, you may. And you could have lots of company.

To start, IRA-to-charity transfers—known as “qualified charitable distributions,” or QCDs—still work. The new tax law made no changes in these rules. To be specific, individuals over age 70½ can transfer as much as $100,000 annually from their IRA directly to most types of charities. That transfer is excluded from your income and, if done correctly, counts toward the IRA owner’s required minimum distribution for the year.

What the new tax law has changed are the standard deduction (it’s going up) and some itemized deductions (they’re being capped or eliminated). All of which will make QCDs more attractive for some, says Natalie Choate, a lawyer specializing in retirement benefits at Nutter McClennen & Fish in Boston. She offers the following example:

One good question to ask a prospective financial adviser: ‘How often do you trade?’ Photo: iStockphoto/Getty Images

A single woman, over age 70½, lives in a low-tax state and has no mortgage. Her only significant deduction in 2018 will be her $13,000 charitable contribution. In the past, this woman likely would have itemized her deductions, obtaining (in the process) a tax benefit for her charitable gifts. In 2018, though, she will be better off, in all likelihood, using the new standard deduction: $13,600 ($12,000 for a single individual, plus $1,600 for being over age 65). But in doing so, she gets no tax benefit from donating $13,000 to charity.

What to do? Enter the QCD.

If this woman pays out $13,000 directly from her IRA as a qualified charitable distribution, she benefits twice, Ms. Choate explains. First, she gets an income exclusion for the $13,000 IRA distribution (she won’t need to include these funds as income on her tax return) and she gets the $13,600 standard deduction against her other income.

Says Ms. Choate: “Basically the new tax law heightens the attractiveness of QCDs for those eligible to use them and who are charitably inclined.”

Mr. Ruffenach is a former reporter and editor for The Wall Street Journal. His column examines financial issues for those thinking about, planning and living their retirement. Send questions and comments to askencore@wsj.com.

Corrections & Amplifications

An unmarried taxpayer who has reached age 65 can add $1,600 to his or her standard deduction when filing taxes for 2018 (making the overall standard deduction $13,600). An earlier version of this article incorrectly used the figure $1,250, understating the standard deduction as $13,250. (March 5, 2018)

Appeared in the March 5, 2018, print edition as 'What to Ask Before Picking a Financial Adviser.'

Why Emerging Markets Are Still Worth the Trouble Yes, the two-year rally, rising interest rates and trade turmoil give investors pause. But exposure to emerging markets still makes sense. Click to Read Story

Entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk Bet Right On Facebook, Wrong on BlackJet The entrepreneur still backs Zuckerberg but regrets his faith in the “Uber of private jets.” Click to Read Story

Why the Strong Economy Is a Poor Predictor for the Stock Market The stock market usually tops out well before the economy slips into a recession. Click to Read Story

Advertisement

Why Older Kindergartners Should Run Your Mutual Fund (Someday) A study finds that fund managers who were older when they started kindergarten have tended to outperform those who started younger. Click to Read Story

Sallie Krawcheck Talks About Her Best and Worst Investments Best Bet/Worst Bet: The former wealth-management head of Merrill Lynch and founder of Ellevest talks about the stock she cashed in, and the one she should have skipped. Click to Read Story

My Favorite Writers on Retirement Planning Ask Encore: Retirement columnist Glenn Ruffenach also answers questions about Social Security benefits and volunteering. Click to Read Story

Advertisement Investing in Funds

Popular on WSJThe sole passenger killed on a Southwest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing Tuesday after an engine blew apart in midair, Jennifer Riordan, was a mother of two who was heading back to home to Albuquerque, N.M., where she worked as a bank executive.

Ms. Riordan, 43, was a community-relations leader for Wells Fargo in Albuquerque. She was making her way back home, where she lives with her husband, a daughter and a son, according to a family member.

...As special counsel Robert Mueller drives headlines in the Trump-Russia probe, a grand jury is playing a key role behind the scenes. This group of anonymous Americans is working with Mr. Mueller to issue subpoenas, hear testimony and examine evidence.

Ultimately, it will be up to the grand jury to decide if there is probable cause to issue an indictment. And because the grand jury is independent, President Trump can’t shut it down, even if he decides to fire Mr. Mueller.

...NORRISTOWN, Pa.—Prosecutors wrapped up their case at Bill Cosby’s retrial on sexual-assault charges by quoting the entertainer’s own words about giving powerful sedatives to women he wanted to have sex with at parties in the 1970s.

Mr. Cosby handed out quaaludes “the same as a person would say, ‘Have a drink,’ ” he said in a 2005 deposition, portions of which were read aloud in court Wednesday.

The...Wisconsin’s Supreme Court on Thursday will hear oral arguments in a suit that questions how far the principles of academic freedom at private colleges extend into the rough and tumble world of internet trolling.

The case centers on whether Marquette University in Milwaukee had the right to discipline tenured political-science professor John McAdams for something he wrote online that resulted in threats against another instructor.

...is chairman of the Center for the Future of Aging at the Milken Institute, chairman of Encore.org, and Distinguished Scholar in Residence at the University of Southern California Davis School of Gerontology. Loneliness is a recurring theme in classic songs, from Elvis Presley’s “Are You Lonesome Tonight” to “Hank Williams’ “I’m So Lonesome I Could […]U.S. stock indexes rise Asian tech under pressure following ZTE action Stoxx Europe 600 climbs

U.S. stocks rose Tuesday, driven by strong corporate results, extending Monday’s rally and sending the Dow industrials back into positive territory for 2018.

Major indexes have gained eight out of the past 11 trading sessions, but volumes have been light, suggesting some investors are remaining on the sidelines as geopolitical tensions simmer.

...