WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump, stepping up his efforts to bring the Russia investigation to a conclusion, has hired longtime ally and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani as part of the legal team representing him in the probe.

Mr. Giuliani is joining the team amid bubbling tensions between the Justice Department and the White House.

Mr....The Justice Department’s inspector general found that Andrew McCabe misled investigators, but the former deputy FBI director has said he never deliberately misled investigators.

The Justice Department’s inspector general found that Andrew McCabe misled investigators, but the former deputy FBI director has said he never deliberately misled investigators. Photo: Alex Brandon/Associated Press

The Justice Department’s internal watchdog referred its finding that former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe had misled investigators to federal prosecutors to determine whether he should be charged with a crime, according to people familiar with the matter.

The inspector general concluded in a report released last week that Mr. McCabe had lacked candor in separate conversations with Federal Bureau of Investigation inspection agents, the inspector general’s office and then-FBI Director James Comey about information provided in October 2016 to a Wall Street Journal reporter.

It is unclear when the referral was made or if the investigation is likely to result in any charges. Representatives for the Justice Department declined to comment.

Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, Michael Bromwich, said he was advised of the referral within the past few weeks, has met with the U.S. attorney’s office, and believes the referral is “unjustified.”

“We are confident that, unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the Administration, the US Attorney’s Office will conclude that it should decline to prosecute,” Mr. Bromwich said in a statement.

Newsletter Sign-up

Mr. McCabe was fired last month, a day before he was eligible to retire from his post with full benefits, based on the inspector general’s findings. He has said he never deliberately misled investigators and cited the “chaos” of the period when President Donald Trump fired Mr. Comey, and Mr. McCabe unexpectedly became acting director of the FBI.

According to the inspector general’s report, Mr. McCabe had authorized a lawyer in his office to speak to a Journal reporter and provide details about a telephone call Mr. McCabe had with a senior Justice Department official, but later told agents from the FBI’s inspections division he didn’t know who had given information about the call to the Journal. The inspector general’s report said Mr. McCabe provided a similar impression to Mr. Comey. Mr. McCabe has disputed those findings, saying he didn’t intend to mislead anyone and corrected the record when he realized his errors.

“At worst, I was not clear in my responses, and because of what was going on around me may well have been confused and distracted—and for that I take full responsibility,” Mr. McCabe wrote in a column for the Washington Post last month.

His dismissal drew scrutiny in part because Mr. McCabe was a frequent target of Mr. Trump and Republicans on Capitol Hill. Mr. Trump tweeted in March that Mr. McCabe “knew all about the lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI.”

Last week, Mr. Bromwich said Mr. McCabe’s legal team was “actively considering” filing civil lawsuits against Mr. Trump and “senior members of the administration” that would allege wrongful termination, defamation and constitutional violations.

The inspector general’s report also concluded that Mr. McCabe engaged in misconduct by sanctioning the disclosure to the Journal reporter, saying that violated the FBI’s media policy. Mr. McCabe has said he had full authority to make decisions about speaking to reporters.

Inspectors general serve as watchdogs for government agencies, and are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, but don’t automatically change with administrations in order to maintain independence from the agencies they are tasked with investigating.

The Justice Department’s inspector general, Michael Horowitz, was nominated to the post in 2011 by Democratic President Barack Obama.

Mr. Horowitz had previously spent a decade as a prosecutor in Manhattan and as an official at Justice Department headquarters in Washington. He also worked as a lawyer in private practice and served on the U.S. Sentencing Commission after being appointed by former Republican President George W. Bush.

Mr. McCabe, after rising swiftly through the ranks at the agency, was tapped by Mr. Comey in January 2016 to serve as his deputy, putting him at the center of sensitive investigations into Mr. Trump and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill McCabe, had run for state office in Virginia the prior year as a Democrat with the financial help of then-Gov. Terry McAuliffe, an ally of the Clintons, leading to criticism that Mr. McCabe should have recused himself from the probes.

The FBI has said that Mr. McCabe played no role in his wife’s campaign and that Mr. McCabe received clearance from the FBI’s ethics office to oversee the investigation into Mrs. Clinton.

Write to Aruna Viswanatha at Aruna.Viswanatha@wsj.com and Del Quentin Wilber at del.wilber@wsj.comWASHINGTON—Mike Pompeo secured his first Democratic senator’s endorsement on Thursday, putting his nomination as the next secretary of state on stronger footing.

Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D., N.D.) said she would vote to confirm the current Central Intelligence Agency director as the nation’s top diplomat. Another Democrat, Sen. Bill Nelson (D., Fla.), told a local newspaper that he approved of Mr. Pompeo’s recent diplomatic outreach to North Korea and continues to mull whether to support Mr. Pompeo.

...WASHINGTON—A federal judge expressed doubt Thursday over efforts by former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort to have criminal charges against him dropped, but she appeared more receptive to his request to dismiss one of the counts.

At a sometimes testy hearing over three hours, U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson questioned lawyers for Mr. Manafort and special counsel Robert Mueller, who has charged Mr. Manafort in Washington and Virginia with failing to report his work for the government of Ukraine between 2006 and...WASHINGTON—Maile Pearl Bowlsbey, just 10 days old, made history on the Senate floor Thursday, becoming the first baby to join her parent in the chamber for a vote.

Maile’s mother, Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D., Ill.), on April 9 became the first senator to have a baby while in office. She is taking a 12-week maternity leave in Washington in order to be nearby for close votes.

Less...WASHINGTON—James Bridenstine was narrowly confirmed to lead the nation’s space program Thursday, squeaking by in a Senate vote over unanimous opposition from Democrats who felt he lacked the necessary scientific background for the job of running the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

Mr. Bridenstine, a House Republican from Oklahoma and former combat pilot, was nominated by President Donald Trump last fall, but his confirmation stalled over objections from members in both parties. The delay means he has lost opportunities...President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, has dropped a defamation lawsuit against BuzzFeed over the publication of an unsubstantiated intelligence dossier that alleged he played a role in working with Russia to help Mr. Trump become president.

Mr. Cohen is also dropping a similar defamation suit against Fusion GPS, the private investigation firm responsible for the dossier.

Since...One of President Donald Trump’s longtime legal advisers said he warned the president in a phone call Friday that Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer and close friend, would turn against the president and cooperate with federal prosecutors if faced with criminal charges.

Mr. Trump made the call seeking advice from Jay Goldberg, who represented Mr. Trump in the 1990s and early 2000s. Mr. Goldberg said he cautioned the president not to trust Mr. Cohen. On a scale of 100 to 1, where 100 is fully protecting the president,...WASHINGTON—Former FBI Director James Comey revealed in a series of private memos that President Donald Trump and his then-chief of staff had doubts within days of taking office about national security adviser Mike Flynn, who subsequently left the administration after misleading officials about his contacts with Russia and later pleaded guilty to lying to law enforcement.

Mr. Comey’s previously unreported account of their take on Mr. Flynn was part of seven memos spanning 15 pages that were authored by Mr. Comey over a four-month...CHICAGO—A federal court on Thursday upheld a nationwide injunction against making federal grant funding for policing programs contingent on cooperation with immigrant enforcement, a setback for the Justice Department’s push to punish cities that don’t comply with federal immigration law.

The court upheld a ruling by a federal judge last year that temporarily stops the Justice Department from imposing new requirements on federal grant money for so-called sanctuary cities. Under Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the Justice Department...WASHINGTON—The real-estate company run by the family of White House adviser Jared Kushner in mid-March received a federal grand-jury subpoena for information related to paperwork the company filed in New York City concerning its rent-regulated tenants, according to people familiar with the matter.

The subpoena, part of an investigation by prosecutors in the Brooklyn U.S. attorney’s office, came shortly after an Associated Press article about the company having filed documents that said it had zero rent-regulated tenants,...This is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. Here’s what’s happening today: President tweeted overnight that it was “my great honor to host my friend” Japanese […]About 1.2 billion adults gained access to financial services between 2011 and last year, the World Bank said Thursday, as the internet and mobile phones increasingly connected far-flung communities to the global financial grid. The share of the adult population with an account at a bank or mobile money provider grew to 69% in 2017 from […]This is the web version of the WSJ’s daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here. Good morning! Today we look at mixed signals from the bond market, trade-policy fallout, growing pains in the oil patch, and the Amazon effect. REAL YIELDS HAVE CURVES An inverted yield curve—when short-term Treasury yields exceed longer-term yields—has proven […]5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.Michael Cohen, longtime personal lawyer and confidante for President Donald Trump, leaving the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on Monday.

Michael Cohen, longtime personal lawyer and confidante for President Donald Trump, leaving the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on Monday. Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images

One of President Donald Trump’s longtime legal advisers said he warned the president in a phone call Friday that Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer and close friend, would turn against the president and cooperate with federal prosecutors if faced with criminal charges.

Mr. Trump made the call seeking advice from Jay Goldberg, who represented Mr. Trump in the 1990s and early 2000s. Mr. Goldberg said he cautioned the president not to trust Mr. Cohen. On a scale of 100 to 1, where 100 is fully protecting the president, Mr. Cohen “isn’t even a 1,” he said he told Mr. Trump.

Mr. Cohen is under criminal investigation for potential bank fraud and campaign-finance violations. FBI agents raided Mr. Cohen’s home, hotel and office last week, seeking documents about, among other things, a $130,000 payment he made in October 2016 to a former adult-film actress to prevent her from publicly discussing an alleged sexual encounter with Mr. Trump in 2006, The Wall Street Journal previously reported, citing people familiar with the matter.​Messrs. Trump and Cohen deny such an encounter occurred.

Investigators are examining whether Mr. Cohen committed bank fraud in using a home-equity line of credit to pay the former porn star for her silence, as well as potential campaign-finance violations related to the payment, the people said.

“Michael will never stand up [for you]” if charged by the government, Mr. Goldberg said he cautioned the president.

Neither Mr. Cohen, who hasn’t been charged, nor his lawyer responded to requests for comment. The White House confirmed the phone call of Messrs. Trump and Goldberg.

The 15-minute discussion between the two men provides an inside peek at the president’s efforts to seek guidance amid the rapidly escalating developments involving Mr. Cohen. Mr. Goldberg is one of several longtime advisers Mr. Trump has reached out to as he and his legal team try to assess the potential fallout from the criminal investigation of Mr. Cohen and devise a response.

Mr. Goldberg said the volume of correspondence taken and the potential pressure the government can bring to bear on Mr. Cohen to testify put the president in more potential peril from the Cohen matter than from special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. Mr. Mueller is examining whether members of Mr. Trump’s campaign team colluded with Russians to affect the 2016 election. Russia officials have denied meddling in the election, and Mr. Trump has denied any collusion took place.

Messrs. Trump and Cohen have publicly supported each other. Mr. Goldberg said Mr. Trump told him on Friday that Mr. Cohen is “very strong.” For his part, Mr. Cohen this month tweeted: “I will always protect our @POTUS.”

Related Video On Monday President Trump called the raids at the office of his lawyer, Michael Cohen, a "disgrace" and a "witch hunt" and discussed the possibility of firing special counsel Robert Mueller. Photo: Getty.

In the call, Mr. Goldberg, a former prosecutor who represented Mr. Trump in divorce and real-estate matters, said he told the president Mr. Cohen could even agree to wear a wire and try to record conversations with Mr. Trump. “You have to be alert,” Mr. Goldberg said he told the president. “I don’t care what Michael says.”

Mr. Goldberg recalled the conversation in a two-hour interview in his apartment on New York’s Upper East Side Wednesday, emphasizing that he didn’t believe Mr. Trump had broken the law.

Speaking from his experience as a prosecutor, he said even hardened organized-crime figures flip under pressure from the government. “The mob was broken by Sammy ‘The Bull’ Gravano caving in out of the prospect of a jail sentence,” Mr. Goldberg said.

Mr. Goldberg provided fresh details about the search warrants executed against Mr. Cohen, which he said he learned after recent conversations with Mr. Trump and his lawyer, Ty Cobb. Mr. Cohen faces scrutiny over his payment to the former adult-movie star Stephanie Clifford for her silence, as well as his taxi business, according to people familiar with the matter.

On April 9, six agents showed up at Mr. Cohen’s suite at the Loews Regency Hotel on Manhattan’s Park Avenue, where he is staying temporarily while his home is renovated, with a warrant, Mr. Goldberg said. The agents “were perfect gentlemen,” but their guns were visible, he said. They also went to Mr. Cohen’s office at law firm Squire Patton Boggs in Rockefeller Center, where they gathered his files and placed them in cartons in a truck, Mr. Goldberg said.

Representatives for the FBI and Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office declined to comment.

Mr. Goldberg’s legal career has included stints as an acting U.S. attorney in Indiana, a special attorney to the Justice Department in Washington, and an assistant district attorney in New York.

Mr. Goldberg said he warned Mr. Trump in the Friday call against submitting to an interview with Mr. Mueller’s team, telling him “talking is a certain trap,” adding: “Don’t ever do it.”

Prompted by the president for his advice, he also said he recommended Mr. Trump fire Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller.

Mr. Goldberg, who is 85 years old and has practiced law for more than five decades, said he suggested that Mr. Trump add a well-known New York lawyer to his legal team. Mr. Goldberg declined to name the lawyer, but a person familiar with the matter said it was Frederick Hafetz, a former chief of the criminal division of the Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office.

Mr. Hafetz confirmed receiving a call on the matter from Mr. Goldberg but said he wasn’t interested in joining Mr. Trump’s legal team.

Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Mr. Cobb, sent Mr. Goldberg an email Friday thanking him for “importuning Fred” and for providing a legal citation that Mr. Goldberg thought might be helpful to challenge the government’s use of records collected with the search warrants executed against Mr. Cohen, according to a copy of the email reviewed by The Wall Street Journal.

A White House official said that following the call with Mr. Goldberg, the president was “complimentary” about his former lawyer and relayed the suggestions to his legal team on hiring Mr. Hafetz and other matters. The president asked Mr. Cobb to call Mr. Goldberg “as a courtesy,” the official said. Neither Mr. Hafetz nor Mr. Goldberg are expected to join the legal team, the official said.

—Rebecca Ballhaus and Erica Orden contributed to this article.

Write to Joe Palazzolo at joe.palazzolo@wsj.com, Michael Rothfeld at michael.rothfeld@wsj.com and Michael Siconolfi at michael.siconolfi@wsj.comWASHINGTON—A federal judge expressed doubt Thursday over efforts by former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort to have criminal charges against him dropped, but she appeared more receptive to his request to dismiss one of the counts.

At a sometimes testy hearing over three hours, U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson questioned lawyers for Mr. Manafort and special counsel Robert Mueller, who has charged Mr. Manafort in Washington and Virginia with failing to report his work for the government of Ukraine between 2006 and...Airlines and regulators have spent years refining the procedures they count on to save lives during accidents like the engine failure that killed a Southwest Airlines Co. passenger this week.

One step continues to confound them: getting passengers to do as they are told.

Some passengers aboard Southwest Flight 1380 didn’t place oxygen masks...The sad news came Tuesday while I was on my way to dinner with a friend. A noble life of purpose had ended. Barbara Bush had passed at age 92.

Naturally, the table conversation revolved around this remarkable woman. As the evening wound down, an email arrived: an invitation to the Service of Celebration and Thanksgiving Saturday at 11. Will you be coming? The missive reflected Mrs. Bush’s personality: prepared, prompt, direct and thoughtful.

...Early clues point to an unexpected hazard in the deadly midair engine rupture and emergency landing of Southwest Flight 1380: the engine cover.

The Southwest Airlines Co. accident that killed a passenger Tuesday sent fast-moving debris into the jet’s left wing, exterior of the plane’s body and inside the passenger cabin. Safety experts are asking whether U.S. regulators and engine makers have underestimated the role of the engine cover in the unlikely event engine parts break loose in flight.

...5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.Ban on U.S. companies selling to China’s ZTE could really bite this stockShares of tobacco companies tumbled after Philip Morris International Inc. said cigarette shipments fell more than expected and sales for its cigarette alternative started to stall in a key market—raising wider alarm about the health of the entire tobacco industry.

Shares in the New York-listed, Switzerland-based tobacco giant ended down 16%. That was its biggest one-day slide since becoming a public company in March 2008. The disappointing first-quarter results dragged down shares of other giants, like Altria Group Inc.,...The world’s biggest consumer-products makers are struggling to raise prices, as fierce competition keeps a lid on sales growth.

Procter & Gamble Co., the maker of Tide and Bounty, on Thursday said prices fell by 2% for the first three months of 2018. Prices fell across P&G’s businesses, with the biggest decline at its Gillette shaving brand, which has slashed prices to fend off low-cost rivals Dollar Shave Club, owned by rival Unilever PLC, and Harry’s.

...Mattel Inc. Chief Executive Margo Georgiadis is leaving the toy maker after about a year in the job, a surprising shake-up at a company searching for a strategy that can end a four-year sales slump.

Former studio executive Ynon Kreiz will succeed Ms. Georgiadis, Mattel said Thursday. When Mr. Kreiz takes over on April 26, he will be the fourth person to hold the Mattel CEO title in as many years.

The...Airlines and regulators have spent years refining the procedures they count on to save lives during accidents like the engine failure that killed a Southwest Airlines Co. passenger this week.

One step continues to confound them: getting passengers to do as they are told.

Some passengers aboard Southwest Flight 1380 didn’t place oxygen masks...Blunt-impact trauma caused the death of a passenger on the Southwest AirlinesCo. flight that made an emergency landing Tuesday in Philadelphia after an engine blew apart in midair, officials said Thursday.

Passenger Jennifer Riordan died from blunt-impact trauma to the head, neck and torso, said a spokesman for the Philadelphia Department of Public Health.

The...Early clues point to an unexpected hazard in the deadly midair engine rupture and emergency landing of Southwest Flight 1380: the engine cover.

The Southwest Airlines Co. accident that killed a passenger Tuesday sent fast-moving debris into the jet’s left wing, exterior of the plane’s body and inside the passenger cabin. Safety experts are asking whether U.S. regulators and engine makers have underestimated the role of the engine cover in the unlikely event engine parts break loose in flight.

...SEOUL—North Korea’s cyber army, long considered a midlevel security threat, is quietly morphing into one of the world’s most sophisticated and dangerous hacking machines.

Over the past 18 months, the nation’s fingerprints have appeared in an increasing number of cyberattacks, the skill level of its hackers has rapidly improved and their targets have become more worrisome, a Wall Street Journal examination of the program reveals. As recently as March, suspected North Korean hackers appear to have infiltrated Turkish banks...A meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un could be a diplomatic breakthrough, but both men are nothing if not unpredictable.

SEOUL—South Korean President Moon Jae-in said Thursday that North Korea had dropped its longtime insistence that the U.S. remove its 28,500 troops from the Korean Peninsula ahead of a planned summit, saying that it only sought a security guarantee and an end to the U.S.’s “hostile policy.”

The remarks by Mr. Moon—which weren’t confirmed by North Korea and drew no immediate U.S. response—would potentially remove a longtime obstacle to talks between Washington and Pyongyang.

...PALM BEACH, Fla.—President Donald Trump said there would be a “bright path” available to North Korea if it successfully shut down its nuclear weapons program, but he vowed he would walk out of a planned meeting with the country’s leader Kim Jong Un if he felt it wasn’t yielding results.

Mr. Trump’s remarks, made at a news conference at his Florida resort Mar-a-Lago with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, came as U.S. officials have been negotiating the terms of a North Korea summit with Mr. Kim that the president said he...The retail banking industry is undergoing another major shift, and the future looks high-tech, sophisticated, and, for big banks, very urban. So what has changed? Photo: Shaumbé Wright/The Wall Street Journal

Wells Fargo & Co. is close to settling claims by federal regulators related to its risk management, involving a fine of as much as $1 billion, people familiar with the matter said.

The settlement with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is expected to be announced as soon as Friday. It will detail the bank’s failures to catch and prevent problems, including improper charges to consumers in its mortgage and auto-lending businesses, the people said.

...HONG KONG—The chief executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. is confident that the city will land some of the biggest listings in the future, including Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as Aramco, tech giant Xiaomi Corp. and, in time, a dual listing for e-commerce titan Alibaba Group Holding Inc.

Speaking at D.Live, The Wall Street Journal’s tech conference in Hong Kong, Charles Li said the exchange will open its doors to technology companies with a new dual shareholding structure in May, as the Asian financial hub competes...‘Made in China 2025’ is Beijing’s plan to dominate high-tech industries. The Trump administration argues China is using the plan to give its tech companies unfair advantage over foreign rivals. But what is it exactly?The Creativity, Innovation & Research Center at Haine Elementary/Middle School was once a library. Today, it has more in common with a Silicon Valley startup incubator. On the polished-concrete floor, children huddle around laptops, play with educational robots and craft “Shark Tank”-style pitches for inventions they’ve dreamed up. Some work on math problems, while others climb an indoor tree house. There is not a single book in sight.

The experimental classroom is part of a wave of so-called maker spaces popping up at...The man looks drunk, or maybe stoned. He’s wearing a grass-stained shirt buttoned up to his Adam’s apple, a camouflage hat, dirty tan workpants and big, clunky, unlaced boots. In his hands, he holds a long-handled grass whip. He is Carl Spackler (Bill Murray), the lowly assistant greenkeeper at Bushwood Country Club, the setting for the 1980 cult comedy hit “Caddyshack.”

Standing next to a bed of fluffy white mums near the club’s first tee, Carl chokes up on the grass whip like a golf club. His mouth twisted into a silly-putty...TORONTO—Rock ’n’ roll legend Gene Simmons has rarely met a brand he won’t endorse. And experience is no obstacle.

“What’s on my résumé? I know nothing,” he said.

That includes his latest venture as CEO—that’s Chief Evangelist Officer—of a fledgling, money-losing Vancouver marijuana producer that aspires to make it big when recreational...An auditor reviewing Facebook Inc.’s privacy practices gave the social-media company a clean bill of health in a report to federal authorities last year—well after Facebook discovered that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained millions of users’ personal data.

“In our opinion, Facebook’s privacy controls were operating with sufficient effectiveness to provide reasonable assurance to protect the privacy of covered information,” the auditing firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in the report to the...Shire PLC, which had suitors circling on Thursday, is a leading seller of drugs for rare diseases, a market growing at twice the pace of overall pharmaceuticals.

Shire PLC, which had suitors circling on Thursday, is a leading seller of drugs for rare diseases, a market growing at twice the pace of overall pharmaceuticals. Photo: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg News

Drugmaker Shire PLC has become the subject of topsy-turvy takeover interest, drawing suitors to one of the few remaining biotechs with rapidly rising sales and a stock price that hasn’t soared in recent months.

Japan’s Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. kicked off the activity Thursday by disclosing it made a £42.38 billion ($60 billion) offer for Dublin-based Shire.

Shortly after Takeda revealed its interest, Shire said it had rejected the offer. Then Allergan PLC jumped into the fray, saying it was considering making its own bid for Shire—only to pull back hours later, after its stock plunged, to assert it wouldn’t make an offer after all.

The commotion was a reminder of the vital role that deal-making plays for drug companies seeking a quicker boost to sales than risky research and development can provide.

Shire is a leading seller of drugs for rare diseases, a $137 billion world-wide market that EvaluatePharma estimates is increasing 11% a year, twice the pace of the overall pharmaceuticals market.

Scientific advances uncovering molecular roots of rare conditions have increased the odds of discovering treatments for the diseases and heightened investor interest in the field. Health regulators have approved drugs for rare diseases rapidly, citing the needs of patients.

Takeda’s bid could trigger rivals to join the fray, though Wall Street’s lukewarm reaction to the interest of Takeda and Allergan could give other potential suitors pause, suggesting investor support for big deals for established firms has its limits.

Allergan’s shares fell more than 7% after the company announced its interest in Shire and recovered after its about-face, and ended the day down more than 4%. Takeda’s stock swung throughout the day and ended barely changed, down 0.06%. Shire ended up almost 6% in heavy trading.

Shire itself illustrates the benefits and pitfalls of deal-making. In five years at the helm, Chief Executive Flemming Ornskov has used acquisitions to steer the company, once known for its Adderall attention-deficit drug, toward treatments for rare diseases like hereditary angioedema.

The shift has paid off: Shire reported $14.4 billion in product sales last year, up 33% from the year earlier.

Shire’s deal-fueled growth has made it a repeated takeover target, despite Dr. Ornskov’s efforts to build a large, independent company. In 2014, the CEO fought a proposed acquisition by AbbVie Inc . of North Chicago, Ill., until it relented and agreed to an acquisition. The deal was called off after new U.S. tax rules deterred U.S. companies from moving their tax homes overseas.

At the same time, Shire’s acquisitions, especially a $32 billion deal for hemophilia-drug maker Baxalta in 2016, left it saddled with heavy debt and opened it to criticism from some analysts and investors of overpaying for questionable assets.

Shire reported $19.1 billion in net debt at the end of 2017. Some analysts and investors criticized the Baxalta deal because of new competition in the hemophilia market and the looming threat of a new kind of drug known as gene therapy.

The concerns weighed on Shire’s share price, making the company more attractive as a takeover target, analysts say.

Takeda has been undergoing its own deal-juiced transformation under Chief Executive Christophe Weber, who has centralized the company’s sprawling operations and focused on drugs with the biggest sales potential in areas like cancer, gastrointestinal disorders and neuroscience.

Adding Shire would boost Takeda’s sales to $30 billion a year, and jump-start growth, but it would be a big bite to digest. Takeda’s market value of $38 billion Thursday in Tokyo, $13 billion less than its London-listed target’s.

Takeda would also face the same debt challenges its Irish rival has been confronting. Takeda would likely have to take on significant debt to fund a deal and balloon its net debt, which is now at a manageable 1.8 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.

Takeda’s offer included a mix of cash and stock. Shire shareholders aren’t likely to accept the large proportion of stock Takeda is offering, preferring more cash, analysts said.

Such sentiment could leave room for other suitors, despite Allergan backing away.

Through more than $100 billion in deals of its own, Allergan has been made over into the seller of anti-wrinkle treatment Botox, as well as medicines for gastrointestinal and neuroscience disorders.

But Wall Street has pressured its shares, in part because of concerns about generic competition looming for Restasis, one of its best-selling products, and Allergan’s controversial attempt to protect the drug by selling its patents to an Indian tribe in New York.

Allergan has been looking at a range of strategic options for boosting its valuation, from divestitures to acquisitions to combinations.

Dublin-based Allergan, required by Irish takeover rules to reveal its M&A activities, said Thursday it was considering making a bid for Shire. Both companies sell eye drugs, including competing treatments for a condition known as dry eye.

Allergan wanted to give Shire a look as part of its strategic review, but hadn’t looked in-depth and was probably unlikely to ever make a bid, according to a person familiar with the matter.

The company issued a new statement later in the day, after its shares plunged on the initial disclosure, saying it “does not intend to make an offer for Shire.”

Write to Jonathan D. Rockoff at Jonathan.Rockoff@wsj.com and Noemie Bisserbe at noemie.bisserbe@wsj.comWhen people shop online at retailers like Macy’s Inc. and Finish Line Inc., their visits are tracked and shared with an outside firm that scores their behavior and decides whether to approve or deny purchases.

Shoppers who exhibit behavior that such scoring firms often associate with fraud, such as buying without checking the return policy or paying for the fastest shipping option, have a higher chance of getting declined. Sometimes they never find out why their transactions are canceled or who made the call.

...WASHINGTON—AT&T Inc. Chief Executive Randall Stephenson told a judge the Justice Department’s antitrust claims against his company’s planned purchase of Time Warner Inc. were “absurd” and rejected the government’s arguments that the enlarged company would use its powers to raise prices.

In testimony Thursday in defense of his company’s proposed $85 billion acquisition, Mr. Stephenson called it a “vision deal” that is crucial for AT&T to compete in a rapidly shifting digital-media landscape.

...AT&T Inc. plans to launch a “skinny bundle” of television channels without sports that will cost $15 a month, one of the lowest prices available for a nationwide streaming live TV plan.

The service, called AT&T Watch, was announced Thursday by Chief Executive Randall Stephenson, who used his time on the witness stand in a high-profile antitrust case to pitch the new plan.

AT&T...When Jerome Powell was sworn in as Federal Reserve chairman in February, investors were almost certain he would oversee no more than three interest-rate rises this year.

That confidence has evaporated. In the federal-funds futures market, where traders bet on rate increases, the probability of four or more rises this year—including the 0.25 percentage point rise in March—has leapt to about 40%, from just 18% when Mr. Powell swore his oath.

...Saudi Arabia and Russia forged a risky oil-market deal about 18 months ago, agreeing to throttle back output in an effort to lift prices.

It worked. A glut of stored oil that helped keep a lid on prices is almost gone, and international crude is trading comfortably above $70 a barrel. Now, the two oil powerhouses still have to agree on what comes next.

Oil...Oil prices were mixed Thursday, with the U.S. benchmark retreating from a more-than-three-year high as investors took profits.

U.S. crude futures settled down 18 cents, or 0.26%, to $68.29 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent, the global benchmark, rose 30 cents, or 0.41%, to $73.78—its highest since November 26, 2014.

Both...Alibaba Group’s founder and executive chairman Jack Ma rings a bell to celebrate the e-commerce giant’s IPO at the New York Stock Exchange in 2014. Now, Chinese officials want to bring the listing home.

Alibaba Group’s founder and executive chairman Jack Ma rings a bell to celebrate the e-commerce giant’s IPO at the New York Stock Exchange in 2014. Now, Chinese officials want to bring the listing home. Photo: Andrew Burton/Getty Images

BEIJING—China’s government wants Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. BABA -0.71% and other Chinese tech giants listed abroad to trade on the nation’s stock markets. Now regulators are trying to figure out how to do that without seeing those shares fall too low or soar too high.

Officials at the country’s securities regulator and its two main stock exchanges are racing to issue China’s first class of securities known as depositary receipts and are facing pressure to get the details right, according to people familiar with the deliberations. The receipts are a type of security offered on a local stock exchange by a company listed in another country.

Chinese leaders see a successful launch as key to reversing a trend of nearly two decades that saw marquee tech companies list overseas where financing was more reliable. These companies are now some of the world’s most valuable. Bringing them home will help deepen China’s stock markets and boost its competition with the U.S. over future technologies.

“It’s in China’s national interest to give more of a Chinese identity to these firms,” says Lyndon Chao, head of equities at industry group Asia Securities Industry Financial Markets Association.

Among tricky issues the officials will face are those regarding timing and valuation, the people familiar said. Many of the Chinese tech companies have seen their share prices rocket during the yearslong U.S. tech boom, then dip in the U.S. markets’ recent pullback.

That’s fueling Chinese officials’ fears that the depositary receipts will begin trading at high prices and then drop, hammering ordinary investors.

At the other extreme, interest in owning shares in choice companies—like e-commerce giants Alibaba and JD.com Inc., and smartphone maker Xiaomi Corp.—is likely to be high. An initial low price could then soar, causing investors to pull money from other stocks and driving down share prices of other companies, according to the people familiar.

“We must find a balance,” one person said.

A task force comprised of officials from the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the exchanges are looking at everything from accounting rules to disclosure requirements, this person said. The commission wants to move forward quickly, the people said. Some investment bankers believe an Alibaba listing could come this summer.

Unlike in the U.S., the securities commission gets to decide which companies list. It regularly tinkers with the pace of approvals to nurture stable markets and tightly controls foreigners’ access.

The securities commission didn’t respond to a request for comment, nor did the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges.

Many of the tech firms that listed overseas did so because they were incorporated abroad, making them ineligible at the time to offer shares at home. But Chinese leaders recently allowed an exception. In March they approved a plan to allow foreign-listed companies specializing in innovative technologies—with at least 200 billion yuan ($31.8 billion) in market capitalization—to trade on mainland stock exchanges.

By using depositary receipts, the securities commission can create a separate set of new rules, instead of revising regulations that apply to all currently listed companies.

“It’s a breakthrough….in a regulatory structure that is not accommodating” to listings of foreign-incorporated companies yet, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. Chief Executive Charles Li said Friday at D.Live, The Wall Street Journal’s tech conference.

A report by China’s state-owned brokerage Citic Securities identified six “China-concept” stocks listed abroad likely to satisfy the regulator’s requirements for capitalization, innovation, competitiveness and other factors: Alibaba, JD.com, search engine Baidu Inc., BIDU -0.27% gaming and internet company Netease Inc. and telecommunications operators China Mobile Ltd. and China Telecom Corp.

Their combined market capitalization is 5.3 trillion yuan, in Citic’s estimate. Allowing them to list 5% of their overseas tradable capitalization is roughly the total amount raised in new public share offerings on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges last year, Citic said.

That will give them outsize influence on the Chinese market, some analysts believe, just as U.S. exchanges are experiencing greater volatility.

“The timing isn’t appropriate,” Dong Dengxin, a Wuhan University of Science and Technology professor of finance, wrote on social media last month. “If the U.S. market crashes, [Chinese depositary receipts] will too.”

The depositary receipts wouldn’t be exchangeable with U.S. shares, limiting some risk. But officials are still concerned professional investors who can access both markets could make a windfall from a price gap.

Regulators have already fast-tracked a public-offering approval for one tech company and are eager to make it easier for more. That’s providing a tailwind for the depositary receipts. And it could stir up bad blood among the hundreds of domestic firms currently awaiting permission to list, one of the people familiar said.

“It’s a bit like the older son came back from a trip and the father is happy to see him,” said the person. “Meanwhile, the smaller son who never went away isn’t happy.”

Write to Chao Deng at Chao.Deng@wsj.comThe S&P 500 snapped a three-day winning streak, as tumbling shares of consumer-staples companies pulled the broad index lower.

Weak earnings reports of some of the world’s biggest consumer-products firms sent their shares into a tailspin and dashed what could have been the S&P 500’s first four-day run of gains since mid-February.

...At first blush “I Feel Pretty” has a promising premise. A sad duckling who’s far from ugly, only pleasantly plump and plagued by self-doubt, suddenly believes herself to be drop-dead gorgeous, and her delusion releases her joyous, lovable self. At second blush, after I saw the film, it’s a botched premise. At third blush, after I thought about what I’d seen, the premise never had a chance of working out well in the hands of filmmakers whose take on their subject is sitcom-deep.

The duckling, Renee Bennett, is played by Amy...5:48

CEO Briefing: The Dominant Trends in Tech, Finance and Politics

The Wall Street Journal hosted a group of thought leaders in tech, finance and politics to brief senior executives on the dominant trends in their sectors and what they can learn from each other, at a London meeting of the WSJ CEO Council.JERUSALEM—Israel faces a harsh new world as Syria’s civil war winds down: while Iran remains far away, the Iranian threat now is next door.

There are several hundred miles and two countries separating Israel and Iran, whose leaders openly seek to dismantle the Jewish state. Iranian military forces, however, are already entrenching themselves in Syrian bases within striking distance of Israeli towns.

In...Sam Brownback, the recently appointed U.S. ambassador for international religious freedom, said the violence directed against Myanmar’s Muslim Rohingya minority was the worst he had ever seen and he expects a strong U.S. response.

“The intensity of the violence here, the thoroughness, is breathtaking,” Mr. Brownback said Thursday in Bangladesh, where some 700,000 Rohingya have fled since the military in Buddhist-majority Myanmar unleashed a bloody campaign against them in August.

...MOSCOW—A wave of unusual website outages rippled across the Russian internet this week: A courier service said its clients couldn’t place orders; an online English school had to cancel its lessons; and Volvo auto dealerships couldn’t carry out tests for repairs.

Hundreds of websites and online businesses felt the collateral damage from the Russian communications regulator’s attempt to shut a messaging app popular among Kremlin officials and antigovernment protesters alike for their belief in its impenetrable security.

...Raúl Castro kicked off a generational change in Cuba by handing over the nation’s presidency to his handpicked successor, marking the first time since 1959 that Cuba’s destiny will be in the hands of a man not named Castro.

But Cuba’s new 57-year-old president, Miguel Díaz-Canel, who Mr. Castro said should hold power for a decade in two presidential terms, signaled little will change.

In...French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit the White House next week, hoping to persuade President Donald Trump against pulling the U.S. out of the Iranian nuclear agreement at his self-imposed May 12 deadline.

The French and German leaders support the 2015 nuclear accord and want the U.S. to remain a part of it. But Mr. Trump has vowed to withdraw unless European allies agree to address three main administration concerns: expiring limits on Iran’s nuclear program, Tehran’s ballistic-missile...Silicon Valley Is Into Bitcoin. It Wants to Keep Washington Out.SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico—Electricity has been restored to all customers affected by an island-wide blackout, Puerto Rico’s power company said Thursday, but tens of thousands of families remain without normal service seven months after hurricanes Maria and Irma.

An excavator hit a transmission line, causing Wednesday’s blackout, which affected more than 1.4 million customers, the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority said.

Before...Two weeks after New York Police Department officers fatally shot a mentally disturbed man they thought was armed with a gun, Mayor Bill de Blasio launched a task force aimed at improving city responses to emergencies involving the mentally ill.

The task force, made up of city officials, as well as New Yorkers living with mental illness, will over the course of 180 days focus on ways to prevent crises with the mentally ill and increase collaboration between the NYPD and the city’s health agencies, municipal officials said...Rep. Jim Jordan, shown earlier this year, is one of the founders of the House Freedom Caucus.

Rep. Jim Jordan, shown earlier this year, is one of the founders of the House Freedom Caucus. Photo: Michael Brochstein/Zuma Press

WASHINGTON—The prominent conservative grassroots group FreedomWorks jumped into the House leadership race this week, throwing its support behind Rep. Jim Jordan to succeed retiring Speaker Paul Ryan.

FreedomWorks, which says it has six million members, began encouraging its activists late Wednesday afternoon to tweet, call or email the Ohio Republican’s office and urge him to enter the contest.

Mr. Jordan, one of the founders of the House Freedom Caucus, a group of about three dozen of the House’s most conservative Republicans, said late last week he was considering running to succeed Mr. Ryan, after other conservatives asked him to challenge the two front-runners, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R., Calif.) and Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R., La.).

“This is not an inside-the-Beltway issue. This is an issue our activists are going to make an issue in the midterms,” said Noah Wall, the group’s vice president of advocacy. Heading into the November election, “we have an enthusiasm gap that is undeniable versus the Democrats,” Mr. Wall said. He said the prospect of electing Mr. Jordan speaker could inject conservative energy into a midterm landscape in which the party is likely to face headwinds.

Mr. Jordan said this week that he hadn’t made any decision about entering the race, with House Republicans not expected to choose their leader until after the midterm elections. Mr. Ryan has said he plans to remain speaker until January and has endorsed Mr. McCarthy to succeed him.

“I don’t see any indication Paul is going to leave,” Mr. Jordan said Tuesday evening. “We have a speaker, and if and when there’s a race, I’ll look at it then.”

The winner of the House Republicans’ vote as next leader will be either the GOP’s conference’s choice for speaker, should Republicans retain their majority, or the minority leader if Democrats take control. The speaker is elected by the entire House in January after the new Congress is sworn in.

Many House Republicans believe Mr. Jordan would have a difficult time securing the vote of 218 lawmakers to get elected speaker. The Freedom Caucus often works as a bloc to try to extract promises from House GOP leaders, a tactic that sometimes frustrates centrist Republicans. Some lawmakers say Mr. Jordan might enter the leadership race in order to negotiate with other candidates to win more prominent committee seats or other prizes for the Freedom Caucus.

Mr. Jordan, a two-time collegiate wrestling champion, co-founded the caucus in January 2015. Mr. Wall noted that conservative grass-roots pressure helped push former Speaker John Boehner out of office later that year, when it started to become difficult for House Republicans to publicly support him.

“No one believed John Boehner was vulnerable until he was,” Mr. Wall said.

FreedomWorks polled its advisory council, a group of about 20 national leaders of conservative groups, on Tuesday evening. The group unanimously backed Mr. Jordan, Mr. Wall said, and FreedomWorks now plans to encourage other members of the Freedom Caucus to publicly endorse the Ohio lawmaker.

Write to Kristina Peterson at kristina.peterson@wsj.comWASHINGTON—Central Intelligence Agency Director Mike Pompeo has been one of the few cabinet members to thrive in President Donald Trump’s administration. He recently had a successful meeting, by the White House’s accounting, with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

His next task: winning over Senate Democrats to become secretary of state.

Mr....China is a significant source of materials for only a small fraction of products on President Donald Trump’s proposed list of tariffs, but they could disproportionately hit some U.S. manufacturers that depend on Chinese imports by driving up costs and forcing them to raise prices.

The tariffs unveiled last month would impose 25% duties on more than 1,300 products across 872 categories touching a swath of American industries. They would hit an estimated $50 billion of Chinese imports ranging from factory equipment to household...TOKYO—There’s a big reason why Japan doesn’t want to talk about a trade deal with Donald Trump: Its auto exports are booming.

Japanese auto makers exported nearly 10% more cars to the U.S. in the first three months of this year compared with the same period a year earlier, according to trade figures released this week in Tokyo around the time the U.S. president was dining at his Florida resort with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

The...An economic index that measures U.S. business trends continued to increase in March.

The Conference Board Leading Economic Index rose 0.3% to 109, following increases with the index in January and February. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal were expecting the index to rise by 0.3%.

Comprising 10 components, including initial claims...The world’s biggest consumer-products makers are struggling to raise prices, as fierce competition keeps a lid on sales growth.

Procter & Gamble Co., the maker of Tide and Bounty, on Thursday said prices fell by 2% for the first three months of 2018. Prices fell across P&G’s businesses, with the biggest decline at its Gillette shaving brand, which has slashed prices to fend off low-cost rivals Dollar Shave Club, owned by rival Unilever PLC, and Harry’s.

...Paint maker PPG Industries Inc. said Thursday it had opened an investigation after receiving a report alleging violations of its accounting policies.

PPG said it recently received a complaint through its internal reporting system regarding how the company recorded certain expenses in its first quarter. In an initial review, the company said it identified about $1.4 million of expenses that should have been accrued.

The...Xerox Corp. defended its chief executive against accusations from one of its biggest investors Thursday, saying Jeff Jacobson had proper board authority to negotiate a deal with Fujifilm Holdings Inc., as the sides continued to brawl over the transaction.

Billionaire Xerox shareholder Darwin Deason has alleged in a lawsuit that Mr. Jacobson was seeking to save his own job in rushing to complete a deal with Fujifilm in January. The civil suit, filed in New York City in March and amended on Sunday, cites documents and board...More than 100 million people globally are now paying for Amazon Prime, a sign of how Amazon.com Inc. has used the service to evolve from an online marketplace that struggled with profitability into an e-commerce powerhouse.

Amazon, which has never disclosed the number of Prime members before, revealed the figure Wednesday in Chief Executive Jeff Bezos’s closely followed annual letter to shareholders. The company said in late 2015 that it had “tens of millions” of Prime customers.

...Home Depot Inc. is hiring about 1,000 technology employees by the end of this year, the biggest technology-focused expansion in company history and a sign of the growing strategic importance of IT to the business.

The employees will ultimately report to Matt Carey, the company’s chief information officer, and will focus on supporting an $11.1 billion three-year strategic investment, which includes building new software and digital solutions for areas ranging from self-checkout to supply chain and website-focused personalization.

The significant hiring push reflects the growing importance of the CIO’s strategic role within a company, said Craig Stephenson, managing director of the North American CIO practice at executive recruiter and consulting firm Korn/Ferry International.

“We’re seeing much more involvement by the CIO in terms of helping drive the business strategy as it relates to digital and customer experience,” he said.

CIOs historically have been more oriented toward maintaining the performance, applications suite and infrastructure of a business, and while they’re still in charge of those aspects, they’re also becoming more of a “peer” to business partners than ever before, Mr. Stephenson said.

Home Depot's technology center in Austin Photo: Home Depot Inc.

“The technology leaders that can lean in and help the business partners and key stakeholders think about things differently are absolutely creating significant value for the organization,” he said.

Home Depot is hiring for positions such as software engineers, user experience designers, product managers and systems engineers that support the flexibility for cloud and on-premise platforms, said Mr. Carey, also the company’s executive vice president, who reports to Chairman and CEO Craig Menear.

They’ll work at the company’s technology centers in Atlanta, Austin and Dallas. About 90% of the software the company runs is already written by in-house engineers, he said.

Home Depot chooses to build technology in-house instead of working with third-party vendors because the business is vastly different from most brick-and-mortar retailers, he said.

Many aisles of product in store are delivered by rail and need to be lifted with heavy equipment, for example. Home Depot in many cases acts as a general contractor for customers considering such projects as kitchen remodels, he said. The technology needed to support such aspects of the business is difficult to scale with a third-party technology vendor, he said.

“Those things really don’t look like retail as most people know it,” he said. “The ability to connect our software developers with those business problems at a deep level is where we create competitive advantage.”

The retail industry has changed significantly over the past three to five years, and customers now expect to get their goods easier, with same-day delivery options and faster checkout at brick-and-mortar stores, Mr. Carey said.

Employees at Home Depot are also demanding more flexible work schedules and professional customers such as remodelers and contractors want easier digital tools to order supplies, he said. The company’s services business has also grown in recent years, fueled by customers asking Home Depot employees to complete home improvement projects for them.

“The expectations are significantly different,” Mr. Carey said.

The new employees will help build technology to support several specific initiatives.

One initiative includes outfitting self-checkout counters with customized point-of-sale software that’s intuitive for the customer. Another involves building software for a mobile app that allows employees to see their upcoming work schedule. The company is also enhancing the personalization of its website and improving user experience by using data analytics to help customers quickly find what they’re looking for.

“It’s all about connecting a person as quickly as possible to the product they’re looking for in the world of the web,” he said.

Another initiative is aimed at building out machine learning algorithms to help categorize different home furnishing styles for the company’s new decor business. That way, people could help shop for a specific room in their house based on products that fit into a specific style, such as a modern or traditional style.

The company is also building out new technology to support an expansion of its same-day delivery and two-hour delivery program, which requires software to support the supply chain. All of the initiatives were driven by customer and associate feedback, Mr. Carey said.

“The closer we listening to those customers and fulfill what they’re telling us they want and need, that’s how we can compete,” he said.While investors have fretted that stocks and credit are overvalued this year, in one market prices may be at their most balanced in years: currencies.

Volatility returned with a bang to global stocks this year, interrupting a bull market that began almost a decade ago and raising investor concerns about the durability of a yearslong rally.

In...“Made in China 2025” is Beijing’s industrial plan to dominate high-tech industries including robotics, aerospace and computer chips. The Trump administration argues China is using the plan to give its tech companies unfair advantage over foreign rivals. But what is it exactly?

Why always us? Qualcomm may be tempted to ask. The chip maker is once again caught in the middle of the trade tensions between China and the U.S.

Qualcomm’s latest predicament involves its planned $44 billion purchase of rival NXP Semiconductors, a deal aimed at helping it diversify away from dependence on the slowing mobile-phone market and into growth spots like automotives and the so-called “Internet of Things.” China’s antitrust regulator said Thursday a preliminary review of the transaction has found “issues that are...Managing money involves a balancing act that trades off risk against return. This year is proving more challenging, with stocks and bonds swinging about. But it also shows how a return to a more normal level of market volatility might be good news for careful investors.

Usually, the higher potential returns that equities offer versus bonds come at a price: they are more volatile. That is why the classic 60-40 portfolio allocation ratio, with a higher allocation to stocks but a dose of bond ballast, makes a good deal of sense:...A meditation courtyard with a reflecting pool. An open-air yoga studio hung with silken hammocks. A medicinal garden planted with calming herbs.

It may sound like a tour of an ashram, but these are some of the features that mark a trend in luxury real estate: the mindful mansion.

“Mindfulness is paying attention—it’s being present in the...In 1915 the novelist Virginia Woolf and her husband, Leonard, did what many young couples do and moved from the center of London to a large house in the suburbs. They chose Hogarth House, a 1750 villa that had been subdivided into two residences.

The Woolfs, who married in 1912, were to spend almost a decade of their unconventional but enduring union in their half of Hogarth House, located in desirable, leafy Richmond, a neighborhood 9 miles southwest of the center of London.

...The developers of Palazzo Della Luna, a luxury condominium project being built on Fisher Island, are planning to list its most expensive penthouse for $40 million, a price that could set a record for the island.

About 7 minutes from Miami Beach by ferry, the island is one of the wealthiest ZIP Codes in the country and has been home to celebrities like Oprah Winfrey. The previous record was set by Palazzo Del Sol, Palazzo Della Luna’s sister project, where a penthouse sold for $31.261 million last year to a Russian buyer,...‘Funk in France: From Paris to Antibes (1969-1970)’ and ‘Slick!—Live at Oil Can Harry’s’ by Grant Green ReviewsPhotos of the Day: April 19 Israel observes Independence Day, Cubans watch the presidential handover, Armenians protest the former president's shift into the prime minister's seat, and moreMORNING EVANGELISTS swear that an early rise helps increase productivity, so in 2018 I’ve aimed to get up with the sun. My husband, however, curls into a ball at the mere idea of 8 a.m. I bought him a sleep mask so we don’t start our days angry, but these cracks at dawn have been the tipping point of an incompatible sleep relationship that has plagued our marriage for the last five years.

Partnered sleep provides fertile ground for fighting, with couples having competing requirements for what makes a good night’s rest. In...IN HER book “The Reporter’s Kitchen,” published a few months ago, journalist Jane Kramer—who is also my mother—reveals her penchant for altering recipes. “If you like an ingredient, double the amount,” she writes. She’d be the first to agree that this philosophy doesn’t work in pastries and other recipes requiring mathematical precision, but I can confirm that it does produce great soups, the most forgiving and adaptable of foods. While my mother would argue that her cooking is rarely original, her recipes, in fact, bear little resemblance to their sources once the best ingredients have been doubled or even tripled,...NEW YEAR’S EVE, blind dates, snowy weather and shopping for underwear all rate as experiences that are fun in theory but are rarely so in reality. In my experience, the most challenging pair of skivvies to stock is the everyday panty. When I emailed a group of friends asking if anyone had a preferred brand, one replied that she felt frustrated with underwear “at a global level.” Anna Furman, 27, a San Francisco-based writer, wrote, “I want seamless underwear that’s slightly stretchy but doesn’t feel like workout material—a not-thong-but-not-granny panty.”

Enthusiasm...AS A MAN entering middle age there aren’t many firsts for me to look forward to. I can, however, pinpoint one late-arriving surprise: This week was the first time I have ever been excited to vacuum my home.

The milestone came with the arrival of the Dyson Cyclone V10 Absolute. You’ve likely seen its commercials: Stylish parents in a stylish home pass the vacuum back and forth cleaning up after stylish but messy children—like it’s a toy both are eager to play with.

...Good morning. Move over Don Draper, there’s a new creative director bouncing his way onto Madison Avenue. Kobe Bryant reportedly wrote and co-directed a new campaign for sports drink BodyArmor, which takes direct aim at its better-known competitor. “Thanks Gatorade. We’ll take it from here,” is the tagline. I’ll let you be the judge of whether Kobe’s got a chance of grabbing a Lion at Cannes next year. Watch it over on ESPN.

The world of big media mergers has become increasingly crowded in recent months, but a new regulatory filing shows 21st Century Fox is sticking to its guns. As the WSJ reported, 21st Century Fox’s board rejected an acquisition offer for its entertainment assets from Comcast, even though the cable giant made a bid 16% higher on a per-share-basis than what Disney ultimately agreed to pay. Why? Fox’s board wasn’t keen on the potential of the kind of regulatory hold-up that AT&T and Time Warner are going through at the moment (to that end, catch-up here on Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes’s testimony from Wednesday, in which he argued that the merger is needed to take on Silicon Valley.) Also in the mix was Verizon, which showed some interest in making an all-stock bid for Fox assets. Fox, however, said that offer would have been “without any meaningful premium.” Elsewhere, the filing revealed Hulu is worth $8.73 billion—WSJ reporter Shalini Ramachandran reminded us on Twitter Netflix is worth more than $132 billion. (Another reminder: 21st Century Fox and Wall Street Journal parent News Corp share common ownership.)

Groupe Think

Amid all the disruption affecting the ad agency sector right now, Publicis Groupe was off to a good start in 2018, beating analysts’ expectations to post organic growth of 1.6% (versus the 0.3% expected) in its first quarter. Recent account wins—including Campbell Soup, Marriott, Mercedes-Benz and Carrefour—helped the French advertising group move in the right direction, although growth in its home market of Europe was largely flat. Of course, there were questions about the disruption at WPP, although Publicis CEO Arthur Sadoun opted not to comment. (That certainly wouldn’t have been the case under Maurice.) Fortunately there was lots of chatter about the forthcoming General Data Protection Regulation to liven up the call. The message from Publicis was that it’s not just ready, but that its acquisition of Sapient—and the “three and a half thousand” data scientists, analysts and engineers that came with it—puts the agency group in good stead to advise its clients on the new regulation.

Who Are You? Who, Who, Who, Who?

Marketers aren’t saying a whole lot publicly about their thinking on Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal and what impact it might have on their ad spending. But here’s a quirky anecdote in the New York Times’s temperature check on the ad community’s reaction. Ahalogy, a marketing tech firm, has been contacted in recent weeks by “almost a dozen” frustrated Facebook users demanding to know what the company is and why it has their contact information. The noise around the Cambridge Analytica story is prompting users to check their ad preferences and some users stumbled across Ahalogy on the list of advertisers with their contact information. Ahalogy buys ads for a range of marketers and often buys data from third-party firms, which explained why it showed up there. (Ahalogy says it doesn’t store the information, nor does it see personal data.) Imagine the fun after May 25 when people start finding out about a whole host of random companies previously unknown to them, pleading to gobble up their data. I’ll be waiting over here with popcorn.

Bittersweet Symphony

GDPR is leading to casualties even before Europe can begin levying huge fines. The Drum’s Ronan Shields first reported that location-based mobile marketing firm Verve is closing its U.K. and Germany operations ahead of GDPR coming into force in May. While Verve International General Manager Ian James said GDPR wasn’t the only factor sparking the decision, he said it is now “challenging to have to operate any data-driven ad tech business in a highly legislated market.” GDPR, as all you marketing folks will know by now, will require companies to get more explicit consent from European users in order to use their data for advertising purposes. That’s a lot easier if you happen to be a company that has a consumer-facing brand. Verve says it always prioritized first-party data secured with consumer consent, but AdExchanger points out it’s still a bit fuzzy as to whether consumers fully know what they’ve opted into when they download and use an app that collects their location data.

Best of the rest

NBCUniversal is joining the “OpenAP” TV ad consortium, having initially been reluctant to join the audience targeting initiative. [CMO Today]

Oath hired Alibaba’s former global managing director, K. Guru Gowrappan, to become its president and chief operating officer. Simon Khalaf, a former Yahoo executive who went on to become Oath’s head of media brands, is leaving the company and won’t be replaced. [Recode]

Snapchat is adding direct-response capabilities to its Sponsored Lens ad format that lets users tap a button to perform an action such as visiting a website or installing an app. [Recode]

BuzzFeed breaks out the abacus and works out what an ad-free Facebook could cost. ($11 a month.) [BuzzFeed]

Amazon’s annual shareholder letter revealed Prime has 100 million members globally. There isn’t a single mention of the word “advertising” in the letter. Sorry! [Axios]

Google’s AMP stories beta is reportedly not progressing very quickly. [Digiday]

And finally: The people have apparently spoken and Heinz plans to bring “Mayochup” to the U.S. It’s the end of days. [Chicago Tribune]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @larakiara, @VranicaWSJ, @alexbruell,@BenMullin, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.comGood morning, CIOs. Systems often don’t get the attention they deserve until they fail. Does this assessment, offered by David A. Powner, director of information technology management issues at the United States Government Accountability office, strike a chord? He made the comment to CIO Journal’s Angus Loten in reference to Tuesday’s IRS systems failure, but the tendency to let systems slide into disrepair extends well beyond federal IT.

The hardware failure that delayed filing highlights the risks for CIOs struggling with aging backend IT systems, tight budgets and growing pressure to provide innovative front-end services, according to Mr. Loten. “For the IRS this was a mission-critical system that processes most of our $3.3 trillion in taxes every year,” Mr. Powner, told CIO Journal. “But we still don’t see a definite plan to get it into shape.”

The agency’s legacy hardware systems are programmed with assembly language, a computer language initially used in the 1950s, Mr. Powner said. This includes the agency’s Individual Master File, or IMF, its main computer system for data on individual taxpayer accounts, he added. It is the computer system underpinning the agency’s modernized e-file system, which taxpayers use to file returns online, he said.

Despite recent federal IT modernization efforts, officials across the federal government tend to shy away from overhauling backend systems that remain operational, Mr. Powner said. That means systems often don’t get the attention they need until they fail, he said.

CLOUD

A view of a the Seljalandsfoss Waterfall in Rangarping eystra, Iceland. Getty Images

Iceland takes hard look at tech boom. Lawmakers worry a proliferation of data centers is threatening the environment and tourism, the Journal’s Zeke Turner reports. Icelandic data centers are projected to use about 125 megawatts of capacity total by the end of 2018, more than all the homes in Iceland and a 300% increase since last year, according to KPMG.

It’s the water! Iceland’s big competitive advantage is its 100% emissions-free power, which comes exclusively from hydroelectric dams and geothermal wells. Its relatively consistent, cool temperatures are also just right for data centers to use free-air cooling.

MORE TECHNOLOGY NEWS

A server rack at Facebook’s data center in Prineville, Ore. FACEBOOK/EPA/SHUTTERSTOCK

Facebook plans to build its own chips. Facebook is planning to design chips that could power its data centers, artificial intelligence software and various consumer devices, including virtual-reality headsets, the WSJ’s Deepa Seetharaman reports. Other tech giants have gone the same route, including Alphabet Inc.’s Google, which developed its own microprocessor chips to advance its work in AI and other features and Apple Inc., currently building chips for its devices. Although Facebook’s core strength is in developing software services, it has played a key role in making data centers more efficient, designing and building its own servers.

Amazon Prime has more than 100 million members. CEO Jeff Bezos revealed the number Wednesday in his annual letter to shareholders, the Journal’s Austen Hufford and Georgia Wells report. Launched 13 years ago, the $99-a-year Prime service gives customers free, unlimited two-day shipping, access to free music and videos, and other perks. Last year Amazon brought in $9.72 billion in revenue directly from subscription services, including fees from Prime members.

Russia hits cloud in tackling Telegram. With the encrypted messaging app maker refusing to help Russia’s security services access its user data, the government is attempting to ban it. This week, in its effort to shut Telegram down, the country’s communications watchdog targeted Google and Amazon clouds used by the app, stopping access to more than 16 million IP addresses. The app emerged unscathed. Companies which lost business because of the blackout are considering legal action, but that may be hopeful thinking. Privacy advocates tell the FT that the action may represent a step by the Kremlin towards establishing an government-controlled internet regime similar to China’s.

Why tech titans are betting on India. Inexpensive smartphones and dirt-cheap data plans have at last made getting online affordable to most Indians, the WSJ reports. Now the world’s last major untapped tech market is drawing billions in investments as internet heavyweights prepare to cash in.

Robots can have this job. A robot in Singapore successfully assembled a piece of flat-packed IKEA furniture. Reuters reports that it took scientists three-years to program the robot.

Meet the VA’s acting CIO. Camilo Sandoval was named acting chief information officer at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. A former employee on Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, Mr. Sandoval is facing a $25 million suit alleging harassment and sexual discrimination, Politico reports.

When the crytpo startup CEO tweets from the beach. Investors in cryptocurrency startup Savedroid are pouring over three images in an effort to determine where their money went, Bloomberg reports. The first, a still from South Park posted on the startup’s website, reads “And It’s Gone!” The second two images appear on the CEO’s Twitter feed. One shows Yassin Hankir at the airport, the second shows a hand holding a beer on a beach. “Thanks guys…over and out,” the tweet reads.

2005 just called. Flip phones are back, with low prices, great battery life and some modern conveniences. WSJ tech reviewer David Pierce has more.

EVERYTHING ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW

The EU is drawing up a peace offer it hopes will end trade hostilities with the White House and avoid tariffs being imposed on the bloc in two weeks’ time. (WSJ)

Procter & Gamble agreed to acquire the consumer-health business from Germany’s Merck KGaA, in a $4.2 billion deal that adds vitamins and food supplements to P&G’s lineup of over-the-counter medicine. (WSJ)

White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said Wednesday that he will investigate findings that the Environmental Protection Agency violated the law when it bought a $43,000 soundproof phone booth for administrator Scott Pruitt. (WSJ)

Puerto Rico suffered an islandwide blackout Wednesday triggered by a power-line failure in the south, the latest setback in the island’s halting efforts to repair the electrical grid after last year’s hurricanes. (WSJ)

The Morning Download is edited by Tom Loftus and cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each weekday morning by clicking http://wsj.com/TheMorningDownload.Britain’s Rentokil Initial PLC is hunting for takeover targets in the U.S., encouraged by a lower tax rate and strong growth in its core business, Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Townsend said.

The company, which provides pest control, hygiene and workwear services, has allocated £200 to £250 million ($285 million to $356 million) for mergers and acquisitions this year, predominantly for bolt-on deals, said Mr. Townsend. It already has completed 12 such transactions in the first quarter, five of those in the U.S., Mr. Townsend said.

“Half of the world’s pest control [market] is in North America,” Mr. Townsend said Thursday in an interview with CFO Journal. “There are new pests occurring in the U.S. all the time.”

The company has around 300 branches and 8,000 employees in the U.S., according to a spokesman.

Prior-year revenues for those businesses acquired in the first quarter total £103 million. “Some of the deals we have done were quite small,” he said. Mr. Townsend did not disclose how much of this year’s mergers and acquisitions budget has been used up.

Rentokil is one of several European buyers zeroing in on U.S. companies, helped by lower U.S. corporate taxes, a positive economic outlook and the decline in the U.S. dollar.

Mergers and acquisitions are “an integral part of Rentokil’s growth and margin improvement story,” analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a note.

Rising prices for potential acquisition targets in the U.S. mean Rentokil has to stick to its goal of a 13% rate of return on investment in North America, said Mr. Townsend. “We have to make sure we are doing the right deal,” said Mr. Townsend.

Besides the U.S., Rentokil is also searching for targets in Asia and Latin America.

The company had £300 million cash at the beginning of 2018 and plans to finance its acquisitions with existing capital. “We have plenty of space in our balance sheet,” said Mr. Townsend.

Rentokil on Thursday said revenue in the first quarter was £550.7 million, down 1.5% compared to the previous-year period at constant exchange rates.The logo of Petróleos de Venezuela SA is shown in Caracas in December. Photo: Reuters

A former official at Venezuela’s state oil company pleaded guilty in U.S. court to a money-laundering charge, admitting to taking bribes from American companies for business with the oil firm.

The ex-official, Cesar Rincon, is one of five men whom the U.S. has charged with conspiring to solicit bribes from U.S. businesses. The allegations are part of a larger, ongoing investigation of bribery at Petróleos de Venezuela SA, or PdVSA.Cost of Divergence: Inconsistencies in regulation among various jurisdictions—regulatory divergence—cost financial institutions between 5% and 10% of their annual revenue, according to a survey of 251 compliance and risk-management officers and senior leaders by the International Federation of Accountants and Business at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Just over half (51%) said that in the last five years, they spent resources on regulatory divergence that they wanted to allocate to risk management.

“This consumes scarce senior management time, as well as capital, that could otherwise be focused on identifying emerging risks in the financial system. Ultimately, these costs are a barrier to international growth,” said the report. “We urge regulators and policy makers to place utmost priority on achieving effective international regulatory cooperation.”

Audit Involvement: A survey of around 1,300 internal audit executives and board directors by consulting firm Protiviti and Isaca, an advocacy group for information-security professionals, found 41% said IT audit gets involved in significant technology projects at the planning stage. Ten percent said they have no involvement at all.

Poor Coding: The Australian Council of Superannuation Investors, which advocates for environmental, social and governance issues, issued a report that says many of the top 200 companies listed on the Australian Securities Exchange have shortcomings in their codes of conduct, and that whistleblower systems don’t provide enough support or protection.



Can Manage: A survey of 605 corporate governance and risk professionals by risk-management advocacy group Shared Assessments Program and Ponemon Institute found 60% said their organization has a third-party risk management program.

We Can Do It?: A survey of around 2,470 cyber risk-management professionals by Deloitte found 19% said they are “very confident” in their organization’s ability to manage cyber risk and information security. Deloitte sponsors Risk & Compliance Journal.

Goin’ Phishing: The annual global security report from Trustwave found phishing and social engineering represented 55% of the attempts to infiltrate systems, showing humans remain the biggest challenge to strong cybersecurity.

Substantial Substantiation: Ethics and compliance software company Navex Global said a review of reports submitted through corporate hotlines found 44% to be true, a jump of 10% from last year’s report.

Data Takers: A survey of 151 executives by payments company ACI Worldwide and research firm Ovum Ltd. found about 20% said their organization experienced payments data theft in the past year.

Cyber Cheapskates: A survey of 751 IT decision-makers in the U.S., U.K. and Asia-Pacific by security company LogRhythm found one-third said they spend 10% or less of their IT budget on security.

Broken Records: A report from digital security firm Gemalto found 2.6 billion records were stolen, lost or exposed last year, 88% more than were reported in 2016.

Black Hat Social: A survey of professional hackers and penetration testers by cybersecurity software firm Nuix found 88% said they use social engineering techniques to get information about a target before an attack, while 93% said their victims don’t even detect their attack more than half the time. Fifteen percent said they used an employer’s data for personal gain.

What Happened?: A survey of 1,050 chief information security officers by security firm Bitdefender found while half the respondents admitted their company was breached in the last year. one in six who did so still couldn’t identify how the attack happened.

Write to Ben DiPietro at ben.dipietro@wsj.com, and follow him on Twitter @BenDiPietro1.The Serious Fraud Office confirmed it is investigating.

The Serious Fraud Office confirmed it is investigating. Photo: SERIOUS FRAUD OFFICE

The U.K’s Serious Fraud Office launched a criminal investigation of potential corruption at Ultra Electronics Holdings PLC in connection with its activities in Algeria, the defense contractor said Thursday.

The investigation is looking at “suspected corruption in the conduct of business in Algeria by Ultra, its subsidiaries, employees and associated person,” said the company. Ultra Electronics said it alerted the regulator to the potential wrongdoing and continues to cooperate.

The SFO confirmed it is investigating but said it couldn’t provide more information because the inquiry “is live.”

An Ultra Electronics spokeswoman said the company received about £400,000 ($568,000) of revenue from contracts, obtained via third-party representatives, to provide non-defense services in Algeria last year. The spokeswoman said she couldn’t say whether the inquiry is connected to those sales.

Total revenue for 2017 was £775.4 million, according to the company’s annual report. It is active in defense, aerospace and transport, among other areas.

Ultra Electronics’ stock was down 7.1% Thursday afternoon in London, trading at £1.29.

Write to Henry Cutter at henry.cutter@wsj.com. Follow him on Twitter at @henry_cutter.The revised version of the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework offers useful lessons for how business leaders can secure their digital supply chain, an area that government officials say is particularly vulnerable to foreign espionage.

U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said in a speech Tuesday few firms have the visibility into their own supply chain necessary to address all security vulnerabilities. Ms. Nielsen’s remarks and the NIST update both come...With shares of Walmart sliding steadily from 2018 highs set in late January, it’s time to buy in.

That’s the take from Argus Research, which in a Thursday note set a “buy” rating and a $100 price target -- about 14 % above current levels, but off those January highs near $110 -- on the Barron’s Next 50 stock. Their thinking, in short: Look past the slowdown in digital sales growth investors fretted about earlier this year and reconsider a “high-quality” stock with a strong financial position.

The shares’ dip, the analysts wrote, have pulled Walmart’s P/E “about 10% below the market multiple.”

Newsletter Sign-up

Meanwhile, they wrote, “an improving job market should help low-and-middle-income shoppers to spend more; and the recent flattening of the Treasury yield curve could lead some investors to boost their allocation to high-quality stocks, such as Walmart, which has excellent operating efficiency, AA credit ratings and has raised its dividend every year since 1974.”

The Consumer Staples sector, meanwhile, “has been the worst three-month performer of the S&P 500’s 11 main industry groups,” they wrote, suggesting that falling prices there could present investment opportunities. Walmart, they argue, with its “2.4% dividend yield, offers a compelling balance of reward to risk over the next 12 months.”

In short, Walmart isn’t going anywhere -- and, they say, despite that, is still trying to get better, cutting prices to boost store traffic and working to improve the shopping experience. (We recently noted research that showed just how powerful the company’s position is in groceries now.)

“We don’t think Walmart is affected by a very important risk for retailers – irrelevance,” they wrote. “A great many retailers could easily be replaced or vanish completely, but we believe that there is a need for Walmart. It plays an important role in the economy. Its buying power, inventory management and logistical prowess represent a real barrier to entry.”

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.While investors wait to see what the effect of new leadership at Chipotle Mexican Grill will be, they aren’t waiting on the sidelines. Shares of the burrito vendor, up about 17% this year, are well ahead of the S&P 500 and nearing 2018 highs set in late January.

It’s perhaps a curious place for the company, only recently dealing with growth and food safety questions, which now finds itself something of a darling ahead of its scheduled release of Q1 financial results on Wednesday after the market’s close. “We do not see negative catalysts in the near-term to temper the increasing optimism,” Wedbush analysts wrote today.

Right now, it may be as simple as this: CEO Brian Niccol has been on board since mid-February, about halfway through Q1. Investors cheered his hire, and haven’t seen reasons to stop. So if performance looks stable, why not buy now?

Newsletter Sign-up

Wall Street is EPS of $1.56, according to the mean of 31 analysts’ estimates calculated by FactSet; the low end comes in at $1.31, while the highest was $1.92. A recent Maxim Group study of casual dining data suggested a reasonably healthy economic picture -- with cold weather nationwide perhaps mitigated by early tax refunds -- for casual dining chains, as did one from Canaccord Genuity.

“We remain optimistic heading into April/May as consumer metrics (U.S. tax reform, higher wages, consumer confidence) remain strong and restaurant industry supply appears stable to down,” Canaccord wrote last week.

That may all add up to more optimism for Chipotle investors if the company delivers a promising combination of numbers, outlook -- and, even better, some details about what they can expect -- next week. A recently announced compensation plan, meanwhile, has drawn attention to the targets it implies.

In a Tuesday note, Stifel analysts said they expected mainly “ high-level strategies for stimulating traffic,” which could become the key near-term tool for evaluating progress.

“We believe investors will accord the company a ‘hall pass’ and instead direct attention towards [Niccol’s] first public engagement with the Street,” they wrote.

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.Asia-Pacific stock markets pulled back on Friday after two days of broad gains, with a downbeat outlook from Taiwan Semiconductor prompting declines in technology names.

The company, one of the world’s biggest chip makers, expects second-quarter sales to come in more than 10% below analysts’ estimates, citing soft demand for high-end smartphones. The forecast sent the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index down 4.3% Thursday in the U.S.

TSMC shares 2330, -6.13% were down almost 6% and on course for their worst day since 2013. The drop also pushed Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex stock index Y9999, -1.79% down 1.5% and pressured smartphone-component makers elsewhere in the region.

AAC 2018, -6.65% also slid 6% in Hong Kong, hitting an eight-month low, while lens maker Sunny Optical 2382, -3.84% declined 3%. In Japan, Tokyo Electron 8035, -2.35% fell 2.4% in the morning session, while South Korea’s Samsung 005930, -1.93% dropped 1.5%.

Taiwan Semi’s warning resulted in “brewing concerns of weak iPhone demand,” weighing on Apple suppliers, noted Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at IG Group. Apple AAPL, -2.83% shares fell 2.8% on Thursday.

However, investors shouldn’t have broader concerns about Taiwan Semi’s forecast, said Oriano Lizza, a sales trader at CMC Markets. “I don’t see this being a long-term issue.”

Stock indexes in China SHCOMP, -1.45% , Singapore STI, -0.53% and Malaysia FBMKLCI, -0.31% fell at least 0.5% after two days of solid gains, which saw Malaysia’s benchmark hit a record high on Thursday.

“The trade-war impact is still in the market, and investors are still cautious,” said Castor Pang, head of research at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International. “With uncertainty ahead, investors will try and take profit before the weekend.”

Japan’s Nikkei NIK, -0.15% , which turned higher by midday thanks to a weaker yen, moved back into negative territory in early-afternoon trading. Friday morning, the government said Japan’s core consumer prices rose 0.9% from a year earlier in March, versus February’s reading of 1%.

Meanwhile, bond yields could also become a concern again, as they did in early February when weakness in fixed-income helped stoke the first global stock slide since 2016.

Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields pushed back above 2.9% on Thursday while comparable German bunds topped 0.6%, the highest in a month, in part on rising inflation expectations, Commerzbank said in a note to clients.

Up ahead Friday is a meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, where the potential to extend production caps may be discussed. Oil futures were essentially flat in Asia after hitting 3½-year highs this week.Cloud software has been a hot sector for initial public offerings, but now we will see how Wall Street feels about cloud software used to make more cloud software.

Pivotal Software Inc. PVTL, +0.00% announced early Friday that it would sell at least 37 million shares in its IPO at a price of $15, the midpoint of the expected price range of $14 to $16. That price values the software company at $3.75 billion based on shares outstanding as of the offering, and will raise at least $555 million in proceeds. Pivotal will receive the bulk of the proceeds, but General Electric Co. GE, +2.42% , which invested in Pivotal in 2013, sold about 3.9 million shares in the offering to receive about $58 million.

Shares are expected to begin trading Friday morning on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol PVTL. Underwriters — Pivotal lists 15 banks working on the offering, led by Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup — will have access to an additional 5.5 million shares.

Here’s what you need to know:

Cloud software to manage cloud software

Pivotal’s main product is Pivotal Cloud Foundry, or PCF, a software program sold on a subscription basis that developers and IT departments use to help build, deploy and operate cloud-based software and applications. Put bluntly, it is cloud software that helps build and use cloud software. The company also offers services through a division called Pivotal Labs, which helps companies develop software and make changes to adapt to extensive use of cloud computing and software as a service.

In its prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Pivotal claims that 50 of the Fortune 500 companies use its products. Customers include airlines such as American and Southwest, airplane maker Boeing Co., and health-care companies such as Express Scripts and Humana.

Cloud software has been one of the hottest areas of the IPO market for years, and that trend has continued in 2018. So far this year, cloud-security company Zscaler Inc. ZS, -2.16% and cloud-storage offering Dropbox Inc. DBX, -2.16% have been two of the biggest IPOs in the tech sector. Last week, Zuora Inc. ZUO, +0.46% , a cloud-software company that helps companies manage subscription businesses, commanded a hefty valuation in its IPO.

Growing revenue, shrinking losses

Pivotal revenue topped a half-billion dollars for the first time in the most recent fiscal year, which ended Feb. 2, thanks to growth of 22% from the year before to $509.4 million. Revenue growth is slowing, however, as sales jumped 48% from $280.8 million to $416.3 million.

Don’t miss: The government tried to encourage IPOs, but it helped create The Age of the Unicorn

The company is cutting down on losses, however. Pivotal’s net loss was actually greater than its revenue in 2016, when the company lost $282.7 million. The next year, it cut losses down to almost half of revenue at $232.5 million, and losses equaled less than a third of revenue in the most recent year, when the company lost $163.5 million.

Subscription revenue is rising faster, with those sales growing at a 73% clip and now making up more than half of revenue.

The Dell-EMC-VMware connection

Pivotal was founded in 2013, but its roots go back much farther. Chief Executive Robert Mee founded a company called Pivotal in 1989, which was acquired by EMC in 2012; EMC combined that company with some assets from another public company that it partially owned, VMware Inc. VMW, -1.42% , to create Pivotal. GE invested in the company at that time.

IPOs in 2018: Here are six tech companies that could go public

Since then, EMC has been acquired by Dell Technologies Inc., a longtime tech giant that went private before it acquired EMC. Pivotal is now majority owned by DellEMC, though Ford Motor Co. F, -1.97% and Microsoft Corp. MSFT, -0.34% also bought stakes in a 2015 investment round. The connection helps Pivotal because it can sell products in packages with hardware sold by DellEMC, or in coordination with VMware’s own software offerings — transactions processed through those two other companies represented 46%, 44% and 37% of Pivotal revenue in the last three years, respectively.

“We jointly market and sell our products and services with DellEMC and VMware and enjoy significant and mutually beneficial commercial and go-to-market relationships,” the company stated in its prospectus.

Dell is in control

That investment gives Dell complete control of Pivotal, even after the IPO. The company will own about 70% of the stock after the offering, making Pivotal a “controlled company,” a designation that allows it to avoid certain corporate governance restrictions.

While that control is substantial, it apparently was not enough for Dell and Pivotal. The company also is establishing two tiers of stock with different voting powers — investors in the offering will receive class A shares, while Dell and other early investors will hold class B shares. The class B stock will have 10 votes for every share to one vote for class A shares.

See also: Snap backlash won’t stop founder-friendly stock structures

That move supersizes Dell’s control: While it will hold about 70% of the stock after the offering, it will control almost 96% of the voting power. That could allow Dell to sell the business or make other major moves without the approval of common stockholders, and means Dell must approve many potential important decisions the company makes.

Competition from big players

Pivotal may actually compete with Dell and VMware in some areas, it warns in its prospectus, which shows just how quickly friends can become enemies in the competitive software sector. That dynamic is not limited to Dell and VMware, though, and will likely be much more dangerous elsewhere.

Specifically, Pivotal could face stiff competition from the major cloud-computing vendors: Amazon.com Inc.’s AMZN, +1.90% Amazon Web Services, Alphabet Inc.’s GOOGL, +1.31% GOOG, +1.46% Google Cloud and Microsoft’s Azure. Pivotal lists all three as potential competitors, even as it celebrates their partnerships.

“We have received numerous industry awards, including in 2017 the Google Cloud Technology Partner of the Year for 2016 and an Azure consumption partner of the year award from Microsoft for 2016,” Pivotal notes early in its prospectus.

Other competitors named by Pivotal include International Business Machines Corp. IBM, -0.73% , Oracle Corp. ORCL, -0.55% and Red Hat Inc. RHT, -0.95%Pivotal Software Inc. PVTL, +0.00% priced its initial public offering at $15 a share early Friday, raising $555 million at a valuation of about $3.8 billion based on shares outstanding. Pivotal said it would sell at least 37 million shares at the IPO price, the midpoint of the expected price range of $14 to $16. Pivotal will receive the bulk of the proceeds, but early investor General Electric Co. GE, +2.42% sold about 3.9 million of the shares to receive about $58 million. Pivotal will remain majority controlled by Dell Technologies Inc. and VMware Inc. VMW, -1.42% which is also controlled by Dell. Shares are expected to begin trading Friday morning on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol PVTL. Underwriters will have access to an additional 5.5 million shares. (edited)This is what I thought when I first met her: “She is a strong woman, not ego-driven but protective of kith and kin. Those merry eyes, the warmth, the ability to get the help cracking in a jolly way and then not so jolly. A lack of pretension, a breeziness, but underneath she is Greenwich granite, one of the women who settled the hard gray shores of the East and summoned roses from the rocks.”

That’s how I saw Barbara Bush 30 years ago and wrote in a book, and though I wouldn’t put it in quite those words today—Greenwich, Conn....Donald Trump has made more than a few headlines by accusing FBI officials of lying. But since the Justice Department’s inspector general faulted Andrew McCabe for a “lack of candor” about a press leak he had authorized, former FBI director James Comey and former deputy director Mr. McCabe have been telling different stories.

On Wednesday Mr. Comey backed the IG’s findings on ABC’s “The View,” saying “there are severe consequences in the Justice Department for lying.” Mr. McCabe’s lawyer shot back that he had “documents that...Is it worth writing a memoir if no one will ever read it?

Millions dream about spinning their life story into a best-seller. Most never get past the dreaming part, much less the first chapter.

But there are potential rewards other than riches and fame for those who try. According to psychologists and researchers, writing a memoir—even just...Lots of people want to retire to a beach. My husband, George, and I gave up the Jersey Shore for the Mexican interior 12 years ago, and we haven’t looked back.

When friends asked us why we were moving to San Miguel de Allende, high on a desert mountain plain three hours north of Mexico City, it was easy to summarize: perfect weather, lots of cultural offerings, outstanding restaurants and a comfortable, gracious lifestyle. The lower cost of living was also part of our decision, though some of those savings are offset by inflation.

...Before I made the decision to retire a few years ago, I began to pay more attention to the drumbeat of business articles warning baby boomers about the savings deficit that loomed in their future. The question the financial experts always posed was: Will you have enough when you retire?

By “enough,” they meant enough money to maintain one’s current, presumably comfortable, lifestyle, especially since baby boomers are told that we will live longer than any generation before us.

...About 200 shipping containers of rotting sewage from New York City have been removed from a rural Alabama town, putting an end to three months of legal challenges, the mayor there said Thursday.

The waste had been sitting on train tracks adjacent to the small town of Parrish, stalled on the way to the nearby privately owned Big Sky Landfill. Parrish Mayor Heather Hall said the waste was taken by Big Sky to its landfill gradually over the past two weeks, with the last containers removed this week.

...Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross offered an apology Thursday to two black men who were arrested last week at a Starbucks, an incident that has renewed a national discussion on how police and businesses treat African-Americans.

“It is me who in large part made most of the situation worse than it was,” Mr. Ross said at a news conference. “So for that, it is my sincere apology to those two men, and even to these officers and to the other people around this city who I have failed in a variety of ways on this incident.”

...DEERFIELD, Ill.—This affluent suburb north of Chicago hasn’t had a murder in over a decade. This month, it passed one of the toughest gun-control laws in the country.

Recent village meetings discussing the proposal to ban assault weapons were packed, with dozens of people from neighboring cities flooding in to the stately brick village hall, set back behind a manicured garden, to speak out on the ordinance. The village of 18,000 has fielded dozens of calls and thousands of comments on its Facebook page from gun-rights and...Baseball has a supermarket-on-Saturdays problem. Allow me to explain this daffy analogy.

I don’t go to the supermarket on Saturdays. Sorry—I do go to the supermarket on Saturdays, because I am an idiot. Every time I do, however, I hate myself. It’s too crowded. They’ve run out of all my favorite stuff. The guy giving away astonishingly healthy kale chip samples doesn’t have any more astonishingly healthy kale chip samples. The checkout line is 19 miles long.

...The “Fearless Girl” statue, which has attracted admirers and photo-takers since its installation last year opposite the famed “Charging Bull” near Wall Street, will be moved in front of the New York Stock Exchange.

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said the move, which will happen by the end of the year, was motivated in part by safety concerns. The statue is currently located at the narrow northern tip of Bowling Green park, with barely any buffer separating visitors from the traffic on Broadway. The mayor said the new location...WASHINGTON—The number of Americans claiming new unemployment benefits fell last week for the third time in four weeks, signaling continued health in the labor market.

Initial jobless claims, a proxy for layoffs across the U.S., decreased by 1,000 to a seasonally adjusted 232,000 in the week ended April 14, the Labor Department said Thursday. Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal expected 225,000 new claims last week.

Initial...OTTAWA—Canada’s business investment and exports have suffered on trade policy uncertainty and may not immediately recover once talks on the North American Free Trade Agreement conclude, Bank of Canada Gov. Stephen Poloz says.

In an interview with The Wall Street Journal on Wednesday, Mr. Poloz said he is hopeful many firms will start increasing their investments in Canada once Nafta uncertainty has ended. However, he said firms that have already opted to expand their operations outside of Canada may not be in a position to...Asia-Pacific stock markets pulled back on Friday after two days of broad gains, with a downbeat outlook from Taiwan Semiconductor prompting declines in technology names.

The company, one of the world’s biggest chip makers, expects second-quarter sales to come in more than 10% below analysts’ estimates, citing soft demand for high-end smartphones. The forecast sent the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index down 4.3% Thursday in the U.S.

...