Facebook Inc., in its first earnings report after touching off widespread data-privacy concerns, posted soaring revenue and profit that highlighted the company’s central place in the digital economy.

The social-media giant has weathered one crisis after another in the 17 months since the 2016 presidential election, but its business—at least for now—is still thriving.

Facebook...Facebook is a hard friend to dump, even when it has it coming.

The social network’s first-quarter report Wednesday afternoon showed that about 48 million daily active users signed up during the period. That was up 3.4% from the December quarter and was in line with Wall Street’s expectations. Assuming that at least some of them read newspapers, that alone was remarkable considering the scandal that erupted late in the period involving Cambridge Analytica that landed CEO Mark Zuckerberg before Congress and relieved the company...Comcast Corp. is taking on the Murdochs. The question is how far it wants to go.

The cable giant on Wednesday lobbed an official $31 billion proposal to buy European pay-TV operator Sky PLC, topping an existing offer from 21st Century Fox Inc., which already owns a 39% stake in Sky. Fox counts Rupert Murdoch and his family as major shareholders.

The...Chris Hohn is one of the best-known activists in Europe and has historically not shied from being aggressive with big companies and significant shareholders.

Chris Hohn is one of the best-known activists in Europe and has historically not shied from being aggressive with big companies and significant shareholders. Photo: Geoff Caddick/PA Wire/ZUMA Press

London-based activist investor Chris Hohn has built a roughly $3 billion stake in 21st Century Fox Inc., FOX 1.72% a position that makes him one of the largest holders of a media company at the center of a global takeover battle, according to people familiar with the matter.

The investment places Mr. Hohn’s firm, TCI Fund Management, among Fox’s six largest shareholders, with more than 4% of the company’s shares.

Mr. Hohn declined to comment on his stake in Fox.

The investor’s intentions aren’t clear, but his holding could wield significant influence in any deal vote by Fox investors. Fox has agreed to a $52.4 billion sale of its entertainment assets to Walt Disney Co. DIS 1.70% , and has disclosed that it rejected a higher Comcast Corp. CMCSA 2.73% bid due to regulatory risk concerns.

Comcast is considering whether to urge investors to go with its offer instead, The Wall Street Journal reported earlier Wednesday. The assets in the Disney-Fox deal, which is expected to come to a shareholder vote this summer, include the Twentieth Century Fox studio, cable networks and international properties.

Separately, Fox has been pursuing a purchase of the 61% of European pay-TV operator Sky PLC it doesn’t already own. It is butting heads with Comcast on that front as well. The cable giant on Wednesday made official a $31 billion bid for Sky, topping Fox’s offer.

Mr. Hohn’s TCI had held about 0.7% of Fox’s class A shares and a small amount of Class B shares at the end of 2017, but has been adding to the stake, people familiar with the situation said. TCI’s next disclosure of its holdings likely would come in a May filing.

TCI doesn’t take activist actions in all of its investments, and a bet on Fox could be a simple wager that its assets will be the focus of a bidding war—or that its future as a slimmed-down company is bright.

In recent weeks, Mr. Hohn spoke on the phone with Comcast Chief Executive Brian Roberts and probed Comcast’s interest in launching a public bid for Fox’s assets, people familiar with the situation said. Mr. Roberts didn’t respond, the people said.

Other TCI officials have also had conversations with Comcast’s investor-relations team that left Comcast executives with the clear indication that TCI wants the cable giant to continue its pursuit of Fox, the people said.

In an email this week, Mr. Hohn said he didn’t urge Mr. Roberts to go hostile in pursuit of Fox’s assets.

Any shareholder influence at Fox is tempered by the ownership of Rupert Murdoch and his family, which have a 39% voting stake. Their economic interest, which is what would count in a shareholder vote on the Disney-Fox merger, is roughly 17%. (The Murdoch family is also a major shareholder in Journal-parent News Corp)

Mr. Hohn is one of the best-known activists in Europe and has historically not shied from being aggressive with big companies and significant shareholders. In 2016, Mr. Hohn took a stake in SABMiller PLC and helped get Anheuser-Busch InBev NV to raise its offer for the brewer, even though more than 40% was in the hands of two investors.

More recently, he pushed the London Stock Exchange Group PLC, with mixed success, to keep Chief Executive Xavier Rolet in place beyond this year and force the exchange operator’s chairman to step down. In the end, Mr. Rolet announced his immediate departure in November to diffuse a battle over management succession, while LSE Chairman Donald Brydon indicated for the first time he wouldn’t seek re-election at the annual general meeting in 2019.

—Amol Sharma and Shalini Ramachandran contributed to this article.

Write to David Benoit at david.benoit@wsj.com and Ben Dummett at ben.dummett@wsj.comMegyn Kelly was supposed to bring star power to NBC News and a bigger, broader audience of morning viewers to its “Today” show franchise.

Instead, the three-year, $69 million bet to woo Ms. Kelly from her conservative prime-time perch at Fox News is backfiring.

Since taking over the 9 a.m. hour of the lucrative morning show in September...WASHINGTON—Poor training, complacency and a culture of excessive risk contributed to the deaths of four U.S. soldiers during an operation in Niger in October, according to a classified Pentagon report.

The report, described by officials familiar with its contents, details a series of missteps and describes a disregard for military procedures...WASHINGTON—A document compiled by Democrats on a Senate committee levels new allegations against Ronny Jackson, President Donald Trump’s embattled nominee to head the Department of Veterans Affairs, who said Wednesday he will keep fighting for the job despite a growing list of accusations including charges of reckless drug-dispensing practices.

Dr. Jackson, speaking briefly Wednesday with reporters at the White House, rejected one of the most serious allegations contained in the report—that he wrecked a government vehicle...President Donald Trump’s lawyers are seeking to determine whether special counsel Robert Mueller has an “open mind” about the Russia investigation, as they negotiate the terms of a possible interview with the president.

The legal team—which last week added former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a longtime Trump ally, and Florida attorneys Jane and Marty Raskin—met with Mr. Trump this week in Washington to discuss the strategy for negotiations with Mr. Mueller going forward, according to people familiar with the discussion.

...LOS ANGELES—President Donald Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen told a federal court here Wednesday he will assert his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination in a civil case because of a continuing criminal investigation against him in New York.

The filing came in a California civil lawsuit brought by former adult-film actress Stephanie Clifford against Messrs. Trump and Cohen. Ms. Clifford, known as Stormy Daniels, sued to invalidate a 2016 agreement barring her from discussing an alleged sexual encounter...SAN FRANCISCO—For more than 40 years, the unsolved crimes of the so-called Golden State Killer haunted California, his trail of killings and rapes bedeviling police and terrifying communities. Authorities said Wednesday they have solved the case.

Joseph James DeAngelo, a 72-year-old former police officer who officials say is responsible for 12 homicides and 45 rapes throughout California since the 1970s, was arrested Tuesday. He was taken into custody at his home in Citrus Heights, Calif., a suburb of Sacramento, the city...WASHINGTON—French President Emmanuel Macron said it was his “bet” that President Donald Trump would withdraw the U.S. from the Iran nuclear deal, a move he said would lead to a period of heightened tensions with an outcome that was hard to predict.

Mr. Macron traveled to Washington this week hoping to persuade Mr. Trump to stay in the 2015 accord, under which Iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief. Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel is bringing a similar case to Washington Friday.

...WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump’s travel ban appeared likely to survive the Supreme Court’s scrutiny Wednesday, after the government’s lawyer argued that current restrictions on entry from five Muslim-majority nations traced not from the president’s provocative campaign statements but the deliberate assessments of national-security professionals.

Proclamation No. 9645, the administration’s third try to bar entry from designated countries after previous versions stumbled in the courts, was signed last September following...WASHINGTON—The Justice Department is investigating whether Huawei Technologies Co. violated U.S. sanctions related to Iran, according to people familiar with the matter, a move that opens a new avenue of scrutiny of the Chinese cellular-electronics giant on national security grounds.

It’s unclear how far the Justice Department probe has advanced and what specific allegation federal agents are probing. A Huawei spokesman declined to comment.

...It’s not…nothing.

Look, it would be fun to dump all over this, the NCAA’s latest clean-up initiative—it’s always fun to poke at the lumbering ol’ NCAA—but it wouldn’t be completely fair. Wednesday’s proposal from Condoleezza Rice and the recently-formed Commission on College Basketball contained more than a few good, if wildly overdue, recommendations.

Pushing...WASHINGTON—It was a duel to see which president—Donald Trump or Emmanuel Macron of France—could shower the other with more public affection.

There was a flurry of hugs, hand-holding and an impromptu episode of president-on-president grooming that set the scene for a finale of air kisses.

Mr. Macron had come to Washington for the first state...At Empirical Spirits, a rotary evaporator (left) is used to concentrate flavors like myrtle and gooseberry for experiments. Photo: Max Pinckers for The Wall Street Journal

In December 2016, Lars Williams, an American-born chef, walked away from one of the most coveted jobs in his industry. As the head of research and development at Noma, the Copenhagen restaurant widely considered the best in the world, he spent eight years translating the chef and owner René Redzepi’s far-fetched ideas into something delicious. Williams ran the nonprofit Nordic Food Lab and helped create the Noma Science Bunker, a series of temperature-controlled shipping containers behind the restaurant where he conducted culinary inquiries.

How long does a pork loin need to dry if the goal is to shave it over dishes? (Six weeks.) How can the pulpy byproduct of beach-rose oil be repurposed? (In a beach-rose kombucha.) How can bee larvae be used as a seasoning? (Blend it with beeswax, butter and nasturtiums, and drizzle onto a potato dish.)

Williams, 41, is an obsessive. He does CrossFit six times a week and has 15 lines from “Paradise Lost” tattooed around his thick right forearm. To understand the machines involved in his experiments, he pored over their patents. “Lars doesn’t say much because he’s always thinking,” Redzepi says. “But his thinking always delivers extraordinary results.”

Empirical Spirits co-founders Lars Williams and Mark Emil Hermansen test their product. Photo: Max Pinckers for The Wall Street Journal

When Redzepi announced his plan to close the restaurant and relocate (the new Noma opened in February in a former shipyard in Copenhagen), Williams saw the chance to start his own venture. “I wanted to stick my neck out there and take all the risks,” Williams says. He had previously cooked at WD-50 in New York City and the Fat Duck near London, world renowned for their innovation and ambition. He had no interest in running a kitchen. “After being at Noma,” he says, “what other restaurant was I going to work at?”

Mark Emil Hermansen, 31, an Oxford-educated Dane who helped run MAD, Noma’s annual food symposium, left the restaurant to join Williams in starting something new. Hermansen would handle business matters; Williams would focus on product. The exact nature of their venture wasn’t clear. The two men spent hours discussing how, as Williams puts it, “I could apply the same intense process of labor I had learned at Noma to something I knew very little about.”

During an evening brainstorming session, Williams turned to his new business partner and said: “Why don’t we make booze?”

For centuries, the process of spirits distillation has remained essentially unchanged: Ferment carbohydrate-rich produce or grains in water and yeast, and strengthen the resulting ethanol-rich liquid through evaporation (boiling) and condensation (cooling). Boiling accelerates evaporation, but the heat pulverizes flavor. “Think about the difference between marmalade and fresh oranges,” Williams says.

Newsletter Sign-up

Williams distills by boiling without heat. In place of a traditional still—boiler, column, heat source—he built his own (see below), using a high-powered vaccuum and ultrasonic fogger to allow ethanol to evaporate at just 59 degrees Fahrenheit. His goal is a highly unusual one in the spirits world: to enhance and preserve flavor at every step in the process. “We want freshness,” Williams says. “We want the ingredients to come through.”

Empirical Spirits operates out of a 5,400-square-foot former shipbuilding facility on a gravelly peninsula east of Copenhagen’s center. In the lablike distillery, Williams pours me a glass of clear liquor from a bottle labeled Helena. It’s the purest of Empirical’s offerings, unadorned by botanicals or other flavorings. Toasted bread and barley dominate the nose, giving way to floral, fruity notes imparted by the Belgian Saison yeast. “We tried 25 kinds of yeast before arriving at Belgian Saison,” Williams says. “Yeast is a huge flavor determinant. People don’t realize that.” Helena’s faint nutty sweetness comes from koji, a fungus that grows on a range of grains and legumes. At Noma, Williams had spent years researching koji, a key ingredient in fermented foods such as miso, shochu and sake. “I really wanted the light sake notes mixed in with the flavor of the heirloom grains,” Williams says.

Easy Tiger, Empirical Spirits’ first release, is distilled with a macerated blend of locally sourced Douglas fir needles and juniper berries. Photo: Max Pinckers for The Wall Street Journal

Empirical’s offerings are difficult to categorize. In April, the company began exporting to the U.S. in the vague category of “spirit drink.” Easy Tiger, Empirical’s first release, is distilled with a macerated blend of locally sourced Douglas fir needles and juniper berries, which imparts a sharp, piney flavor. Charlene McGee, aged in sherry casks, is named for Drew Barrymore’s pyrokinetic character in the 1984 film “Firestarter,” and has a seductive smokiness that comes from juniper berries smoked over juniper wood. Fallen Pony, Empirical’s third release, is fruity and faintly tart from the addition of quince tea kombucha; it has the jammy sweetness of peaches roasted on an open flame.

Sam Anderson, the beverage director at Mission Chinese Food in New York City, was the first to use Empirical Spirits on a menu in the U.S. (He combines Charlene McGee, a blue bitter called Ucelli and passion fruit, and he garnishes the cocktail with sun-dried seaweed.) “There is a focus on preservation of natural flavors that is common mostly to natural winemakers,” Anderson says of Emiprical. “Most spirits, because they are heated to such high temperatures and distilled three or more times, regard freshness as an afterthought. At Empirical, freshness is the focus.”

Several bottlings from Empirical Spirits became available in the U.S. in April. Photo: Max Pinckers for The Wall Street Journal

In its first year of operation, Empirical produced a few thousand bottles and released them in limited quantities online, selling out each time to customers in European countries they could legally ship to. Distribution grew to include Australia, New Zealand and Japan, where some of Tokyo’s most esteemed cocktail bars now stock Empirical Spirits. The company hopes to produce 25,000 bottles this year; select stores in New York City began carrying Fallen Pony and Charlene McGee in April. As the company scales up, early releases like Easy Tiger and Charlene McGee may be replaced with new experiments. Lately, Williams has been thinking about a fruit he encountered in Zimbabwe called mazhanje. “It’s a really soft yellow fruit the size of a quince, and it tastes tropical, somewhere between a pear and sugar cane,” he says. “It’s a magic fruit.” Empirical’s output is based as much on Williams’s whims as it is on the preservation of flavor. As Hermansen puts it, “Lars is building the airplane while we’re flying it.”

A common critique of small-batch spirits is that they lack consistency. But inconsistency is baked into Empirical’s process. “This is the business plan of somebody who worked at Noma and thrives under the conditions of continuous reinvention,” says Jim Meehan, the author of “Meehan’s Bartender’s Manual” and co-founder of the New York cocktail bar PDT. “For the spirits world to have one of the greatest cooks in the world distilling is not a bad thing.”

Williams and Hermansen are already talking about opening distilleries around the world, where they hope to work with local, seasonal ingredients; Japan is on the shortlist. Williams hopes to set up a flavor-of-the-month program for which he’ll distill 12 new spirits each year. He recently purchased a greenhouse (from Berlin-based startup InFarm), where he plans to grow two kinds of wormwood, bronze fennel and pineapple weed for future experiments and, potentially, bottlings. “I’ll never get to the point where I say, ‘That is the recipe, and I’m never going to change it again,’” Williams says. “The idea that you can’t improve something just isn’t part of my belief system.”

Illustration: Timo Kuilder

A Cooler Way to Craft Booze

Lars Williams uses four homemade stills—and no heat source—to produce Empirical’s offerings. The first distillation, a stripping run, takes 24 to 28 hours.

1. The fermented brew of koji and heirloom barley is poured into a converted bioreactor—a stainless-steel tank that’s a staple of industrial laboratories.

2. A high-powered vacuum lowers the pressure inside the bioreactor, allowing the ethanol to evaporate at just 59 degrees Fahrenheit, as opposed to the 174 degrees Fahrenheit under atmospheric pressure. The cooler temperature helps preserve the flavors of the koji, barley, malt and yeast.

3. To aid evaporation, Williams installed an an ultrasonic fogger inside the bioreactor. The device, which looks like an oversize hockey puck studded with oscillating discs, mists the liquid, creating more surface area and making it easier to distill at lower temperatures.

4. The mist is then condensed and collected. This first run results in what Williams calls a “low wine.” A second run through his homemade still produces the company’s purest spirit, Helena.Ben Wolfson glanced up from his phone while walking in downtown San Francisco last week to see a woman whizzing toward him on what looked like a child’s kick scooter.

Only this one had an electric motor. “She was just barreling down” on the sidewalk, he said. Mr. Wolfson, 28 years old, jumped out of the way and shot her a “dirty look,” but said she didn’t react.

“She...SEOUL—Samsung Electronics Co. reported its fourth consecutive quarter of record operating profits, capitalizing on high demand for its memory chips.

But investors are focused on how much longer Samsung, the world’s largest smartphone maker, can maintain this pace. Memory chip prices aren’t likely to surge as much as they did over the past year, and high-end handset sales could be underwhelming as consumers upgrade their devices less frequently.

...Google's updated email client is more secure and productive, and can even write your emails for you. WSJ's David Pierce takes you on a tour. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal

Some people use their email inbox casually, as a way to collect receipts, appointment reminders and the occasional check-in from the relatives. Others use it hard: Email is where they get most of their work done, where they plan and organize and communicate. And, you know, the receipts and appointment reminders and relatives.

Starting this week, Google is rolling out a redesign to the Gmail web experience, its biggest change since 2011. While it eventually will come to all of the service’s 1.4 billion users, it’s part of a...Qualcomm Inc. QCOM -0.38% said its profit plunged 52% from a year earlier as it dealt with a tangle of challenges, including Apple Inc. and Huawei Technologies Co. continuing to withhold royalties for using the company’s patents.

The San Diego-based chip maker reported a profit of $363 million for its fiscal second quarter. Revenue rose 4.9% to $5.26 billion.

The chip maker’s shares were up 1.8% in after-hours trading. The stock finished Wednesday’s session down 0.4% at $49.75, below its price of $53 a year ago and well below the $79 a share offered by Broadcom Inc. in an unsuccessful takeover effort that ended in March.

The results included a $310 million charge resulting from the company’s efforts to save $1 billion in expenses by 2019. That program recently resulted in 1,500 layoffs in California.

Further cost cuts will be made “over the next few months,” Qualcomm finance chief George Davis said in an interview.

Qualcomm said revenue from the sales of chips used in mobile devices rose 6% to $3.9 billion, continuing their steady growth in recent quarters.

Qualcomm’s revenue from licensing patents, though, tumbled 44% to $1.26 billion, amid fallout from the company’s lengthy disputes with Apple and Huawei, which have withheld billions of dollars in royalty payments. That part of the business typically contributes more than half of Qualcomm’s pretax earnings.

Patent-licensing revenue will decline further in the months ahead, Qualcomm said on a conference call with analysts. For the current fiscal third quarter, it forecast lower revenue in that division by 10% to 27% from a year earlier. Some of the expected decline is due to terms of a revised licensing agreement with Samsung Electronics Co. , the company said, and some is attributable to lower-cost agreements originally negotiated in China that are being rolled out world-wide.

Qualcomm leads the market in chips used in smartphones. Its products manage communications in some iPhones and they form the heart of many Android devices. As a holder of important patents on cellular technology, Qualcomm collects a royalty on nearly every smartphone sold world-wide, regardless of whether they include Qualcomm chips.

But the company in recent years has been beset by one challenge after another, capped by Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile bid in November that was to become a relentless distraction in the quarter. The Trump administration in March scuttled Broadcom’s overture to protect Qualcomm’s leadership in the next-generation cellular technology known as 5G.

Now Qualcomm faces several tough tasks: Complete its purchase of Dutch automotive chip maker NXP Semiconductors NV, a deal that is stalled in China’s regulatory approval process; slash $1 billion in expenses to meet its profit goals; and settle its disputes with Apple and Huawei.

“We’re executing on the plan we laid out that leads to our 2019 target” of between $6.75 and $7.50 in adjusted per-share earnings for that fiscal year, Chief Executive Steve Mollenkopf said in an interview.

Qualcomm is banking on its acquisition of NXP to immediately contribute $1.50 to its adjusted per-share earnings and broaden its product line, potentially reducing its dependence on royalties. The deal has passed muster in eight countries, but Chinese authorities are giving it a close look amid escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China.

The company is “optimistic” about getting approval from China’s Ministry of Commerce, also known as Mofcom, Mr. Mollenkopf said on the conference call with analysts. But “the environment is obviously quite difficult from a geopolitical point of view, at least right now.”

He said “the issue is probably more related to the higher-level discussions between the countries as opposed to any individual issue related to Mofcom.”

Qualcomm and NXP recently extended the deadline for completing the deal to July 25. “If it doesn’t get done, we’re going to move on to another approach,” Mr. Mollenkopf said.

Should the deal fall through, Qualcomm has pledged to buy back enough of its own shares to boost earnings by an equivalent amount. The buyback would be a “very large program” amounting to $20 billion to $30 billion, Mr. Davis said on the call.

But that wouldn’t address the strategic reasons for buying the automotive specialist, which Qualcomm has said would open a path to markets it expects to be worth $77 billion by 2020.

In the conference call, Mr. Mollenkopf said Qualcomm has a backlog of $4 billion in automotive contracts with companies gearing up for cars enabled for 5G cellular technology in 2021.

Qualcomm reported per-share earnings of 80 cents on an adjusted basis, omitting share-based compensation and other items. Analysts had expected 70 cents a share on $5.19 billion in revenue, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.

Write to Ted Greenwald at Ted.Greenwald@wsj.comAmazon.com Inc. is focusing on a new niche for Echo speakers: children’s bedrooms and playrooms.

Starting May 9, an over-the-air free update is set to allow Echo talking speaker owners to turn on the FreeTime setting, which locks down certain functions, adds new controls and transforms artificially intelligent Alexa from virtual assistant to virtual nanny.

While...PayPal Holdings Inc. said Wednesday that first-quarter profit rose by a third thanks to increases in mobile payments and cross-border trade.

Shares rose more than 4% in aftermarket trading.

The San Jose, Calif.-based financial-technology reported a quarterly profit of $511 million, or 42 cents a share. That compares with $384 million, or 32...AT&T Inc.’s quarterly revenue declined as growth in the company’s streaming video service wasn’t enough to offset losses of more profitable wireless and satellite accounts.

The company’s streaming DirecTV Now service added 312,000 subscribers to reach nearly 1.5 million in the first quarter. The new additions more than covered the 188,000 satellite-TV customers it lost, though the shift to the low-price online service has pressured the Dallas company’s results.

...PARIS—French prosecutors brought preliminary charges against tycoon Vincent Bolloré for allegedly bribing politicians in Togo and Guinea to win lucrative contracts in the West African nations.

The charges against Mr. Bolloré—which he denied—are an unexpected blow for a businessman who is known as one of France’s savviest investors. Mr. Bolloré built a logistics empire whose operations span the African continent. He also is the largest shareholder in Vivendi SA, a media conglomerate that includes Universal Music Group.

...Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. is finally giving investors something to feel satisfied about.

The burrito maker’s shares rallied late Wednesday after the company posted better-than-expected profit and sales for its first quarter.

Chipotle has struggled for more than two years to win back customers after a series of food safety scares. In February,...Sonos Inc., the Santa Barbara, Calif.-based wireless-speaker company, is preparing for an initial public offering that could come as soon as June or July, according to people familiar with the process.

Sonos, whose speaker system lets customers play music in every room of their house, has confidentially filed paperwork with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an IPO, these people said. This week, the company held an analyst day at the company’s offices in Santa Barbara in which its senior executives outlined its financials...Deep into an economic boom with asset prices near records is when you’d expect the U.S. financial system’s guardians to tamp down risk-taking. Instead, federal regulators and legislators are doing the opposite—watering down, narrowing or declining to enforce rules passed after the financial crisis.

The changes are modest and don’t foreshadow a crisis any time soon. But the timing is definitely awkward. They will stimulate lending and risk-taking at a time when the industry is lowering its own standards amid a near-record economic...WeWork Cos. sold $702 million in bonds Wednesday, becoming the latest startup to win over debt investors despite a cash-burning history that is atypical for a bond issuer.

WeWork, a New York-based office-space provider with a hip reputation and $20 billion valuation, was able to sell its seven-year bonds at par with a 7.875% interest rate, people familiar with the matter said. That rate was in line with the guidance set by a JPMorgan-led group of underwriters on Tuesday, although the size of the deal was increased from $500...A bond-offering document from WeWork Cos. this week provides a glimpse into the finances of one of the world’s most valuable startups, showing how the shared-office company is rapidly expanding revenue—and incurring heavy losses.

WeWork raised $702 million in its first bond sale as it continues to plow money into expansion through acquisitions...Visa Inc.’s quarterly profit surged sixfold, bolstered by increased consumer spending on credit and debit cards and the integration of its European business.

Shares, which have broadly outperformed the market with a 32% increase over the past 12 months, rose 2% to $123.60 in after-hours trading as the company also raised its annual forecast, citing results from the first half of its business year.

Visa,...World-shaking events are kid stuff in “Avengers: Infinity War,” the first installment of a two-part sequel to “The Avengers” and “Avengers: Age of Ultron.” The whole universe is under attack from Thanos, an infinitely villainous villain sporting a multicleft, prognathous chin. Universe-shaking throwdowns succeed one another with truly stupefying regularity as the Avengers and their Guardians of the Galaxy allies take turns rising to the challenge. But moments that touch the heart are few and far between in this almost-culmination of a decade of Marvel Comics movies. The finale, scheduled for release in May 2019, may well...2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.Just some of the cast of ‘Avengers: Infinity War.’ Top row: Falcon (Anthony Mackie), Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel), the Collector (Benicio Del Toro), Loki (Tom Hiddleston), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), Dr. Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch), Drax (Dave Bautista). Second row: Tony Stark aka Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman), Okoye (Danai Gurira), Gamora (Zoe Saldana), War Machine (Don Cheadle), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Thanos (Josh Brolin). Third row: Mantis (Pom Klementieff), Captain America (Chris Evans), Peter Parker aka Spider-Man (Tom Holland), Vision (Paul Bettany), White Wolf (Sebastian Stan), Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen), M’Baku (Winston Duke). Bottom row: Heimdall (Idris Elba), Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper), Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow), Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), Wong (Benedict Wong), Peter Quill aka Star Lord (Chris Pratt), Shuri (Letitia Wright). PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE WALL STREET JOURNAL; Marvel Studios (28)

Just some of the cast of ‘Avengers: Infinity War.’ Top row: Falcon (Anthony Mackie), Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel), the Collector (Benicio Del Toro), Loki (Tom Hiddleston), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), Dr. Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch), Drax (Dave Bautista). Second row: Tony Stark aka Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman), Okoye (Danai Gurira), Gamora (Zoe Saldana), War Machine (Don Cheadle), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Thanos (Josh Brolin). Third row: Mantis (Pom Klementieff), Captain America (Chris Evans), Peter Parker aka Spider-Man (Tom Holland), Vision (Paul Bettany), White Wolf (Sebastian Stan), Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen), M’Baku (Winston Duke). Bottom row: Heimdall (Idris Elba), Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper), Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow), Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), Wong (Benedict Wong), Peter Quill aka Star Lord (Chris Pratt), Shuri (Letitia Wright). PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE WALL STREET JOURNAL; Marvel Studios (28)WASHINGTON—Embattled Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt faces an all-day grilling on Capitol Hill on Thursday, as the White House weighs his performance amid allegations involving his spending habits and ethics.

Mr. Pruitt is under investigation for his spending on office furnishings, personnel moves, travel costs, security practices and the link between his housing and a lobbyist. The White House, inspector general of the EPA, House oversight committee and Government Accountability Office have been...About 200 people screamed “wait” repeatedly as Amelia Montgomery tried to release the wrapping from a West Harlem street sign that bore the name of her late husband, Tuskegee Airman Dabney N. Montgomery.

Those in the crowd wanted to capture the moment, which marked the first time a Manhattan street had been co-named for one of the airmen, African-American pilots and crew members whose performance in World War II opened the door for desegregation of the U.S. armed forces.

...TIJUANA, Mexico—Sitting in a crowded, tin-roofed migrant shelter within sight of the U.S., Ana Suaso said she was ready for her monthlong journey from Honduras to end.

She and her three children have covered more than 2,000 miles on foot, a train and finally on a bus with hundreds of other Central Americans who made up a caravan of migrants that has caught the attention, and raised the ire, of President Donald Trump.

Ms....Researchers have identified a low-cost medication that they say could protect millions of young children in poor nations from dying of pneumonia, malaria and other preventable diseases.

But they and other experts acknowledge they will have to decide carefully how best to deploy the new tool—an antibiotic widely prescribed in the U.S. for bacterial infections—because heavy use could fuel antibiotic resistance. Taking antibiotics at a young age may also increase the risk of other health problems later on, some experts say.

...BERLIN—The organizers of Germany’s version of the Grammys, the Echo, said on Wednesday they would no longer bestow the high-profile awards, two weeks after one of this year’s prizes went to a rap duo that peppers its lyrics and videos with anti-Semitic words and images.

The decision came after several past Echo laureates, including Argentine-born conductor Daniel Barenboim, the musical director of the Berlin State Opera, said they were returning their awards in protest at the accolade granted to German rappers Kollegah and...BEIJING—A large part of North Korea’s underground nuclear test facility, which leader Kim Jong Un pledged to close, is unusable anyway due to the collapse of a cavity inside the mountain after the last blast there, Chinese scientists say.

Seismologists involved in a soon-to-be-published study also warned that another blast in the same spot and with similar yield could cause “environmental catastrophe.”

Another...SEOUL—As President Moon Jae-in of South Korea heads into talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on Friday, expectations here of lasting progress are decidedly modest.

After years of disappointments and failed negotiations, a harder attitude prevails: One of the main goals now, for South Korea’s government and its people, is simply a lowering of tensions following a year of brinkmanship.

Unification...The Toronto van attack that left 10 people dead earlier this week is shedding light on a dark corner of online discussion boards where misogynistic men who refer to themselves as “Incel,” or involuntarily celibate, meet to denigrate women.

A Facebook post that appeared on accused killer Alek Minassian’s now-deleted account around the time of the attack Monday said an “Incel Rebellion” had begun and referred to the website 4chan, which hosts a discussion board that frequently includes comments by self-professed Incels.

...After the razzmatazz of France’s President Emmanuel Macron’s state visit, Angela Merkel’s meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House on Friday is likely to be an altogether more businesslike affair.

Whereas the U.S. president has forged an improbable bromance with his French counterpart, his relationship with the German chancellor is more strained. Mr. Trump has in the past been highly critical of Ms. Merkel’s immigration policy as well as Germany’s relatively low defense spending and its trade surplus, which some...Metropolitan Transportation Authority commissioners raised concerns about rising costs and a lack of transparency at the nation’s largest transit agency as they voted to increase spending on major projects by $800 million.

An MTA staff presentation to commissioners Wednesday emphasized that the requested increase in the agency’s five-year spending program to $33.3 billion from $32.5 billion requires no additional funds. The revised budget will be made possible, in part, by using unspent money from the previous spending plan.

...Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Wednesday he has confidence in his second-in-command, Rod Rosenstein, who is supervising the federal investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and approved high-profile raids this month of President Donald Trump’s personal attorney.

“He works every day to do the job that he is called upon to do, that got dropped in his lap,” Mr. Sessions said at a Senate hearing in response to a question from Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.). “I have confidence in him.”

...WASHINGTON—A top Trump administration official told a banking-industry gathering that he gave more-favorable treatment to lobbyists who gave him money when he was a congressman, drawing criticism from Democrats.

Mick Mulvaney, White House budget director and acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, made the remarks while urging attendees at an American Bankers Association conference to lobby Congress for regulatory changes they want.

...President Donald Trump is caught between two powerful business constituents of the Republican Party as he faces growing pressure to resolve a dispute between the oil industry and the Farm Belt.

Oil refineries want out of a costly requirement to blend ethanol into the gasoline they produce. Corn growers say the requirement diversifies the U.S. fuel supply, and insist Mr. Trump fulfill promises to at least hold the ethanol mandate. Both sides have close ties to the GOP and the White House.

...LOS ANGELES—President Donald Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen told a federal court here Wednesday he will assert his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination in a civil case because of a continuing criminal investigation against him in New York.

The filing came in a California civil lawsuit brought by former adult-film actress Stephanie Clifford against Messrs. Trump and Cohen. Ms. Clifford, known as Stormy Daniels, sued to invalidate a 2016 agreement barring her from discussing an alleged sexual encounter...Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt faces questions from Congress on Thursday after tripping up on a series of controversies. Here are five issues lawmakers are likely to focus on:

FLYING: In all, including international trips and a handful of chartered and military flights, Mr. Pruitt’s individual travel costs exceeded $150,000 in the year since he became administrator, according to records released by the EPA, including multiple trips among three dozen domestic travel bookings to his home city of Tulsa. The...Parag Pathak, recently named the nation’s most impressive economist under 40, has focused much of his career on using economic modeling to study and improve school choice.

The Wall Street Journal spoke with Mr. Pathak, a 37-year-old MIT economist who joined the elite group of recipients of the American Economic Association’s John Bates Clark Medal, to learn more about what works, what doesn’t and why some parents struggle.

Here’s the conversation, edited for length and clarity.

Parag Pathak Photo: MIT Department of Economics

Q. Much of your work focuses on school choice. At MIT, you founded the School Effectiveness and Inequality Initiative. What prompted you to want to study school choice?

A: I kind of fell into the topic. When I was in graduate school, I was studying market design, which is this branch of economics that’s trying to come up with better ways of allocating resources. There was a confluence of things happening around that time involving public schools and school choice.

The first was, in 2003, New York City’s public school assignment system – it kind of fell apart. A team of economists were able to go in and say, Why don’t we treat this issue of school matching as an economics problem? And so we designed a system that works a little like the system used by medical residents in the U.S. It’s both more efficient because it’s letting the market sort students more quickly and it also respects their choices more.

That showed me that economics and market design could be useful in solving real, practical problems.

Q: Your work touches on “school choice” both in public and private schools. What kind of school choice do you find is most effective at improving students’ performance?

A: There is a particular type of charter school that seems to be doing spectacular things for students, they are sometimes called “high expectations” or “no excuses” charter schools. Maybe the best way to describe the schools I am talking about is like the KIP Network – the “Knowledge is Power” program.

They are the largest charter manager across the country. They have a culture of high expectations. Their school day is longer, their school week is longer—they sometimes meet on Saturdays—and their school year is longer.

When there are more applicants to these schools, they run a lottery. That lets you construct an apples-to-apples comparison: you compare kids who won a seat at one of these schools to ones who did not win a seat.

And what we see is the students who won the lottery were performing better at school and going to higher quality colleges.

There’s a question of, Can a school by itself overcome the disadvantages that families face, especially in big cities? These high-performing charter schools are very encouraging. But the important thing to emphasize is that not all charter schools are in this class.

Q: Based on the work you’ve done on vouchers, what does the evidence say about their effectiveness?

A: One thing that got a fair amount of attention was our study of private schools in Louisiana. Louisiana has a voucher program and sends low-income kids to private schools. The state will pay for you to attend a private school. They use a lottery to place students, so we were able to study that lottery system.

Children who won the lottery actually experienced a substantial reduction in achievement. It was one of the most negative effects we’ve seen.

It was a system that involved voluntary participation from private schools, so it’s my suspicion that the schools that participated in the program were not the strongest private schools in the state. The schools that are most likely to sign up to receive voucher students are the ones who needed the money.

But I’ve only been involved in one study on this topic. There’s other work out there that I would say suggests the evidence is fairly mixed.

That should be seen in contrast to the literature on charter schools. Charter schools are a case of much more managed competition. They are much more subject to regulation. And their effects are much more positive.

Q: Several of your studies get at this core question: How much does going to an elite school influence someone’s education?

A: We have a couple of studies that show pretty convincingly that the role of peers at an elite school is kind of overstated in predicting educational outcomes.

We did one study of elite public schools, like Stuyvesant in New York. The question we were looking to answer is: Is a kid’s success a consequence of Stuyvesant or is it a consequence of getting into Stuyvesant?

The way we approached this question is by looking at the cutoff. If you compare kids who just cleared the cutoff to the ones who made it just below the cutoff, you’d expect that if peers are really important for achievement, the kid who got to go to an elite school like Stuyvesant would do better. They don’t.

The title of our paper—I’m very proud of this—is “The Elite Illusion.”

Q: So did you waste your time going to Harvard for college?

A: I don’t think it was a waste. There are other things I got that can’t be measured on a standardized test. But it did make me realize I shouldn’t have stressed so much about it. Maybe it doesn’t matter as much as we thought.

Q: What are the most important ingredients for student achievement?

A: That’s a very hard question. What I sometimes find frustrating in conversations about student achievement is they often get sidetracked from the issue of school quality.

At least for disadvantaged children, we see that what helps is what you might expect: smaller class sizes, longer school days, an environment that emphasizes mathematics and reading. They are schools that are attuned to data—they use assessments to see where they’re at.

For very high-achieving kids, what kinds of strategies and school models are best? There we don’t really know what works best.

Q: How have you found that your work intersects with national politics and the school-choice movement?

A: A lot of our findings are very much in the news these days with the current administration’s push to expand school choice. I don’t participate in political discussions.

On charter schools for example, our work says the results are mixed. We’ve seen that not all charters are doing wonderful things. But advocates for charters often point to our research.

Our job as researchers is exploring the nuances and subtleties, and unfortunately that comes in direct conflict with political discussions.

Q: Do you think giving people more choices in their education or their children’s education is always a good thing?

A: One of the narratives of school-choice reform going all the way back to Milton Friedman is: Giving people choice is inherently good. Now we are starting to see a couple of pretty high-profile scenarios, like the Louisiana voucher system, where giving people choice actually results in people learning less.

Something we tend to see over and over is when we try to make decisions about education as consumers, we don’t have that much information. People struggle to measure value added in their decision-making.

RELATED

Do School Vouchers Work? Milwaukee’s Experiment Suggests an Answer (Jan. 28, 2018)

Q&A: Dave Donaldson Thinks There’s ‘Never Been a More Exciting Time’ to Study Economics (April 21, 2017)

Handicapping the John Bates Clark Medal (April 16, 2014)WASHINGTON—U.S. new-home sales surged in March, capping off a strong first quarter in a segment of the housing market characterized by solid buyer demand.

Purchases of newly built single-family homes—a relatively narrow slice of all U.S. home sales—increased 4.0% from the prior month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 694,000 in March, the Commerce Department said Tuesday.

March’s...Americans’ spirits rose this month after dipping earlier this spring, suggesting they remain confident in the economy despite rising inflation and stock-market gyrations.

The Conference Board said Tuesday its index of consumer confidence rose 1.7 points from a month earlier to 128.7 in April. Confidence had dipped in March after hitting the highest level since 2000 in February.

Americans...Over the past 44 years, Paul Hsu beat snowstorms and cancer to build a thriving business selling American ginseng to customers in China, where the root is prized as a traditional elixir.

Now, the survival of his farm, Hsu’s Ginseng Enterprises Inc., rests largely on a man-made threat: the trade fight between China and the U.S.

Mr. Hsu’s thousand-acre...Michael Fricklas, the chief legal officer of Advance Publications Inc. and former longtime general counsel of Viacom Inc., is joining the board of embattled Australian logistics company GetSwift Ltd. as independent chairman.

He will be joined by David Ryan, a member of several public company boards, as part of GetSwift’s efforts to strengthen its governance practices in the face of regulatory scrutiny and a series of lawsuits alleging it breached disclosure obligations. GetSwift has said it will vigorously contest the actions.

...California Water Service Group has made a takeover offer for water utility SJW Group, according to people familiar with the matter, possibly setting up a rare four-way bidding war.

SJW last month agreed to a $750 million merger with Connecticut Water Service Inc. Last week, Connecticut Water said it received an offer from Eversource Energy, which it rejected.

Now...Qualcomm Inc. said its profit plunged 52% from a year earlier as it dealt with a tangle of challenges, including Apple Inc. and Huawei Technologies Co. continuing to withhold royalties for using the company’s patents.

The San Diego-based chip maker reported a profit of $363 million for its fiscal second quarter. Revenue rose 4.9% to $5.26 billion.

The...Google's updated email client is more secure and productive, and can even write your emails for you. WSJ's David Pierce takes you on a tour. Photo/Video: Emily Prapuolenis/The Wall Street Journal

Some people use their email inbox casually, as a way to collect receipts, appointment reminders and the occasional check-in from the relatives. Others use it hard: Email is where they get most of their work done, where they plan and organize and communicate. And, you know, the receipts and appointment reminders and relatives.

Starting this week, Google is rolling out a redesign to the Gmail web experience, its biggest change since 2011. While it eventually will come to all of the service’s 1.4 billion users, it’s part of a Google-wide effort to win more users over to its premium business software, dubbed G Suite. It is especially meant to woo current Outlook users.

In my tests, I found the new Gmail is remarkably more powerful, with overdue productivity and security enhancements. It’s also more cluttered and complex. Though it took a little time to figure out, I’m already feeling better about my inbox.

Sidebars Galore

For now, the new Gmail is opt-in—click the gear icon on the top right side of your inbox and select “Try the new Gmail.” If you do, don’t be alarmed when everything looks different. Google has brought a more modern design sensibility to the app, similar to the latest versions of Android, but other than some rounded corners and new fonts, the basic structure hasn’t changed.

There is something new, though. A sidebar to the right of your inbox can now display your Google Calendar events, plus notes from Google Keep and to-dos from Google Tasks, two lesser-known Google productivity tools that work on your phone or computer.

Photo: David Pierce/The Wall Street Journal

This makes it far easier to check your calendar while scheduling a meeting, or to check your notes to see which updates you’re emailing about.

Google missed some opportunities here: While you can drag an email to your to-do list to create a task, I’d like to be able to drag emails into the notes of calendar events, or attach Keep notes to messages. I’d also like to access my contacts in the same sidebar.

And while Google Calendar is fantastic, and Keep is a solid note-taking app, Tasks doesn’t measure up. It can’t handle simple things like recurring tasks, and even re-ordering tasks or adding due dates is complicated. (Confusingly, Google has another task manager, Reminders, that has nothing to do with Tasks.)

Jacob Bank, Google’s Gmail product manager, says he knows Tasks needs work. After years of Google ignoring the feature, Mr. Bank calls this Gmail update “a statement of intent” that Google won’t forget about Tasks again. The company finally released a standalone Tasks app for iOS and Android.

Still, just having these things in one place goes a long way. One enduringly great thing about Microsoft Outlook is that you can manage nearly your entire work life within one app. Gmail now feels the same way—even when I was working offline. Google plans to add a similar sidebar to other G Suite apps too.

The new sidebar on the right side of the redesigned Gmail screen can toggle between calendar, notes and to-do lists. Photo: David Pierce/The Wall Street Journal

Users of Google’s alternative email product, Inbox, have had access to a few email-ninja features now coming to all Gmail users: Snooze lets you temporarily boot an email out of your inbox. “High Priority” notifications mean getting bugged only about important emails. My favorite, Smart Reply, provides three guesses as to what you might write back. It likes exclamation points and says “Sounds great, thanks!” a lot, but it provides a right-enough response shockingly often.

I encountered one wholly new feature twice in my testing. If I let a message languish in my inbox but Gmail deems it important—maybe it’s from someone I usually respond to quickly—the new Gmail pops it to the top with a message saying it’s been three days, maybe I should respond. Turns out a little reply-now shame goes a long way.

Safety First

Email isn’t to be trusted these days—it’s too hackable, too insecure for sending important information. So security is a key feature of the new Gmail.

When you compose a message, you can turn on Confidential Mode. As the sender, you can set the message to be deleted after a period of time. You can un-send any Confidential Mode message. You can even require the recipient to enter a passcode before they can read it. Messages still live in your sent folder as long as you let them, though, so you should periodically purge the most important stuff.

Photo: David Pierce/The Wall Street Journal

If everyone on the chain uses Gmail, Confidential Mode messages work like any other email, except nobody can print or forward it. If your company uses Gmail, you might want to make heavy use of Confidential Mode. If you’re emailing people outside of Gmail, it’s a little clunky but it works—they have to click a link to open the message.

One of email’s biggest security holes is phishing, in which hackers posing as a trusted contact try to get you to share information or even click on a compromised link. With this redesign, Gmail will now splash a huge, impossible-to-ignore red banner over any email it thinks is a scam.

“No user should accidentally click on an email we knew was phishing,” said Mr. Bank. Google can’t prevent all security breaches, he says, but this can help.

To prevent others from being able to read your emails, Google has to... read your emails. Last year, Google stopped using that content as part of its ad-targeting systems—the ads you see in the free Gmail are based on your overall Google profile. (Gmail that comes as part of a business G Suite plan doesn’t serve ads at all.) But Google’s still processing all that data. And what your email knows about you might be scarier than what Facebook knows.

More Eight Things You Hate About Gmail and How to Fix Them

There are a few good email providers that don’t collect this kind of data, like ProtonMail. But Gmail is the de facto email standard now. With this redesign, I’m using it more than ever, and it’s cut down on the number of tabs I need open to live my life.

For the first time ever, I even feel like if you email me there’s a good chance I’ll respond. In a few days. When Gmail reminds me.Investors rattled by recent volatility are becoming choosier about which technology-focused stocks they scoop up, a reversal from 2017 that threatens to undermine the tech sector’s dominance in the long stock rally.

The S&P 500 tech sector, up 1.8% in 2018, is still among the best-performing groups in the broader index. But more than a third of the 69 stocks in the sector have declined in 2018, the most for any full year since 2011. In 2017, only six of them had lost ground.

...A surge on Wall Street stock-trading desks is being driven by manic investor moves in derivatives, as fund managers scramble to protect their gains from future volatility.

Following a leap in stock market gyrations so far this year, the biggest U.S. banks generated more revenue from stock trading than in any first quarter since the financial crisis, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of bank regulatory filings.

It’s...Treasury yields, dollar continue climbing U.S. stocks higher Investors digest latest earnings

The Dow Jones Industrial Average inched higher Wednesday to end its longest losing streak in more than a year, lifted by a surge in Boeing shares following the aerospace giant’s latest earnings report.

Stocks have wobbled in recent days with bond yields climbing and investors wondering whether earnings are peaking for big U.S. companies, which could hinder future stock gains as interest rates and inflation continue rising.

...Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg arriving to testify on Capitol Hill in Washington earlier this month. Photo: Andrew Harnik/Associated Press

Facebook is a hard friend to dump, even when it has it coming.

The social network’s first-quarter report Wednesday afternoon showed that about 48 million daily active users signed up during the period. That was up 3.4% from the December quarter and was in line with Wall Street’s expectations. Assuming that at least some of them read newspapers, that alone was remarkable considering the scandal that erupted late in the period involving Cambridge Analytica that landed CEO Mark Zuckerberg before Congress and relieved the company of nearly $74 billion in market value.The commingling of North and South “seems to be my whole theme in life,” says Bruce Moffett, a Rhode Island-born chef now based in Charlotte, N.C.

His flagship restaurant, Barrington’s, pays homage to his New England roots while relying on local ingredients. His forthcoming cookbook is entitled “South by North.”

A similar theme emerged when Mr. Moffett, 52, and his wife Katrina set out to renovate their redbrick 1960s ranch in Charlotte’s Barclay Downs neighborhood. They expanded the house to create a four-bedroom, roughly 3,200-square-foot space, Ms. Moffett said, large enough to accommodate both antiques from her husband’s “old-school Rhode Island” family and work by Southern artists.

The family’s northern provenance is apparent in the home’s entryway, where an antique New England cane chair stands next to a wicker basket of shells and stones the Moffetts collected at Rhode Island’s Matunuck Beach. On a doorknob hangs an antique buoy from Boston, where both Moffetts lived before Charlotte.

The commingling of North and South ‘seems to be my whole theme in life,’ says Bruce Moffett, a Rhode Island-born chef now based in Charlotte, N.C. A portrait of Mary Morris Brush, Mr. Moffett’s great-great-grandmother. Photo: Chris Edwards for The Wall Street Journal

Originally from Montreal, Ms. Moffett, 46, lived in Boston while working as an executive at Laura Ashley , the British fashion and home furnishings company. She relocated to Charlotte in 2001 when the company moved its Americas headquarters to Fort Mill, S.C. Mr. Moffett, meanwhile, cooked in Boston before moving in 2000 to Charlotte, opening Barrington’s shortly thereafter.

Seated in their home’s sunny living room, the effervescent Ms. Moffett describes meeting her dark-haired husband for the first time by the pool at her Charlotte apartment complex, where she noticed that a “really cute guy who looked like John Kerry ” had a towel from the venerable New England retailer L.L. Bean. “I said, ‘who in the South would have an L.L. Bean towel?’”

They’ve been married 15 years, and Mr. Moffett has since opened two more restaurants: the tapas-style Good Food on Montford and Italian bistro Stagioni.

Four years ago, they paid $555,000 for the one-story house in Barclay Downs, an area minutes from all three restaurants. “It was a dump,” Mr. Moffett remembers, but “I could envision what I wanted to do with the house.”

Mr. Moffett in the kitchen. Antique New England baskets used for gathering eggs sit atop the wine storage unit. Photo: Chris Edwards for The Wall Street Journal

They spent about $500,000 to change virtually everything, adding about 1,000 square feet to the interior and building a large cedar deck, outdoor kitchen and a two-car garage with an apartment above it. They converted the formal living room into a dining room large enough for a 12-foot long wood-and-steel table. Mr. Moffett had bought it for Stagioni, but it didn’t fit.

A 6-foot-tall portrait of Mary Morris Brush, Mr. Moffett’s great-great-grandmother, hangs in the dining room. On the opposite wall the Moffetts built floor-to-ceiling bookshelves where antique duck decoys intermingle with New England and North Carolina pottery and a cookbook that belonged to Mr. Moffett’s grandmother. “Our memories are in here,” Ms. Moffett said.

Also in the dining room there is a sketch by Pablo Picasso, and the home contains paintings by Charlotte artist Michele Harvey Collins. Both Moffetts come from art-loving families: Mr. Moffett said his grandmother bought a nude painted by the artist Henri Matisse off the street in Paris, then sold it decades later to send her grandchildren to college. A copy now hangs in the Moffetts’ bedroom.

Laura Ashley designs were used throughout the home, but “I didn’t want this to be a showroom,” said Ms. Moffett, who is Laura Ashley’s creative manager. The floral wallpaper in the powder room is one of the company’s iconic patterns, “Summer Palace,” and the Laura Ashley pillows outside are emblazoned with hedgehogs.

Mr. Moffett’s grandmother bought a nude painted by the artist Henri Matisse off the street in Paris, then sold it decades later to send her grandchildren to college. A copy now hangs in the Moffetts’ bedroom. Photo: Chris Edwards for The Wall Street Journal

In the kitchen, Mr. Moffett chose a galley-style design, which he finds more efficient for cooking than a center island. In the breakfast area, friends’ children fight over a wooden high chair that belonged to Bruce’s grandfather.

Much of the family’s cooking occurs outside. The outdoor kitchen has running hot and cold water, and on the lawn a few feet away, Mr. Moffett grows tomatoes, cucumbers and peppers in raised vegetable beds, often bringing the produce to Barrington’s.

For the apartment above the garage, they commissioned Charlotte artist Randall Kane to paint a mural depicting the scoreboard from the night the Boston Red Sox broke “the curse of the Bambino” in 2004.

An outdoor fireplace was requested by the Moffetts’ 8-year-old son, Daniel, who meticulously prepares the s’mores. “Our son’s the s’more chef,” Ms. Moffett said.

Even the family’s s’mores hark back to their Northern roots: Ms. Moffett’s father handpicked the extra-long, maple marshmallow sticks in Montreal and drove them 16 hours to Charlotte.

“My parents were like, ‘they have to be from Canada,” she said.

Write to Candace Taylor at Candace.Taylor@wsj.comThe Ala Moana Center in Honolulu, February 2017. There are no dead malls in Hawaii, largely because it isn’t as overbuilt as the mainland U.S.

The Ala Moana Center in Honolulu, February 2017. There are no dead malls in Hawaii, largely because it isn’t as overbuilt as the mainland U.S. Photo: Marco Garcia for the Wall Street Journal

Hawaii is a market where national retailers typically rack up higher-than-average store sales and enjoy low vacancy rates. But headwinds from the continental U.S. are starting to reach America’s 50th state.

Store closings from Sports Authority Inc. and Sears Holdings Corp.’s Kmart chain have pushed vacancy rates higher, prompting some Hawaii landlords to become more aggressive in cutting rents and offering other concessions to attract tenants, according to brokers and market analysts.

Vacancy rates rose to 6.1% in the fourth quarter of 2017, the highest rate since the third quarter of 2014, before falling slightly to 5.7% in the first quarter of this year, according to property consultancy CBRE, which tracks 22.9 million square feet of retail space in Hawaii.

Other brokerages are showing a similar trend. Vacancy rates tracked by CoStar rose to 3.5% in the first quarter from 3.1% in the fourth quarter and up from 2.8% a year earlier. Quoted rents reached $33.83 per square foot per year in the first quarter, up from $33.08 in the previous quarter, but down 3.8% from $35.16 in the first quarter of 2017, according to CoStar.

“Hawaii is still a retail paradise; it’s just been raining a lot recently,” said Roger Lyons, CBRE senior vice president of Retail Advisory and Transaction Services in Hawaii. “It’s still 72 degrees.”

Some of the space previously occupied by Sports Authority, which had eight stores in Hawaii, remains vacant, while others are now leased to Ross Stores Inc., T.J. Maxx, which is owned by TJX Co. , and Petco Holdings Inc. In the coming weeks, Toys “R” Us Inc. is closing its three stores, as well as a Babies “R” Us store.

“There might be another year or two of vacancy issues, but it still feels healthy,” said Wendell F. Brooks III, senior vice president of JLL Retail Brokerage overseeing the Hawaii market. Mr. Brooks added that tourism numbers are strong, and even in centers that serve domestic consumers, pharmacy chain CVS Health Corp. , which operates Longs Drugs in Hawaii, is adding stores regularly.

There are no dead malls in Hawaii, largely because it isn’t as overbuilt as the mainland U.S. On average, there is 24 square feet of retail space per capita in the U.S., compared with 16 square feet in Canada and 11 square feet in Australia. In Hawaii, it is about 16 square feet.

Ka Makana Ali‘i, a 750,000 square-foot open-air mall in West Oahu that opened in late 2016, is the only new mall built on the island in the past 30 years. The mall, which includes tenants such as Macy’s Inc., 24 Hour Fitness and restaurants such as California Pizza Kitchen and Cheesecake Factory Inc., is currently 87% occupied.

“A lot of the major mall companies are retrofitting their centers with grocery stores and restaurants. We’re way ahead of the curve,” said Ed Kobel, president and chief operating officer at Tampa, Fla.-based DeBartolo Development, the mall’s owner.

While the mall had some challenges in the women’s ready-to-wear category, sales receipts from the gym and from California Pizza are the top tier in their respective chains, said Mr. Kobel.

At a time when other retail real-estate investment trusts are looking to shrink their asset base, Hawaii-based REIT Alexander & Baldwin Inc. is looking to expand its portfolio of grocery-anchored centers as approvals for new retail development remain scarce.

“The zoning and entitlement process is so difficult,” said Chris Benjamin, Alexander & Baldwin’s chief executive.

The REIT, which has around 17% of the strip retail market share in Hawaii as well as some industrial property, last month broke ground on a 94,000-square-foot center in Maui.

The Ho’okele Shopping Center would be anchored by a Safeway Inc. store. Alexander & Baldwin also recently purchased three grocery-anchored shopping centers for $254 million.

Apart from controls on development, landlords in Hawaii do get a little respite from online competition.

Online retailers usually pass on the higher costs of delivery to consumers in Hawaii, which is located about 2,400 miles west of California in the Pacific Ocean. For instance, Amazon Prime members there don’t get free two-day shipping, though standard shipping is free.

“Shipping to Hawaii is exorbitant in some cases. Even if it’s slightly cheaper online, it might end up costing so much more to deliver,” said Kristi Dagdagan, a resident in Honolulu. The mother of three, who is an Amazon Prime member and a member at Sam’s Club, added that groceries like milk and eggs are generally more expensive in Hawaii, so wholesale retailers like Costco are often crowded.

“I’m a fan of the ‘scan and go’ app,” said Ms. Dagdagan.

Write to Esther Fung at esther.fung@wsj.comLeBron James’s latest signature moment: a buzzer-beater to give the Cleveland Cavaliers a 3-2 series lead over the Indiana Pacers in the NBA playoffs.

LeBron James is good at basketball.

Sometimes that’s all you can say about him. He is still good at basketball. He is really good, even surprisingly good, maybe as good as anyone who has ever...INDIANAPOLIS—The NCAA commission on college basketball on Wednesday recommended increased penalties for rule-breakers and more transparency from apparel companies. It also called for the NBA and its players association to allow players to enter the draft out of high school. The current rule requires players to be 19 years old or a year out of high school.

But the commission stopped short of recommending the NCAA find a way to allow its star attractions, the players, to share more of the revenue they help create.

...INDIANAPOLIS—The independent commission on college basketball’s recommendations, unveiled Wednesday at NCAA headquarters, come down to this: stiffen the penalties for rulebreakers and open a wider door for top high school players to jump right to the NBA.

But the commission, a 14-member panel bristling with college luminaries and chaired by former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, failed to address the central tension breeding the corruption it was launched to address: escalating compensation for everyone involved but the...Photos of the Day: April 25 Rohingya refugees gather in ‘no man's land,’ visitors look at a young lion, a man balances a wheelbarrow while delivering chemical drums, and moreYOU CAN GET a fine sandwich at Choice Market in downtown Denver. The meatball sub uses local ingredients, while the “corned beet,” layered with non-dairy mozzarella, is a hearty vegan option.

But you can also get a lot more—and that’s the point. In 2,700 square feet, about the size of a Chipotle, Choice is open 24 hours a day and sells staples like pasta, milk and yogurt, specialty items like quinoa, and an array of fruits and vegetables. You’ll also find beer and kombucha on tap, and snacks that skew toward multigrain chips...I grew up in a little town called Abbot, Texas. The old guys had a couple places where they would play dominoes—over by the cotton gin or above a department store. If one of them had to go to the bathroom or something he would let me sit in. If I made a mistake he’d chew me out. Decades later, I still play. I have friends over in Maui—eight or 10 of us—and we get together every night and play dominoes or chess or poker.

Trigger—my Martin N-20 guitar—has the sound that I want and the one I was always looking for. When I ran...“ONE MISTAKE CAN be a disaster,” says Antoine Ricardou, the 44-year-old founder of be-poles, a Paris-based branding studio. Ricardou has been putting the final touches on Le Barn, a new 71-room hotel on a horse farm 30 miles outside Paris in the Rambouillet Forest. The project, opening this spring, is a first for him and his 18-year-old company. In the past, when Ricardou has overseen the visual identity for hospitality projects—from the NoMad hotels in New York and Los Angeles, to the Four Seasons Surf Club in Miami and Les Roches Rouges on the Côte d’Azur—his design purview has been collateral: logos, do-not-disturb...No

This is not Studio 54. You are not 23-year-old John Travolta. So leave the shimmery silk shirts in the 1970s, along with the AMC Pacer and the baffling popularity of “Disco Duck.” “Really cheese-ball club rat,” is how Ian Bradley, a New York-based fashion stylist, described silk shirts. He associates them with contemporary rappers like Migos and 21 Savage who unbutton their blousy silk shirts practically to the navel (determined to exhibit an excess of gold chains) and pair them with hole-ridden jeans.

That louche look...Good morning. Happy One Month Until GDPR Day! Let me know how you’re going to celebrate. I’m thinking about printing out reams of newly updated privacy policies and swimming among them like Scrooge McDuck in his money vault. Whatever you plan to do on this special occasion, enjoy!

A big media-merger theme for the newsletter today. This is just in: Comcast has made formal its £12.50-per-share all-cash bid for Sky, which would value the European pay-TV operator and broadcaster at £22 billion ($31 billion). The thinking is that Comcast can use Sky’s 23 million retail customers to expand its international footprint and invest more in original and acquired content. In response, Sky’s independent committee is withdrawing its recommendation for 21st Century Fox’s December bid for the 61% of Sky it does not already own. Your move, Fox and Disney (which itself has made a $66 billion bid to acquire key Fox entertainment assets). Fox said Wednesday it remained committed to buying all of Sky. What’s more, the WSJ reports that Comcast is “weighing whether to play interloper” on Disney’s pending deal to acquire those Fox assets, according to people familiar with the situation. It’s never simple, is it? (Reminder: The Wall Street Journal’s parent company News Corp and 21st Century Fox share common ownership.) Comcast’s Sky bid came on the same day it reported 21% profit growth for its first quarter, compared with the year-earlier period. Revenue at the NBCUniversal unit increased 21% to $9.5 billion, for which Comcast credited its broadcasts of the Winter Olympics and Super Bowl.

What About Bob?

“Bob’s a special kind of friend. The kind that drives you crazy!” is the tagline from the classic ‘90s Bill Murray movie, “What About Bob”: Which leads us nicely to the WSJ’s Keach Hagey and Joe Flint’s behind-the-scenes look at the key question holding up the proposed Viacom-CBS deal: What role will Viacom Chief Executive Bob Bakish take on in the combined company? Shari Redstone, president of National Amusements, which controls both companies, doesn’t think there’s a chance of a deal without a senior role for Mr. Bakish. But CBS Chief Executive Leslie Moonves wants his current COO, Joe Ianniello, as his top lieutenant. Mr. Ianniello wants that, too: Make sure you read the testy over-dinner exchange between the trio detailed in the article when Mr. Bakish suggested he should be the company’s president. Sources say CBS is also concerned that Mr. Bakish could be a proxy for Ms. Redstone to influence the media assets her family controls. To that end, people familiar with the matter say Ms. Redstone has already begun interviewing potential new CBS board members, which could make it easier to oust Mr. Moonves.

—Not-So-Silent Bob—

Viacom reported its second-quarter earnings this morning. The company reported better-than-expected profit and said it’s on track to make more than $100 million in cost savings in fiscal 2018. Overall revenue fell 3% to $3.1 billion as the company’s filmed entertainment unit’s 17% drop in revenue dragged down on the 1% growth posted by the media networks division. The earnings call takes place just after I press “send” on this newsletter, where we’ll be hearing from Bob himself, who’ll likely receive lots of merger-related questions from analysts.

Light Reading

WPP’s new co-COO Mark Read has given his first interview since taking that role after the abrupt departure of Martin Sorrell earlier this month. Speaking to the Financial Times, the former Wunderman boss said he’s thrown his hat in the ring for WPP’s top job: “I assume I’ll be considered.” Elsewhere, Mr. Read addressed the chorus of voices calling for WPP to be broken up, saying it “doesn’t make sense” when clients want more integrated services. Nevertheless, he let the possibility of a breakup linger, “If someone could explain to us how breaking up would create shareholder value then we would look at that,” he added. (For what it’s worth, analysts have said the sale of market-research unit Kantar would raise around $5 billion, which WPP could use to reduce debt or return cash to shareholders.) Elsewhere, clients don’t seem unnerved by Mr. Sorrell’s exit, according to Mr. Read, who said, “Not one client has said to me that, despite being sad to see Martin go, they will make any change to how they work with WPP.”

Bolloré Held

The ad industry is awash with concerns, conjecture and allegations about non-transparent practices. Headlines out of France on Tuesday won’t help matters. As Le Monde newspaper first reported, French police detained billionaire Vincent Bolloré for questioning Tuesday as part of a probe on how his holding company Bolloré Group won port concessions in two African countries nearly a decade ago. What’s that got to do with advertising? A person familiar with the matter said the investigation stems from a complaint that Havas, a subsidiary of Bolloré Group at the time (now owned by Vivendi in which Bolloré Group has more than a 20% stake), worked on political campaigns in Guinea and Togo at below-market prices. In return, the person said, Bolloré Group is alleged to have won contracts to run container terminals in Conakry, Guinea, and Lomé, Togo. In a statement, Bolloré Group said, “The contracts pertaining to these billings were carried out with total transparency,” adding the company is “happy to cooperate with the investigation to set the record straight.”

Best of the rest

Coca-Cola says its revamp of Diet Coke—which included four new flavors, a packaging makeover and a big marketing campaign—helped the brand post its first quarter of volume growth since 2010. [WSJ]

Oracle’s Data Cloud division has acquired Grapeshot, a U.K.-based ad-tech company that focuses on brand safety and contextual targeting. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. [TechCrunch]

Bloomberg is reportedly set to start charging readers to access stories on Bloomberg.com. [Business Insider]

Twitter’s first-quarter revenue and earnings beat analysts’ expectations. The company credited growth across all its major products and geographies, including another quarter of double-digit year-over-year daily active user growth. [CNBC]

Facebook published its content removal policies for the first time and is allowing people to appeal takedown decisions. [Bloomberg]

Speaking after reporting earnings Tuesday, Verizon finance chief Matt Ellis acknowledged the company had looked at potential acquisitions but said it wasn’t likely to make media deals any time soon. Revenue at Oath, the company’s advertising and content unit, decreased sequentially by 13% from the fourth quarter to the first, which the company said was due to seasonally lower display ad volumes. [WSJ]

Search-marketing firm SEMrush raised $40 million to expand its operations. The round was co-led by venture-capital firms Greycroft, e.ventures and Siguler Guff. [CMO Today]

Spotify announced a new mobile version of its ad-supported, free service that will allow users to access many features of the company’s paid version. [Bloomberg]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @larakiara, @VranicaWSJ, @alexbruell,@BenMullin, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.comSEMrush, which helps companies optimize search results on platforms like Google, has raised $40 million to expand its operations.

SEMrush, which helps companies optimize search results on platforms like Google, has raised $40 million to expand its operations. Photo: Getty Images

For all the talk about publishers and marketers gaming the Facebook news feed algorithm, jockeying for position in search results is an even bigger priority.

Search analytics firms like SEMrush say they have the answers. SEMrush, an analytics and software company founded in Russia in 2008, has raised $40 million to expand its operations, according to Eugene Levin, chief strategy officer at SEMrush.

The funding round, the firm’s first, was co-led by venture-capital firms Greycroft, e.ventures and Siguler Guff.

SEMrush helps marketers and publishers optimize their websites for discovery by consumers using popular search engines like Google, Bing and Yahoo . The company charges a base fee of $99.95 for freelancers and in-house marketers and has additional pricing tiers for optional features.

The company’s customers include Ebay, Quora, Booking.com, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and BNP Paribas.

The investment in SEMrush comes as search is becoming increasingly important to marketers and publishers alike. Google now accounts for more than 50% of referral traffic sent to digital publishers, according to the web analytics firm Parse.ly, compared to 27% from the second-biggest referrer, Facebook. Together, Google and Facebook control about 56% of the U.S. digital ad market, according to eMarketer; competitors like Amazon and Snap, Inc. each have less than 5% of the market.

Search-engine optimization firms like SEMrush are in some ways engaged in a game of cat-and-mouse with Google, helping marketers navigate the company’s shifting algorithm for ranking links. Because the rules of search marketing are constantly in flux, the company’s services are perpetually in demand, said Dylan Pearce, a partner at Greycroft who leads the firm’s growth-stage technology and internet investments.

“When there is a shift in the Google algorithm, the traffic to SEMrush spikes,” Mr. Pearce said. “Because people are going to SEMrush to help them understand what the algorithm change means.”

SEMrush has revenues between $50 million and $100 million, Mr. Levin said. The company now has nearly 500 employees in Russia, the United States, the Czech Republic and the Republic of Cyprus, he said.

SEMrush plans to use some of the financing to expand beyond U.S.-based search engines and onto platforms owned by Amazon.com and the Chinese internet company Baidu. SEMrush also plans to buy companies that produce software it can include in its platform and purchase search data from emerging markets to make its platform more effective to marketers in those countries.

One potential area of interest for acquisitions is software firms that help public relations firms work with news organizations better, Mr. Levin said. Companies can increase their ranking in Google’s search results by getting links in articles published by authoritative publications.

“In some cases, links from specifics news portals are more valuable than the traffic and brand recognition that you are going to get from content you create,” Mr. Levin said.ComScore Inc. SCOR -0.65% has tapped board member and digital agency veteran Bryan Wiener as its new chief executive, as the media-measurement company tries to move past years of accounting irregularities.

Mr. Wiener is currently executive chairman of Dentsu Inc. -owned ad and media agency 360i, and he has been on comScore’s board since October 2017. ComScore has been without a CEO since November, when co-founder Gian Fulgoni retired from the position.

In his new role, Mr. Wiener will be charged with turning the business around following a string of accounting crises and losses. ComScore recently released its first annual report in three years, after an internal investigation uncovered improper accounting practices. The Wall Street Journal in August 2015 first called attention to comScore’s practice of recording “nonmonetary revenue,” which came from data-swapping deals with other companies.

In a March regulatory filing, the company reported that it incurred net losses of $281.4 million in 2017, $117.2 million in 2016 and $78.2 million in 2015, in addition to disclosing restated results for 2014 and 2013 that also amounted to losses. The SEC is investigating allegations regarding “revenue recognition, internal controls, non-GAAP disclosures and whistleblower retaliation,” according to the filing. “We are cooperating fully with the SEC,” comScore said in the filing.

“The worst is behind us,” Mr. Wiener said in an interview. “The last two years were a very difficult time. It was hard to innovate at the speed we wanted to innovate with that cloud over our head.”

Now, comScore’s goal is to create excitement and provide the marketplace with a third-party referee that can help brands measure media performance across digital and traditional platforms, he said. Mr. Wiener’s plan is to streamline operations that are too complex and inefficient, focus on building products that support cross-platform measurement and sell comScore to the industry in a more compelling way.

“It’s a comeback story,” he said.

ComScore is one of only a few large companies that measure media consumption. Nielsen, the largest player in the industry, has a stronghold on national TV viewing, with its metrics serving as the currency in transactions between ad buyers and sellers. ComScore tracks local TV, digital publishing and digital ads, as well as film performance. Ad holding company giant WPP has about a 20% stake in comScore.

Mr. Wiener first joined comScore’s board as part of a settlement with activist investor Starboard Value LP last year. The fund agreed to drop a lawsuit against comScore demanding it hold an annual meeting, in exchange for several new independent directors joining the board.

Former GroupM executive Rob Norman is also joining comScore’s board, the company revealed last week.

Mr. Wiener will be comScore’s third CEO in less than two years. Mr. Fulgoni, before announcing his retirement last year, had succeeded Serge Matta, who stepped down in August 2016 amid the accounting crisis.

Mr. Wiener is known for building businesses through his strategy and operational vision. He and 360i CEO Sarah Hofstetter worked together to build the digital agency into an integrated marketing shop, ultimately absorbing sister media agency Vizeum. At the Dentsu level, Mr. Wiener spearheaded the acquisition of digital shop Firstborn. Separately, he orchestrated the sale of Expion, a company with a Dentsu investment, to Sysomos.

“My main skill set is growing businesses and positioning them in markets that are ever-changing,” Mr. Wiener said. “If you build a high-growth, profitable business that’s different in the market, shareholders are going to be rewarded. That’s what the board hired me to do.”

Write to Alexandra Bruell at alexandra.bruell@wsj.com and Suzanne Vranica at suzanne.vranica@wsj.comThe New York Times Co. named Cindy Taibi senior vice president and chief information officer this month as the company wraps up a cloud migration and explores employee productivity tools.

Ms. Taibi previously was VP of technology, overseeing back-office enterprise systems, as well as print publishing systems and infrastructure. Over a 37-year career at the Times reaching deep into the pre-digital news age, she served as a developer for the now-gone News Systems group, oversaw IT for the company’s regional media group, and helped architect print advertising and business systems, among other duties.

NYT CIO Cindy Taibi reports to Chief Technology Officer Nick Rockwell. Photo: The New York Times Co.

“When I came here, it was all about mainframes and minicomputers,” she said. “There weren’t laptops, there weren’t even really PCs and Macs at the time.” Much of the print production process was manual, and there was no website or mobile app.

Her appointment comes as the Times completes a roughly 18-month cloud migration project. The “vast majority” of the Times’ applications and services now sit on Google Inc. or Amazon.com Inc.’s clouds. The company has exited three data centers, and is close to leaving its fourth. It will maintain a small data center in its New York headquarters and one in a Norfolk, Va. office for the few workloads that couldn’t make the move.

The Times will continue to optimize those applications now that the migration is complete. Ms. Taibi also plans to start evaluating how to update the company’s suite of finance systems such as general ledger and accounts payable.

Ms. Taibi reports to Chief Technology Officer Nick Rockwell. In a blog post announcing Ms. Taibi’s promotion, he said “the CIO role is in the process of being reinvented.”

“For years, the range of problems and technical solutions available to the CIO were very stable: you bought Office and Outlook, a bunch of Cisco gear and machines from Dell or HP, and then hung on until you had to change the Enterprise Resource Planning system, which you did for a couple of years…and then you got fired,” the blog post said.

Today, the Times’ adoption of the cloud and serverless computing, in which servers and operating systems are invisible to developers, create new opportunities and challenges.

Mr. Rockwell told CIO Journal in November that serverless is particularly valuable in a market such as news, where content and technology are merging and application deployment speed is increasingly important.

It’s the first time in about four years that the company had both a CTO and CIO, Ms. Taibi said.

In the CIO role, Ms. Taibi will oversee infrastructure, including networks, phones and computers worldwide, as well as productivity tools and systems that manage finance, HR, legal and compliance. Mr. Rockwell’s role as CTO, in contrast, focuses on products that customers use, according to the blog post.

Ms. Taibi hopes to boost IT’s role in enhancing employee productivity as a range of new technologies enter the market.

“I want us to have a more active capability around looking at the kind of tools popping up every single day,” she said. “It’s really a very quickly changing space, and I think there’s room for us to engage in it more proactively.”

Ms. Taibi is the first woman to hold the CIO role at the Times. She also co-leads the company’s Women in Technology group, a task force that develops events and initiatives to support the recruitment, retention and advancement of women in technology.

“It’s true that in tech women are still underrepresented, but at least it’s such a visible issue,” she said. When she started at the Times, “it wasn’t even a topic of conversation.”

Write to steven.norton@wsj.comA rendering of a Volkswagen Group engineer wearing a virtual reality headset combined with a haptic technology display. A system of pressure-sensitive pins simulates the shapes of the interior of the vehicle.

A rendering of a Volkswagen Group engineer wearing a virtual reality headset combined with a haptic technology display. A system of pressure-sensitive pins simulates the shapes of the interior of the vehicle. Photo: Volkswagen Group

Volkswagen Group is experimenting with the way vehicles could be designed by using virtual reality combined with haptic technology, which tries to simulate the feeling of a virtual object.

A small team of IT engineers at the auto-manufacturer’s headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, is partnering with researchers at Stanford University on the project. The goal, they say, is to speed up the design and development of vehicles using the cutting-edge technologies, and to identify potentially costly design problems earlier in the development cycle.

“When you construct a new car it takes a lot of time, a lot of money and it’s necessary to build physical prototypes to validate different functions, and these prototypes are very, very expensive,” said Frank Ostermann, head of the Virtual Engineering Lab at Volkswagen Group’s Information Technology division.

​

A team of six experts saw an opportunity to cut costly physical prototypes and replace them with immersive, 360-degree views of digitally-constructed interior and exterior components of a vehicle through virtual reality HTC Vive headsets.

Virtual components of a car, including interior and exterior parts such as buttons, lights or consoles, can be switched out and replaced easily with a few lines of code during the design process. But the engineers lack the sense of touch in a virtual world.

“Sitting in the virtual environment, you’re just reaching out into the air without any feedback, and the developers had been used to sitting in a physical car, so we thought about how to solve this problem,” said Jan Jacobs, a software engineer at Volkswagen Group IT’s Virtual Engineering Lab.

The team has been collaborating on a research project involving haptics technology with Stanford for more than a year. “We have to work on haptics because it’s an essential part,” Mr. Jacobs said.

Haptics refers to the sense of touch and how humans perceive the world through both touching objects and is closely related to proprioception, our sense of where our bodies are in space, said Sean Follmer, assistant professor at Stanford’s department of mechanical engineering, who is working on the Volkswagen Group research project.

Experts say that adding the sensation of touch to virtual reality will influence a variety of industries, from health care to interior design, while boosting demand for the headsets they support, as WSJ has previously reported.

Haptic technology has the potential to play a crucial part in design, Dr. Follmer said. “There’s this big shift of moving toward virtual reality, which can speed up the design process … but you lose this sense of touch, which is still important to how designers and engineers operate,” Dr. Follmer said.

It’s “jarring” when users reach for a virtual object while wearing a virtual reality headset and there’s nothing there, he said.

Shape displays, a type of haptic device, are similar to computer-based graphical displays, except that each pixel has a physical height instead of a color.

Each display, which costs between $5,000 to $6,000, consists of an array of about 400 or 500 aluminum pins with 3D-printed plastic tops. Motors and screws underneath the pins, combined with computer software, know what shape the pins are supposed to be rendering when a user touches the surface of the display. The pins can render many different types of shapes: pyramids, spheres, boxes and the like.

In Volkswagen’s case, the pins would render objects such as buttons, knobs and fans.

“We’re really interested to understand how we can give this sense of touch back to designers and engineers who have traditionally used clay models and other physical materials to prototype the interior and exterior of cars,” Dr. Follmer said.

There are some technical challenges to overcome before Volkswagen Group deploys haptic displays to its engineers, though. There’s no estimated time frame for when that will happen, the researchers say.

One major challenge is figuring out a way to get a higher resolution haptic display at an affordable cost. The spacing between pins is currently 7 millimeters, but the resolution at which humans can perceive things with touch is under 1 millimeter, Dr. Follmer said.

The other challenge is how to best position the haptic displays in a cost effective way so that whenever engineers reach out to touch a virtual object in the real world, they will touch an active display area, he said.

In the future, virtual reality and haptic technology will go hand-in-hand, he said.Good morning, CIOs. The Internal Revenue Service, struggling to update badly out-of-date systems that were overwhelmed on tax day, is bringing in a CIO to oversee the effort. “A federal bill aimed at updating the Internal Revenue Service’s decades-old IT systems sets out the duties and responsibilities of a new IRS chief information officer, among other modernization efforts,” CIO Journal’s Angus Loten reports. IT systems currently are led by a CTO, who reports to the deputy IRS commissioner for operations support. Two deputy CIOs oversee IT operations and strategy.

The new CIO faces a big challenge. Rep. Suzan DelBene (D., Wash.) said as a former tech industry chief executive she was “astounded to learn that the IRS is still using fax equipment to conduct regular business and has IT systems still running from the 1960s.” Rep. DelBene held a number of roles at Microsoft Corp.

David A. Powner, director of information technology management issues at the United States Government Accountability office, told CIO Journal last week that federal government IT modernization efforts often are thwarted by the short tenures of agency CIOs, who serve for just two years on average. Like many federal agencies, he added, the IRS is struggling with aging backend IT systems, tight budgets and pressure to offer better front-end services.

SECURITY AND PRIVACY

Employees watch electronic boards monitoring possible cyberattacks at the Korea Internet & Security Agency in Seoul, South Korea, in May last year. YUN DONG-JIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS

North Korean hacking campaign hits 17 countries. Starting in mid-March suspected Pyongyang-linked hackers sought to obtain sensitive information from a variety of industries, the Journal’s Timothy W. Martin reports. Security firm McAfee, which released a report on the activities Wednesday, said the operation is the work of a North Korea-linked hacking operative known as Lazarus, the same group blamed for last year’s WannaCry ransomware attack and the 2014 Sony Pictures hack.

Yahoo’s successor to pay $35 Million in settlement over cyberbreach. Yahoo Inc.’s response–or rather, lack of response–to a 2014 hack of hundreds of millions of user accounts drew a $35 million fine from regulators Tuesday. It was the first time a public company has been penalized over its handling of a cybersecurity breach, says the WSJ’s Dave Michaels. The Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday that the company failed to properly investigate the breach and consider whether it should be disclosed to shareholders. Yahoo sold its core internet business to Verizon Communications Inc. in 2017 for about $4.5 billion, renaming what was left as Altaba Inc.

‘Duel-hat’ leader of Cyber Command, NSA approved. The Senate on Tuesday confirmed U.S. Army Cyber Command chief Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone to also lead the National Security Agency, replacing retiring Navy Adm. Mike Rogers. Politico has more.

MORE TECHNOLOGY NEWS

Apple CEO Tim Cook attends the annual session of China Development Forum 2018 in Beijing, March 26, 2018. Jason Lee/REUTERS

Cook to meet Trump. Apple Inc. CEO Tim Cook’s scheduled sit down with President Trump at the White House Wednesday comes in the midst of trade tensions between the administration and China, an affair that could negatively impact Apple’s business in Asia. As Bloomberg notes, much of the company’s manufacturing is centered in China.

The new Gmail: More smarts, more security… more clutter. Google is rolling out a redesign to the Gmail web experience, its biggest change since 2011. New features include Confidential Mode, where senders can set a message to be deleted after a period of time, and Smart Reply, which provides three guesses as to what a sender might write back in response to an email. Says WSJ tech reviewer David Pierce: “In my tests, I found the new Gmail is remarkably more powerful, with overdue productivity and security enhancements.”

Gartner: AI to be $1.2 trillion in 2018. The projected value marks a 70 percent increase from 2017, with efforts in customer-facing AI-based agents accounting for almost half the value. Another big area according to Gartner will be decision support and augmentation AI technology. ZDNet has more.

Winklevoss crypto venture taps Nasdaq surveillance software. The deal between Gemini, the bitcoin exchange founded by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, and Nasdaq Inc. comes as regulators step up scrutiny of digital-currency exchanges, the Journal’s Alexander Osipovich reports. The software, called SMARTS, monitors real-time market activity and raises alerts if it detects unusual trading patterns.

Lightning hazards prompt Boeing to fix 787 software. Boeing Co. is enhancing software on current and future 787 jetliners to prevent electrical spikes generated by lightning storms from potentially disabling cockpit instruments, the Journal’s Andy Pasztor reports. The move was prompted by a 2014 incident near London’s Heathrow International Airport when three of five primary cockpit displays on a United Airlines 787 Dreamliner suddenly stopped functioning after the plane was hit by lightning.

Supreme Court upholds method to battle patent trolls. The system, called inter partes review, was created as a response to concerns that the Patent Office had granted too many weak patents, leading to abusive patent-infringement litigation, the Journal’s Brent Kendall reports.

Apple takes a step on payment of back taxes to Ireland. The company will transfer roughly about €13 billion into a Dublin escrow account, in a step toward complying with a European Commission 2016 order to pay back taxes, the Journal’s Sam Schechner reports.

Mapbox hires former Tesla Autopilot designer. Auto designer Brennan Boblett, who helped pioneer the look of touch screen interfaces in increasingly autonomous vehicles, is joining startup Mapbox Inc., which provides mapping and location-search technology to a variety of companies including messaging-app developer Snap Inc. and General Electric Co. The WSJ’s Tim Higgins has more.

China’s startup scene seeks attractive women. The New York Times reports on a certain “perk” available at startups in China: Female “programmer motivators” hired to talk to coders and host office social events. According to Human Rights Watch, a number of the tech giants there have published ads claiming that “beautiful girls” work at their companies, the NYT says.

EVERYTHING ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW

The U.S., once the leader in female directors, is lagging Europe where mandates have forced corporations to boost the ratio of women holding board seats. (WSJ)

Global stocks fell, echoing a decline on Wall Street after the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield hit 3% and industrial giants struck a cautious note for the months ahead. (WSJ)

A third federal judge has ruled against the Trump administration’s decision to cancel an Obama-era program protecting young undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. (WSJ)

The Environmental Protection Agency plans to restrict scientific research used in developing regulations, the agency said Tuesday. (WSJ)

The Morning Download is edited by Tom Loftus and cues up the most important news in business technology every weekday morning. You can get The Morning Download emailed to you each weekday morning by clicking http://wsj.com/TheMorningDownload.The U.S. Treasury Building in Washington, D.C., U.S. Photo: AP

The Treasury Department will release more guidance by year-end on a tax break for U.S. exporters and other provisions of the new U.S. tax law.

The break, on foreign-derived intangible income, or FDII, cuts the tax U.S. companies owe on royalties from overseas use of intangible assets such as licenses and patents. It reduces the tax rate on such intellectual property to 13.125% through 2025, after which the rate rises to 16.4%. The headline corporate rate is 21%.An employee works on the assembly line at a Siemens Healthineers factory in Germany last July. Siemens listed 15% of its health-care unit for sale in early March.

An employee works on the assembly line at a Siemens Healthineers factory in Germany last July. Siemens listed 15% of its health-care unit for sale in early March. Photo: Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg News

An increasing number of global companies plan to sell assets in the next two years as a way to narrow strategic focus and funnel funds to stronger areas of the business.

Executives at companies, including Siemens AG SIEGY -1.18% , General Electric Co. and Barry Diller’s IAC/InterActiveCorp . IAC -0.04% , are scanning their portfolios to identify divisions that can be sold. Nearly nine out of 10 companies plan to divest assets in the next two years, up from roughly four out of 10 a year ago, according to a report by Ernst & Young LLC released late February.

Corporate decision makers point to shifts in global tax policy and industry trends, particularly those tied to new technologies, as amplifying the need to sell noncore units and reroute capital to other business areas. Almost three-quarters of the 900 senior corporate and 100 private-equity executives surveyed by E&Y for the report said changes in technology were driving their divestment plans.

Newsletter Sign-up

IAC last month hired an investment bank to explore the sale of Dictionary.com, after two parties separately expressed interest in the word-definition site. The move comes after two years of brisk deal making at the media and internet conglomerate during which IAC sold online retailer ShoeBuy.com Inc., British price comparison site PriceRunner International AB, social-networking site ASKfm Europe Ltd. and shed its stake in The Princeton Review.

“We’ve used divestitures as another form of capital allocation,” said Chief Financial Officer Glenn Schiffman. “The decision was made that some of these businesses don’t exactly fit in, some of these businesses aren’t core and we could redeploy some of that capital into other pursuits.”

The main beneficiaries, in this case, were IAC shareholders. The company spent $365 million on stock buybacks between February 2016 and February 2017, roughly half of which was funded through asset sales, Mr. Schiffman said.

Other companies are expected to follow as executives pick off nonessential business lines as companies integrate after three years of brisk deal activity. Global merger and acquisitions reached a record value of $11.34 trillion for the three years ended Dec. 31, 2017, according to Dealogic.

“Companies are seeing divestments much more now as part of their growth strategy and their transformation strategy,” said Paul Hammes, head of EY’s global divestment team. That is a break from the 2008 global financial crisis, when the sale of a business unit was viewed as an admission of failure, he added.

German engineering company Siemens AG listed 15% of its health-care unit—called Siemens Healthineers —in early March for €4.2 billion ($5.2 billion), said finance chief Ralf Thomas.

Frequent portfolio reviews help Siemens adjust to changes in its core business areas, Mr. Thomas said in an email. “We assess whether there are paradigm shifts ahead we can capitalize on,” he said. “We need to ask ourselves whether Siemens is the best owner and whether there is material and sustainable synergy potential.”

But divestments aren’t always the best strategy. “What always needs to be taken into consideration is what you give up by [selling assets],” said Frank Witter, CFO at Volkswagen AG .

The German auto maker, for instance, wants to wring out more savings and synergies from its commercial-vehicle units, Mr. Witter said.

Some companies, however, miss out on getting a better sale price, or making a sale altogether because they aren’t flexible on the structure of the deal.

U.K. consumer company Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC ended talks to buy Pfizer Inc.’s consumer-health business, which could fetch more than $10 billion, after the U.S. company rejected Reckitt’s plan to buy only part of the assets, according to analysts.

Pfizer continues to evaluate alternatives for the unit, including a spinoff or sale. It could also retain the business, the company said in an email.

By contrast, GE is exploring several hybrid deals that would combine some of its assets with public companies to build bigger businesses that would be better positioned in their sectors. The U.S. industrial conglomerate followed this blueprint when it combined its oil-and-gas operations with oil-field services company Baker Hughes last summer.

GE continues to review its portfolio and is getting a lot of interest for several of the divisions it is trying to shed, said new CFO Jamie Miller. She declined to comment on the market or deal strategy, but said GE is open to all sort of structures including spinoffs, splits, IPOs and straight cash deals.

“The structure can depend on the counter party,” she said in a recent interview. “We are looking to do deals that are smart for the company.”

—Thomas Gryta contributed to this article.

Write to Nina Trentmann at Nina.Trentmann@wsj.com and Tatyana Shumsky at tatyana.shumsky@wsj.comVolkswagen said the recent management shakeup won’t alter its plans to tap the U.S. debt market.

Volkswagen said the recent management shakeup won’t alter its plans to tap the U.S. debt market. Photo: Swen PföRtner/Zuma Press

Volkswagen AG VLKAY -1.38% is looking to return to the U.S. bond market for the first time since its emissions scandal, a move that would seal a successful turnaround for the German auto maker.

A frequent debt issuer before the diesel scandal, Volkswagen has relied on a €20 billion ($24.7 billion) bridge loan, asset-backed securities and commercial paper to cover its financial needs.

The company already has tested the waters in Europe, where its €8 billion bond issued a little over a year ago was snapped up by investors. It isn’t clear when the U.S. deal would come to market or what the size of such an offering would be.

The auto maker’s Chief Financial Officer Frank Witter said reopening access to the bond market was a key focus of his job, which he took on less than a month after it was revealed in September 2015 that the German auto maker systematically cheated on emissions tests in the U.S.

The recent management shake-up at the German auto maker hasn’t altered it debt plans, the company said. Herbert Diess was appointed as chief executive of the auto maker earlier this month, abruptly replacing Matthias Müller. Mr. Witter also took on oversight of the company’s information technology unit as part of the changes. VW reports earnings on April 26.

Mr. Witter has been laying the groundwork for a comeback over the past 2½ years meeting with scores of investors, bankers and analysts. He said he was “bluntly open” about the company’s strengths and weaknesses with them.

“The communication we have seen from [Mr.] Witter has been a huge improvement compared with what we saw from Volkswagen in the past,” said Kristina Church, an analyst at Barclays PLC.

Still, there is more work ahead to rehabilitate the company’s reputation with investors. Default insurance on Volkswagen debt is more expensive than for other car makers, including Japanese competitor Toyota Motor Corp. , a sign that investors remain cautious.

Volkswagen, which last issued U.S. debt in May 2015, has $1.8 billion of bonds maturing this year, and another $1.75 billion in 2019. The auto maker could issue between $1.5 to $2 billion in dollar-denominated debt this year, said a banker familiar with the company.

“You always, particularly when you return [to the bond market], want to size the deal right,” said Mr. Witter.

Frank Witter, chief financial officer of Volkswagen AG, speaks during a news conference in Berlin, Germany, March 13, 2018. Photo: Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg News

Volkswagen at group level had €18.03 billion in cash at the end of 2017, but the company also faces high spending requirements. The diesel scandal cost over €19.1 billion as of Dec. 31, 2017. The company also pledged to spend €34 billion by 2022 on a wide-ranging mobility and digitization effort. Volkswagen had total borrowings of €163.47 billion, versus earnings of €11.63 billion as of Dec. 31, 2017.

Similar to its competitors, Volkswagen is still adjusting to the changes transforming the auto industry, including the move toward electric and self-driving vehicles and potential alterations to global trade networks.

“We are experimenting like many others with what the customer really wants,” Mr. Witter said. Volkswagen invested in ride-hailing company Gett and in car sharing company Moya under his watch.

Newsletter Sign-up

The car maker also set up a pilot factory in Salzgitter, around 33 miles away from its home in Wolfsburg, where it builds battery cells for electric cars. Volkswagen currently sources such batteries from third-party suppliers such as LG Electronics Inc. The company could make its own batteries in the future if there is a cost benefit or a technological advantage to it, the CFO said.

“What’s difficult to predict is exactly what customers are looking for and how to make money with it,” Mr. Witter said. Volkswagen is still generating the bulk of its revenue from selling cars but is considering new pricing models, “for services we never offered in the past,” he said.

Write to Nina Trentmann at Nina.Trentmann@wsj.comProposed changes to Canada’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing law would bring Canada more in line with other western economies and address concerns raised by international financial regulators.

The government continues to accept comments through May 18 on its anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime review, which includes proposals to extend reporting obligations to various business sectors not covered under existing rules.

“Canada has been a little behind the curve…and is stepping up to the plate with this review,” said Khasif Zaman, a partner in the financial services group of law firm Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP.

The government’s review started in February and is looking to to bring under the law entities such as non-federally regulated mortgage lenders, privately owned automated-teller machines, horse-betting businesses, financing and leasing firms, high-value goods dealers and jewelry auction houses, among others.

Some of these businesses operate with little regulatory obligations so the implementation of these proposals would create a significant need for compliance procedures, said Koker Christensen, partner in the financial institutions group of law firm Fasken Martineau Dumoulin LLP.

The government signaled it is aware of the potential financial and operational burdens and of privacy concerns an expanded regime could bring to some firms.

“In evaluating each measure, the costs of addressing the identified risk must be weighed against the potential benefit of preventing or tracing [money laundering/terrorist financing] activity in the identified sectors,” said the government in its consultation paper.

Addressing concerns

The regime review aims to address some of the concerns raised by a Financial Action Task Force review published in 2016 that found Canada should expand the sectors it covers and strengthen transparency. The FATF is an inter-governmental body focused on combating money laundering and terrorist financing risks in the global financial system.

The G20 countries said they are committed to establishing beneficial-ownership registers to facilitate the identification of the people behind corporate entities.

Canada doesn’t have a central registry of beneficial owners; information on entities is “spread across a number of different statutes,” according to the consultation paper. Around 9% of corporations are established under the federal statute and most are incorporated at the provinces and territories, it said.

The creation of a centralized registry is a big undertaking and unlikely to be implemented as part of the regime’s review, said Mr. Christensen.

One area of potential significant impact that could emerge from the review is the oversight of financial technology companies. Fintech changed the way customers transact money and increased the risks of keeping anonymous illicit transfers, said Mr. Zaman. It potentially enables the creation of a “more robust [financial] system” where information sharing across different government agencies is easier, he said.

Canada is proposing to exempt fintech firms from complying with all regulatory requirements for a period of time so they can test their products and services in a live environment. This “sandbox” for the fintech sector would be welcome and promote innovation, said Mr. Christensen.

Write to Mara Lemos Stein at mara.lemos-stein@wsj.com. Follow her on Twitter at @LikelyMara.U.S. President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron hold hands as they walk down the West Wing colonnade past the Rose Garden on Tuesday at the White House in Washington.

U.S. President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron hold hands as they walk down the West Wing colonnade past the Rose Garden on Tuesday at the White House in Washington. Photo: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters

A daily roundup of corruption news from across the Web. We also provide a daily roundup of important risk & compliance stories via our daily newsletter, The Morning Risk Report, which readers can sign up for here. Follow us on Twitter at @WSJRisk.

Bribery:

An NCAA commission investigating men’s basketball in the wake of a bribery scandal had some suggestions to change the sport. (Yahoo, NYT, Bloomberg)

Indian firms acknowledge widespread bribery in business, according to an EY survey. (PTI, IANS)

A Ukrainian secret-police employee was accused of taking bribes. Authorities didn’t release her name. (112)

Money Laundering:

Criminal gangs are laundering their money through real estate, from Vancouver to London. (GN, OCCRP, OCCRP)

Europe is struggling to solve a rift over how to police banks in the wake of multiple money-laundering scandals. (Bloomberg)

Sanctions:

The future of the Iran deal dominated the visit to the U.S. of French President Emmanuel Macron. He said in a speech to Congress that France will never leave the agreement; U.S. President Donald Trump was unmoved. European powers are nearing a deal they say will preserve the agreement. Iranian leaders, meanwhile, say the U.S. is already violating the pact. Washington isn’t interested in reopening the deal. (Atlantic, AM, AC, Guardian, Bloomberg, Reuters, NI, AJE, Reuters)

ZTE said it would take “certain actions” in response to the U.S. export ban after Washington said it would consider more evidence from the company. (Reuters, Reuters)

The number of Russians converting their currency quadrupled following the imposition of U.S. sanctions, VTB Bankid. Moscow is considering nationalization as a way around the measures. Three weeks of sanctions cost one oligarch $3.8 billion. French fries at McDonalds locations in Russia will be Russian, due to U.S. sanctions. (Reuters, Bloomberg, Bloomberg, Bloomberg)

Azerbaijan’s elite held accounts at a Maltese bank formerly chaired by an Iranian man charged in the U.S. with violating sanctions, leading activists to call for an end to anonymous companies. (OCCRP, OCCRP, release)

Iran is finalizing billions in foreign investment despite U.S. sanctions threats. (Reuters)

Terrorism Finance:

More than 70 nations are expected to attend a counter-terrorism finance conference in Paris. (AP)

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that foreign corporations cannot be sued in American courts for human-rights abuses overseas, refusing to revive a lawsuit filed by Jordan-based Arab Bank PLC. (Reuters)

Whistleblowers:

The Cambridge Analytica tipster wants U.S. lawmakers to investigate the data company. (Reuters)

General Anti-Corruption:

Officials: Mick Mulvaney, the head of the U.S. budget office and acting director of the consumer financial protection agency, told banking executives that while in Congress, he would speak only with those lobbyists who had given to his campaign. How is EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt surviving his myriad scandals? (WP, NYT, WP, VF, NYT, Time)

China plans to introduce default judgment in corruption-related criminal cases as it targets fugitives in a stepped-up anti-graft drive. (Xinhua)

An expert weighed in with ways to curb timber trafficking. (Conversation)

As the U.S. special counsel’s probe continues, can Mr. Trump bury his findings? (TPM, WP)Ruzbeh Irani, president of group communications and ethics and chief brand officer at Indian conglomerate Mahindra Group, discusses the evolution of the company’s culture, Mahindra’s involvement in Ethisphere Institute’s Business Ethics Leadership Alliance and what organizations can learn about ethics and compliance from Indian businesses.

Describe the evolution of corporate culture at Mahindra the past 10 years?

Mr. Irani: Mahindra Group was established in 1945…its core values of professionalism, good corporate citizenship, customer is first and a focus on quality and dignity of the individual have been the foundation of our culture since inception. Based on the three pillars of “accept no limits,” “alternative thinking” and “driving positive change,” the idea of “rise” is a key aspect of our cultural fabric and at the core of our DNA. “Rise” is our north star, informing all aspects of our business and our social endeavors. The introduction of “rise” as our core purpose in 2011 was a major milestone in our cultural journey.

How does Mahindra export its ethics and compliance programs?

Mr. Irani: Our code of conduct was designed keeping in mind the global nature of our operations and the diversity of our workforce. Nuances aside, the principles of governance…are universal. We developed relevant training and communication programs to emphasize the importance of the code of conduct; these are rolled out across businesses and functions.

These programs are tailored for suppliers and vendors to ensure they follow our ethics and compliance guidelines in both letter and spirit. We have drawn up a separate supplier code of conduct, which all large suppliers are required to follow. We have online training and compliance certification modules for our employees, we have a…platform that encourages continuous dialogue between suppliers, vendors and the company.

Most importantly, doing the right things just because they are the right things to do is universal. If you take that mindset then you will likely succeed in creating strong ethics and compliance programs.

What drives Mahindra’s culture?

Mr. Irani: Reputation and good governance have been part of the DNA of the company since its inception. We have ensured our core values and beliefs are an integral part of our employee recruitment and training and evaluation. We have identified five behavioral characteristics that we believe companies can apply to drive a progressive culture. They are building trust through authenticity; managing fear and leveraging failure; using the left as well as the right brain; being mindful about possibilities and ideas; and being a multiplier of the team’s energies, passion and engagement.

What effect is Business Ethics Leadership Alliance South Asia having in engaging Indian companies on ethics and compliance?

Mr. Irani: BELA South Asia serves as a platform to help companies measure, improve and streamline their ethics programs, as well as adopt best practices. Members of BELA South Asia help construct best practices in corporate ethics, based on insights shared among members. It serves as a repository for various resources, tools and techniques related to governance issues like corruption and culture assessments.

Most importantly, BELA South Asia seems to understand that ethics and compliance is not a one-size-fits-all proposition. While the concept of behaving ethically is universal, often the requirements vary. What is expected in Europe or the U.S. might be a bit different from what is required in India, which is why there is so much value to the very specific BELA South Asia Chapter. The BELA platform gives us access to both Indian and international benchmarks, enabling us to recalibrate our programs, learn from others and make adjustments.

What can companies elsewhere learn from Indian companies about ethics and compliance?

Mr. Irani: They can learn we are as committed to ethics and compliance as other parts of the world. India’s diverse nature implies any ethics and compliance program must cater to a multitude of stakeholders to remain relevant. Our ability to evolve a program that is universally applicable across the workforce and the larger ecosystem is something companies overseas can possibly learn from us.

Write to Ben DiPietro at ben.dipietro@wsj.com, and follow him on Twitter @BenDiPietro1.Coca-Cola says its freight costs rose 20% in the first quarter from a year ago, part of the growing impact of tight trucking capacity on consumer-goods suppliers.

Coca-Cola says its freight costs rose 20% in the first quarter from a year ago, part of the growing impact of tight trucking capacity on consumer-goods suppliers. Photo: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg News

High freight costs are weighing on earnings at big consumer-goods companies as they try to get products from soda and toys to deodorant and household chemicals to stores.

Some companies and analysts expect the pressure on shipping, which began late last year, to extend into the spring, when the seasonal growth in volumes of produce, food and beverages could place additional strain on already-tight trucking capacity.

Freight costs were up 20% from a year ago in the first quarter at the Coca-Cola Co. North American division, the company said Tuesday. “Like other [consumer packaged-goods] companies, we face significant freight headwinds in North America this year,” Kathy Waller, the company’s chief financial officer, said in a call Tuesday on the company’s first-quarter earnings.

Increased transportation expenses also hurt first-quarter profits at toy maker Hasbro Inc., HAS 0.82% which said Monday it expects the issue to persist through 2018 as shippers compete for a limited number of available trucks.

Procter & Gamble Co. PG -0.28% and food companies Danone SA and Nestlé SA all cited rising freight costs in recent earnings calls, as did lubricant-maker WD-40 Co.

“Everybody is seeing an increase,” Graeme Pitkethly, chief financial officer at Unilever PLC said in an earnings call last week. The seller of Dove soap and Lipton tea expects U.S. freight costs to rise by the “high-single digits to high-teens,” Mr. Pitkethly said, on higher demand and requests by retailers for more frequent deliveries.

Manufacturers and retailers have been scrambling to book transportation in recent months as freight volumes have expanded in a surging U.S. economy. Bad weather, high turnover among truck drivers and a new federal rule requiring drivers to electronically track their hours behind the wheel have contributed to the tighter capacity.

“It’s really coming from the trucking industry and…the new electronic logging-device rules and driver shortages,” Hasbro’s chief financial officer, Deborah Thomas, said Monday. “The contracting supply and increasing demand is expected to manifest itself really kind of throughout 2018.”

Truck capacity loosened up somewhat in February and March, which tend to be slower shipping months. But demand was still elevated compared to prior years, according to online freight marketplace DAT Solutions LLC. Last month, there were 6.9 loads to be moved on the spot truck transportation for every available dry van, the most common type of big rig, compared to 3.2 loads in March 2017.

‘It’s really coming from the trucking industry and…the new electronic logging-device rules and driver shortages.’ —Hasbro Chief Financial Officer Deborah Thomas.

Freight rates also remain elevated. In March, the average rate on the spot market for dry vans was up 32% year-over-year, according to DAT.

Spot rates are a leading indicator of the contractual rates that shippers set with large trucking companies. With capacity tight as those negotiations get underway, some in the industry now expect contract rates could increase by as much at 9.2%, according to KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.

At Werner Enterprises Inc., a large truckload carrier based in Omaha, Neb., higher contract rates contributed to a 10% increase in average revenue per total mile in the first quarter, compared to the same period in 2017.

Demand for truckload services “was much stronger than normal for the first quarter,” Werner said in an earnings release last week. “Freight volumes thus far in April 2018 continue to be much stronger than normal.”

Write to Jennifer Smith at jennifer.smith@wsj.comKenneth Wagers, chief operating officer at XPO Logistics Inc. Photo: XPO Logistics Inc.

XPO Logistics Inc. XPO -2.12% has hired a former Amazon.com Inc. AMZN 0.01% executive as its chief operating officer, as the firm appears to be exploring further acquisitions as part of its growth strategy.

Kenneth Wagers is taking the COO post after five years as head of finance for Amazon’s world-wide transportation and logistics operation, XPO announced Monday. During his time at Amazon, Mr. Wagers oversaw the company’s last mile, middle mile, air cargo and ocean shipping operations, as well as Amazon China, Prime Now and Amazon Fresh businesses.Disney is focused on the direct-to-consumer market—and its investors should do the same.

In a Wednesday note, BMO Capital Markets analysts—who upgraded the Barron’s Next 50 stock to “market perform” and set a $100 price target, right around current levels, on the shares—said “Disney’s broader shift to direct-to-consumer is correctly the top point of investor focus right now.”

• The analysts noted a March reorganization, which included the creation of a new direct-to-consumer and international segment; Kevin Mayer, the company’s chief strategy officer, was named chairman of that division.

Walt Disney (DIS) “is positioning itself as such to concentrate on long-term growth opportunities and more clearly realigned around them,” the analysts wrote, saying the new segment “creates a dedicated division focused on the future of the media business.”

Investors are watching a number of direct-to-consumer initiatives at Disney closely, including the new $4.99-per-month ESPN+ app and a much-anticipated stand-alone video service that would challenge Netflix (NFLX), Amazon.com’s (AMZN) Prime Video, and Hulu.

• More generally, though, the analysts were uncertain about what might move the stock further. “Catalysts for shares remain elusive,” they wrote, citing questions about the company’s planned 21st Century Fox (FOX) acquisition and upcoming bidding for major sports programming.

Their new price target, the analysts wrote, reflects a slight premium to estimated 2019 enterprise value/Ebitda and price/earnings ratios when compared with peer companies. Income-focused investors, meanwhile, might want to take a look at the company, according to a mid-April story by Barron’s Lawrence Strauss.

Disney’s shares are down about 10% this year, underperforming the S&P 500.

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.Shares of Twitter were off more than 6% Wednesday morning following the company’s release of quarterly financial results that beat Wall Street estimates on several key measures—and an outlook that may have scared some investors away.

On Wednesday morning, the Barron’s Next 50 stock reported Q1 revenue of $665 million, up 21% from the previous year, as both the advertising business—which made up 86% of the total—and data licensing segments grew at comparable rates. Most of the revenue growth came from foreign markets, particularly Japan.

Newsletter Sign-up

Net income, at $61 million, marked the company’s second-straight profitable quarter. And daily average users grew 10% from the year before; the growth rate slowed from 14%, but the company nevertheless reported its sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. “It looks like the Twitter (TWTR) growth train is back on track,” GBH Insights wrote Wednesday.

• The results offer an opportunity to refocus on company performance after an eventful start to the year for social media stocks.

While Facebook (FB) has lately been at the center of the debate over the use of consumer data online, regulations would presumably hit the sector broadly. Twitter has said its working to improve the quality of its network, which could make it more attractive to advertisers—and consumers—while also perhaps also hurting some user numbers.

• Since there is generally at least some degree of speculation about whether Twitter might be a takeover target at any given time, those latter figures may loom large: A consistently growing, profitable network would presumably be more attractive to possible buyers.

As a Bloomberg columnist notes,however, it’s been quiet out there recently. MoffettNathanson, however, believes the company’s current valuation makes a deal unlikely. “M&A isn’t likely at these levels,” they wrote Wednesday.

• But the microscope on financial performance also means that when investors see reasons to worry about the company’s outlook, the shares stand to pay the price. The company pointed investors toward sequential revenue growth rates similar to last year’s for the balance of 2018, which would represent a substantial slowdown from the most recent quarter.

That, Stifel analysts wrote Wednesday, “may keep the stock in check,” and could be the chief reason the shares have dipped this morning. But if you like what you’ve seen over the last two quarters, MKM Partners wrote, “look to buy on weakness.”

Email David Marino-Nachison at david.marino-nachison@barrons.com. Follow him at @marinonachison.Photo: Bloomberg News

Original content drives people to pay video services, while the rest of the stuff in the library keeps people around.

That’s the finding of Indiana University’s Jeff Prince and Harvard’s Shane Greenstein, who in a story for the Harvard Business Review reported on their study of consumer data from 2007-2009 as they sought to learn whether households who watched channels whose content later showed up on Hulu or Barron’s Next 50 stock Netflix (NFLX) were more likely to cut the cord and subscribe to pay services. (They detail their methodology further in the article.)Part of the bull case for PayPal Holdings Inc. hinges on the company’s ability to successfully monetize its loyal Venmo user base. If company commentary is any indication, those efforts are starting to pay off.

PayPal’s efforts to make money from the peer-to-peer Venmo service began in earnest late last year. Of course, millennials weren’t going to start paying a fee for the ability to repay their friends, something that Venmo and other services have let them do for free for quite some time. Instead, PayPal PYPL, -1.70% hopes that Venmo users will start using their balances to shop for things online, so that the company earns a transaction fee from the merchant, or pony up a few cents to access their funds immediately.

“Overall adoption of monetizable services is exceeding our original expectations,” Chief Executive Dan Schulman said on the company’s first-quarter earnings call Wednesday afternoon. PayPal shares were up 4.4% in after-hours trading following the company’s strong results.

Schulman highlighted both the “instant cash out” feature as well as Pay with Venmo, the merchant-focused option that’s now compatible with more than 2 million merchant sites. User adoption could increase as the year goes on, with PayPal planning to introduce more “dynamic” checkout buttons that can figure out whether a visitor is a PayPal or Venmo user and render the appropriate button accordingly.

PayPal raised its full-year revenue outlook in conjunction with the first-quarter report, but Chief Financial Officer John Rainey said in response to an analyst question that the increase wasn’t “directly attributable” to the performance of Venmo. “It’s simply too early on at this point to get out ahead of ourselves,” he said.

Jefferies analyst Ramsey El-Assal, meanwhile, wrote Wednesday that he “suspect[s] the company is being conservative regarding assumptions for Venmo’s contribution to 2018 earnings.” El-Assal has a buy rating on PayPal’s stock and a $98 target, the highest among analysts covering the stock, according to FactSet.

Venmo had the best quarter of net-user additions in its history, the company said, and processed $12 billion in volume, up 80% from a year earlier.

Such strong growth in Venmo’s user base is perhaps surprising given that other peer-to-peer services have posted impressive numbers recently as well. Bank of America Corp. BAC, -0.17% said earlier this month that it processed 29 million peer-to-peer payments, amounting to $9 billion in volume, through Zelle, a bank-owned rival to Venmo and PayPal. That marked 125% growth. Square Inc.’s Cash app had 7 million active users in December and has been rising in the Apple Inc. AAPL, +0.44% App Store rankings. These data points suggest peer-to-peer payments might just be hitting an inflection point.

One negative aspect of peer-to-peer payments for PayPal is its effect on the company’s overall take rate, meaning PayPal’s cut of a transaction. The company said its total take rate fell 17 basis points, to 2.78%, versus a year earlier, due mainly to hedging losses as well as growth in peer-to-peer payments.

PayPal has maintained that it’s worthwhile for the company to process transactions that it doesn’t make money off of because it drives loyalty to the company’s broader suite of services.

PayPal shares are up 66% over the past 12 months, while the S&P 500 has gained 10%.A woman with multiple sclerosis wants Delta Air Lines to improve its service for disabled passengers after she claims she was tied to a wheelchair following an international flight earlier this month.

Maria Saliagas was diagnosed with the central nervous system disease five years ago, but didn’t want her deteriorating health to stop her annual trips with her husband to Europe. So prior to her April 1 flight from Atlanta to Amsterdam, her son made arrangements with Delta officials to ensure that the proper wheelchair would be waiting for her on the other side of the Atlantic, WSB-TV reports.

But the wheelchair with special straps to help her sit up straight wasn’t there, prompting Delta employees to improvise, Nathan Saliagas told the station.

“They took a dirty blanket and tied her forcefully with it, and she has bruise marks on this part of her arm, which is where it was tied,” he said, pointing to his bicep. “I want them to show initiative that they’re willing to change their disability services.”

Read: One year after a passenger was dragged off a plane, have customers forgiven United?

Saliagas was offered 20,000 free SkyMiles after complaining to airline staffers, but that won’t cut it, according to her son. Instead, she wants assurances from the airline that they’ll better accommodate disabled passengers.

“I definitely know that they’re a good airline, I’m not doubting that at all, but in this specific situation, there was no courtesy, no respect,” Nathan Saliagas told WSB-TV. “There was complete operations failure.”

Officials at Delta Air Lines DAL, +1.56% , meanwhile, pushed back on Saliagas’ claims, claiming an airport-contracted wheelchair vendor did meet her at the gate.

“We are disappointed that our customers didn’t have a satisfying travel experience and will ensure that their return flight exceeds expectations,” the airline said in a statement to The Post on Wednesday. “While Delta always looks for ways to improve the overall customer experience, our findings do not align with details shared by the customer’s family.”

Also see: This woman was fined $500 for not declaring a free apple from Delta

An aisle chair — which is designed for in-flight use — was used to help Saliagas off the plane. Once off the aircraft, according to Delta, several wheelchair options were offered to Saliagas and she picked one. After being seated in the wheelchair, Saliagas said she was “slipping,” prompting the wheelchair assistant to suggest using blankets as a way to secure her to the chair. Saliagas agreed and the blankets were then removed from their original packaging, according to the airline.

In an earlier statement to WSB-TV, Delta said it regretted the “perception our service” left on Saliagas.

“We have reached out to them, not only to resolve their concerns, but also to ensure that their return flight exceeds expectations,” Delta officials told the station.

Nathan Saliagas, meanwhile, criticized Delta in a Facebook post Tuesday for “physically and emotionally” abusing his mother, claiming the incident shows the airline has a long way to go when it comes to disabled passengers.

“When she started crying, she was told to ‘shut the f— up’ or she will be ‘left there,’” he wrote. “This highly inhumane and disgusting treatment by Delta Air Lines is unacceptable and a need for change.”

This report originally appeared on NYPost.com.If you own rental real estate, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) has changes that you need to know about. Most are in your favor. Here’s the story.

Lower ordinary income tax rates for 2018-2025

If you own property as an individual or via a pass-through entity (partnership, LLC treated as a partnership for tax purposes, or S corporation), net income from rental properties is taxed at your regular personal federal income tax rates. Here are the 2018 ordinary income rates and brackets under the TCJA.

single joint head of household 10% tax bracket $0-$9,525 $0-$19,050 $0-$13,600 Beginning of 12% bracket $9,526 $19,051 $13,601 Beginning of 22 bracket $38,701 $77,401 $51,801 Beginning of 24% bracket $82,501 $165,001 $82,501 Beginning of 32% bracket $157,501 $315,001 $157,501 Beginning of 35% bracket $200,001 $400,001 $200,001 Beginning of 37% bracket $500,001 $600,001 $500,001

Long-term capital gains tax rates are unchanged

The TCJA retains the 0%, 15%, and 20% federal income tax rates on long-term capital gains, including long-term gains from real estate. Here are the 2018 rates and brackets for LTCGs.

single joint head of household 0% tax bracket $ 0-$38,600 $0-$77,200 $0-$51,700 Beginning of 15% bracket $38,601 $77,201 $51,701 Beginning of 20% bracket $ 425,801 $479,001 $452,401

Exception: As under prior law, you still face a 25% maximum federal income tax rate (instead of the standard 20% maximum rate) on long-term real estate gains attributable to depreciation deductions.

What you can write off is mostly unchanged

As under prior law, you can still deduct mortgage interest and state and local real estate taxes on rental properties. While the TCJA imposes new limitations on deducting personal residence mortgage interest and state and local taxes (including personal residence real estate taxes), those limitations do not apply to rental properties unless you also use the property for personal purposes. In that case, the new limitations could affect deductions for mortgage interest and real estate taxes that are allocable to personal use.

You can still write off all the other garden-variety operating expenses for rental properties: depreciation, utilities, insurance, repairs and maintenance, yard care, association fees, and so forth.

New deduction for pass-through business income

Under prior law, if you had net taxable income from a pass-through business entity (meaning for this purpose a sole proprietorship, LLC treated as a sole proprietorship for tax purposes, partnership, LLC treated as a partnership for tax purposes, or S corporation), the net income was simply passed through to you and taxed at your personal rates.

For 2018 and beyond, the TCJA establishes a new deduction based on qualified business income (QBI) from a pass-through business entity. The deduction generally equals 20% of QBI, subject to restrictions that can apply at higher income levels and a limitation based on your taxable income.

While it is not entirely clear at this point, the new QBI deduction is apparently available to offset net income from a profitable rental real estate activity that you own via one of the aforementioned pass-through entities. The unanswered question is whether a rental real estate activity counts as a business for purposes of the QBI deduction. It probably does, but we await IRS guidance.

Liberalized first-year depreciation for some properties

For qualifying property placed in service in tax years beginning after 12/31/17, the TCJA increases the maximum Section 179 deduction to $1 million (up from $510,000 for tax years beginning in 2017). The Section 179 deduction privilege potentially allows you to deduct the entire cost of eligible property in Year 1. For real estate owners, eligible property includes most improvements to the interior portion of a nonresidential building if the improvement is put to use after the date the building was put to use.

The TCJA also expands the definition of eligible property to include expenditures for nonresidential building roofs, HVAC equipment, fire protection and alarm systems, and security systems.

Finally, the TCJA expands the definition of eligible property to include depreciable tangible personal property used predominantly to furnish lodging. Examples apparently include furniture, appliances, and other equipment used in the living quarters of a lodging facility such as an apartment house, dormitory, or other facility where sleeping accommodations are rented out.

Warning: Section 179 deductions cannot create or increase an overall tax loss from business activities. So you may need plenty of positive business taxable income to take full advantage of the Section 179 deduction privilege. Your tax adviser can help you assess this issue.

100% first-year bonus depreciation for qualified real property expenditures

For qualified property placed in service between 9/28/17 and 12/31/22, the TCJA increases the first-year bonus depreciation percentage to 100% (up from 50%). The 100% deduction is allowed for qualified leasehold improvement property, qualified restaurant property, and qualified retail improvement property.

New loss disallowance rule

If your rental property throws off a tax loss — and most do at least during the early years — things get complicated. The passive activity loss (PAL) rules will usually apply. In general, the PAL rules only allow you to deduct passive losses to the extent you have passive income from other sources — like positive income from other rental properties or gains from selling them. Passive losses in excess of passive income are suspended until you either have sufficient passive income or sell the property or properties that produced the losses.

After you’ve successfully cleared the hurdles imposed by the PAL rules, the TCJA establishes a new hurdle. For tax years beginning in 2018-2025, you cannot deduct an excess business loss in the current year. An excess business loss is one that exceeds $250,000 or $500,000 if you are a married joint-filer. Any excess business loss is carried over to your next tax year and can be deducted under the rules for net operating loss (NOL) carryovers.

A key point: This new loss deduction rule applies after applying the PAL rules. So, if the PAL rules disallow your rental loss, you don’t get to the new loss limitation rule.

Example: You are unmarried. In 2018, you have a $300,000 allowable loss from rental real estate properties after considering the PAL rules. You have no other business or rental activities. Your excess business loss for the year is $50,000 ($300,000 loss minus $250,000 threshold for a single filer). You cannot deduct the $50,000 loss in 2018. Instead you must carry it forward to your 2019 tax year and treat it as part of an NOL carryover to that year.

Variation: If your rental loss is $250,000 or less, you will not have an excess business loss, and you will be unaffected by the new loss limitation rule.

The idea behind this new loss limitation rule is to further restrict the ability of individual taxpayers (like you) to use current-year business losses (including losses from rental real estate) to offset income from other sources — such as salary, self-employment income, interest, dividends, and capital gains. The practical result is that your allowable current-year business losses (after considering the PAL rules) cannot offset more than $250,000 of income from such other sources or more than $500,000 if you are a married joint-filer.

Like-kind exchanges still allowed for real estate

The TCJA still allows real estate owners to unload appreciated properties while deferring the federal income hit indefinitely by making like-kind exchanges, which are also known as Section 1031 exchanges. With a like-kind exchange, you swap the property you want to unload for another property (the replacement property). You’re allowed to put off paying taxes until you sell the replacement property. Or when you’re ready to unload the replacement property, you can arrange yet another like-kind exchange and continue to defer taxes. The TCJA doesn’t change any of this.

The bottom line

The new tax law includes several expanded breaks for real estate owners and one important negative change (the new loss limitation rule, which will not affect very many folks). At this point, how to apply the TCJA changes to real-world situations is not always clear because we have nothing to rely upon except the statutory language. We await IRS guidance on the details and uncertainties. I will keep you up to date on developments.Hong Kong-based property firm New World Development launches the first phase opening of its latest endeavor, Victoria Dockside, in Tsim Sha Tsui this week. The US$2.6 billion, 3- million-square-foot art and design district is poised to become one of the city’s major cultural destinations when fully completed in the second half of 2019.

The district will feature a Rosewood Hotel, which will become the luxury hospitality brand’s flagship property; Rosewood Residences; art and design facilities; and the first K11 Atelier, an offshoot of the K11 brand.

The site began in 1910 as Holt’s Wharf, a warehouse terminal that was instrumental in building Hong Kong’s reputation as a major port. It was acquired by the grandfather of New World Development’s current executive vice chairman and general manager, Adrian Cheng, in the early 1970s, and it was here that one of the company’s first milestones was realized with the opening of New World Centre, a major commercial, hospitality, and entertainment hub until it was demolished for redevelopment in 2010.

Overseen by Cheng, who is working with landscape architect James Corner of James Corner Field Operations, the practice behind New York City’s High Line redevelopment, and architecture firm Kohn Pederson Fox, which is known for its work on the Museum of Modern Art in New York and Tokyo’s Roppongi Hills, Victoria Dockside will offer something unlike other commercial or residential complexes the city has seen.

“Hong Kong, especially Tsim Sha Tsui, used to offer a lot of cultural experiences,” Cheng tells Penta in an email. “The former New World Centre hosted the first LEGO event; it debuted the Hong Kong-Beijing Rally in 1985; its Bar City hosted world-class performances, including a Tom Jones concert. So I’m reinvigorating this district by reintroducing the cultural aspect to Hong Kong.”

K11 Atelier is the first Grade A office building—the highest level of commercial office space available in Hong Kong, complete with modern, high quality finishes—under the K11 brand owned by Cheng. The company hopes to redefine the urban office environment according to its Vertical Creative City concept in the same way that K11 Art Malls have helped reshape the retail landscape in Hong Kong and mainland China. Opened in October 2017, it’s already over 70% leased with record-breaking rental prices for the area, as high as HK$120 (US$15) per square foot.

With an interior conceived by Japanese studio Simplicity, natural materials such as wood and paper, neutral tones, and curated artworks, K11 Atelier also features 270-degree panoramic views of Hong Kong’s iconic Victoria Harbour. It will offer curated in-house wellness programs, workshops, and seminars for its tenants.

Concierge and cafe at K11 Atelier Illustration: New World Development

“Victoria Dockside is not just about installing an art piece here and there, it’s about the content curation of the whole district,” Cheng says. “What we’re building is a global art and design district for international artists, designers, and businesses to connect and collide, allowing them a platform to make waves. The content that comes out of it will enliven the whole area, so when locals and visitors come, on top of materials, they can consume culture and creativity.”

This includes a regeneration of one of the city’s most popular tourist destinations, the Avenue of Stars, and the addition of a public green space, Salisbury Garden, both situated along the harbourfront.

“What Hong Kong lacks is a cultural landmark, or a destination that combines art, design, culture, and leisure that is relevant to millennials,” Cheng says. “Instead of drawing direct comparison, I think Victoria Dockside has characters it can call its own—the Victoria Harbourfront alone is unique.”The 2019 Chevrolet Corvette ZR1 is the last of the seventh generation of the car—known as C7—before the mid-engine C8 platform arrives as soon as next year. It’s also the fastest, most powerful Corvette ever built—a worthy addition to a series that dates to 1953.

Released this month, the $122,095 ZR1 is equipped with 755 horsepower and capable of zero to 60 in 2.8 seconds, topping out at 212 mph. The Made-in-the-USA sports car can compete with the most formidable Italian brands.

“The new ZR1 may well be the ultimate iteration of the front-engined Corvette,” says Sam Ambuelsamid, a senior analyst at Navigant Research in Detroit, a consultancy that covers the automotive industry. Over the past 20 years, GM has transformed the Corvette into a credible contender against some of the highest performance vehicles in the world at a much more affordable price point. But as the likes of Ferrari, Lamborghini, Porsche, and McLaren continue to up the ante, it seems likely that a mid-engine Corvette will be needed to remain competitive on the street and the track.”

At the heart of the ZR1’s performance is a handbuilt, direct-injected 6.2-liter supercharged V-8 with an aluminum block and heads. Versions of the engine were included in the Corvette Z06, the Cadillac CTS-V, and the Camaro ZL1. Buyers can choose between a six-speed manual and an eight-speed automatic. The highly aerodynamic sports car weighs a relatively low 3,500 to 3,650 pounds.

The ZR1 is named after Zora-Arkus Duntov, the late Belgian-born American engineer whose work on the marquee earned him the nickname “Father of the Corvette.” The first “Zora Racers” were sold in the early 1970s, followed by a 1990 to 1995 edition powered by a 400-horsepower Lotus-derived 5.7-liter V-8. From 2009 to 2013, the ZR1 was supercharged to produce 638 horsepower and could top 200 mph.

Early Corvettes were basic machines, but these days GM has embraced hi-tech, featuring a magnetic ride control suspension with an electronically controlled differential, plus a beefed-up version of the Z06’s Performance Traction Management system. The 15-inch Brembo carbon-ceramic brakes were improved to handle the car’s extreme performance.

For $3,000, buyers can opt for the ZTK Track Performance Package, which adds a range of bolt-on accessories, plus special Michelin tires, to help keep the car on the road at top speeds. Fuel economy is never going to be stellar in a car with 755 horsepower, but 13 mpg in the city and 19 on the highway is decent for this class.

For many prospective owners, the decision to purchase the ZR1 will depend on their inclination to buy American. Supercars are traditionally Italian, and names like Ferrari, Alfa-Romeo, Lamborghini, and Maserati have both heritage and illustrious track histories. The Corvette might not seem exotic enough for some.

But in terms of pure performance, the ZR1 can keep company with anything built in Italy. The 2018 LamborghiniHuracanPerformante, for instance, gets to 60 in about the same time as the Corvette, but it sells for more than twice as much at $274,390.

“The front engine Corvette may well stick around for several more years as a more affordable variant with the mid-engine model coming at a much higher price point comparable to the Europeans,” Ambuelsamid says.Amedeo Modigliani's "Nu couch (sur le cote gauche)," 1917, is estimated by Sotheby's to sell for more than $150 million at its evening auction of impressionist and modern works on Monday, May 14 in New York.

Amedeo Modigliani's "Nu couch (sur le cote gauche)," 1917, is estimated by Sotheby's to sell for more than $150 million at its evening auction of impressionist and modern works on Monday, May 14 in New York. Illustration: Courtesy of Sotheby's

In a spring auction season full of excess, here’s news that’s hard to top: Sotheby’s is auctioning a reclining nude by Amedeo Modigliani for more than US$150 million—the highest estimate ever placed on a work of art at auction.

The 1917 painting, Nu couché (sur le côté gauche), is the Italian modernist painter’s largest work at about three-by-five feet, and, according to Sotheby’s, the greatest of 22 in a series of reclining nudes and 13 seated nudes that the artist painted between 1916 and 1919.

Another, smaller work Nu couché, or reclining nude, sold for $170.4 million in November 2015 at a Christie’s auction in New York to the Chinese couple Liu Yiqian and Wang Wei, who bought it for their private museum in Shanghai.

That record—the second highest for a painting sold at auction at the time—and the fact this painting is larger and was the centerpiece of a recent Modigliani retrospective at Tate Modern, contributed to Sotheby’s decision to estimate the price for Nu couché (sur le côté gauche) at such an extraordinary level.

The work also carries a guarantee from Sotheby’s and what the auction house calls an irrevocable bid, which is an assurance from a third party that the work will be bought at a predetermined price. Generally such third-party arrangements are at the low end of the pre-sale estimated price range. The terms of the Modigliani sale aren’t being provided.

Of course the price for the work could far exceed the guarantee. Christie’s offered Leonardo da Vinci’s Salvator Mundi with an estimated price of US$100 million, and a guarantee. The final sale price: $450 million.

“What we’ve been seeing recently is this explosion at the top end, fueled by global demand for masterpieces, the trophies, the rare to be had,” says Helena Newman, global co-head of Sotheby’s impressionist and modern art department.

Modigliani in particular is “one of those artists of the 20th century who has global appeal,” Newman adds. “We saw with the establishment of that last record, the depth of the demand.”

Sotheby’s announced that it was selling the painting on Tuesday with an unveiling in its Hong Kong galleries, creating a head-turner for an auction season that already features two works with “estimates upon request” in the US$70-million range, Kazimir Malevich’s Suprematist Composition, 1916, and Pablo Picasso’s self-portrait, Le Marin, 1943. Both will be featured at Christie’s evening auction of impressionist and modern art on Tuesday, May 15, in New York.

Sotheby’s will sell the Modigliani at its impressionist and modern art evening auction on Monday, May 14, in New York. The painting was last auctioned by Christie’s in 2003, selling for about US$27 million to an anonymous private collector.

What’s striking about the Modigliani is its size, but also the model’s pose. She’s laying with her back to the artist, but with her head turned over her shoulder starting unflinchingly toward him. “It’s an alluring, seductive pose,” Newman says. There’s a sense “she’s directly gazing at you...you are arrested by that expression.”

Because of the scale, it’s also the only one of Modigliani’s paintings that features the model’s entire length. “You get the full splendor of her reclining body completely in this monumental scale,” Newman says. “It feels like it’s coming out of the canvas.”

While the pose is a nod to the classical tradition of a reclining nude, “which goes all the way back to antiquity, and the influence of painting and sculpture,” Newman adds, it’s takes a wholly modern turn because of the artist, or viewer’s, relationship to the model, “and the directness of that, the immediacy.”

In a news release announcing the sale, Sotheby’s Simon Shaw, co-head worldwide of impressionist and modern art at Sotheby’s, says Modigliani’s nudes mark a watershed. “There is the nude before Modigliani and the nude after Modigliani,” he says.The 50 American states have long competed for people and business, and the 2017 tax reform raises the stakes by limiting the state and local tax deduction on federal returns. The results of bad policy will be harder to disguise.

A case in point is Connecticut’s continuing economic decline, and now we have even more statistical evidence as a warning to other states. The federal Bureau of Economic Analysis recently rolled out its annual report on personal income growth in the 50 states, and for 2017 the Nutmeg State came in...The death toll at a Nashville Waffle House stopped at four because James Shaw pushed back.

Mr. Shaw ran toward shooter Travis Reinking out of an instinct for self-protection. “I acted in a blink of a second,” he says. “It was like: ‘Do it now. Go now.’ I just took off.”

He says he’s no hero, but men have been awarded the Medal of Honor for...Politicians, bureaucrats, activists, scientists and the media have warned Americans for decades that the Earth is headed toward climate catastrophe. Yet surveys consistently show that less than half of U.S. adults are “deeply concerned” or “very worried” about climate issues. If, as Leonardo DiCaprio insists, climate change is the “most urgent threat facing our entire species,” why do a large percentage of Americans not share his fear? Climate crusaders tend to lay fault with nonbelievers’ intransigence. But this is its own form of denial and masks the real reason: poor salesmanship.

The promotional efforts of the climate catastrophists have lacked clarity, credibility, and empathy. These are the cornerstones of effective persuasion. Successful advocacy campaigns use lucid names to frame and sell their issues—“living wage,” “welfare queen” or “death tax.” Climate can be confounding; it is long-term weather, but environmentalists chide anyone who dares call it that. Since Earth’s climate is always fluctuating, the word “change” muddles it with redundancy. Swapping between “climate change” and “global warming” confuses the public.

A good battle cry can rally the troops, but the Paris Agreement’s aim is “to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius.” That is a far cry from “Remember the Alamo!” And Americans are always turned off by the use of metric units. In the U.S., Toyota wisely markets the 2018 Prius’s fuel economy as 52 miles a gallon, not 22 kilometers a liter.

American TV audiences bought Carl Sagan’s explanations of how the universe works because of his obvious scientific expertise. Bold statements about complex systems are always more plausible when they are made by people with impeccable credentials. As a Harvard sophomore, Al Gore received a D in a natural=sciences course. Mr. DiCaprio dropped out of high school in 11th grade.

The rank hypocrisy of many of the environmental movement’s superstars also alienates potential followers. Messrs. Gore and DiCaprio lead lavish, jet-setting lives. It is hard to heed Tom Steyer’s demand to ban offshore oil and gas drilling when Farallon, his hedge fund, invested hundreds of millions of dollars in coal mining. Climate change activists tend to be aggressive advocates, but over-the-top selling doesn’t sway people who are undecided. This is as true for political surrogates attributing society’s ills to the other party’s candidate as it is for green activists linking all manner of extreme weather to climate change.

Scientific impropriety has triggered a popular backlash against the climate change activists. The hockey stick chart, Climategate and questions about the integrity of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration climate data have all fueled public suspicion. Only 39% of Americans believe climate scientists can be trusted a lot to give full and accurate information on causes of climate change according to Pew.

Failed forecasts diminish believability. A Wall Street firm with multiple wrong market calls would lose clients. The actual rate of warming has come in below what climate models projected, casting doubt on future calculations. Likewise, claims that anyone can precisely estimate what global average temperatures will be decades from now don’t pass muster with the average person. There are currently no betting odds for Super Bowl CX in 2076 or S&P 500 futures with December 2099 expiration dates.

The burden of proof in the climate debate lies with those claiming rising temperatures stem primarily from human activity and not other factors. While the prosecution may feel it has a winning case, the jury’s verdict is what counts. Labeling dissenting jurors “deniers”—an insidious association with Holocaust denial—is a losing courtroom strategy. Most people are naturally disinclined to obsess daily about a phenomenon that started long before they were born and won’t reach fruition until long after they die.

It’s true that almost all climate scientists believe human-caused global warming is real. Similarly, American adults understand that expert opinions can change or turn out to be spectacularly wrong. Think of the recently overturned consensus on the link between egg consumption and coronary heart disease, or the reports during the 1970s that a new ice age was imminent. Against this backdrop, calling skeptics “anti-science” is counterproductive, especially since skepticism is the essence of the scientific method.

From 2006 to 2016, China increased its annual carbon dioxide emissions 37% while America’s yearly output decreased far more than any other country. In the Paris Agreement, China pledged to begin reducing emissions around 2030, meaning it can spew even more greenhouse gas for years to come. The U.S. vowed to reduce its 2025 emissions by 28% from 2005 levels. Yet questioning if the accord is fair to America or will forestall global warming is reliably met with sanctimonious scorn.

My advice to the activists is this: you will attract more supporters to your cause if you can pick a name and stick with it, create a clear call to action, enlist a convincing spokesman with a small carbon footprint, tone down the alarmism, and fix the computer models. Most important, listen to the doubters, don’t lambaste them.

Mr. Easterby has worked as a sales executive for three publicly traded technology companies.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.4/24/2018 6:33PM

The Outlook for M&A2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.Facebook Inc., in its first earnings report after touching off widespread data-privacy concerns, posted soaring revenue and profit that highlighted the company’s central place in the digital economy.

The social-media giant has weathered one crisis after another in the 17 months since the 2016 presidential election, but its business—at least for now—is still thriving.

Facebook...As the Trump tax cut was being debated in December, California’s Gov. Jerry Brown called the bill “evil in the extreme” and fumed that it would “divide the hell out of us.” He’s right—but in the end, this change could be good for all the states.

In the years to come, millions of people, thousands of businesses, and tens of billions of dollars of net income will flee high-tax blue states for low-tax red states. This migration has been happening for years. But the Trump tax bill’s cap on the deduction for state and local taxes,...BEIJING—A large part of North Korea’s underground nuclear test facility, which leader Kim Jong Un pledged to close, is unusable anyway due to the collapse of a cavity inside the mountain after the last blast there, Chinese scientists say.

Seismologists involved in a soon-to-be-published study also warned that another blast in the same spot and with similar yield could cause “environmental catastrophe.”

Another...Amazon.com Inc. is now delivering packages right to the car.

The company said Tuesday it has joined with General Motors Co. and Volvo Cars to start offering in-car deliveries, giving its couriers access to potentially millions of vehicles in 37 U.S. markets. The deal expands Amazon’s effort to get consumers comfortable with the idea of strangers entering their homes and cars as the company handles more packages.

The...The Wall Street Journal used video shared on social media and other reporting to piece together how the engine on Southwest Airlines flight 1380 broke apart, ultimately killing a passenger and forcing an emergency landing. Photo: Marty MartinezClare Tuke never considered herself athletic. But when thinning bones from osteoporosis led to a series of vertebral fractures, she searched the Web for a remedy—and found a local scientist-run clinic proposing a regimen of strenuous weight training.

At first the idea of lifting heavy barbells was “absolutely terrifying” given her fragile bones, says Mrs. Tuke, a 54-year-old nurse from Brisbane, Australia. But a year after beginning a twice-a-week routine, Mrs. Tuke says a recent scan shows her bone density is “going in the...Being an international house- and pet-sitter, Faith Coates says she and her husband live rent-free, and, “we’ve gotten to see places we never would have had the opportunity to in a million years.”

Being an international house- and pet-sitter, Faith Coates says she and her husband live rent-free, and, “we’ve gotten to see places we never would have had the opportunity to in a million years.” Photo: Alan Hogan

Living on a limited income, Faith Coates and her husband, Alan Hogan, have spent the past two years dividing their time among homes in Tipperary, Ireland; Sonning, England; Palomares, Spain; and Paphos, Cyprus.

The homes aren’t their own. Nor are they rentals.

The couple, formerly of London, Ontario, are international housesitters. Ms. Coates and Mr. Hogan book long-term stays in homes free of charge in return for looking after the property, and often pets.

Faith Coates Age: 58 Hometown: No permanent address Primary career: Marketing and business consulting Current path: International house- and pet-sitter, blogging and consulting Why this path: “The freedom from consumerism is so liberating. I haven’t bought a decorative item in years.”

Over the past 18 months, they have lived in the village where George and Amal Clooney and British Prime Minister Theresa May have houses, they have enjoyed views of rural Ireland and the Mediterranean, and they have cared for 25 dogs, eight cats, four tortoises and two horses.

“I never thought I would have the money to do this much travel,” says Ms. Coates, who is 58. “We’ve gotten to see places we never would have had the opportunity to in a million years.”

The couple dreamed about living abroad for years before taking up their current occupation. They got the push they needed when Mr. Hogan, now 59, retired from his job as a letter carrier in 2014. Ms. Coates followed suit the next year, retiring from a long career in marketing and business consulting.

Next, the couple sold their house and all their major belongings and moved to Chelem, Mexico, where, in a rented a house on the Gulf Coast, they set to work planning their new lives—as international house- and pet-sitters.

They found their first few gigs on websites where homeowners and pet owners post listings looking for long-term sitters. For June and July of 2016, they found themselves back in Ontario, taking care of a shepherd mix named Oliver in Toronto. But after that they headed to Tipperary, where for two months they looked after seven rough collies.

“What’s nice about long-term stays is that you’re part of the community,” Ms. Coates says. “They recognize you at the fish-and-chips shop, which is really nice. We get to experience life instead of a brief tourist-style interlude.” The homeowner in Tipperary also gave them use of the car, so they were able to explore less touristy parts of the area as well.

Housesitting doesn’t pay the bills, Ms. Coates says, but she and her husband live rent-free with no mortgage or utility costs. Their main expenses are food and transportation. They do have some income. Mr. Hogan has his Canada Post pension, and Ms. Coates earns money from advertising on her blog, xyuandbeyond.com, freelance writing and consulting, marketing and Web-services work. The couple are citizens of three countries (Canada, to which they pay taxes, Britain and Ireland), and they have permanent access to private health insurance through Mr. Hogan’s former employer.

The life is not without its challenges, like the time Ms. Coates had to rush to a vet in Cyprus with a dog that was having an allergic reaction to a wasp sting. But these are small drawbacks in the scheme of things, Ms. Coates says.

They are currently housesitting in Belfast, where they expect to stay until May. Then they are booked through the end of the year.

The couple expect to stay on the move for the foreseeable future, even if they decide later to set down roots. Housesitting gives them the chance to “try on places we might like to live,” Ms. Coates says.

After two weeks in Donegal, Ireland, she says, she and Mr. Hogan decided they would like to eventually end up there permanently.

“It’s stunningly beautiful,” Ms. Coates says. “Every time you turn a corner, there’s something else to see.”

Second Acts looks at the varied paths people are taking in their 50s and beyond. You can reach Ms. Halpert, a writer in Michigan, and let us know how you’re starting over, at reports@wsj.com.

Corrections & Amplifications

Tipperary is a rural county in Ireland’s interior. An earlier version of this article incorrectly described a home in Tipperary as having ocean views. April 20, 2018)WASHINGTON—A top regulator of the nation’s largest banks purchased bank stocks while his nomination for the job was under review, financial disclosures indicate.

Comptroller of the Currency Joseph Otting, a former banker who has taken the agency in a deregulatory direction, was confirmed for the post in November and sold the stock in January, according to forms he has filed with U.S. agencies including the Office of Government Ethics.

...WASHINGTON—The Senate’s top overseer of banks is criticizing moves by Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. to stop doing some business with the gun industry following the deadly shooting in February at a Florida high school.

Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo (R., Idaho), in letters to the heads of both banks made public Wednesday, said he was concerned when large national banks “cut off financial services for lawful businesses they may disfavor.”

...WASHINGTON—The GOP’s narrow special election victory in an Arizona House district President Donald Trump carried by 21 percentage points is the latest indicator the nation’s electoral winds are shifting toward the Democrats ahead of November’s midterm elections.

No Democrat has represented Phoenix’s western suburbs in 40 years and the district rarely has been competitive. Yet, Republican Debbie Lesko, a state senator, defeated Democrat Hiral Tipirneni, a former emergency-room physician, by just 5 percentage points on Tuesday.

...For seven years, Shaker Masri lived behind bars. He passed the days reading dozens of books about Islamic history, trying to untangle what spurred his desire to join a terrorist group overseas, which led to his arrest.

Then, in August 2017, it was time to leave. Prison officials dropped Mr. Masri off at a gas station in eastern Minnesota, where he took the bus to a halfway house in Chicago. He said there was no exit interview, no risk assessment. No one in prison had tried to understand what drew him to jihadist ideology...This is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. Here’s what’s happening today: –The Supreme Court at 10 a.m. considers whether President Donald Trump can legally […]This is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. Here’s what’s happening today: –President Donald Trump meets with French President Emmanuel Macron, and they hold a […]This is the web version of the Capital Journal Daybreak newsletter. Click here to get the newsletter delivered to your inbox. Here’s your daily briefing on politics and power from Jerry Seib and the rest of the WSJ Washington bureau. Here’s what’s happening today: As policy matters like trade and North Korea loom, President Donald Trump’s secretary of […]WASHINGTON—The Supreme Court on Wednesday will consider whether President Donald Trump can legally restrict entry to the U.S. for travelers from several Muslim-majority countries, tackling a central issue of his presidency.

The case traces back to a defining moment in Mr. Trump’s campaign, when he called for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” That idea evolved through three travel bans of varying character and severity, the latest issued in September 2017.

...HONG KONG—In the five years since ZTE Corp. was branded a national security threat by U.S. lawmakers, the Chinese telecommunications giant has been quietly building its own American success story.

While locked out of the market for networking technology, ZTE has expanded its smartphone business to where it is now the fourth-largest among U.S. consumers. Last year the Shenzhen-based company almost doubled its market share to 11.2%, selling 19 million handsets and making the U.S. its biggest market, according to research firm...This is the web version of the WSJ’s daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here. Good morning! Today we look at rising bond yields and company profit warnings, Trump’s outreach to China, French President Macron’s visit to Washington, the European Central Bank’s meeting this week, and corporate response to consumer demand for milk […]This is the web version of the WSJ’s daily economic newsletter. You can sign up for daily delivery here. Good morning! Today we look at rising U.S. Treasury yields, French President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to Washington, the end game for Nafta negotiations, and the latest sign of a tight labor market: $25,000 bonuses for railroad workers. THREE The […]The vibes surrounding President Donald Trump’s planned summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are pretty good at the moment, and good vibes are better than bad ones.

But here is the tougher underlying reality. Even a successful summit is likely to mark merely the start of prolonged and difficult negotiations with North Korea. And at the end, Mr. Trump could well come face-to-face with the same agonizing question looming ever since Pyongyang first tested a nuclear device: Will the U.S. be content merely to contain a nuclear...French President Emmanuel Macron, right, seen meeting U.S. President Donald Trump in May 2017, is Mr. Trump’s first official state visitor.

French President Emmanuel Macron, right, seen meeting U.S. President Donald Trump in May 2017, is Mr. Trump’s first official state visitor. Photo: mandel ngan/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

French President Emmanuel Macron and U.S. President Donald Trump are ideological and stylistic opposites. Mr. Macron is a suave globalist who is passionate about global warming, the Syrian civil war and the European Union. Mr. Trump is a brash nationalist contemptuous of global institutions and wary of foreign entanglements.

But Mr. Macron, who arrives in Washington today as Mr. Trump’s first official state visitor, may stand a better chance of drawing Mr. Trump back into the global fold than anyone.

For all their ideological differences, the two have more in common than meets the eye. Both are political newcomers who entered office at the helm of new movements, and their political views are easily adapted to circumstances. And at present, global economic circumstances have aligned their interests. China and Germany boast the world’s largest trade surpluses, and that creates problems for both Mr. Macron and Mr. Trump, though in different ways.

Mr. Macron, elected on a platform to reinvigorate the French economy, has ushered in labor overhauls to allow companies freedom to negotiate work conditions at the local level, cut taxes on profits, wealth and payrolls, and plans to shake up the country’s training and apprenticeship programs. He is currently preoccupied by rotating strikes at the national railway, SNCF, over his plan to end lifetime employment and usher in competition for the service whose costs, the government estimates, exceed its European peers’ by 30%.

Newsletter Sign-up

But France also suffers from having lost competitive position against Germany in the last 15 years, which can’t be corrected via devaluation since they share the euro. That has fueled massive German trade surpluses and French deficits.

Mr. Macron is also the European Union’s most vocal critic of Chinese trade practices. Alarmed by Chinese takeovers of European technology companies, he led an effort to persuade the European Commission last year to propose screening foreign investment for threats to national security or European technological prowess in research, space, transport, energy and telecommunications.

Germany went along, but Europe’s biggest economy typically pushes for a much softer line on trade disputes because its export-dependent companies worry about retaliation. U.S. officials have groused that Chancellor Angela Merkel would rather lead business delegations to China in search of sales then confront Beijing over its discriminatory investment and trade behavior.

This makes France a natural partner as American officials seek a united front against China. In December, trade officials from the EU, Japan and the U.S. jointly criticized China without naming it in a statement condemning forced technology transfer, subsidies, stated-owned enterprises and local-content requirements. Trump administration officials have invited foreign partners to join its complaint at the World Trade Organization against China for abusing the terms of foreign companies’ technology licenses.

But before Mr. Macron throws his lot in with Mr. Trump, he must figure out whether his American counterpart is open to compromise. French officials, despite sharing some of Mr. Trump’s concerns about Germany and China, want them dealt with through multilateral forums such as the WTO and the Group of 20 countries.

One economist who advises the French government says France suffers from Germany’s trade surplus, but believes the imbalance should be fixed with more German public spending and European fiscal integration rather than the tariffs and quotas that Mr. Trump favors.

That adviser adds that while France is less exposed than Germany to U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum and perhaps cars, it would nonetheless side with Germany on any resulting trade war for the sake of EU cohesion.

And while French officials are open to Mr. Trump’s complaints about the WTO, they are mystified as to how specifically the U.S. wants it fixed—or whether it wants the WTO to survive at all.

Mr. Macron is a charmer and Mr. Trump likes to be charmed, which should make for a warm week between the two. But charm alone may not be enough to bend Mr. Trump on trade. He will have to be convinced Mr. Macron’s globalist path offers a superior way for him to put America first.

Write to Greg Ip at greg.ip@wsj.comReinforcements of French and Nigerien troops deployed to the remote desert borderlands between Mali and Niger, after three American Green Berets were killed in an ambush by an Islamic State affiliate, regional security officials said.

Helicopters on Thursday transported troops to the Tillaberi region where Wednesday’s attack took place, bolstering a sprawling cross-border military zone where almost 4,000 French soldiers are deployed.

...Last year, President Donald Trump signed an executive order that promised to cut back some of the rules in the Affordable Care Act. The new "skinny plans," expected out this year, are poised to benefit some and hurt others. WSJ's Spencer Macnaughton explains. Photo: Formplay Studio

New, more-limited health plans may draw consumers away from Affordable Care Act coverage and drive up prices on insurance sold in the health law’s marketplaces.

These “skinny” plans offer lower premiums, making them an attractive alternative for young, healthy buyers.

But the plans can be loaded with restrictions. Often, people who aren’t...2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.Retail rents in Manhattan fell in the first quarter as landlords adjusted pricing and offered more remodeling allowances, shorter terms and options for tenants to exit.

In all, first quarter annual asking rents for ground floor retail space declined in 13 out of 16 shopping corridors, and the overall average asking rent for those areas dropped 19.5% from the previous year to $653 a square foot, according to a report from real estate services firm CBRE Group Inc.

...New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and City Council Speaker Corey Johnson Wednesday announced an increase in a major funding source for the city’s public schools, with the goal of helping many high-need students.

Mr. de Blasio said he would increase the budget for Fair Student Funding by $125 million. With state funds, the total will reach $6.2 billion for the coming fiscal year. The aid will be divvied up among schools based on enrollment and needs, such as special education and bilingual services. It can be used at a principal’s...The city teachers union pushed back against comments New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio made Wednesday that seemed to undercut the validity of some sexual-harassment complaints made by Department of Education employees.

City officials released information last week about sexual-harassment allegations that have occurred during Mr. de Blasio’s administration. New York City agencies fielded 1,312 sexual-harassment complaints between the end of 2013 and last year, 221 of which were substantiated, according to the mayor’s office.

...PayPal Holdings Inc. said Wednesday that first-quarter profit rose by a third thanks to increases in mobile payments and cross-border trade.

Shares rose more than 4% in aftermarket trading.

The San Jose, Calif.-based financial-technology reported a quarterly profit of $511 million, or 42 cents a share. That compares with $384 million, or 32...The New York Police Department uses information collected from sealed arrest records, in violation of state law, for investigations and shares those records with prosecutors, according to a complaint filed in Manhattan Supreme Court.

The complaint, filed Tuesday by lawyers from the Bronx Defenders and law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, alleges the NYPD is illegally accessing and using information collected from arrests that didn’t result in convictions. It calls into question the usage and scope of the department’s...SL Green Realty Corp., New York’s largest office building owner, has signed its third largest lease at its development rising next to Grand Central Terminal, in a sign of strength for a traditional part of midtown that has been viewed as vulnerable to the city’s trendy new office districts.

The Chicago-based law firm McDermott Will & Emery has agreed to move its New York office to 106,000 square feet in One Vanderbilt, which is expected to rise to 1,401 feet tall and be completed in 2020, according to SL Green. Law firm...Meet the new mortgage-interest deduction. It’s smaller and much more concentrated among high-income households. In 2018, the deduction will save taxpayers $25 billion, down from $60 billion in 2017, according to estimates released on Monday by the Joint Committee on Taxation, the official analysts of tax policy for Congress. That’s largely because of the way last year’s […]Maddy Dychtwald is an author and co-founder of Age Wave, a think tank and consultancy. If you’re a woman, odds are you’re going to live longer than the average man. Life expectancy has skyrocketed over the past century for everyone, going up, on average, 30 years—but women clearly hold the biological advantage when it comes […]Marc E. Agronin is a geriatric psychiatrist at Miami Jewish Health and the author of “The End of Old Age: Living a Longer, More Purposeful Life”. Most people become volunteers to do some good and give back to their community. According to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, about one-quarter of the U.S. population […]David Blanchett is the head of retirement research for Morningstar Investment Management To help maximize the features of an annuity, investors should consider how they fund it. Let’s say you’re about to retire and you’ve determined you want to purchase an immediate annuity. You’ve got quite a bit saved in three different accounts: a traditional […]Asia-Pacific stock markets started higher Thursday, following declines a day earlier and muted action overnight on Wall Street.

As 10-year Treasury yields remain slightly below 3% and the U.S. dollar continues its rally, Korea’s Kospi led the way with a 1% gain after four straight declines.

Samsung Electronics rebounded after weakness earlier this week due to worries about smartphone demand. It rose 2.7% following the release of first-quarter results. Sales of memory chips drove the company’s fourth consecutive quarter of record operating profits, but investors are focused on how long the good times can keep rolling.

In Japan, the Nikkei rose 0.7% as the yen fell. The dollar moved closer to ¥110, a level not seen since early February.

Moves elsewhere in the region were generally less than 0.3%.

Overnight, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note moved above 3% for the first time since January 2014. For investors watching rising U.S. yields, the “gloom hand is overplayed” as American equity investors are showing broader confidence as earnings reports have generally been upbeat, said Stephen Innes, senior trader with Oanda.

“All this should instill a definite sense of calm” even as “massive regional” outflows have occurred this week, he added.

In other markets, bitcoin was recently around $8,700, according to CoinDesk.

Oil futures were up about 0.5% in Asia despite the dollar’s gains and surprise increases last week in U.S. inventories.

Later today, market participants will be watching the European Central Bank’s policy statement. This is an interim ECB meeting with no new forecasts, so the market shouldn’t expect any key policy wording changes, National Australia Bank said.

Still, Mario Draghi’s press conference could be key, with information on recent softer eurozone economic data, NAB adds.

—Suryatapa Bhattacharya and James Glynn contributed to this article.

Write to Ese Erheriene at ese.erheriene@wsj.com2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.4/24/2018 6:33PM

The Outlook for M&ATalking Taxes Ep.6 April 23, 2018

Want a 20% Business Deduction? Here Are the Obstacles It's a significant tax benefit, but not all business owners qualify

By Richard Rubin April 23, 2018 9:30 am Congress just created a new tax break for millions of pass-through businesses. But every business owner doesn't automatically qualify. WSJ's Richard Rubin overcomes the obstacles to claim the 20% pass through business deduction - on an actual obstacle course.

Talking Taxes Taxes are complicated. But not in Richard Rubin’s world! In this video series, WSJ’s tax policy reporter explains different aspects of the tax code in a unique and entertaining way. Talk of deductions and exemptions has never been so fun.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.4/24/2018 6:33PM

The Outlook for M&A2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.2:27

10-year Treasury yield hits 3%. Here's what this means for your wallet

The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note broke above 3% on Tuesday, amid growing speculation that the Federal Reserve will be more aggressive in raising interest rates in 2018. Here's what this means for you and your money.Here's what to do if you no longer want to be investing in gun stocksHere's what to do if you no longer want to be investing in gun stocks

Share

Here's what you need to do if you belong to the increasing number of investors who, for ethical or political reasons, want a gun-free portfolio.Inflation will move up, but only a little, former Fed vice chairman Blinder saysInflation will move up, but only a little, former Fed vice chairman Blinder says