Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On Friday, Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), the chair of the House Oversight committee, sent Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt notice that the GOP-controlled committee was expanding its investigation into Pruitt’s spending.

Pruitt has recently become embroiled in a number of scandals and controversies, many relating to his elaborate expenditures on security and travel, and to personnel assignments that have seen his personal critics sidelined. Pruitt’s arrangement to pay as little as $50 dollars a night to say in a well-located and furnished Washington condominium has also attracted scrutiny; the apartment is owned by the wife of a lobbyist who works with interests who have matters before the EPA.

The House investigators are seeking records documenting Pruitt’s travel, along with interviews with five agency officials, including Pruitt’s chief of staff and Pasquale Perotta, his head of security. You can read the committee’s request below:

BREAKING: GOP CHAIRMAN of House Oversight Trey Gowdy expands investigation into Scott Pruitt and Nino Perrotta, the head of EPA security detail, a troubling sign for Pruitt. Plans to interview top EPA staffers. Rare move in Trump era. pic.twitter.com/GIsdoQ5bkH — Eric Lipton (@EricLiptonNYT) April 13, 2018

Before Pruitt’s ethical troubles came to dominate the conversation around the EPA, discussion of Pruitt’s tenure tended to focus on his steps towards fulfilling President Donald Trump’s campaign promise to “get rid” of the EPA “in almost every form.” Here’s how Mother Jones’s Rebecca Leber explained his impact in her recent profile of Pruitt.

In just his first year in office, Pruitt has already made stunning strides in that direction. He’s dismantling the Obama administration’s landmark Clean Power Plan, which imposed greenhouse gas limits on fossil-fuel-fired power plants. He has slashed enforcement efforts against polluters and tried to repeal rules meant to safeguard drinking-water supplies. He has threatened to roll back fuel economy standards. He’s moved to weaken new rules for smog, coal ash, and mercury pollution, poorly enforced a new toxic-chemical law, and refused to ban the dangerous pesticide chlorpyrifos. He’s taken aim at dozens of lesser-known rules covering everything from safety requirements for replacing asbestos to emergency response plans in hazardous chemical facilities. In the process, Pruitt has driven away hundreds of experienced EPA staffers and scientists while putting old friends and industry reps in charge of key environmental decisions—a troubling trend that has led former EPA administrators from both parties to warn that he is doing irreversible damage to the agency.

Read the rest of Leber’s article here.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced joint American, British, and French missile strikes on Syria as “an act of aggression against a sovereign state” and said he would seek an emergency meeting of the United Nations’ Security Council.

“Russia condemns in the strongest possible terms the attack against Syria, where Russian military personnel are assisting the legitimate government in its counterterrorism efforts,” Putin said in English language statement posted Saturday on the Kremlin’s website.

“We are being threatened. Such actions will not be left without consequences.”

Russia supports Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and has military personnel in Syria, creating a risk of armed confrontation between Washington and Moscow surrounding the country’s long running civil war. On Friday, Russia’s ambassador to the United States, Anatoly Antonov, warned of “consequences” after the allied attacks. “A pre-designed scenario is being implemented,” his statement says. “Again, we are being threatened. We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences.”

Putin’s more restrained statement nonetheless argues that the attacks mark the second time the U.S. has launched strikes in response to alleged use of chemical weapons by Assad without adequate proof.

The US-led action “makes the already catastrophic humanitarian situation in Syria even worse and brings suffering to civilians,” Putin’s statement says. “In fact, the US panders to the terrorists who have been tormenting the Syrian people for seven years, leading to a wave of refugees fleeing this country and the region.”

“The current escalation around Syria is destructive for the entire system of international relations. History will set things right, and Washington already bears the heavy responsibility for the bloody outrage in Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya.”

Assad vowed Friday to respond to the attack, tweeting, according to translations, that “Good souls will not be humiliated.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

President Donald Trump mimicked former President George W. Bush in a tweet Saturday, declaring “Mission Accomplished.”

A perfectly executed strike last night. Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 14, 2018

The United States and allies launched missile strikes Friday night on Syrian targets in an effort to punish President Bashar al-Assad for a suspected chemical attack near Damascus last weekend that killed more than 40 people. Joseph Dunford Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the attacks targeted a scientific research center near Damascus and a suspected chemical weapons storage facility and a storage facility, both near Homs.

In a televised address on May 1, 2003, abroad the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, a few months after the invasion of Iraq, Bush emerged from a jet wearing a flight suit and gave a speech declaring that “in the battle of Iraq, the United States and our allies have prevailed.” A large banner with the words “Mission Accomplished” hung behind him. The speech drew extensive criticism as U.S. involvement in Iraq deepened over the next several year, and casualties mounted.

Trump’s Saturday tweet came well before it was clear if the strikes had affected Assad’s ability or willingness to use chemical weapons. The U.S. had launched missile strikes against Syria in 2017 in a response to a prior suspected chemical attack.

As a candidate Trump generally claimed that he would avoid military entanglement in the Middle East and denounced Bush’s invasion of Iraq, claiming falsely to have opposed that war at the time. ADuring President Obama’s administration, Trump said he opposed U.S. military involvement in Syria. “We should stay the hell out of Syria,” he tweeted in 2013.

The strike on Syria is the latest sign of Trump’s shift toward the hawkish views favored by many former Bush advisers. He dismissed National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster in favor of John Bolton, who aggressively backed war with Iraq while serving under Bush, and who has urged preemptive attacks on Iran and North Korea. Trump ousted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who opposed ending a nuclear agreement with Iran, in favor of a more hawkish nominee, CIA chief Mike Pompeo.

Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White defended Trump’s tweet on Saturday. “It was mission accomplished,” White said. “We hit all our targets. It was a successful mission.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On Friday, just hours after protesting teachers flooded Kentucky’s capitol building to rally against a pension reform plan and call for increased school funding, the state’s Republican governor, Matt Bevin, suggested school closures caused by the striking educators were endangering children.

“Here’s what’s crazy to me,” Bevin told a reporter from WDRB. “You know how many hundreds of thousands of children today were left home alone? I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them.” He spoke of children ingesting poison or being physically assaulted because they were home and “a single parent didn’t have any money to take care of them.”

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin on the teacher rallies today. “I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them.” pic.twitter.com/Q4PpzFsTt2 — Marcus Green (@MarcusGreenWDRB) April 13, 2018

The governor’s response to the striking teachers sparked outcry and disbelief from state lawmakers and educators. “My mouth was hanging open and I don’t even know what I can tell you,” Kentucky Education Association President Stephanie Winkler told the Lexington Herald-Leader.

Bevin’s comments came as thousands of teachers gathered in Frankfort on Friday to protest Bevin’s signing of a bill to overhaul the state’s pension system. They were also calling on Kentucky lawmakers to override the governor’s veto of a $22 billion budget bill that contained significant education funding. On Friday, the state house and senate reversed the veto.

The long-brewing demonstrations followed protests by educators in Oklahoma, Arizona, and West Virginia, who were frustrated about low pay and deep cuts to school funding. The showdown between Kentucky teachers and Bevin ramped up in recent weeks after he warned educators that it was illegal for them to walkout. The Kentucky Education Association recently joined a lawsuit filed by Kentucky’s Democratic attorney general, Andy Beshear, challenging the pension reform bill.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Update 10:50 pm: Defense Secretary James Mattis briefed reporters on the strike Friday night, noting that the operation was “right now a one-time shot,” but would not rule out further action. Mattis said he was “absolutely confident” Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was behind last weekend’s chemical attack. The Pentagon will provide more information on Saturday.

“Together we have sent a clear message to Assad and his murderous lieutenants that they should not perpetrate another chemical weapons attack for which they will be held accountable,” Mattis said.

President Trump approved US military strikes on Syria in an address to the nation Friday evening. A little after 9pm in Washington, there were reports of strikes on Damascus. The operation was launched in coordination with France and the UK.

BREAKING: President Trump: U.S. strikes on Syria, launched in concert with British, French allies, are "now underway." — The Associated Press (@AP) April 14, 2018

BREAKING: Loud explosions light up skies over Syrian capital, heavy smoke as President Trump announces airstrikes. — The Associated Press (@AP) April 14, 2018

WATCH: @RichardEngel reports live from Istanbul with latest on US, UK and French strikes on Syria. https://t.co/3ZtjEywczl pic.twitter.com/jRpFu2bZtD — NBC News (@NBCNews) April 14, 2018

The strike comes less than a week after a suspected chemical weapons attack by the Syrian government on a suburb of Damascus that killed about 70 people and injured more than 500. President Trump has been threatening military retaliation against the Syrian government for the past week, and calling out Russia and Iran for supporting the Syrian regime. The White House said earlier today that it had “very high confidence” that the Syrian government was responsible for the attack. This marks the second time that the president has used force in response to a chemical attack in Syria.

“The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread and use of chemical weapons,” President Trump said Friday night in his address, calling the attack “evil and despicable” and a “significant escalation” in a pattern of chemical weapons use by President Bashar al-Assad. “These are not the actions of a man,” Trump said. “They are crimes of a monster instead.”

Trump made the point that it was in the national security interest to deter the production of chemical weapons. “We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” he said. The president also addressed Iran and Russia directly, asking the two Assad allies: “What kind of a nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of innocent men, women, and children?”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

In a surprising turn of events, the Trump administration will ditch intentions to crack down on the dozens of states that have legalized the production, distribution, and possession of pot for medical or recreational use.

The policy flip came straight from the mouth of President Donald Trump, who promised Republican Cory Gardner (R-Co.) that the administration won’t interfere in states’ legal cannabis industries.

Just months ago, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reversed an Obama-era policy, known as the Cole memo, which allowed cannabis farms and businesses to operate without fear of federal intervention. The reversal was immediately met with strong opposition from states’ rights advocates, including Gardner, who believed that under Trump, states’ cannabis laws would be respected.

In protest of the memo’s repeal, Gardner began blocking Justice Department nominees.

On Wednesday, Trump responded. “Since the campaign, President Trump has consistently supported states’ rights to decide for themselves how best to approach marijuana,” said Gardner in a statement on Friday. “Late Wednesday, I received a commitment from the President that the Department of Justice’s rescission of the Cole memo will not impact Colorado’s legal marijuana industry.”

Gardner, in turn, promised Friday to lift any remaining holds on DOJ nominees.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed the conversation between Gardner and Trump. “We’re always consulting Congress about issues, including states’ rights, of which the President is a firm believer,” she said.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

We should have seen this coming.

More than a decade ago, I. Lewis Libby—a.k.a. Scooter—was convicted in federal court of lying to a grand jury and to the FBI and of obstructing justice. Libby had been chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney and one of the leading architects of the US invasion of Iraq, which the Bush-Cheney administration sold to the public with false and hyperbolic claims regarding Saddam Hussein’s (nonexistent) weapons of mass destruction programs and his (nonexistent) alliance with Al Qaeda. President Donald Trump pardoned Libby on Friday.

There was no pressing reason for Trump to revive this matter. “I don’t know Mr. Libby, but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly,” the president said in a statement. That was hardly a rousing explanation. But there is this: Libby was prosecuted by US Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald, who had been appointed as special counsel in 2003 by a deputy attorney general named…James Comey. Whatever Trump’s intent, the Libby pardon was a raised middle-finger to the fellow who has just compared Trump to a Mafia chieftain. It also sent a troubling signal that this president is not offended by those who stonewall the FBI and special counsels. Get the picture?

Libby has long been a martyr for neocons and conservatives who have claimed he was the innocent victim of a political prosecution. (What a coincidence.) But his case was serious, for the main issue was whether he could get away with lying to federal investigators in order to protect his boss, the vice president. This episode is highly relevant today.

“I don’t know Mr. Libby, but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly.”

As it happens, years before Michael Isikoff and I wrote our current book, Russian Roulette: The Inside Story of Putin’s War on America and the Election of Donald Trump, we wrote Hubris: The Inside Story of Spin, Scandal, and the Selling of the Iraq War, an account of how the Bush-Cheney gang greased the way to the Iraq War in 2003 with misrepresentations and lies. The book also covered the Libby case and (in the paperback edition) his 2007 trial in a federal district courtroom in Washington, DC.

Libby’s offenses were related to an investigation of the leaking of the identity of Valerie Plame, a CIA officer married to former Ambassador Joseph Wilson. A few months after the 2003 Iraq invasion, Wilson asserted publicly that prior to the war, the Bush White House had information undercutting its own assertions that Saddam possessed WMDs. Wilson had been dispatched the previous year by the CIA on a private mission to the African nation of Niger to check out one of the administration’s claims—that Saddam had secretly obtained weapons-grade yellowcake uranium there. He had found nothing to substantiate this charge. When he blew the whistle on the Bush-Cheney administration—revealing in a July 6, 2003, New York Times op-ed that the yellowcake claim was bunk and questioning both the justification for the invasion and the integrity of the Bush-Cheney crew—the White House, especially Cheney’s office, went ballistic. It immediately tried to discredit and smear Wilson. As part of that campaign—which had begun even before the op-ed was published—the White House collected information on Wilson, including the fact that his wife worked at the CIA and had been involved in the plan to send Wilson to Niger.

With the operation to undermine Wilson underway, a newspaper column by conservative pundit Bob Novak revealed that Wilson’s wife was a CIA operative and named her. Novak cited as his sources two unidentified “senior administration officials.” It is a crime for federal government officials to out an undercover CIA official. (At the time, I was the first journalist to report that the Plame leak was a possible violation of federal law.) And eventually this leak became the subject of an FBI investigation that evolved into the special counsel probe run by Fitzgerald.

As Isikoff and I would later reveal in Hubris, Novak’s first source for the Plame information was Richard Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, who was not part of the Bush-Cheney administration’s get-Wilson campaign. But the second source was Karl Rove, the chief strategist for the Bush White House, who was eager to undermine Wilson’s account. Neither Armitage nor Rove was ever prosecuted for leaking this information. (Such cases are tough to bring, given the wording of the relevant law.)

Libby, who also spread information about Plame’s CIA identity to reporters, was not prosecuted for the leak. He was nabbed instead for trying to mount a cover-up.

When FBI agents came knocking, Libby told the bureau that he had learned about Wilson’s wife from Tim Russert of NBC News. He neglected to mention that in the weeks before his conversation with Russert, he had been part of the operation conducted by Cheney’s office to gather information on Wilson and Plame—and that Cheney himself had told Libby that Plame worked in the counterproliferation division of the CIA. Libby told the investigators that after his discussion with Russert, he had told another reporter (Matt Cooper, then with Time magazine) that he had heard from other reporters that Plame worked at the CIA but that he did not know if that was true. In other words, Libby claimed he had simply picked up and passed along scuttlebutt—information he had not confirmed. If this description was accurate, it would not be a violation of law. And with this account, Libby was keeping Cheney out of the picture and far apart from any plot to assail an administration critic.

When Libby was called before the grand jury, he was confronted with documents showing that Cheney had indeed told him weeks before the Wilson op-ed that Plame worked for the CIA. So Libby came up with something of a new tale. He claimed that he had forgotten that Cheney had informed him about Plame and that he had learned this fact anew when Russert shared the information with him after the Wilson op-ed was published. It was a convoluted explanation—but one that supported Libby’s initial contention that he believed he had first heard about Plame from Russert.

Trump has sent the message that he does not find that sort of dishonest conduct reprehensible.

Libby went on trial in early 2007. In the courtroom, Fitzgerald noted that Libby’s defense was implausible. He had completely forgotten that Cheney had told him Plame was a CIA officer and thought he had heard it from Russert for the first time? A parade of witnesses from the Bush-Cheney administration testified that they, too, had talked about Plame and her CIA connection with Libby prior to the conversation he had with Russert. (Onetime White House press secretary Ari Fleischer only cooperated with Fitzgerald’s investigation once he was granted immunity.)

For his part, Russert testified that it was an “impossibility” for him to have told Libby anything about Wilson’s wife, for he knew nothing of her CIA tie until Novak’s column appeared. In his closing argument, Fitzgerald declared, “There is a cloud on the vice president…That cloud remains because this defendant obstructed justice.” This was his way of saying that Libby had lied to cover for Cheney. Libby “stole the truth from the judicial system,” Fitzgerald told the jury.

The jury found Libby guilty on four counts. Afterward, on the courthouse steps, Fitzgerald declared that Libby, with his lies, had attempted to block the leak investigation from reaching Cheney. “Sometimes when people tell the truth, clouds disappear,” he added. “Sometimes they don’t.”

The record was clear. Libby concocted a phony story to defend the false statements he had made to FBI agents to thwart their investigation into the Bush White House’s role in the Plame leak. Yet with his conviction, he immediately became a martyr for conservatives defending the Iraq War. (Two of his champions since then have been DC lawyers Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing, the pro-Trump, conspiracy-mongering, Fox News-friendly husband-wife couple who recently almost joined the president’s legal team.) Libby was sentenced to 30 months in prison and a $250,000 fine. But the neocon crowd pushed President George W. Bush to pardon their hero, who had taken a big fall for Cheney. Bush wouldn’t do that, but he did commute Libby’s sentence, removing the prison term. That wasn’t enough for Cheney. Toward the end of the Bush presidency, he urged Bush to grant Libby a full pardon. Bush refused, causing a rift between himself and his No. 2.

The Libby lobby has persisted, for years insisting he had been railroaded and deserved a pardon. And for some reason, just as Trump is being pummeled by Comey—and just as the investigations surrounding the president are intensifying—Trump responded to that call.

From his statement, it is clear that Trump was not familiar with the details of the slam-dunk case against Libby. So it seems that what appealed to Trump was the symbolic nature of this action: a senior administration official had lied to block an investigation of wrongdoing within that administration—and was punished for doing so. But with this pardon, Trump has sent the message that he does not find that sort of dishonest conduct reprehensible. In Trump’s world, this pardon was not an act of justice. It was a wink.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Elliott Broidy, a prominent Republican fundraiser, resigned Friday from his position as a deputy finance chair of the Republican National Committee in the wake of a report that Michael Cohen, President Trump’s personal lawyer, arranged for Broidy to pay $1.6 million to a former Playboy model who claimed that Broidy impregnated her last year.

A source confirmed to Mother Jones that Broidy, a money manager and owner of a defense contracting firm who was a major financial backer of Trump’s campaign, called RNC Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel to resign the fundraising post shortly after the Wall Street Journal reported Broidy’s payments to the woman.

“I acknowledge I had a consensual relationship with a Playboy Playmate,” Broidy, who is married, said in the Friday statement. “At the end of our relationship, this woman shared with me that she was pregnant. She alone decided that she did not want to continue with the pregnancy and I offered to help her financially during this difficult period.”

Cohen received $250,000—about 15 percent of the value of the woman’s payment—for his role arranging the deal.

Both Cohen and Broidy have served since last April as RNC vice chairs. Another top Trump fundraiser, casino owner Steve Wynn, stepped down as RNC finance chairman in January after news that he had been accused of sexual harassing employees at his properties over decades. The committee has not returned Wynn’s donations. There is no indication Cohen plans to leave his post with the committee. McDaniel sidestepped a question about Cohen’s status with the RNC during an appearance Friday on CNN. “I’m gonna take a look,” she said. “I haven’t had a chance to do my due diligence.”

Cohen’s brokering of the Broidy deal emerged after his office in New York was raided last week by FBI agents reportedly seeking evidence of bank fraud and other crimes. The FBI was apparently interested in Cohen’s role in arranging payments to at least two women who say they had sexual relationships with Trump. Cohen has acknowledged that he paid $130,000 to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic actress whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, just before election day in 2016 in exchange for her silence on a sexual relationship she says she had with Trump in 2006. Cohen has claimed Trump, who denies the affair, was not aware of the payment and did not reimburse him. Daniels has sued Cohen and Trump, claiming the contract is invalid.

The contract with Daniels closely resembles the one Cohen set up with Broidy. It uses the same pseudonyms for Broidy and the woman who says she was impregnated, David Dennison and Peggy Peterson, that he used for Trump and Daniels, the Journal reported. Cohen received $250,000—about 15 percent of the value of the woman’s payment—for his role arranging the deal for Broidy, CNBC reported Friday.

Broidy, who initially backed Sen. Ted Cruz’s presidential bid, eventually became vice chair of the Republican Party and Trump’s 2016 joint fundraising committee, helping raise more than $108 million. Last year he gave more than $160,000 to the RNC, according to the Journal. Broidy’s financial support came alongside access to Trump, helping him regain political status after his 2009 plea deal admitting to making illegal gifts to New York State officials.

Friday’s report is the latest in a string of damaging stories about Broidy, who has faced reports alleging he peddled influence with President Donald Trump and top administration officials to win lucrative contracts in countries including Angola, Romania, and the United Arab Emirates, for his defense firm, Circinus. The New York Times has described him using his access to Trump to push for policy moves, including the firing of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, that were backed by leaders in the United Arab Emirates, where Broidy has lucrative defense contracts. Much of this reporting has been based on copies of Broidy’s emails, which he says were stolen starting in December in a hack he has blamed on the government of Qatar and its U.S. lobbyists.

The woman claims Broidy had paid her to engage in an exclusive sexual relationship to last one to two years.

Prior to Friday’s report, sources close to Broidy argued that he retained access to Trump and would remain in his RNC position. Just last month, Broidy hosted a Los Angeles fundraiser for Trump. He also traveled in March to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, where he is a member, to confer with senior administration officials, two sources said. It was not clear if Broidy met with the president during that trip.

The woman who accepted the payment claims that before she became pregnant, Broidy had paid her to engage in an exclusive sexual relationship to last one to two years, the Journal reported. After the woman became pregnant, she retained Keith Davidson, a lawyer who also represented Stormy Daniels when she agreed to accept the hush payment from Cohen. Broidy claims that Cohen learned about the matter from Davidson then contacted Broidy, who agreed to hire Cohen to negotiate a deal. Broidy was told the woman had an abortion, a source said.

Broidy apologized to his family in his statement. “It is unfortunate that this personal matter between two consenting adults is the subject of national discussion just because of Michael Cohen’s involvement,” he said.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Ever since 1991, when Morley Safer raised a glass of red wine and told millions of 60 Minutes viewers that it might be a health elixir, Americans have taken it on faith that a nightly tipple is good for the ticker. The alcohol industry has helped perpetuate the notion, funding and promoting further studies claiming a host of other health benefits from moderate alcohol consumption—everything from lower rates of deafness to a prevention for dementia. But more recently, scientists have taken aim at a lot of those studies, finding their methodology deeply flawed and casting serious doubt as to whether alcohol really is some kind of miracle drug.

Now comes a huge study spearheaded by the UK’s University of Cambridge published in The Lancet this week. The study included dozens of researchers from around the world and nearly 600,000 drinkers in 19 countries. It finds that the people who consume more than one drink a day face greater risks of dying from any cause than those who drink less. The findings have implications for government health recommendations, which in many countries set limits that are much higher than the low-risk threshold found in The Lancet study.

It finds that the people who consume more than one drink a day face greater risks of dying from any cause than those who drink less.

In the US, the government says people who don’t already drink shouldn’t start. But for those who do, the US Department of Agriculture’s Dietary Guidelines recommend women limit their consumption to no more than one drink per day (98 grams per week) and men to two daily drinks (196 grams per week). The Cambridge study tried to assess how useful such guidelines really are based on the science behind them, and where the true bright line might be when it comes to figuring out relatively safe drinking limits. In an effort to avoid the problems that have plagued alcohol and health studies for decades, researchers only studied current drinkers, excluding abstainers or those who’d quit drinking. Abstainers and former drinkers are often much less healthy than those in the general population who drink moderately, but they’ve often been included in studies comparing drinkers to non-drinkers. What this means is that the results have been skewed and moderate drinkers have been made to look better than they probably should. The new study also excluded people with existing heart disease.

What it revealed was troubling: The people who drank more than 100 grams of alcohol a week had shorter lifespans than those who drank less than that. One hundred grams of alcohol translates into about five to six glasses of wine weekly, which is nearly double the US government’s recommended limits on alcohol for men. Those in the study who drank a lot more than that had significantly higher risks of dying from any cause, including heart disease, but even going from one daily drink to two raised heart disease and mortality risks significantly.

The differences at low levels of drinking were negligible, with only months of additional life expectancy at the bottom of the curve for a 40-year-old man or woman. But the study found a striking linear relationship between alcohol intake and dying from any cause. The researchers estimated that reducing long-term drinking from the two-drink a day limit suggested by the US government, to less than one a day, was associated with a one- to two-year boost in life expectancy in men.

“This study has shown that drinking alcohol at levels which were believed to be safe is actually linked with lower life expectancy and several adverse health outcomes.”

Very light drinking seemed to have a small protective effect against non-fatal heart attacks. But drinking above 100 grams a week also kicked off much higher risk of stroke, heart failure, fatal aortic aneurysm, and disease from high blood pressure that could cancel out the benefits from lower heart attack risks. One reason, researchers speculated, is that drinking causes high blood pressure, a key risk factor for strokes. Duke University’s Dr. Dan Blazer, one of the study’s co-authors, said, “This study has shown that drinking alcohol at levels which were believed to be safe is actually linked with lower life expectancy and several adverse health outcomes.”

The findings dovetail with recent research showing that even low levels of alcohol raise the risk of cancer, particularly breast and colon cancer. And it raises further questions about why the federal government is currently recruiting subjects for a clinical trial, financed by the alcohol industry, to try to prove that alcohol prevents heart disease. Public health advocates have criticized the Moderate Alcohol and Cardiovascular Health (MACH15) study in part because starting in 2013, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism solicited donations from the world’s biggest alcohol producers, according to the New York Times, to fund the $100 million study—a project equal to a quarter of the agency’s annual budget.

Participants, a very limited group that excludes anyone under 50, anyone with a history of breast cancer, and a whole host of others—will be required to consume one drink a day for six years to see whether it will decrease their chances of getting heart disease compared to people who abstain. Virtually every researcher working on the study has ties to industry.

Richard Saitz, a professor of community health at Boston University School of Public Health, says that the new information reported in The Lancet raises further ethical questions about an industry-funded study that asks people to drink a substance known to cause cancer even at low levels. The US-government funded trial is “testing this amount [of alcohol] that appears to increase death,” he says.

If the MACH15 study produces an outcome favorable to the alcohol industry, Saitz and others believe it will be used by the industry to make health claims about its products even as more independent studies are consistently showing that people ought to be drinking less alcohol, not more.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On Thursday night, just a day after thousands of Arizona teachers staged “walk-ins” at their schools to call for better pay and school funding, Republican Gov. Doug Ducey proposed giving teachers a 20 percent raise by 2020.

Under Ducey’s plan, teacher pay would increase 9 percent this year, followed by a 5 percent raise for each of the next two years. The move represents a huge concession from Ducey—but Arizona educators say it’s simply not enough.

At the state capitol in late March, leaders of the group Arizona Educators United demanded not only a 20 percent increase in base pay and competitive pay for educational support professionals but also a restoration of education funding cut since 2008—a move that would cost the state $1 billion. The group called for lawmakers to pause new tax cuts until that funding is restored.

“To me right now, [Ducey’s proposal] feels like this was essentially an attempt to stop whatever actions we may have been taking, instead of a legitimate groundwork for future investment in education and to fulfill our demands,” Noah Karvelis, a music teacher and Arizona Educators United leader, said in a Facebook video on the Arizona Education Association page with other organizers on Thursday.

Since 2008, Arizona lawmakers have slashed nearly 37 percent of total state funding for schools, adjusted for inflation.

The call to restore education funding to earlier levels echoes similar demands from educators in Oklahoma and Kentucky, who have recently protested the deep cuts to education funding that resulted from sweeping tax cuts over the last decade. Since 2008, Arizona lawmakers have slashed nearly 37 percent of total state funding for schools, adjusted for inflation, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. At the same time, Arizona also has either cut or reduced income and corporate taxes, further squeezing education budgets. Arizona teachers make $48,372 a year on average, among the lowest in the country.

The grassroots group of Arizona educators has raised the possibility of a walkout like those in Oklahoma and West Virginia, where a nine-day strike resulted in a 5 percent pay raise. On Thursday, after thousands of Oklahoma teachers flooded the capitol to demand more school funding for almost two weeks, union leader Alicia Priest called for an end to the teacher walkout, conceding to reporters on Thursday night that the teachers’ demands wouldn’t be satisfied after seeing “no significant legislative movement” since the walkout began. Meanwhile, in Kentucky, thousands of teachers stormed the state capitol to call for adequate school funding and rally against a recently passed pension reform bill.

Ducey, who is up for reelection this year, had previously refused to meet with teacher organizers from the #RedForEd movement, telling a local radio show: “What I don’t want to do is get into these political operatives’ political circus.” On Thursday night, the group’s organizers called for more details for how Ducey’s proposal would be funded. “He took a shot at one demand, and he missed that,” Karvelis said on Facebook. “We have four others that he hasn’t even touched upon.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

1. “He looks very nasty”

After 33 years in law enforcement, Thomas Homan retired last January for about three hours. As he was leaving his retirement ceremony on a Friday afternoon, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly called to say President Donald Trump was offering a promotion. Homan came back to work on Tuesday as the acting director of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

From the outside, Homan might have seemed a surprising choice to lead ICE, a 20,000-person division of the Department of Homeland Security that deports more than 200,000 people per year. During the Obama administration, Homan had won the highest civil service award after effectively enforcing the more limited deportation priorities that Trump rose to power attacking. But Kelly appeared to know something that had long been clear to many of Homan’s colleagues: Homan did not like that the Obama administration had told his officers whom they should and shouldn’t arrest.

Since taking over as acting director of ICE, Homan has gone from being a mostly anonymous civil servant to one of the most combative defenders of Trump’s immigration agenda. He has appeared on Fox News to say that politicians who limit cooperation with ICE should be charged with crimes and has staged retaliatory operations against their cities in the meantime. ICE arrests were up 41 percent last year and 171 percent among people without criminal records. ICE is now pursuing even the most sympathetic undocumented immigrants. That is part of Homan’s goal. Testifying before Congress last year, he warned, “If you’re in this country illegally…you should be uncomfortable. You should look over your shoulder, and you need to be worried.”

Crucially for a president obsessed with appearance, Homan—a barrel-chested former cop—looks the part. His presence is imposing enough that two former colleagues said, unprompted, that they’d never seen him bully someone. In July, Trump said he’d heard that Homan looks “very nasty.” He replied, “That’s exactly what I was looking for.” Many of the 12 former colleagues of Homan interviewed for this article, from Arizona, Texas, and Washington, DC, say he has a soft side behind the gruff exterior. But that hasn’t stopped Homan from playing up his “cop’s cop” persona on TV, surely aware that it goes over well with his most important viewer.

His approach hasn’t won him many friends in immigrant communities. ICE has never been popular among immigrants, but outrage over its tactics has reached new heights. Homan is enthusiastically enforcing the immigration agenda of a president who began his campaign by accusing Mexico of sending “rapists” to the United States. ICE is now a stand-in for Trump’s anti-immigrant agenda as a whole, and Homan is the agency’s unapologetic defender.

Some of Homan’s former colleagues have been shocked by his recent rhetoric. Cecilia Muñoz, who ran the White House Domestic Policy Council under Obama and worked closely with Homan, says, “I find the Tom Homan that I see on TV now unrecognizable compared to the one that I saw in the Situation Room.” But there have been hints of the new Homan from the start. His rise helps explain the true character of an agency that, after a blip of restraint during the Obama administration, has returned to its roots as an unbending enforcer of immigration law and deporter of people who violate it. And as long as Homan remains in charge, undocumented immigrants in the country who may have felt safe before have good reason to be afraid.

2. He was a “street guy”

Homan, 56, has compared the world he grew up in to Mayberry R.F.D., an Andy Griffith Show spinoff whose hokey intro features a dad playing catch in khakis. Homan’s father, Ted, received two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart in World War II before returning to upstate New York. He settled in the village of West Carthage, about 30 miles south of the Canadian border, and worked as a part-time police officer and mechanic. Homan’s mother, Doris, worked at various times at a paper company and in two hospital cafeterias.

After graduating from what is now SUNY Polytechnic Institute in 1983 with a degree in criminal justice, Homan joined the village police force. A year later, he headed to Campo, California, 50 miles east of San Diego, to join the Border Patrol, which was part of what was then called the Immigration and Naturalization Service. At the time, immigration enforcement was not a top priority. In 1986, the FBI received about twice as much federal funding as the INS; now, immigration enforcement gets twice as much as the FBI.

Homan was promoted to a special agent position in Phoenix after seizing a record-breaking haul of nearly 1,300 pounds of cocaine from two smugglers in 1986, according to a 1988 article in the Carthage Republican Tribune, a local paper in upstate New York. Hank Woodrum, a former INS investigator in Arizona, remembers Homan, his hand-picked deputy, as a forceful presence. (He quickly adds that Homan never “browbeat” him.) Woodrum says Homan didn’t talk in those days of moving into the agency’s leadership in Washington, but he isn’t surprised that Homan excelled and recalls he was particularly good at keeping the rank and file in line.

When Homan transferred to Texas in 1999, Congress was in the process of dramatically increasing border security, an effort that reshaped migration patterns along the country’s southern border. Instead of coming and going for seasonal jobs, Mexicans were staying in the US to avoid increasingly dangerous and expensive journeys north. The result was a substantially larger permanent undocumented population that is now settled across the United States, according to research by Princeton sociologist Douglas Massey. Beyond being a “waste” of money, Massey found, the effort to secure the border likely led to more than 5,000 migrant deaths by 2010.

In 2003, Homan was called in to investigate that reality after Tyrone Williams, a dairy trucker, attempted to smuggle more than 70 Latino immigrants across Texas. As Williams drove through the night, the temperature in the trailer climbed above 110 degrees, Univision’s Jorge Ramos wrote in 2005. Nineteen people died, including a five-year-old boy. “That haunts me to this day because I had a five-year-old boy at the time,” Homan said last year, adding, “We got to end this stuff.” For Homan, the solution was tighter enforcement.

The investigation began just after the INS’s enforcement responsibilities were split between two agencies: Customs and Border Protection and ICE, Homan’s new division. ICE was placed in charge of what is known as interior enforcement, which takes place away from the border, in cities like New York and Chicago. It’s the component of immigration enforcement that most often generates headlines for splitting up families that have been living in the United States for decades. A month after the trailer incident, Homan testified before Congress that ICE would “excel in interior enforcement” in a way that the “legacy INS was not allowed to.” He added that the government needed to stop “dangling this carrot of amnesty” because “as long as that carrot is being dangled, we’re going to continue having an immigration problem.”

At the time, it didn’t look like Homan would have much influence over ICE’s policies. Ken Cates, who worked as Homan’s boss in Dallas, says there are two kinds of agents: “street guys” and those who prefer to work in administration. He always took Homan for a street guy. Yet in 2006, Homan took a job in Texas overseeing internal investigations for the Transportation Security Administration. Three years later, he headed to Washington to help manage the logistics of detaining people at ICE. “When I saw that Tom had actually gone to headquarters, I was a little surprised, to be honest with you,” Cates says.

3. “Tom is brute force”

Alonzo Peña became ICE’s deputy director around the same time Homan got to headquarters. Peña, who knew Cates and Homan from Texas, says Homan was completely on board with the Obama administration’s decision to focus on deporting people with criminal histories. How well the prioritization worked in the early years of the Obama administration is intensely debated. Deportations of people with criminal records increased to record highs, but most people being deported either had no convictions or had committed crimes that ICE didn’t consider top priorities. Immigrant advocates labeled President Barack Obama the “deporter in chief,” and more “sanctuary” cities began limiting their coordination with ICE.

In November 2014, DHS overhauled its enforcement priorities, partly to help convince sanctuary jurisdictions to resume cooperating with immigration authorities. The new guidelines called for targeting people who had been been convicted of felonies or multiple misdemeanors, not those who had only been charged with a crime. After that, says David Leopold, a Cleveland-based immigration lawyer and the former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, “the fear was gone”—undocumented immigrants with no criminal record who were already living in the US had “almost no chance” of being deported. In Obama’s last year in office, 92 percent of people deported from the interior of the country had criminal convictions, compared to 53 percent at the end of the George W. Bush administration and 67 percent in 2011. Overall, interior deportations fell from about 223,000 in 2011 to 65,000 in 2016.

Homan helped develop the new priorities and played a key role in convincing thousands of skeptical ICE officers to enforce them. He won DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson’s admiration in the process, and in 2015, Homan received the Presidential Rank Award, the highest honor for civil servants. When Johnson left DHS, Homan was one of just a handful of people who spoke at the ceremony, according to a former DHS official who was at the event. Johnson declined to comment for this story.

Homan didn’t embrace every aspect of the new priorities. As arrests fell, Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) pressed Homan to explain why his officers were waiting for undocumented immigrants to be convicted before detaining them. Homan smirked, bit his tongue, and said he wasn’t sure of his superiors’ reasoning. “I spent a lot of time, a lot of time, with Tom,” says one former DHS colleague. “Do I think Tom embraced [the priorities] fully? No.” The former DHS colleague says Homan would tell Johnson that he was focused on deporting the “worst first,” but it was clear he wasn’t fully on board. “Tom doesn’t do nuance,” the official says. “Tom is brute force.”

Homan sometimes referred to undocumented immigrants as “tonks” while he was in Washington, according to two former DHS officials interviewed by HuffPost. People familiar with the term say it is Border Patrol slang that comes from the sound made when hitting someone over the head with a flashlight or baton, HuffPost reported. Homan denied using the term and said he hadn’t heard it in years.

“If you’re in this country illegally…you should be uncomfortable,” Homan said. “You should look over your shoulder, and you need to be worried.”

In 2015 and 2016, Homan surprised colleagues by pushing for less enforcement. As children from Central America were starting to show up alone at the border in unprecedented numbers, Congress pressured the White House to make good on its pledge to remove those who didn’t qualify for humanitarian protections. Muñoz, the Domestic Policy Council director at the time, says that when administration officials asked Homan to come up with the plan to do that, he resisted harsher enforcement measures.

Homan was “the person who made the most passionate argument against removing anybody,” Muñoz says. Muñoz had won a MacArthur “genius” grant for her work on behalf of immigrants, yet Homan was the one making the strongest case against arresting people who came to the US as minors. Homan, she recalls, said he didn’t want a repeat of the 2000 Elián González case, when a Cuban boy was taken from his Miami relatives at gunpoint. Homan says in a statement to Mother Jones that he didn’t think the arrests would have been “the best use of our limited resources.”

During the 2016 presidential contest, Homan kept his personal opinions about immigration policy to himself. When the Washington Post asked him in April 2016 what he thought about Trump’s aggressive immigration proposals, he replied, “Sorry, I can’t say what I think.” He wouldn’t keep his thoughts private for long.

4. “You’re talking about every immigrant in the country”

Five days into his presidency, Trump upended the Obama administration’s immigration enforcement strategy, stating in an executive order that no population of undocumented immigrants should be protected from deportation. Homan’s retirement party was two days later. He’d told colleagues that he was looking forward to leaving government and had lined up a job as a national security consultant at the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, which advises ICE and DHS. There wasn’t a sense at the party that his departure would be temporary, according to a source who was there. Homan appeared to be leaving a three-decade career in law enforcement with the respect of DHS colleagues on the left and right. (In interviews, his former colleagues describe him as blunt but willing to compromise.) Instead, he accepted Kelly’s offer, knowing full well what he was getting into. Trump’s executive order meant that ICE would soon be breaking apart many more families who had been in the US for decades.

The first major operation of Homan’s tenure led to more than 680 arrests, and about 75 percent of those arrested had criminal convictions. In what would become a familiar exercise, Kelly highlighted the ones who had been convicted of homicide and other severe offenses. Months later, the Intercept revealed that ICE officials had scrambled to find the most extreme cases. ICE’s acting head of removal operations told his staff to “put together a white paper covering the three most egregious cases” for Kelly. A subordinate in Texas wrote to his staff, “As soon as you come in, your sole focus today will be compiling three egregious case write-ups.”

In February 2017, Kelly implemented Trump’s executive order by eliminating the 2014 enforcement guidelines. Kelly told ICE officers that they should no longer exempt any group of undocumented immigrants from arrest. The memo vastly expanded ICE’s enforcement priorities by including people who had been only been charged with a crime. It also made people with a deportation order—many of whom had previously been spared—a priority target for ICE. And if officers came across immigrants who did not meet the priority criteria, they were told they could arrest them, too. As Homan said last year, “No population is off the table.”

When immigrants are facing deportation, members of Congress may take the rare step of introducing a “private bill” to give them legal status. The bills usually don’t become law, but under the Obama administration, ICE didn’t deport people who were named in the bills. Homan often stepped in voluntarily to help legislators stop pending deportations. Yet in May, Homan announced that ICE would no longer delay deportations as a result of private bills. Instead, Homan said ICE would consider requests only from the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, which are controlled by Republicans known for their hardline views on immigration.

When Obama was president, Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) used a private bill to help prevent the deportation of Amer Othman Adi, a convenience store owner in his district who had come to the US from Jordan in 1979. But in January, ICE agents arrested Adi and placed him in immigration detention. “They went out of their way to humiliate him and his family,” says Ryan, who accompanied Adi to the meeting. A House judiciary subcommittee quickly voted across party lines to ask ICE to delay Adi’s deportation. ICE declined to issue a stay and deported Adi in late January.

“To watch Amer—who has four beautiful daughters, and a beautiful wife, and they are just all so in love with each other—and to watch him ripped away from them after 39 years in the United States is bullshit,” Ryan says. “It’s absolute bullshit.”

The extent of Homan’s transformation became clear in June, when he testified before Congress. Rep. David Price (D-N.C.) quoted a speech in which Kelly had told lawmakers to “shut up and support” immigration enforcers until Congress passed laws giving officers more discretion. When Price asked Homan how to do that, Homan implied that he wouldn’t support legislation that put any limits on whom ICE can arrest.

“By that standard, you’re talking about every immigrant in the country without papers,” Price interrupted.

Homan didn’t dispute that, saying, “As I said earlier, if you’re in this country illegally…you should look over your shoulder and you need to be worried.” After his response became headline news, he told CNN he had “zero regrets.” Homan tells Mother Jones that undocumented immigrants “should be uncomfortable” just as if they were driving illegally. “When you’re speeding down the highway,” he says, “you worry that you might get a ticket.”



ICE arrests of people without criminal records nearly tripled, from 17,000 in 2016 to 46,000 in 2017.

Some ICE officers wanted an even more thorough crackdown on illegal immigration. Homan’s testimony didn’t stop Chris Crane, the combative head of ICE’s union, from telling Breitbart Texas in July that it “is a disgrace that the man who oversaw Obama’s effort to release criminal illegal aliens into our country is now the acting director of ICE.” Later that month, Homan took an even harder line, telling Fox News that politicians who limit cooperation with his officers may be breaking the law. In January, Homan made that threat explicit. “We gotta start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said during one of his frequent appearances on the network. Specifically, Homan said politicians were violating an alien smuggling statute passed by Congress in 1965.

Bill Hing, a law professor at the University of San Francisco, told Mother Jones the next day that anyone calling for prosecutions of sanctuary city politicians is “shooting from the hip” and doesn’t “know what they’re talking about.” Limiting information-sharing with ICE is “nowhere near” what the statute is designed to prohibit, Hing said. There’s no precedent for treating politicians like the human smugglers Homan once investigated in Texas. Homan says it’s up to lawyers at the Department of Justice to consider the legal questions. He adds, “As a law enforcement officer, my view is that people who knowingly shield individuals from federal immigration enforcement are violating the law.”

Cities and states don’t have to help ICE arrest inmates, so Homan needs them to be willing partners. The Obama administration eventually opted to negotiate with sanctuary cities on an individual basis to get them to turn over people with serious criminal convictions—what Muñoz calls the “axe murderers.” Muñoz says that’s been completely disrupted by Homan and Trump’s rhetoric. “What I find really interesting is watching him overturn what I know he knows to be true,” she says. “Which is that collaboration, even under a set of rules that he might find too restrictive, is better than no collaboration at all.” The more Homan attacks sanctuary jurisdictions, the less likely they are to cooperate, and the two sides grow ever more entrenched in their stances.

The pattern is clearest in California, which passed legislation last year that limits cooperation with ICE. In response, Homan vowed to “significantly increase” ICE’s presence in the state. He’s made good on that promise by launching highly publicized operations in the Bay Area, Los Angeles, and San Diego, in which hundreds of people have been arrested this year. (The Justice Department is also suing California.)

When Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf warned residents about impending arrests in February, Homan told the hosts of Fox & Friends that Schaaf was no better than a “gang lookout.” He said Schaaf had intentionally placed his officers at risk and prevented ICE from arresting 800 people, even though he’d previously said he wasn’t sure how many people Schaaf helped evade arrest. It was clearly an exaggeration: ICE had an additional 800 people on its target list, but there was no way it would find all of them in a single sweep. ICE’s San Francisco spokesman James Schwab told the San Francisco Chronicle that he was directed by superiors not to correct the misstatements from Homan and Attorney General Jeff Sessions. He resigned in protest and said, “I’ve never been in a situation when I’ve been asked to ignore the facts because it was more convenient. It was my first time being asked to do that.”

What is motivating attacks on sanctuary cities that are so obviously poised to backfire? Part of the answer has to do with Homan’s concern for his team. When ICE can’t arrest people in the relative safety of a jail because a sanctuary city or state prohibits it, officers often try to arrest them at their homes instead. Homan has said his officers don’t know who’s behind those doors and that it’s only a matter of time before one of his officers is killed. Former colleagues stress that Homan is intensely loyal to his officers, and nothing appears to frustrate him more than the danger he believes sanctuary policies put them in. Five ICE officers have died doing their jobs since the agency was created, HuffPost reports, and no deportation officers have been killed in violent altercations with undocumented immigrants, according to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund.

Homan is also battling longstanding problems with morale. Job satisfaction at ICE ranked 299 out of 305 federal agencies in 2016, according to the nonpartisan Partnership for Public Service. Last year, satisfaction rose more than at any other agency. Homan told the Washington Examiner in July that his employees now “have meaning to their jobs.”

But former colleagues say Homan is doing more than just sticking up for his staff. Peña, the former ICE deputy director, says it’s “a heck of a title to be director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.” Getting that title is the best explanation he can think of for Homan’s rhetoric. Muñoz says that like other administration officials, Homan clearly recognizes “that when he’s on television, the president of the United States is likely watching, and his job may depend on him saying what he believes the president wants to hear.” In November, Trump selected Homan to be ICE’s permanent director. A Senate staffer familiar with the matter says Homan’s nomination is stalled until the White House submits biographical information to the Senate Homeland Security Committee. It’s not clear when the White House will try to advance Homan’s nomination, the staffer says.

Peña says there’s one other possible reason for Homan’s shift. Immigration enforcement, he says, “has become very profitable for some people” in the private detention business. He adds, “There certainly would be a look by some of these companies that are making huge profits at somebody like Tom when he retires.” Daniel Ragsdale, who preceded Homan as acting ICE director, now works for GEO Group, America’s second-largest private prison and detention company. In response to a question about a possible future for Homan in the detention industry, Liz Johnson, an ICE spokeswoman, says Homan “chose to pass up an opportunity in the private sector in order to continue serving his country at the request of the president of the United States.”

5. Padding the numbers

Homan and Trump had an immediate and dramatic impact on the way ICE operates. ICE arrested about 155,000 people last year, up from 110,000 in 2016, and arrests of people without criminal records nearly tripled, from 17,000 to 46,000. Even the people who had committed crimes were not always the clear threats ICE made them out to be. The four most common convictions among people ICE arrested last fiscal year were DUIs, other traffic offenses, drug-related charges, and immigration violations.

ICE press releases feature a parade of murderers and gang members. Homan said in August, “The question is always asked, ‘Do illegal immigrants commit more crimes than U.S. citizens?’ I don’t know.” But finding the answer doesn’t seem particularly important to him; he said in the same interview, “Every crime an illegal alien commits wouldn’t have been committed if he wasn’t here.” In 2015, there were 1,749 criminal convictions in Texas for every 100,000 native-born Americans—more than twice the rate for undocumented immigrants and nearly seven times the rate for legal immigrants, according to an analysis by the libertarian Cato Institute.

The agency previously allowed many undocumented immigrants with deportation orders to remain in the country if they agreed to meet regularly with ICE officers. ICE now frequently arrests people at those check-in meetings—people who John Sandweg, who briefly served as ICE’s acting director under Obama, says tend to have the strongest case for remaining in the US.

George Escobar, the head of social services for the immigrant advocacy group CASA de Maryland, cites the case of two brothers from Maryland. Lizandro Claros Saravia, a 19-year-old soccer star, and 22-year-old Diego received deportation orders during the Obama administration but were spared deportation as long as they met regularly with ICE officers. Last year, they were detained at what they thought would be a routine check-in with ICE. CASA provided legal services and helped generate national media attention, but it wasn’t enough. The brothers were quickly deported to El Salvador. Sandweg says that for ICE, people who were allowed to stay in the US after receiving a deportation order are “low-hanging fruit” who can be deported easily. “It’s pad the numbers,” he says.

Interior deportations haven’t increased as quickly as arrests. Overtaxed immigration courts already have a nearly 700,000-case backlog, and Sandweg says it will take longer to deport people without criminal records. ICE is still deporting far fewer people than it once did: about 81,000 people from the interior of the country last fiscal year, compared to roughly 230,000 per year between 2008 and 2011. Homan thinks he can get back to the deportation record set in 2012, when nearly 410,000 people were deported from the interior and border regions. “I think we’re going to get there,” he told the Washington Times in July. “Our interior arrests will go up.” To accomplish that, he pledged last year to increase enforcement at workplaces by four or five times. Last week, ICE arrested 97 immigrants at a meat processing plant in Tennessee in what immigrant advocates say is the largest workplace raid since the Bush administration.

Homan is also pushing to keep more immigrants in detention. ICE already detains about 40,000 people per day—18 times more than INS even had the capacity to detain in 1989. The Trump administration wants the number to exceed 50,000 per day, but Congress has refused to provide the funding so far. In 2016, Homan signed a letter stipulating that pregnant women would be detained only when it was mandatory or there were “extraordinary circumstances.” But in December, he instituted a new policy of deciding on pregnant women’s detention on a case-by-case basis.

Homan disputes the idea that he’s changed. “Certainly, now that I’m in a leadership position, I’m able to share my views more vocally,” he says. “But I’m still the guy who pushed hard for broader enforcement priorities in the last administration beyond just convicted criminals.” Muñoz disagrees, saying there’s a dramatic difference between the thoughtful discussions they had with other Obama administration officials about immigration enforcement and “going on television and displaying the kind of attitude and approach that Tom has been doing since assuming this position.”

For Peña, putting all undocumented immigrants at risk of deportation is a massive waste of resources. “Why are you going to clog up the limited bed space you have with a mother or a grandmother who happens to have overstayed her visa?” he asks. Cates, who worked with Peña in the 1970s, sees it differently. He says the law tells Homan to deport undocumented immigrants, and Congress should pass new laws if it doesn’t want him to do that. “Cops are not here to make those sociological distinctions,” he says. “We’re here to enforce the law.” Homan said in January that all of the president’s executive orders on immigration can be summed up in one sentence: “You will now enforce the laws enacted by Congress.”

The biggest shift under Trump may be the one that’s hardest to measure: widespread fear. Undocumented immigrants now know that no matter how long they’ve been in the US—or even if they have children who are US citizens—the Trump administration will not hesitate to deport them. Escobar, who has worked with immigrants for the past 15 years, says there was finally a sense that immigration enforcement was being handled rationally at the end of the Obama administration. Now, immigrants face arrests that often seem designed to create a feeling of chaos, he says.

Homan argued last year that he has been conducting “targeted enforcement operations” rather than rounding up immigrants at random, even though ICE officers now often arrest people who are not on their target lists. He said that the media and politicians were the ones stoking fear by mischaracterizing ICE’s enforcement strategy.

Muñoz doesn’t buy it. “Of course they’re instilling fear,” she says. “At some level that’s the nature of the job. The question is whether you leverage it intentionally or not.” She doesn’t hesitate when asked about the levels of fear the current approach has created among undocumented immigrants. “They’re unlike anything I’ve ever seen,” she says, “and I’ve been doing this for 30 years.”

Image credit: Kevin Dietsch/AP; brytta/GettyLooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Update 3:48 p.m.: President Trump tweeted in response to the McCabe report:

DOJ just issued the McCabe report – which is a total disaster. He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey – McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

The Justice Department’s inspector general released his report on fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe on Friday, finding that he “lacked candor” in discussions with then-FBI Director James Comey, FBI investigators, and Office of the Inspector General investigators regarding leaks to the media.

“We found that, in a conversation with then-Director Comey shortly after the WSJ article was published, McCabe lacked candor when he told Comey, or made statements that led Comey to believe, that McCabe had not authorized the disclosure and did not know who did,” the report states.

The report also says that the leaks, in which he confirmed the existence of an investigation into the Clinton Foundation just before the 2016 elections, violated FBI policy: “We therefore concluded that McCabe’s disclosure of the existence of an ongoing investigation in this manner violated the FBI’s and the Department’s media policy and constituted misconduct.”

McCabe’s lawyer, Michael Bromwich, responded with a statement, released on Twitter, in which he called the decision to fire McCabe “rushed” and “unprecedented.” He further said the findings that McCabe made false statements to investigators “are more properly understood as the result of misunderstanding, miscommunication, and honest failures of recollection.”

The IG report is out: Andy McCabe’s reward for 21 years devoted service was 23 days worth of “due process.” The AG terminated him 26 hours short of his retirement on very shaky facts, depriving him of his retirement benefits. A disgrace. My statement: https://t.co/u2TeRCoUzf — Michael R. Bromwich (@mrbromwich) April 13, 2018

Read the full report below.







&amp;amp;lt;br /&amp;amp;gt;&amp;lt;br /&amp;gt;&lt;br /&gt;<br /><br />

&amp;amp;lt;a href=”https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/4437288/20180413a-Doj-Oig-Mccabe-Report.pdf”&amp;amp;gt;20180413a Doj Oig Mccabe Report (PDF)&amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;lt;br /&amp;amp;gt;&amp;lt;br /&amp;gt;&lt;br /&gt;<br /><br />

&amp;amp;lt;br /&amp;amp;gt; &amp;amp;lt;a href=”https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/4437288/20180413a-Doj-Oig-Mccabe-Report.txt”&amp;amp;gt;20180413a Doj Oig Mccabe Report (Text)&amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;lt;br /&amp;amp;gt;&amp;lt;br /&amp;gt;&lt;br /&gt;<br /><br />

Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

President Trump has officially pardoned Lewis “Scooter” Libby, a chief of staff to former Vice President Dick Cheney who had been convicted of obstruction of justice in a 2003 leak of a CIA operative’s identity. Libby was also convicted for lying before a grand jury and to federal investigators.

“I don’t know Mr. Libby,” President Trump said in a statement Friday, “but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.”

Not everyone agreed. “President Trump’s pardon of Scooter Libby makes clear his contempt for the rule of law,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif) said in a statement. “This pardon sends a troubling signal to the President’s allies that obstructing justice will be rewarded…Neither the President nor his allies are above the law.”

Trump has previously pardoned former Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who had been convicted of contempt of court and faced up to six months in jail.

Some observers have speculated that Trump’s motives in pardoning Libby might be intertwined with the president’s current legal problems. The move, writes James Hohmann of the Washington Post, “is the latest signal to his associates that he has the power and inclination to reward those who stay loyal during special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Last weekend in the Syrian town of Douma, more than 500 people had symptoms of a chemical attack as they foamed at the mouth and struggled to breathe, according to the World Health Organization. The suspected attack by the Syrian government ultimately killed more than 40 people, many of them children.

Syria, and its supporters Russia and Iran, have denied the used of chemical weapons.

Instead, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenko pointed a finger at the United Kingdom on Friday. According to USA TODAY, Konashenkov released statements he said were from medics at Douma’s hospital who claimed none of the patients were hurt by chemicals. People with video cameras entered the hospital, yelling that patients had been struck with chemical weapons, he added. Konashenkov said that Russia has “evidence that proves Britain was directly involved in the provocation,” but didn’t provide more details or evidence to back up his claim.

BREAKING: The Russian military says that an alleged chemical attack in Syria was staged and directed by Britain. — The Associated Press (@AP) April 13, 2018

Douma was the last holdout of rebel groups in eastern Ghouta. The region has been under siege for years and has been the victim of multiple chemical attacks in the past. On Friday Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov also claimed he had “irrefutable evidence” the Douma attack was staged with the help of an unspecified foreign intelligence agency, but he didn’t provide any evidence.

These allegations may be part of an escalating war of words between Britain and Russia. Last month, a former Russian spy and his daughter were poisoned in the UK with what officials have said was a military grade nerve agent. The UK says Russia was behind the poisoning, though Moscow has denied any role.

President Trump has promised to retaliate for the Syrian chemical attack and warned Russia about its support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. “You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!” Trump tweeted Wednesday.

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Days before images from the attack appeared, Trump told his military commanders to wrap up operations and start withdrawing US troops from Syria within a few months.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On Thursday night, the first details of James Comey’s new book, which comes out next week, rolled in. In A Higher Loyalty, the former FBI director is unsparing in his portrait of Donald Trump, whom he likens to a crime boss and blasts as “unethical and untethered to truth.” On Friday morning, Trump took to Twitter to assail Comey as a “leaker and a liar” and to suggest, once again, that the ex-FBI chief should face prosecution.

Comey oversaw the FBI’s investigation into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia during the 2016 election. The president abruptly fired him last May, a move Trump acknowledged was related to the cloud he was under from the Russia probe and which raised questions about whether Trump was obstructing justice.

“It was my great honor to fire James Comey!” Trump tweeted on Friday. And he contended that “virtually everyone in Washington” thought Comey should be fired—a claim that, as Comey would say, is “untethered to the truth.”

James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR. Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired. He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and….. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

….untruthful slime ball who was, as time has proven, a terrible Director of the FBI. His handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case, and the events surrounding it, will go down as one of the worst “botch jobs” of history. It was my great honor to fire James Comey! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

If Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury is any indication, Trump’s attack on Comey and his book may mean the ex-FBI director has a huge bestseller on his hands.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On Thursday evening—like a thunderclap—the new book by James Comey, the Trump-fired former FBI chief, slammed into the political-media world. Comey’s A Higher Loyalty is due out on Tuesday, but stories about what’s in the book, as was inevitable, began detonating several days ahead of the publication date.

The New York Times posted its review of the work— “It’s Very Persuasive”—leading with Comey’s comparison of Donald Trump to the dishonest mob bosses the former FBI chief used to pursue, those wise-guys who demanded blind loyalty from their minions. The New York Post pushed that angle too, with a headline blaring, “Comey Says Trump Reminded Him of Gambino Mob Boss.” And the Washington Post focused on Trump’s fixation on the infamous Steele dossier—not its allegations of covert Trump-Russia ties, but specifically its unproven “golden showers” allegation. As Comey tells it, Trump repeatedly insisted to the G-man that this tale was untrue. (In our new book, Russian Roulette: The Inside Story of Putin’s War on America and the Election of Donald Trump, Michael Isikoff and I report that Christopher Steele, the former British intelligence officer who compiled that document, now believes the odds the pee party actually transpired are about “fifty-fifty.”)

Comey’s observations of Trump are valuable—comments on the size of Trump’s hands aside—and the recounting of his interactions with the president, which offer a few more details than Comey provided when he testified before Congress last year, ought to disturb anyone who cares about having a reasonable and stable commander in chief. Comey clearly knows how to sell this significant and troubling story. But of the material that has become available, one portion of the book stands out as far more worrisome than Trump’s obsession with the allegations of urinating prostitutes or his Soprano-like behavior.

This is the passage from the Washington Post relating what happened when Comey, then-Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, then-CIA chief John Brennan, and NSA head Mike Rogers briefed Trump in early January 2017 on the intelligence community’s report that concluded the Russians had mounted an information warfare attack on the 2016 election to help Trump become president. Midway through its article on the Comey book, the Post describes his account:

Trump was accompanied at the Trump Tower session by his national security team, as well as by political aides Reince Priebus and Sean Spicer, who were slated to become White House chief of staff and press secretary respectively. Trump asked only one question, Comey writes: “You found there was no impact on the result, right?” James R. Clapper Jr., then the director of national intelligence, replied that the intelligence community did no such analysis. Comey recalls being struck that neither Trump nor his advisers asked about the future Russian threat, nor how the United States might prepare to meet it. Rather, he writes, they focused on “how they could spin what we’d just told them.” With Clapper and then-CIA Director John O. Brennan—both Obama appointees—still in the room, Priebus and other Trump aides strategized for political advantage, Comey writes. The Trump team decided they would emphasize that Russian interference had no impact on the vote—which, Clapper reminded them, the intelligence community had not determined.

Trump was two weeks away from being sworn in as president. He was just informed that the US national security establishment had confirmed its assessment that Vladimir Putin had covertly attacked American democracy and that this assault was designed to affect the results of the election. And Trump responded with no interest in any aspect of this unprecedented intervention other than its political implications—for him. In front of the leaders of the intelligence community—two of whom would continue to work for him—Trump did not even bother to feign concern. He went straight to what mattered most: What does this mean for me?

The president-to-be was engaging in a profound dereliction of duty. His No. 1 job is to defend the United States from foreign attack. And he didn’t give a damn. He was kicking off his presidency with an action—or inaction—that could be seen as a betrayal of the nation he was supposed to serve.

As Isikoff and I point out, after this meeting, Trump tweeted, “Intelligence stated very strongly there was absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election results.” This was not true. The report did not say that. And Clapper, according to Comey, had explicitly spelled this out for Trump. Still, Trump lied—and Priebus and Spicer went along.

This anecdote from Comey’s book certainly raises a question of Trump’s fitness for office. It also presents what might be an uncomfortable question for Comey, Brennan, Clapper, and Rogers. They saw an incoming president demonstrate he was unable—or unwilling—to meet his primary obligation. They did not share this with the rest of us. (Rogers still works for Trump, but he is expected to retire soon.)

Comey’s portrayal of Trump as vain, erratic, ignorant, and dismissive of the important norms of government and law enforcement is not a surprise. Nor is Trump’s private reaction to the intelligence community’s report on the Russian attack. But this particular moment reveals a fundamental flaw of his presidency: Trump does not—and perhaps cannot—truly care about the well-being of the country he leads. It’s good that Comey is telling the public now. But there are others who have witnessed this sort of Trump conduct—Admiral Rogers?—who ought to let their fellow Americans know. That would truly be serving a higher loyalty.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Portions of former FBI director James Comey’s upcoming memoir have started to leak—and the revelations are making (ahem) quite a splash. The New York Post is reporting that Comey wrote that in a conversation with President Donald Trump in January 2017, Trump actually asked Comey to investigate allegations surrounding the infamous “pee tape.” Trump wanted Comey to debunk the claim that he’d hired prostitutes to urinate on a bed in Moscow in 2013.

The reason? The president wanted to convince first lady Melania Trump that there was no chance the stories about a “pee tape” were true.

“He brought up what he called the ‘golden showers thing’…adding that it bothered him if there was ‘even a one percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true,” Comey wrote, according to the Post. “He just rolled on, unprompted, explaining why it couldn’t possibly be true, ending by saying he was thinking of asking me to investigate the allegation to prove it was a lie. I said it was up to him.”

That conversation apparently happened in January 2017, at the same dinner where Trump demanded that Comey pledge “loyalty” to him. Meanwhile, the Washington Post—which says it has a leaked copy of the memoir—is reporting that Trump was “fixated” on the “golden showers thing,” keeping Comey behind after a meeting with national intelligence chiefs to discuss the allegations:

According to Comey’s account in a new memoir, Trump “strongly denied the allegations, asking—rhetorically, I assumed—whether he seemed like a guy who needed the service of prostitutes. He then began discussing cases where women had accused him of sexual assault, a subject I had not raised. He mentioned a number of women, and seemed to have memorized their allegations”… Comey describes Trump as having been obsessed with the prostitutes portion of the infamous dossier compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele, raising it at least four times with the FBI head. The document claimed that Trump had watched the prostitutes urinate on themselves in the same Moscow suite that President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama stayed in previously “as a way of soiling the bed,” Comey writes. Trump offered varying explanations to convince Comey it was not true. “I’m a germaphobe,” Trump told him in a follow-up call on Jan. 11, 2017, according to Comey’s account. “There’s no way I would let people pee on each other around me. No way.” Later, the president asked what could be done to “lift the cloud” because it was so painful for first lady Melania Trump.

Comey’s book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership,” is due out next Tuesday.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

More than 1,300 former congressional staff wrote to Senate leaders Thursday urging them to pass legislation addressing sexual harassment on Capitol Hill.

“Many current and former staff have spoken publicly about their own experiences, often describing a climate of fear, a burdensome and confusing reporting process, and a system designed to protect congressional offices at the expense of victims,” the letter says. It was addressed to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Senate Rules Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), and Ranking Member Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.).

In the wake of the #MeToo movement last year, a group of former congressional staff created Congress Too, an organization that attempts to combat sexual harassment in the congressional workplace. They orchestrated both this letter and a similar one they sent to House leadership in November advocating for increased transparency, and calling existing policies inadequate.

“A cascade of troubling news stories has only reinforced the urgent need for reform,” the letter to the Senate says, referring to a November CNN story documenting the sexual harassment stories of more than 50 staffers.

The sexual harassment problem in Congress is not a novel concern. For decades, women who worked on Capitol Hill—from interns to staff members—have described inappropriate behavior by elected officials who faced few consequences for their actions. But the momentum of the #MeToo movement pushed the issue into the public eye last year. Since then, at least six members of Congress have been accused of sexually harassing staff, including Rep. Pat Meehan (R-Pa.), a member of the committee tasked with investigating accusations of harassment against members of Congress. (Earlier this year, he announced that he would not run for reelection.) Last year four female senators shared their own experiences of sexual harassment and assault while working on the Hill.

The “burdensome and confusing” process for addressing sexual harassment in Congress that the letter describes goes something like this. Staff who have been harassed have 180 days to file a complaint with the little-known Office of Compliance. They must then undergo up to a month of legal counseling and then a mandatory “mediation” involving a taxpayer-funded lawyer representing the congressional office’s interest. If no settlement is reached, the victim must wait through a month-long “cooling-off” period before filing a lawsuit or requesting a hearing. Should a settlement be reached, it usually includes a nondisclosure agreement—and the member of Congress uses taxpayer dollars to pay the victim. Since 1997, the US Treasury has shelled out more than $17 million for Capitol Hill workplace violations in the form of awards and settlements.

In February, the House passed a major bipartisan reform bill overhauling this process, prohibiting the accused from using taxpayer dollars to settle sexual harassment suits and giving victims more rights and resources. However, Senate action is necessary to make changes to the 1995 Congressional Accountability Act, which outlines the complaint process and the sources of settlement money. The Senate has been accused of being hesitant to respond after failing to include reforms to the 23-year-old act in a March omnibus spending bill.

Last month, in a separate letter to McConnell and Schumer, all 22 female senators expressed their disappointment that the Senate has not enacted “meaningful reform.”

“As former staffers who care deeply about Congress, we are working to support changes that will benefit the institution as a whole by improving the environment for everyone who serves there,” Kristin Nicholson and Travis Moore, co-founders of Congress Too, said in a joint statement. “We hope that Senators will take advantage of the momentum that exists on this issue and pass bipartisan reforms to ensure Congress is a safe and supportive workplace for all.”

Read the full Congress Too letter below:Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

A conservative activist and voter fraud alarmist is facing a federal lawsuit Thursday over dubious allegations of massive voter fraud in Virginia. A civil rights group and four Virginia voters filed a suit against J. Christian Adams and the legal outfit he runs, alleging that Adams and the group violated state and federal law when it accused thousands of Virginians, many of them eligible citizens, of voting illegally.

Adams, a former member of President Donald Trump’s voter fraud commission, is the president and general counsel of the Public Interest Legal Foundation (PILF), which in 2016 and 2017 published two reports alleging that thousands of “aliens” had committed felony voter fraud in Virginia and, in indexes to the reports, published personally identifiable information about those people. But many of Adams’ would-be criminals are in fact eligible voters, including all of the plaintiffs.

In the lawsuit, a local Virginia chapter of the League of United Latin American Citizens and four individuals allege that Adams and his legal firm violated state defamation laws, as well as federal civil rights laws that protect against voter intimidation. The lawsuit alleges that the reports Adams published are a form of voter intimidation against the people named in the report, and put them at risk by publishing their personal information alongside the allegation that they are felons.

The two reports, “Alien Invasion in Virginia” and “Alien Invasion II” used a flawed methodology in order to claim that more than than 5,500 non-citizens had registered to vote, and that 1,852 of those people cast nearly 7,500 ballots over last few decades. The reports claimed that PILF had obtained the names of thousands of voters who had likely committed felonies by registering to vote and casting a ballot. The reports’ indexes included names of these accused individuals, along with personal information including home addresses, phone numbers, and even some Social Security numbers (which were later redacted).

The group promoted its reports to conservative media, and Adams submitted them as evidence of voter fraud to the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, the panel Trump convened last May after claiming that up to 5 million people voted cast fraudulent ballots in the 2016 elections. The president disbanded the commission, which was besieged by lawsuits, in January.

Mother Jones reported on the faulty methodology in Adams’ reports last summer, after Adams joined the commission. The data analysis in the reports is “not just incredibly inflated; [it’s] designed—and specifically designed—to get inaccurate information,” election law expert and former Justice Department official Justin Levitt told Mother Jones last year. Adams and his colleagues based their research on forms that Virginians fill out at the DMV, which include a question on citizenship status. Anyone who indicates that they are not a citizen, or fails to check a box, can be removed from the rolls. The reports’ findings did not take into account how many people could have erroneously checked the wrong box, or no box at all, which local officials say happens often. Adams acknowledged in an email to Mother Jones last year that his report may include eligible voters, but blamed the state, which furnished the data, for any errors.

PILF responded to the lawsuit Thursday with a statement making that same argument. “All documents and information included in the PILF report are from public documents from publicly available sources,” the statement says. “Any incorrect information is from the public records. The lawsuit against PILF is frivolous and intended to interfere with its mission of supporting the enforcement of the laws of the United States and the states against illegal voting by noncitizens.”

A former Justice Department attorney, Adams is among a small group of conservative lawyers, many of whom were on Trump’s commission, who argue that voter fraud is rampant and that states and the US government need more restrictive voter laws. (Research shows the actual incidence of in-person voter fraud, however, is virtually nonexistent.) Adams is also among a handful of attorneys who have repeatedly sue counties around the country to force them to purge their voter rolls. The “Alien Invasion” reports were submitted as evidence of fraud to Trump’s panel. Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the nation’s most prominent voter fraud alarmist, cited the reports in federal court last month in support of a law to require proof of citizenship in order to register in Kansas.

But voter restriction activism has hit roadblocks recently in court. Last month, Adams lost a major case in Florida where he tried to force Broward County, a large Democratic-leaning county in a swing state, to purge its voter rolls. In the same trial where he cited Adams’ reports, Kobach struggled to prove the existence of widespread voter fraud in Kansas, and the trial was widely seen as an embarrassment for him and his assertions of fraud. If the lawsuit filed Thursday against Adams is not immediately dismissed, Adams will also have to defend his work in court.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Congressional Democrats on Thursday released an eye-popping letter that describes a pattern of what the lawmakers call “wasteful spending, unethical behavior, and inappropriate use of resources and personnel” by Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt. The new allegations in the letter come from Kevin Chmielewski, a senior EPA official who served as Pruitt’s deputy chief of staff until he was put on unpaid administrative leave after raising concerns about Pruitt’s actions.

Chmielewski, a Republican, is a supporter of and former campaign aide to Donald Trump. He told members of Congress recently that he spoke out about Pruitt’s lavish spending and other questionable behavior because “right is right and wrong is wrong.” A spokesman for the EPA said in a statement to reporters: “We will respond to members of Congress through the proper channel.”

Here are nine of the most shocking things Chmielewski told Congress about Pruitt’s tenure in charge of the EPA.

“The Nightmare Is Now Yours”

When Chmielewski first started his job as a senior official at EPA, Pruitt’s chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, had a message for Chmielewski: “The nightmare is now yours.”

Chmielewski told Congress that as he learned more about Pruitt’s spending and travel habits, he found that “every time you tried to find out about something you got in trouble.”

A Refinished Desk, a Standing Desk, and Smithsonian Art

Pruitt spent far more than the allotted $5,000 for office renovations and decorating, Chmielewski claims. That included refinishing an antique desk, paying for leases for art loaned out from the Smithsonian Institution, and building a $43,000 soundproof phone booth. (The phone booth construction project has been a subject of controversy since last fall.)

A spokeswoman for the Smithsonian said in an email that Pruitt’s office has portraits of James Monroe and John Marshall on loan from the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery and one piece, Mountain Landscape by William Louis Sonntag from 1854, on loan from the Smithsonian American Art Museum. The spokeswoman added that government offices that borrow a painting pay for packing and shipping but that the Smithsonian does not charge a loan or leasing fee to high-profile government offices such as the White House, members of Congress, and cabinet members.

Taxpayer-Funded Personal Real Estate Agent

Pruitt used the EPA’s director of scheduling and advance as his “personal real estate representative, spending weeks improperly using federal government resources and time to contact rental and seller’s agents, and touring numerous properties in which [he] might wish to reside,” according to the allegations recounted in the letter from the Democratic members of Congress.

Private Jet Rental

Chmielewski told lawmakers that Pruitt directed one of his aides to enter into a $100,000-a-month contract for a private jet rental for the EPA, confirming a report last week by the New York Times. The EPA administrator’s annual travel budget is $450,000. Chmielewski says he intervened to stop the arrangement.

“Find Me Something to Do”

Pruitt apparently instructed his staff to “find me something to do” in particular cities and countries he wanted to visit in order to justify the use of taxpayer dollars for the trips, according to Chmielewski. He also sought to fly on Delta Air Lines even when it wasn’t the federal government’s contract carrier on a certain route so that he could “accrue more frequent flier miles.”

Swanky Hotels

Pruitt insisted on staying at expensive hotels that exceeded the federal government’s per diem rate, “sometimes even exceeding the 300 percent cap permitted in exceptional circumstances.”

Swankier Hotels, Less Security

Pruitt has earned a reputation for insisting on a huge, round-the-clock personal security detail that sucks resources away from EPA investigation of environmental crimes. But Chmielewski alleges that, on two international trips, Pruitt refused to stay at hotels recommended by the US embassy that had more rigorous security standards in favor of “more expensive hotels with fewer standard security measures.”

First-Class Final Straw

The final straw in Pruitt’s eyes, according to Chmielewski, was when Chmielewski refused to retroactively approve a first-class flight from Morocco to the United States for a trusted aide to Pruitt. The congressional Democrats’ letter to Pruitt says that Chmielewski “told our staffs that following his refusal, Chief of Staff Ryan Jackson called Mr. Chmielewski into his office and informed him that you [Pruitt] wished to fire or reassign him.”

Pruitt’s Head of Security Was Reported to Local Police

Pruitt’s head of security allegedly announced that he was going to go to Chmielewski’s home to seize his EPA credentials after Chmielewski had fallen out of favor with Pruitt. On a conference call that included the EPA’s liaison to the White House, Pruitt’s security chief said he “didn’t give a fuck who is on this call” when he described his plan to retrieve Chmielewski’s credentials, according to the letter. Chmielewski told Congress that he reported the security chief’s comments to the local police, the White House Office of Presidential Personnel, and EPA officials.

Read the full letter, signed by two US senators and three House members:COVER STORIES

Cloak and Data The story behind Cambridge Analytica’s rise and fall

Plus: Weapons of Mass Disruption by Terrell Jermaine Starr

From Russia, With Love for the NRA Are Alexander Torshin and Maria Butina just a couple of Russian activists who love guns and Donald Trump—or something shadier?Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

1. “I can’t stand lying to you every day”

In the late summer of 2015, Chris Wilson, the director of research, analytics, and digital strategy for Sen. Ted Cruz’s presidential campaign, had a conversation with a contractor that left him furious. A widely respected pollster who had taken leave from his firm to work full time for Cruz, Wilson oversaw a team of more than 40 data scientists, developers, and digital marketers, one of the largest departments inside Cruz’s Houston-based operation. The Iowa caucuses were fast approaching, and the Cruz campaign had poured nearly $13 million into winning the opening contest of the primary season.

As the campaign laid the groundwork for Iowa, a sizable chunk of its spending—$4.4 million and counting—flowed to a secretive company with British roots named Cambridge Analytica. A relative newcomer to American politics, the firm sold itself as the latest, greatest entrant into the burgeoning field of political technology. It claimed to possess detailed profiles on 230 million American voters based on up to 5,000 data points, everything from where you live to whether you own a car, your shopping habits and voting record, the medications you take, your religious affiliation, and the TV shows you watch. This data is available to anyone with deep pockets. But Cambridge professed to bring a unique approach to the microtargeting techniques that have become de rigueur in politics. It promised to couple consumer information with psychological data, harvested from social-media platforms and its own in-house survey research, to group voters by personality type, pegging them as agreeable or neurotic, confrontational or conciliatory, leaders or followers. It would then target these groups with specially tailored images and messages, delivered via Facebook ads, glossy mailers, or in-person interactions. The company’s CEO, a polo-playing Eton graduate named Alexander Nix, called it “our secret sauce.”

As a rule, Nix said his firm generally steered clear of working in British politics to avoid controversy in its own backyard. But it had no qualms applying its mind-bending techniques to a foreign electorate. “It’s someone else’s political system,” explains one former Cambridge employee, a British citizen. “It’s not ours. None of us would ever consider doing what we were doing here.”

“They’re just full of shit, right?” Paul Manafort asked. “I don’t want ’em anywhere near the campaign.”

Brought to Cruz by two of the campaign’s biggest backers, hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah, Cambridge Analytica was put in charge of the entire data and digital operation, embedding 12 of its employees in Houston. The company, largely owned by Robert Mercer, said it had something special for Cruz. According to marketing materials obtained by Mother Jones, it pitched a “revolutionary” piece of software called Ripon, an all-in-one tool that let a campaign manage its voter database, microtargeting efforts, door-to-door canvassing, low-dollar fundraising, and surveys. Ripon, Cambridge vowed, was “the future of campaigning.” (The name is a clever bit of marketing: Ripon is the small town in Wisconsin where the Republican Party was born.)

The Cruz campaign believed Ripon might give it an edge in a crowded field of Republican hopefuls. But the software wasn’t ready right away. According to former Cruz staffers, Wilson inquired about Ripon’s status daily. It was almost finished, he was repeatedly told. Weeks passed, then months. Finally, in August 2015, one of the Cambridge consultants in Houston came clean. Ripon “doesn’t exist,” he told Wilson, according to several former Cruz staffers. “It’ll never exist. I’ve just resigned because I can’t stand lying to you every day anymore.” The campaign had hired Cambridge in the belief it could use Ripon to help win Cruz the nomination; instead, it was paying millions of dollars to build the Ripon technology. “It was like an internal Ponzi scheme,” a former Cruz campaign official told me.

The Cruz campaign couldn’t fire Cambridge outright. The Mercers wouldn’t be happy, and the campaign was too far along to ax a significant part of its digital staff. Still, Cruz officials steadily reduced Cambridge’s role. Even though the campaign used Cambridge’s psychological data in Iowa, Cruz’s victory there in February 2016 did nothing to quell the growing distrust campaign officials felt toward the company.

The Cruz team wasn’t alone in its doubts about the firm. Cambridge was also working, albeit in a more limited role, for rival Ben Carson’s campaign, whose experience with the company was similarly frustrating. Cambridge, for instance, sold itself as an expert in TV advertising yet failed to grasp basic facts about buying ads. Carson staffers came away feeling like Cambridge was at best in over its head and at worst a sham.

After Carson and Cruz dropped out and Trump all but clinched the nomination, Doug Watts, a senior staffer on the Carson campaign, got a call from Paul Manafort, Trump’s campaign chairman. “What do you know about Cambridge Analytica?” Manafort asked.

Watts replied that he didn’t think much of the firm. “They’re just full of shit, right?” Manafort said, according to Watts. “I don’t want ’em anywhere near the campaign.”

A few months later, on September 19, 2016, Alexander Nix strode onstage at the Concordia Annual Summit in Manhattan, a highbrow TED-meets-Davos confab. He was a featured speaker alongside Madeleine Albright, Warren Buffett, David Petraeus, and New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand. Wired magazine had recently named him one of its “25 Geniuses Who Are Creating the Future of Business.”

In a dark tailored suit and designer glasses, wearing a signet ring on his left pinkie, Nix regaled the audience with the story of how Cambridge Analytica had turned Ted Cruz from an obscure and reviled US senator into “the only credible threat to the phenomenon Donald Trump.” Using Cambridge’s methods, the Cruz campaign had sliced and diced Iowa caucus-goers into hyperspecific groups based on their personality traits and the issues they cared about, such as the Second Amendment. As Nix clicked through his slides, he showed how it was possible to use so-called psychographics—a fancy term for measuring attitudes and interests of individuals—to narrow the universe of Iowans from the tens of thousands down to a single persuadable voter. In this case, Nix’s slide listed a man named Jeffrey Jay Ruest, a registered Republican born in 1963. He was “very low in neuroticism, quite low in openness, and slightly conscientious”—and would likely be receptive to a gun rights message.

“Clearly the Cruz campaign is over now,” he said as he finished his presentation, “but what I can tell you is that of the two candidates left in this election, one of them is using these technologies, and it’s going to be very interesting to see how they impact the next seven weeks.”

That candidate was Donald Trump. After Cruz dropped out in May 2016, the Mercers had quickly shifted their alliance to Trump, and his campaign hired their data firm over Manafort’s apparent objections. “Obviously he didn’t bargain for Rebekah Mercer being their big advocate,” Watts says. “So I presume he just capitulated.” Soon Trump jettisoned Manafort and installed in his place the Mercers’ political Svengali, Steve Bannon, who was also a board member, vice president, and part-owner of Cambridge Analytica.

“Nix the salesman is an artist, to be honest,” one colleague says. Another says, “He’ll always be like, ‘Can I give it a go? Can I sell this to you and work out the details afterward?'”

Come November 9, 2016, Cambridge wasted no time touting itself as a visionary that had seen Trump’s path to the White House when no one else did. Nix took an international victory lap to drum up new political business in Australia, India, Brazil, and Germany. Another Cambridge director gushed that the firm was receiving so much client interest that “it’s like drinking from a fire hose.”

Actually, the 2016 election was the high-water mark for Cambridge Analytica. Since then, the firm has all but vanished from the US political scene. According to Nix, this was by design. Late last year, he said his company had ceased pursuing new US political business. But recently, an extraordinary series of developments unfolded that led to Nix’s suspension as CEO and left the company’s future uncertain. A whistleblower went public with allegations, since cited in a class-action lawsuit, that the company had used unethical methods to obtain a massive trove of Facebook data to fuel its psychographic tactics.

“We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons,” Chris Wylie, who helped launch the company, told the British Observer. “That was the basis the entire company was built on.” Next came the release of an undercover investigation by the United Kingdom’s Channel 4, which captured video of Nix and other Cambridge executives explaining how they could covertly inject propaganda “into the bloodstream to the internet.” They also described how their services could include bribing a politician and recording undercover video or sending “very beautiful” Ukrainian “girls” to entrap a candidate.

The fallout was swift. Facebook, already under fire for facilitating the spread of disinformation, suspended Cambridge from its platform. British officials sought a warrant to search the company’s office. Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic demanded answers. “They should be barred from any US election or government work until a full investigation can be conducted,” Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas), a member of the House Intelligence Committee, tweeted.

The story of Cambridge Analytica’s rise—and its rapid fall—in some ways parallels the ascendance of the candidate it claims it helped elevate to the presidency. It reached the apex of American politics through a mix of bluffing, luck, failing upward, and—yes—psychological manipulation. Sound familiar?

Like Trump, Nix was a master of hype who peddled a story that people wanted to believe. Take Jeffrey Ruest, the voter Nix identified at the Concordia Summit, down to the latitude and longitude of his home, to illustrate the firm’s psychographic prowess in Iowa. The message was that Cambridge had the ability to peer into the minds of—and to persuade—voters on the most granular level. Ruest wouldn’t have been useful to Cruz or any of his GOP rivals in Iowa, though. He lives a thousand miles away in North Carolina. But why let inconvenient details interfere with the perfect pitch?

2. “We called him Mr. Bond”

“We use the same techniques as Aristotle and Hitler,” the consultant said. “We appeal to people on an emotional level to get them to agree on a functional level.”

The year was 1992. The consultant was Nigel Oakes, a former Monte Carlo TV producer and ad man for Saatchi & Saatchi, and he was speaking to the trade magazine Marketing. Oakes was then running the Behavioural Dynamics Institute, a “research facility for understanding group behaviour” and for harnessing the power of psychology to craft messages that change hearts and minds. But in reality, Oakes’ institute was a stalking horse for the company he would launch the year after the interview.

Strategic Communication Laboratories, the public affairs company that would later spawn Cambridge Analytica, began small, applying its behavioral-science-minded approach to public influence campaigns in the United Kingdom, including one that, it boasts, rescued Lloyd’s of London by convincing Britons to invest another $1.5 billion in the ailing insurance market. But SCL soon branched into politics. Oakes says he advised Nelson Mandela’s African National Congress on how to prevent violence during the 1994 elections, as well as politicians in Asia, South America, and Europe. In 2000, the government of Indonesian President Abdurrahman Wahid, who was struggling to contain the violence and upheaval in his country, hired Oakes to burnish his image, which involved building an elaborate media command center in Jakarta for monitoring and shaping public sentiment. “We called him Mr. Bond because he is English,” one of Oakes’ Indonesian employees told the Independent, “and because he is such a mystery.”

In 2005, SCL expanded into military and defense, pitching the use of “psychological operations” and “soft power” in the war on terror. The firm began picking up major clients, including the Pentagon and the UK Ministry of Defense, advising them on which Afghan leaders to target with counterinsurgency messages or how to dissuade teenage boys from joining Al Qaeda.

The company had meanwhile hired Nix, a former financial analyst, to grow its nondefense business. Former colleagues say he was just the man for the job. “Nix the salesman is an artist, to be honest,” one told me. Another referred to him as a “chancer,” the British term for a consummate opportunist. “He’ll always be like, ‘Can I give it a go?’” the colleague said. “‘Can I sell this to you and work out the details afterward?’”

Nix had an eye on the United States, where the courts were stripping away restrictions on political spending and empowering a new class of individual megadonors. He traveled here in 2010 to get the lay of the land but came away discouraged. Political consultants picked sides in America, he learned. A British outfit that worked with both left- and right-of-center clients might struggle to break into the market.

Then, on Election Day in November 2012, Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney watched as his campaign’s voter-turnout app, code-named Project Orca, crashed. It was humiliating but indicative of a larger dynamic: Democrats, powered by President Barack Obama’s 2008 and 2012 runs, had gained a huge advantage over their Republican counterparts in the realms of data and technology. The GOP’s 2012 postmortem report called for a cultural shift inside the party to embrace new tools and methodologies to win. “We have to be the Party that is open and ready to rebuild our entire playbook,” it read, “and we must take advice from outside our comfort zone.”

Nix saw his opening. SCL had recently rebranded itself as an expert in data analytics, the sifting and distilling of vast amounts of information from different sources into actionable outcomes. That skill set, combined with SCL’s previous work in microtargeting and psy-ops, made it an ideal candidate to find an audience in the world of Republican politics. “The Republicans had been left behind,” Nix later said. “By the time Romney lost in 2012, there was a vacuum. And so that was the commercial opportunity.”

Nix was soon introduced to Chris Wylie, then a twentysomething Canadian technologist. Wylie had worked under Obama’s director of targeting and consulted for Canada’s Liberal Party. Nix hired him and put him to work building a company that could attract clients in the hypercompetitive US political market. Wylie, for his part, had an idea about how his new employer, SCL, might gain an edge.

In 2007, David Stillwell, then a Ph.D. student in psychology, stumbled onto a digital gold mine. He’d always wondered about his personality and how he would score in the five-factor model, a personality test that measures openness, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. Known as Ocean, this model is widely used by psychologists. But one challenge they encountered when applying it to different areas—marketing, relationships, politics—was gathering sufficient data. People naturally hesitate to give personal information about their fears, desires, and motivations.

Stillwell knew a little code, so he pulled certain Big Five questionnaires off the internet, stuck them in a quiz format, and uploaded an app to Facebook called myPersonality. It quickly went viral. Millions of people took the quiz, and with their permission, Stillwell went on to accumulate data on personality traits and Facebook habits for 4 million of them.

Using this data, Stillwell, now working at the University of Cambridge’s Psychometrics Centre, and two other researchers published a paper in 2013 in which they showed how you could predict an individual’s skin color or sexuality based on her Facebook “likes.” They found a correlation between high intelligence and likes of “thunderstorms,” “The Colbert Report,” and “curly fries,” while users who liked the Hello Kitty brand tended to be high on openness and lower on conscientiousness, agreeableness, and emotional stability.

Stillwell told me that as an afterthought, he and his co-authors threw in some language at the end about the commercial possibilities of their findings. The paper attracted the attention of companies looking to leverage Facebook and other social-media data for their own purposes. One person who took a keen interest was SCL’s Chris Wylie.

According to emails obtained by Mother Jones, Wylie approached Stillwell and a colleague via a fellow faculty member, a young Russian American professor named Aleksandr Kogan, hoping to cut a deal in which the firm would get access to Stillwell’s data.

Stillwell hadn’t heard of SCL. But he agreed to a meeting. When dates were circulated between the Cambridge academics and the SCL representatives, the title wasn’t subtle: “Panopticon meeting.” (Panopticon refers to a prison or building constructed so that all parts of it are visible by a single watchman but the surveilled can’t see who’s viewing them.) In the end, Stillwell decided not to partner with SCL.

Undeterred, SCL instead hired Kogan, who went on to create his own Facebook app, “thisisyourdigitallife.” As detailed in a class-action suit against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, the app—which purported to be for academic research—not only collected personality data on the 270,000 people who took the quiz but also let Kogan vacuum up Facebook user data on all their friends. The Washington Post reported in late March that Facebook separately provided Kogan with data on 57 billion friendships as part of his work with two of the company’s data scientists between 2013 and 2015. Around the same time he was mining Facebook data, Kogan also forged a relationship with Saint Petersburg University, which hired him as an associate professor and provided him with research funding. He denies this research had any connection to his work for SCL.

According to Wylie, Kogan acquired more than 50 million profiles. He says Kogan then passed that data to SCL—in apparent violation of Facebook’s terms of use—in order to build its psychographic profiling methods. “Everyone knew we were wading into a gray area,” Wylie later said. “It was an instance of if you don’t ask questions, you won’t get an answer you don’t like.” (Kogan denies any wrongdoing: “My view is that I’m being basically used as a scapegoat.”)

Nix now had his calling card. SCL would break into the $10 billion American political market by pitching itself as a “cutting-edge” consultancy using “behavioral microtargeting”—that is, influencing voters based not on their demographics but on their personalities—and sophisticated data modeling to win elections. His timing couldn’t have been better.

3. “Marketing materials aren’t given under oath.”

One day in 2013, a knockabout Republican political consultant named Mark Block and his colleague boarded a flight from Los Angeles to New York. As the plane took off, they got to talking with the man seated next to them, an ex-military officer who mentioned he worked as a subcontractor for a company seeking US political clients. “They do cyberwarfare for elections,” the subcontractor said. Block dozed off as his colleague and her seatmate continued to chat. When they landed, his colleague told him excitedly that they needed to talk to a guy named Alexander Nix.

Not long after, they met with Nix in a conference room in the Willard InterContinental hotel, a stone’s throw from the White House. The meeting lasted more than six hours, Block recalls, as Nix described how they could use personality data and psychographics in American campaigns. “By the time he was done, I’m going like, ‘Holy shit,’” Block told me. “I had been aware of what Obama had done…But this seemed to be light-years ahead.”

At a subsequent meeting Block attended, Nix was introduced to Rebekah Mercer, who was quickly becoming one of the biggest donors in Republican politics. Bekah, as she’s known to friends, is the middle daughter of Robert Mercer, a billionaire computer scientist who pioneered the use of algorithms in investing at the Long Island-based hedge fund Renaissance Technologies. Bekah is the political animal of the Mercer family, and in the late 2000s and early 2010s she plowed $35 million from her family foundation into conservative groups such as the Heritage Foundation, the Federalist Society, and the Heartland Institute. The Mercers also invested a reported $10 million in Breitbart News in 2011. They’ve donated millions to Republican candidates and super-PACs, from Mitt Romney and Herman Cain to a congressional candidate in Oregon named Arthur Robinson, who caught Robert Mercer’s attention with a pseudoscientific newsletter in which he argued that small amounts of nuclear radiation have health benefits.

Quid Pro Mercer How the megadonors have leveraged their political spending into profits for their data firm

The Mercers had attended the semiannual donor retreats organized by Charles and David Koch and had, according to a source familiar with their political work, invested in the Kochs’ data venture, Themis (named for the Greek goddess of wisdom and order), which was supposed to close the gap with Democrats in the data arms race. But after Romney’s loss in 2012, the Mercers were fed up. Bekah Mercer turned heads at a 2012 postmortem event at the University Club in Manhattan when she excoriated the Romney campaign for its lackluster data operation. According to people familiar with the Mercers’ thinking, Bekah and her father set out to find their own data geniuses.

Over lunch in Manhattan, Bekah listened intently as Nix gave his pitch. When he finished, she said, “I really want you to tell this to my dad.” She gave him an address with instructions to meet later that day. At the appointed time, Nix and Block arrived at a grungy sports bar on the Hudson River, north of the city. “We’re going like, ‘What the fuck?’” Block says. Bekah texted to say she and her father would soon arrive. Moments later, Sea Owl, the Mercer family’s 203-foot superyacht, pulled up to the dock behind the sports bar.

Aboard the yacht, Nix took a seat next to Robert Mercer, opened his Mac, and launched into his spiel again. Bekah sat next to her father on the couch. Behind them stood Steve Bannon, the investment banker turned Hollywood producer and conservative activist who took over Breitbart News after the death of Andrew Breitbart. Whatever Nix told the Mercers that day in 2013, it worked: They agreed to invest a reported $15 million in a new company that would be the face of SCL’s American political work. Bannon was given a seat on the board and a stake in the new company to help, as Nix later said, the firm navigate the US political scene. Nix installed himself in Mercerworld, presenting himself as Bekah Mercer’s political guru and taking meetings at the Breitbart Embassy, the Capitol Hill row house that served as the conservative website’s offices and Bannon’s crash pad. The company was incorporated in Delaware on December 31, 2013. The name was a mix of old and new: Cambridge Analytica.

But if the Mercers had paid closer attention to a test run of Nix’s venture in the 2013 Virginia governor’s race, they might have reconsidered going into business with SCL. A PAC, the Middle Resolution, had paid Nix’s company several hundred thousand dollars that year for a list of persuadable voters to help elect Republican Ken Cuccinelli, who was running for governor. Months passed, and the list never arrived. When the group’s founder, Bob Bailie, demanded the list, Nix asked for more money and Bailie cut bait. Another Virginia-based group, Americans for Limited Government, then paid SCL $100,000 to create a list of suburban female voters who traditionally supported Democrats but might be swayed to vote for Cuccinelli if shown the right message. Late in the race, the group’s canvassers took Nix’s list into the field and returned with a perplexing result: The people on it were already Cuccinelli supporters. The higher-ups at Americans for Limited Government asked another firm to analyze the list. It turned out SCL had handed them a roster of die-hard Republicans.

Despite these early missteps, Cambridge Analytica quickly signed on a host of new clients thanks to the Mercers, who leveraged their position as megadonors to effectively strong-arm politicians into using their new firm. “It was the Mercers that made people work with us,” an early Cambridge employee told me. Cambridge boasted eight clients at the federal level in 2013 and 2014, and members of the Mercer family have supplied financial backing to each of them, including to five during that election cycle. One was former Ambassador John Bolton’s super-PAC, a potential vehicle for a presidential run. During the 2014 midterms, Robert Mercer gave $1 million to the group, which soon paid Cambridge more than $340,000 to develop Cambridge’s personality-based targeting on the issue of national security. It was an odd arrangement: Recipients of Mercer money would turn around and pay a vendor partly owned by the Mercers. (Rebekah Mercer did not respond to requests for comment.)

“Maybe [hacked information] was actually given to a campaign to help with the microtargeting. That’s why I think the role of Cambridge Analytica…needs to be looked at very carefully.”

Cambridge Analytica’s work in the 2014 midterms received mixed reviews. A consultant for Thom Tillis’ US Senate race in North Carolina singled out for praise a Cambridge contractor who had embedded with the campaign. But in other instances, the firm’s seemingly weak grasp of American politics turned off operatives. Once, a Cambridge employee appeared unaware what a precinct was. In another case, according to a prominent Republican consultant, Cambridge proposed influencing Republican voters living overseas by creating a model that targeted all absentee voters, suggesting that the firm didn’t realize that people who live in the United States can also vote absentee.

The most common criticism I heard about Nix was that he habitually overpromised and underdelivered. According to a person who worked with him, Nix had a saying: “Marketing materials aren’t given under oath.” (Nix, Cambridge, and SCL did not respond to a detailed list of questions for this story.)

But Nix and his company used their work helping to elect Tillis and another Mercer-backed candidate, Tom Cotton of Arkansas, as a steppingstone. Cambridge explored new corporate clients, pitching the Colorado-based DISH Network. (“DISH does not have, nor has it ever had, a business relationship with Cambridge Analytica,” a spokesman said.)

Perhaps inspired by Bannon, whom Wylie described to the Washington Post as “Nix’s boss,” the company began testing messages designed to tap into immigration fears, anti-government sentiment, and an affinity for strongmen—“build the wall,” “drain the swamp,” “race realism” (a euphemism for rolling back civil rights protections). It also surveyed opinions about Russian President Vladimir Putin. It seemed as if they were getting ready for a presidential campaign—but which one?

4. “They’ve gotten the wool pulled over their eyes”

At 8:05 p.m. on March 22, 2015, Ted Cruz’s personal Twitter account posted a message: “Tonight around midnight there will be some news you won’t want to miss. Stay tuned…” There wasn’t much suspense—Cruz had effectively launched his presidential bid the day he arrived in the Senate two years earlier, but now he would make it official.

At midnight, the senator’s team in Houston would turn on the campaign website built by Cambridge Analytica. Then, at 12:01 a.m.…nothing. “We couldn’t even get the website up,” one former Cruz staffer told me. Eight excruciating minutes passed before Cruz simply sent another tweet: “I’m running for President and I hope to earn your support!”

It was a harbinger of things to come. Interviews with eight people who worked on the Cruz campaign reveal a litany of disputes with Nix. As the campaign’s frustrations mounted, it winnowed the number of Cambridge staffers in Houston from 12 to 3.

Cruz’s campaign did, however, employ Cambridge’s psychographic models, especially in the run-up to Iowa. According to internal Cambridge memos, the firm devised four personality types of possible Cruz voters—“timid traditionalists,” “stoic traditionalists,” “temperamental” people, and “relaxed leaders.” The memos laid out how the campaign should talk to each group about Cruz’s marquee issues, such as abolishing the IRS or stopping the Iran nuclear deal. A timid traditionalist, the memo said, was someone who was “highly emotional” but valued “order and structure in their lives.” For this kind of person, an “Abolish the IRS” message should be presented as something that “will bring more/restore order to the system.” Recommended images included “a family having a nice moment together, with a smaller image representing Washington off to the side—representing that a small state makes for better private moments.” But for a temperamental type, the suggested image was a “young man tossing away a tax return and taking the key of his motorbike to head out for a ride.”

Almost two months before the Iowa caucus, the Guardian reported that Cambridge and the Cruz campaign were using unauthorized Facebook data—an early indication of what Chris Wylie would later reveal in full. In response, Facebook told Cambridge to delete any Facebook data it held. Wylie says that while he deleted the data in his possession, he merely filled out a form and sent it back to Facebook certifying that he’d deleted the information. Facebook, he adds, never verified whether he actually had. A former Cruz staffer told me that well after the Guardian report, he could still use Cambridge’s Facebook data to build voter models.

The Cruz campaign eked out a victory in Iowa, and Nix was quick to take credit during an interview on Fox News. Whether Cambridge’s psychographics played any part in Cruz’s win is debatable: When the firm began using these techniques on December 1, two months before the caucus, Cruz was polling at 28 percentage points in Iowa. From there to caucus day, his numbers fluctuated in the range between 23 and 32 percent. Contrary to Nix’s claim that Cruz was languishing in the single digits until Cambridge came along, the candidate was already well on his way to winning when Cambridge’s secret sauce kicked in. “If we weren’t using the personality stuff until that point in time,” a former Cruz official says, “then Nix can’t credibly make the argument that it mattered, right?”

Adding to suspicions about whether Cambridge’s personality profiling worked as claimed was the fact that the company refused to share any of its underlying models. Cambridge advised the campaign on how best to deliver Cruz’s message to “stoic traditionalists” and “relaxed leaders,” but it wouldn’t divulge how it came up with those personality types in the first place. “They’re the least transparent company in the business,” a former Cruz staffer told me. Nor did Cambridge seem to understand the fundamentals of how a presidential campaign operated: Two weeks out from the South Carolina primary, Cruz’s data team discovered that the company hadn’t updated the voter database feeding its models in seven months. The result: In a primary where the victory margin could be in the low thousands, there were 70,000 people Cruz wasn’t targeting because his data was stale. “How fucked up is that?” the former Cruz staffer told me. “That’s political malpractice.” Cruz finished third in South Carolina. After the opening four states, he stopped using Cambridge’s personality-profiling models.

The company’s lackluster performance on the Cruz campaign didn’t stop Nix from walking onstage at the Concordia Summit and taking credit for Cruz’s second-place finish in the nomination fight. Word of his speech spread in Cruz circles, and campaign alums watched the video of Nix and scoffed. “Most of that’s bullshit or things we designed on the campaign,” one senior Cruz staffer told me. “Everybody has respect for the Mercers. But they’ve gotten the wool pulled over their eyes.”

5. “The phenomenon Donald Trump”

The Cruz campaign was still in the process of unwinding when Cambridge, following the lead of its investors, the Mercers, offered its services to the Trump campaign. Cambridge had previously reached out to Trump’s team, but his advisers didn’t want to hire the firm if it was also working for his rivals. Now, this was no longer an issue. Nix sent three employees to Texas to meet with Brad Parscale, Trump’s head of digital operations, who had no political experience and had gotten to know the Trump family while building websites for their company. (Parscale was recently named Trump’s 2020 campaign manager.)

As Nix courted the Trump campaign, he came up with an idea to boost the GOP nominee-in-waiting—one that was more in line with the political dirty tricks he and his colleagues would later discuss with Channel 4’s undercover reporter. WikiLeaks’ Julian Assange had recently told a British TV station that he had come into possession of internal emails belonging to senior Clinton campaign officials—the result of a cyberattack later revealed to be the work of Russian hackers. Nix reached out to Assange via his speaking agency, seeking a meeting. Nix reportedly hoped to get access to the emails and help Assange share them with the public—that is, he wanted to weaponize the information. According to both Nix and Assange, the WikiLeaks founder passed on his offer.

Nevertheless, by late June Nix had landed a contract with the Trump team. At first, a handful of Cambridge employees set up shop in San Antonio, where Parscale was running Trump’s digital operation out of his marketing firm’s offices. But Matt Oczkowski, Cambridge’s head of product, was eventually put in charge of the San Antonio office after Parscale relocated to campaign headquarters in Trump Tower.

What exactly Cambridge Analytica did for Trump remains murky, though in the days after the election, Nix’s firm blasted out one press release after another touting the “integral” and “pivotal” role it played in Trump’s shocking upset. Nix later told Channel 4’s undercover reporter that Cambridge deserved much of the credit for Trump’s win. “We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting. We ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign, and our data informed all the strategy,” he said. Another Cambridge executive suggested the firm had delivered Trump victories in Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin—states crucial to his ultimate win. “When you think about the fact that Donald Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes but won the Electoral College vote, that’s down to the data and the research.”

Cambridge helped run an anti-Hillary Clinton online ad campaign for a Mercer-funded super-PAC that paid the company $1.2 million. The ads stated that Clinton “might be the first president to go to jail” and echoed conspiracy theories about her health. But according to multiple Republican sources familiar with Cambridge’s work for Trump, the firm played at best a minor role in Trump’s victory. Parscale has said that $5 million of the $5.9 million the Trump campaign paid Cambridge was for a large TV ad buy. When Cambridge bungled that—some of the ads wound up running in the District of Columbia, a total waste of money—the firm was not used for future ad buys. During an interview with 60 Minutes last fall, Parscale dismissed the company’s psychographic methods: “I just don’t think it works.” Trump’s secret strategy, he said, wasn’t secret at all: The campaign went all-in on Facebook, making full use of the platform’s advertising tools. “Donald Trump won,” Parscale said, “but I think Facebook was the method.”

Nix, however, seemed determined to capitalize on Trump’s victory. Cambridge opened a new office a few blocks from the White House, where Bannon would soon take on his new role as Trump’s chief political strategist. (Bannon retained his stake in the firm, valued between $1 million and $5 million, until April 2017, months after Trump took office.) SCL, its UK-based affiliate, eventually relocated its global headquarters from London to Arlington, Virginia, and began chasing government work, quickly landing a $500,000 State Department contract to monitor the impact of foreign propaganda. SCL briefly signed on Lt. General Michael Flynn as an adviser and later hired a former Flynn associate to run its DC office.

“Alexander was always entertaining,” a former colleague says. “In the end, he will always hang himself.”

But even as Nix jetted around the globe and Cambridge opened new offices in Brazil and Malaysia, the company found itself with few allies in the United States. Trump campaign alums and Republican Party staffers distanced themselves from the company—especially after news broke last October that Nix had communicated with Assange. “We were proud to have worked with the RNC and its data experts and relied on them as our main source for data analytics,” Michael Glassner, the Trump campaign’s executive director, said in a statement released in response to these reports. “Any claims that voter data from any other source played a key role in the victory are false.”

By late 2017, after giving every indication that Cambridge Analytica intended to be a major player in American politics, Nix told Forbes the firm was no longer “chasing any US political business,” a decision he framed as a strategic move. “There’s going to be literally dozens and dozens of political firms [working in 2018], and we thought that’s a lot of mouths to feed and very little food on the table.” This seemed dubious—working on a winning presidential race is a golden ticket that most consultants would dine out on for years. In reality, Cambridge Analytica’s reputation for spotty work had circulated widely among Democratic and Republican operatives, who were also put off by Nix’s grandstanding and self-promotion. Mark Jablonowski, a partner at the firm DSPolitical, told me that there was “basically a de facto blacklist” of the firm and “a consensus Cambridge Analytica had overhyped their supposed accomplishments.” Perhaps even worse for a company that had relied on its billionaire patrons to open doors to new clients, the Mercers ceased “flogging for” Cambridge, according to Doug Watts, the former Ben Carson staffer.

For any upstart company, this would have constituted a crisis. But being shunned from the American political scene, it turned out, was just the start of Cambridge’s problems.

6. “I am aware how this looks”

Nix was near his London office when a Channel 4 correspondent confronted him. “Have you ever used entrapment in the past?” the reporter asked, thrusting a microphone in Nix’s face. “Is it time for you to abandon your political work?”

Captured on tape musing about entrapment and spreading untraceable propaganda, accused of misappropriating Facebook data to meddle with the minds of American voters—by March 20, scandal had reached Nix’s doorstep. He brushed past the reporter and into his building.

“I am aware how this looks,” Nix said in a statement. He explained that the explosive comments he and his colleagues had made to an undercover reporter were untrue. They were just “playing along” with “ludicrous hypothetical scenarios” proposed by a prospective client. His company, meanwhile, claimed that it did not “use or hold data from Facebook profiles.” By the end of the day, Cambridge Analytica had suspended Nix pending an investigation, and he had offered to resign if it would spare the company. “Alexander was always entertaining,” a former colleague told me. “In the end, he will always hang himself.”

The revelations about Cambridge Analytica’s alleged political tricks and shady data mining added to a growing list of problems the company was already facing. A few months earlier, in December, Nix had appeared before the House Intelligence Committee—though not in person. The panel’s Republicans, who ran the committee’s Russia probe with an eye toward minimizing any political damage to the president, arranged for Nix to beam in by video link. One topic of discussion was Nix’s outreach to WikiLeaks. His testimony remains secret, though he subsequently acknowledged approaching Assange in an effort to get his hands on “information that could be incredibly relevant to the outcome of the US election.” (In the Channel 4 undercover footage, Nix mocked the Intelligence Committee and said the Republican members asked him only three questions. “Five minutes—done,” he said, adding, “They’re politicians; they’re not technical. They don’t understand how it works.”)

The committee’s Democrats had taken a keen interest in Trump’s data operation and Cambridge Analytica’s role in particular. Michael Bahar, a former general counsel on the committee who worked on the investigation before entering private practice, told me that one line of inquiry explored whether Cambridge Analytica had deployed its targeting tactics to more effectively spread Russian disinformation, and whether it had been enlisted to use data and analytics stolen from the Democratic National Committee by Russian-directed hackers. “Maybe [hacked information] was actually given to a campaign to help with the microtargeting,” Bahar says. “That’s why I think the role of Cambridge Analytica…needs to be looked at very carefully.”

Scrutiny will likely intensify given revelations that Cambridge’s Russian connections predated the 2016 election. Wylie, the former Cambridge employee, provided documents to the Observer revealing that the firm briefed Lukoil, the Russian oil company, on its behavioral microtargeting strategies. In a recent interview with CNN, Wylie drew a startling connection between the firm’s work and the Russian cyberattacks during the election. “I am concerned that we made Russia aware of the programs that we were working on,” he said, “and that might have sparked an idea that eventually led to some of the disinformation programs that we have seen.”

In addition to Nix, Democrats, according to a House Intelligence Committee memo, had hoped to call as witnesses Alex Tayler, Cambridge Analytica’s chief data officer; Julian Wheatland, the chairman of SCL; and Rebekah Mercer. Instead, in early March, committee Republicans hastily shut down the probe, though Democrats have vowed to continue investigating on their own, although without subpoena power. On March 21, the committee’s ranking member, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), wrote to Aleksandr Kogan seeking an interview and requesting documents about his interactions with SCL and Cambridge Analytica. Chris Wylie has agreed to meet with committee Democrats.

The firm also remains a subject of interest to special counsel Robert Mueller’s team. According to the Wall Street Journal, Mueller last fall requested the emails of any Cambridge employee who worked on the Trump campaign. Nix’s unguarded comments to Channel 4 may be of interest. He said the firm relied on an encrypted email system that deleted messages two hours after they were read. “So then there’s no evidence, there’s no paper trail, there’s nothing.”

Yet another avenue of interest for investigators is Cambridge’s possible role in a second 2016 election that featured covert Russian meddling—the British referendum to leave the European Union, known as Brexit. In 2016, Cambridge seemed to break its informal rule of forgoing UK political work when it unveiled a partnership with Leave.EU, the more extreme of the pro-Brexit campaigns, only to backtrack and deny any involvement in Brexit.

In February, as part of a broader inquiry into fake news, members of the British Parliament’s Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee grilled Nix for more than two hours. He unconvincingly blamed the announcement of the Leave.EU partnership on “a slightly overzealous PR consultant.” He claimed that he and his staff had “never worked with a Russian organization in Russia or any other country.” And he denied that his firm used Facebook data. After the latest round of revelations, Damian Collins, a conservative member of Parliament who chairs the committee, said Nix had “deliberately misled” his panel “by giving false statements” and vowed to further investigate.

The blowback from the Cambridge Analytica scandals also hit Facebook, which faced a torrent of criticism for its lax handling of users’ data. The company’s stock price tumbled by 7 percent, losing more than $50 billion in value, and the Federal Trade Commission reportedly launched an investigation into its data practices. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook trended on Twitter. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally broke his silence, issuing a statement admitting to a “breach of trust” between Facebook and its users.

Yet, critics wondered, just how many times had their trust been breached? Cambridge Analytica was hardly alone in hoovering up user data. And how exactly were Cambridge Analytica’s psychographic techniques different from Facebook’s core business model—tapping into the vast amounts of data it collects on its users to guide hypertargeted advertising, be it for shoe companies or political campaigns or dubious fake news sites.

By most accounts, Cambridge Analytica’s main feat of political persuasion was convincing a group of Republican donors, candidates, and organizations to hand over millions of dollars. (A company called Emerdata that lists Nix as a director recently added Rebekah Mercer and another Mercer daughter to its board, suggesting that Nix hasn’t fallen out with all his GOP patrons.) But Cambridge’s controversial foray into US politics spawned larger questions about how our social-media habits can be turned against us, and how companies such as Facebook hold more power over our lives—the ability to shape public conversation, even political outcomes—than many people are comfortable with. Whether or not Cambridge Analytica survives, data about our personality types, our predilections, our hopes and fears—information we unwittingly divulge via status updates, tweets, likes, and photos—will increasingly be used to target us as voters and consumers, for good and ill, and often without our knowledge. These tactics will facilitate the spread of fake news and disinformation and make it easier for foreign interests to intervene in our elections—whether they are Russian trolls or British chancers.

Image credits: Tillis: US Senate; Cotton: US Senate; Robinson: US House of Representatives; Bolton: Gage Skidmore/Wikimedia; Cruz: US Senate; Trump: White House; Mercer: Patrick McMullan/Getty; Wylie: Jack Taylor/Getty; Bannon: Jeff Malet/Newscom/ZUMA; Nix: Christian Charisius/DPA/ZUMALooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

For more than a year, reports have trickled out about deepening ties among prominent members of the National Rifle Association, conservative Republicans, a budding gun-rights movement in Russia—and their convergence in the Trump campaign.

Now attention is focused around a middle-aged Russian central bank official and a photogenic young gun activist from Siberia who share several passions: posing with assault rifles, making connections with Republican lawmakers and presidential candidates, and publicizing their travels between Moscow and America on social media. Alexander Torshin and his protégé Maria Butina also share an extraordinary status with America’s largest gun lobbying group, according to Torshin: “Today in NRA (USA) I know only 2 people from the Russian Federation with the status of ‘Life Member’: Maria Butina and I,” he tweeted the day after Donald Trump was elected president.

Of particular interest are their overtures to Trump. Butina asked him directly at a campaign event about the future of “damaging” sanctions against Russia. Torshin twice tried to meet with Trump, according to the New York Times, and did meet with Donald Trump Jr. at an NRA event. Meanwhile, the House Intelligence Committee has heard sworn testimony about possible Kremlin “infiltration” of the NRA and other conservative groups. And the FBI reportedly is investigating whether Torshin illegally funneled money to the Trump campaign through the NRA—which backed Trump with a record $30 million.

Torshin, a former Russian senator and longtime ally of Vladimir Putin, has been accused of having ties to the Russian mob (an allegation he has denied). Butina, a graduate student since fall 2016 at American University in Washington, DC—who founded a Russian gun rights group and worked as Torshin’s assistant—has reportedly bragged about her connections to the Trump campaign.

Does this odd pair indicate anything more than a far-flung association of international gun rights advocates? Neither Torshin nor Butina responded to our requests for comment, but we built a timeline from hundreds of their photos and social-media posts going back seven years—including previously unreported material—that stirs further questions about their roles.

Introductions and a new gun group

2011: Torshin, then a Russian senator, is introduced to NRA President David Keene through G. Kline Preston IV, a lawyer from Nashville, Tennessee, who had been doing business in Russia for years. Preston later tells the Washington Post, “The value system of Southern Christians and the value system of Russians are very much in line.”

2011: Maria Butina, in her early 20s, creates Right to Bear Arms, aiming to seed a gun rights movement in Russia.

2011: US gun manufacturer Arsenal Inc. sells 100 limited-edition AK-74s signed by Mikhail Kalashnikov—a personal friend of Torshin’s—with the anticipated $100,000 or more in proceeds to go to the NRA-ILA, the organization’s political lobbying arm.

December 2011: Preston serves as an international observer of Russia’s legislative elections, calling them free and fair, despite mass street protests and European observers reporting fraudulent activity.

Targeted by the Kremlin

2012: The FBI warns Republican Rep. Dana Rohrabacher—a cold warrior turned Russia apologist who claimed to have once lost a drunken arm-wrestling match to Putin in a Washington dive bar—that the Kremlin aims to recruit him as a source.

April 15, 2012: Torshin tweets about returning from the NRA annual convention to a rally in Moscow for the Right to Bear Arms, where he notes how “similar,” “good-looking,” and “confident” the supporters of both gun groups are.

July 24, 2012: Torshin and Butina lobby the Russian senate to expand gun rights.

November 2012: Torshin and Preston observe the US presidential elections in Nashville and allege improprieties took place on behalf of President Barack Obama.

From Houston to Moscow

May 2013: After attending the NRA annual convention in Houston, Torshin writes, “Kalashnikov couldn’t join me, though we have both been ‘life members’ of the NRA for years,” adding that “dozens of AK-47 clones” on display at the event represented one of “our country’s greatest accomplishments.”

November 2013: Torshin and Butina invite Keene to Moscow for a Right to Bear Arms meeting that draws 200 people and features a fashion show, including attire designed for carrying concealed weapons.

November 2013: Former UN ambassador and future Trump national security adviser John Bolton appears in a video in which he talks up gun rights in Russia. Bolton is a member of the NRA’s “international affairs subcommittee” at the time. NPR later reports that Bolton recorded the address at Keene’s request for the Russian legislature, and that Right to Bear Arms used the video in its lobbying.

“We would like to be friends with NRA”

January 2014: Following the death of Kalashnikov at age 94, the Washington Times publishes an appreciation written by Torshin. Former NRA President Keene is the op-ed editor at the time.

April 2014: Torshin and Butina attend the NRA convention in Indianapolis, where Butina joins Keene for meetings. Butina later explains the purpose: “We protect gun rights in Russia, and people who are gun owners and in a situation of self-defense.” She adds, “We would like to be friends with NRA.”

September 2014: Paul Erickson—an NRA member and longtime conservative Republican operative from South Dakota—attends a Right to Bear Arms meeting in Moscow with Butina. Erickson has known Butina at least since 2013.

November 18, 2014: Russia changes its laws to allow citizens to carry guns in public for self-defense.

Trump to Butina: “I don’t think you’d need the sanctions”

January 2015: Torshin is appointed deputy governor of the Central Bank of Russia.

March 2015: Butina announces on Facebook that she will attend the NRA’s upcoming convention in Nashville. She notes the importance of “paying attention to the politicians that we have more similarities than differences.”

April 2015: Butina posts about 200 pictures from Nashville, including one with Republican Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who she says greeted her in Russian. She notes he’s “one of the possible future nominees for the post of US President,” and ponders the “beginning of a new dialogue between Russia and the US.” Donald Trump also attends, telling the crowd, “I promise you one thing, if I run for president and if I win, the Second Amendment will be totally protected, that I can tell you.” Torshin, also present, later tells Bloomberg that he had a “jovial exchange” with the future president.

April 16, 2015: Butina gives a talk at the University of South Dakota; she says Right to Bear Arms now has 10,000 members and 76 offices “all over Russia.”

June 2015: Four days before Trump announces his campaign, Butina writes in the conservative National Interest urging friendship between “the bear and the elephant”: “It may take the election of a Republican to the White House in 2016 to improve relations between the Russian Federation and the United States.”

July 11, 2015: At FreedomFest in Las Vegas, Butina asks Trump, “What will be your foreign politics…and do you want to continue the politics of sanctions that are damaging on both economy?” Trump responds, “I know Putin and I’ll tell you what, we get along with Putin…I don’t think you’d need the sanctions. I think that we would get along very, very well.”

July 13, 2015: Butina posts photos from the Wisconsin event where Gov. Scott Walker announces his presidential candidacy.

August 29, 2015: Preston tweets a picture of Trump speaking to the National Federation of Republican Assemblies, posting in Russian, “Donald Trump today in Nashville. He is a friend of Russia.”

September 25, 2015: A Right to Bear Arms post on Facebook features a Trump meme, attributing to him in Russian, “Nobody can encroach on the citizenry’s right to store and carry firearms. Period.”

December 8-13, 2015: Erickson, Keene, future NRA President Pete Brownell, and Milwaukee Sheriff David Clarke meet with Kremlin officials in Moscow, where they have lavish meals and visit a gun manufacturer. Clarke, an outspoken Trump supporter, later files an ethics report showing that Right to Bear Arms paid $6,000 for his expenses.

December 10, 2015: Future Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn is also in Moscow, attending a gala for the Kremlin-controlled RT media network. Flynn, who sits next to Putin and across from future Green Party candidate Jill Stein, gives a speech for which he is paid $45,000—a sum he fails to report on his financial disclosure forms.

Campaign ammo

January 21, 2016: Trump speaks at the National Shooting Sports Foundation’s annual “SHOT Show” in Las Vegas; Don Jr. and Eric Trump also attend, posing with representatives from Sig Sauer, whose “Black Mamba” MCX assault rifle would soon be used in the Orlando nightclub massacre. Ten days later, at an event at an Iowa gun shop, Don Jr. and Eric Trump shoot assault rifles and brag about their concealed-carry permits. “I shoot all the time,” Don Jr. tells the Telegraph. “Every weekend.”

February 13, 2016: Torshin writes on Twitter, “Maria Butina is currently in the USA. She writes to me that D. Trump (an NRA member) really is for cooperation with Russia.”

February 2016: Butina and Erickson form Bridges LLC. Erickson later tells McClatchy that they created the South Dakota-based company for Butina to get financial assistance for her graduate studies—“an unusual way to use a LLC,” as McClatchy dryly notes.

February 23, 2016: After winning the Nevada primary, Trump gives a victory speech hailing his sons’ gun bona fides: “[Don Jr.] loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks. Nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that.”

March 3, 2016: In a primary debate, Trump is reminded that in his 2000 book, The America We Deserve, he supported a ban on assault weapons. His response: “I don’t support it anymore.”

May 2016: In an email to Trump campaign aide Rick Dearborn, with the subject line “Kremlin Connection,” Erickson says Russia is “quietly but actively seeking a dialogue with the U.S.” and proposes using the NRA convention to set up “first contact” with the Trump team. According to a New York Times report, Erickson writes that he’s in a position to “slowly begin cultivating a back-channel to President Putin’s Kremlin.” The email doesn’t name Torshin but appears to reference him as “President Putin’s emissary” who planned to attend a dinner hosted by conservative Christian activist Rick Clay. Meanwhile, Clay sends an email to Dearborn with the subject line “Russian backdoor overture and dinner invite,” seeking a meeting between Trump and Torshin. Dearborn forwards Clay’s email to Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who reportedly nixes the proposal.

May 19-20, 2016: Torshin meets Don Jr. at a private dinner the night before his father speaks at the NRA convention in Louisville, Kentucky. Don Jr.’s lawyer later says the exchange “was all gun-related small talk.”

The NRA endorses Trump for president. Trump tells the crowd, “The only way to save our Second Amendment is to vote for a person that you all know named Donald Trump.”

Torshin poses for photos wearing an NRA “Ring of Freedom” donor ID badge.

June 2016: Butina is part of a group that requests a meeting with the Trump campaign to discuss the persecution of Christians worldwide, according to Clay, who later tells the Washington Post that Dearborn turned down the request.

June 15, 2016: House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy tells fellow GOP leaders in a private conversation, “There’s two people I think Putin pays: Rohrabacher and Trump. Swear to God.” House Speaker Paul Ryan immediately shuts down the conversation and swears those present to secrecy. When a recording of the conversation later becomes public, McCarthy says he was just joking.

August 2016: Hours after Trump appears to threaten Hillary Clinton during a campaign rally by invoking “Second Amendment people” who might “do something” to stop her, Politico reports that the NRA has bought its most expensive pro-Trump campaign ad yet: a $3 million spot attacking Clinton.

September 2016: Don Jr. appears in a promotional video for gun silencer manufacturer SilencerCo, whose CEO subsequently donates $50,000 to the Trump Victory fund. “That thing’s awesome,” Don Jr. says, firing guns in the opening segment. The 38-minute video closes with the CEO saying, “Your father is someone that we believe in very strongly.”

October 2016: A wave of NRA-sponsored TV political ads targets voters in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and North Carolina. Since the end of June, the NRA has aired more than 10,000 ads criticizing Clinton or extolling Trump—about 16 percent of all TV ads produced by Trump and his allies. Trump goes on to win all three states.

Early November 2016: Pro-gun messages feature prominently in “junk news” spread by Russian trolls and others on Twitter, particularly in key battleground states, according to a later analysis by Oxford University researchers.

November 8, 2016: Donald Trump is elected the 45th president of the United States.

November 12, 2016: Butina hosts a costume party in DC for her 28th birthday, attended by Erickson and Trump campaign aides. Erickson dresses as Russian mystic Rasputin, and Butina dresses as the Russian empress Alexandra. Two unnamed guests tell the Daily Beast that Butina bragged about being part of the Trump campaign’s communications with Russia.

“You came through for me”

Jan. 20, 2017: Butina and Erickson attend the Freedom Ball, one of the three official inaugural balls Trump attends.

January 31, 2017: Torshin, Erickson, Rohrabacher (who has received at least $18,000 from the NRA over the past 20 years), and former Kremlin staffer Andrey Kolyadin attend a private event on Capitol Hill hosted by George O’Neill Jr., a longtime conservative activist.

February 2, 2017: Torshin and Butina accompany a delegation of more than a dozen Russian officials and academics to the National Prayer Breakfast, where Trump is the main attraction. Kolyadin posts a photo with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, commenting that he “treats Russia pretty well, by the way.” Kolyadin later brags about his “direct access to leadership,” noting, “we sat very close to each other and just smiled.”

Torshin was scheduled to meet with President Trump, but the meeting is canceled when a national security aide points out that Torshin reportedly is under investigation by Spanish authorities for an alleged “godfather” role in organized crime and money laundering. For his part, Rohrabacher tells Yahoo News that Torshin is “sort of the conservatives’ favorite Russian.”

February 24, 2017: “For years, the media couldn’t have cared less about Vladimir Putin or Russia,” NRA leader Wayne LaPierre says in a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference, giving early voice to a “deep state” conspiracy theory on Trump’s behalf: “But now, barely a month into Trump’s presidency, they’re ‘horrified’ and all a-fret over the ‘Russian-American equation.’ Even more alarming is that they’ve apparently found willing co-conspirators among some in the US intelligence community.”

April 28, 2017: Having recently reversed an Obama-era law making it more difficult for mentally ill people to buy guns, Trump addresses the NRA annual convention: “You came through for me,” he says, “and I am going to come through for you.”

August 15, 2017: After Rohrabacher meets with WikiLeaks’ Julian Assange at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, he claims he has evidence to share with the White House that the Russians did not hack the Democratic National Committee. But White House chief of staff John Kelly rebuffs him. Rohrabacher later tells the Intercept, “What is preventing me from talking to Trump about this is the existence of a special prosecutor. Not only Kelly, but others are worried if I say one word to Trump about Russia, that it would appear to out-of-control prosecutors that that is where the collusion is.”

October to November 2017: Russian-linked trolls spread conspiracy theories following mass shootings on the Las Vegas Strip and at a church in Sutherland Springs, Texas.

November 14, 2017: “It appears the Russians…infiltrated the NRA,” Glenn Simpson, founder of the opposition research firm Fusion GPS, testifies to the House Intelligence Committee. “They targeted various conservative organizations, religious and otherwise, and they seem to have made a very concerted effort to get in with the NRA.” Referencing Torshin and Butina, he adds, “The most absurd [thing] about this is that, you know, Vladimir Putin is not in favor of universal gun ownership for Russians. And so it’s all a big charade, basically.”

Investigations and a politicized school massacre

January 18, 2018: McClatchy reports the FBI is investigating whether Torshin illegally funneled money to the Trump campaign through the NRA. (The FBI would “neither confirm nor deny” the investigation to Mother Jones.)

January 29, 2018: Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, tells NPR that the committee’s probe of the NRA-Russia angle has been stymied by the Republican majority.

“I am specifically troubled by the possibility that Russian-backed shell companies or intermediaries may have circumvented laws designed to prohibit foreign meddling in our elections.”

February 2, 2018: Oregon Sen. Ron Wyden sends separate letters to the NRA and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin demanding they provide any documents showing financial ties between the NRA and Russia. “I am specifically troubled by the possibility that Russian-backed shell companies or intermediaries may have circumvented laws designed to prohibit foreign meddling in our elections,” Wyden writes. NRA General Counsel John Frazer responds, “The NRA and its related entities do not accept funds from foreign persons or entities in connection with United States.”

February 14, 2018: Following the school massacre in Parkland, Florida, Kremlin-linked trolls and Russian state media jump into action on Twitter, stirring both sides of the gun debate.

February 21, 2018: During a live-televised “listening session” with Parkland survivors at the White House, Trump endorses NRA talking points to end “gun-free zones” and arm teachers to “harden” America’s schools.

February 22, 2018: Trump hails the leaders of the NRA: “Great People and Great American Patriots. They love our Country and will do the right thing. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” NRA spokesperson Dana Loesch echoes Trump’s blame on the FBI’s Russia investigation for the failure to prevent the Parkland massacre: “Maybe if you politicized your agency less and did your job more, we wouldn’t have these problems.”

March 2018: In an NRA magazine, LaPierre blasts media bias against Trump, specifically calling out coverage of “the bogus Russia investigation.”

March 1, 2018: Trump and Vice President Mike Pence meet privately in the Oval Office with NRA Executive Director Chris Cox. Trump calls the meeting “great.” Cox announces: “POTUS & VPOTUS support the Second Amendment, support strong due process and don’t want gun control. #NRA #MAGA.”

The NRA, Trump administration, and Paul Erickson did not respond to requests for comment.

Additional reporting and translations from Russian by Hannah Levintova. The above timeline has been updated since initial publication.

Top image credit: Shalgin Alexander/TASS/ZUMA; Anton Novoderezhkin/ITAR-TASS/ZUMA; Jonathan Alcorn/ZUMA; FerhatMatt/GettyLooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Jorge Sanjuan pulled back a chain-link fence, and Cindy Quezada squeezed through the gap. They stepped over two rotting mattresses and an old tire and peered into a backyard. The neighbors eyed them suspiciously. “You guys with ICE?” one teenager asked.

Quezada laughed and shook her head. It was a sunny January afternoon, and she and Sanjuan had spent the past three hours crisscrossing the alleys of a Fresno, California, neighborhood with small one-story bungalows and Mexican restaurants, looking for sheds, garages, and trailers serving as makeshift homes. They weren’t out to harass the immigrants living there; they were there to count them.

Quezada and Sanjuan were working with the Central Valley Immigrant Integration Collaborative, a network of organizations embarking on a pilot program to identify “low-visibility housing” in Fresno in preparation for the 2020 census. The Constitution requires the executive branch to tally “the whole number of persons in each state.” But every 10 years, the census counts some people more than once—such as wealthy Americans who own multiple homes—and others not at all, particularly those who are poorer, move often, or fear the government. The 2010 census, the most accurate to date, overcounted white residents by nearly 1 percent while failing to count 1.5 million people of color, including 1.5 percent of Hispanics, 2.1 percent of blacks, and 4.9 percent of Native Americans on reservations, the Census Bureau later concluded. Mexican immigrants were especially undercounted because the bureau didn’t know where they lived or because multiple families lived in one household.

That’s why Quezada and Sanjuan were in Fresno, where 70 percent of residents are people of color, 20 percent are immigrants, and one-third live in poverty, making it one of the hardest places in the country to count. Only 73 percent of residents in the east Fresno neighborhood they were canvassing mailed back their census forms in 2010—if they ever received them in the first place.

A rooster darted from roof to roof. A canine symphony arose from behind the fences. “There should be a census for dogs,” Quezada remarked. Behind a yellow one-story house with a faded wood fence, they spotted a small garage next to an orange tree. It had two pipes for running water, which Sanjuan said meant it had been converted into a dwelling. Immigrants, particularly those who are undocumented, often live in such clandestine housing because they don’t have the credit to rent a conventional home or apartment. The house next door also had a converted garage in the backyard. Quezada marked the residences on her phone and sent the information through Facebook Messenger to the Census Outreach, an intermediary that would verify the data and eventually pass it along to the Census Bureau, which was cooperating with the pilot project in an effort to update addresses in advance of the 2020 census. “You have to go the extra mile to count people,” she said. “The average census worker isn’t going to go into the alleys like we do.”

Quezada and Sanjuan are both immigrants, but with very different backgrounds. Quezada, who is in her late 30s, fled war-torn El Salvador with her family in the 1980s after her father got a university research job in California. She has a doctorate in biology from the California Institute of Technology and worked for the State Department in Washington and the US Agency for International Development in Egypt before returning home and eventually taking a job with the collaborative. She wore a stylish tweed blazer and skinny jeans as she roamed the alleys and enthusiastically took photos of everything she saw, including a dead rat. Sanjuan, 43, came from Mexico when he was 17, and since then he’s barely left California and hasn’t attended school, apart from English-language classes. He wore a black “CA” baseball cap and a blue T-shirt. Having remodeled many unconventional structures as a construction worker, he was an expert at spotting hidden housing. Quezada compiled the data.

Of all the ways democracy is threatened under President Donald Trump, an unfair and inaccurate census could have the most dramatic long-term impact.

The census is America’s largest civic event, the only one that involves everyone in the country, young and old, citizen and noncitizen, rich and poor—or at least it’s supposed to. It’s been conducted every 10 years since 1790, when US Marshals first swore an oath to undertake “a just and perfect enumeration” of the population. The census determines how $675 billion in federal funding is allocated to states and localities each year for things like health care, schools, public housing, and roads; how many congressional seats and electoral votes each state receives; and how states will redraw local and federal voting districts. Virtually every major institution in America relies on census data, from businesses looking for new markets to the US military tracking the needs of veterans. The census lays the groundwork for the core infrastructure of our democracy, bringing a measure of transparency and fairness to how representation and resources are allocated across the country.

But with the Trump administration in charge, voting rights advocates fear the undercount could be amplified, shifting economic resources and political power toward rural, white, and Republican communities. The census is scheduled to begin on April 1, 2020, in the middle of the presidential election season. Of all the ways democracy is threatened under President Donald Trump—a blind eye to Russian meddling in elections, a rollback of voting rights, a disregard for checks and balances—an unfair and inaccurate census could have the most dramatic long-term impact. “It’s one of those issues that’s often the least sexy, least discussed in certain corners, and yet the ramifications for communities of color and vulnerable communities are so high in terms of what’s at stake for economic power and political power,” says Vanita Gupta, who led the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division under President Barack Obama and now directs the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights.

A “perfect storm” is threatening the 2020 census, says Terri Ann Lowenthal, a former staff director for the House Subcommittee on Census and Population. Budget cuts enacted by the Trump administration and the Republican Congress forced the bureau to cancel crucial field tests in 2017 and 2018. The bureau’s director resigned last June, and the administration has yet to name a full-time director or deputy director. The next census will also be the first to rely on the internet. The Census Bureau will mail households a postcard with instructions on how to fill out the form online; if they don’t respond, it will send field-workers, known as enumerators, to knock on their doors. But in an effort to save money, there will be 200,000 fewer enumerators than in 2010, increasing the likelihood that households without reliable internet access will go uncounted. Enumerators will carry tablets instead of paper forms, and the reliance on technology raises cybersecurity fears in the wake of high-profile hacks and foreign election interference.

“They’re putting together the census under a pall of uncertainty,” says Kenneth Prewitt, who directed the 2000 census. “How much money, who’s going to be in charge, what are we going to do on the core questionnaire itself? To do that under such a level of uncertainty is literally unprecedented.”

And then, on Monday night, the Trump administration dropped the biggest bombshell of all. The Commerce Department, which oversees the Census Bureau, announced that it would include a question about US citizenship on the census for the first time since 1950. Civil rights groups say the move will cause immigrants, particularly undocumented ones, to avoid responding to the census for fear of being reported to immigration authorities. The result will be a massive undercount of the Latino population, leading to reduced political power and federal resources for places like Fresno. The state of California, which has the country’s largest immigrant population, quickly filed a lawsuit against the administration over the question.

Sanjuan has been in the United States for 26 years and has a 12-year-old son who is a US citizen. He filled out the census for the first time in 2010, in part to ensure that his state and local governments received their share of federal funding for social programs. (California’s finance office estimates the state will lose $1,900 annually for each uncounted resident in 2020.) “The benefits weren’t really for me because I never ask for anything, but there are benefits that can help my son,” he told me at La Luna, a Mexican bakery in a working-class Latino neighborhood near the Yosemite Freeway, after a long afternoon canvassing Fresno’s alleys. In the run-up to the 2010 census, he helped conduct research on low-visibility housing in the San Joaquin Valley, an agricultural region that runs from Stockton in the north to Bakersfield in the south, with Fresno in the middle. He met farmworkers sleeping under trees near irrigation canals and urged them to respond to the census so they could receive better housing. “I’ve always said that they don’t have anything to fear because if [the government] really wanted to get rid of you, they would have done it a long time ago,” he said.

Percentage of the population under- and over-counted Hispanic was not included as an option on the census before 1980. Source: Census Bureau; compiled by Eli Day

But now undocumented immigrants are “much more fearful that they’re going to deport everyone,” he said. “They’ve arrested people in stores, at work, on buses.” He showed me a video posted to Facebook that day of Border Patrol agents searching for farmworkers in a field near the Mexican border. That week, Immigration and Customs Enforcement raided 77 businesses in Northern California, then the largest sweep since Trump became president. “California better hold on tight,” ICE Acting Director Thomas Homan told Fox News. “They’re about to see a lot more special agents, a lot more deportation officers.”

Sanjuan said it would be easier to persuade fellow immigrants to respond to the census if not for Trump. “I believe it’s going to be difficult to convince people now,” he told me.

In his first State of the Union address, Trump returned to familiar themes from his presidential campaign, decrying “open borders [that] have allowed drugs and gangs to pour into our most vulnerable communities.” Immigrants, he said, had stolen jobs from native-born Americans and “caused the loss of many innocent lives.” He highlighted the stories of families who’d lost children to the MS-13 gangs, and of the cops who’d battled them.

The next morning, 25 Latina women gathered for a monthly support group at the Fresno Center for New Americans, located in a strip mall next to a Family Dollar and an El Pollo Loco restaurant. They sat at a long U-shaped table beneath a mural of verdant farmland scenes that celebrated Fresno as “the best little city in the USA.”

Quezada was there to give a presentation on the census. “I am an immigrant,” she said in Spanish, and she described how her family had escaped the civil war in El Salvador after the American-backed military regime falsely accused her father of being a communist. “When I was little, all I knew was war,” she said.

Quezada showed a slide of an ICE agent knocking on the door of a terrified woman. “You have the right to say nothing and also to ask to speak with your lawyer,” Quezada said. “This is [true] if you have documents or do not have documents.” The census, too, she said, “is a right that one should exercise. And it is a right that we all have as immigrants and as human beings.”

She asked how many of the women had participated in the census before. Only a few raised their hands. Maria, a farmworker who’d been in the United States for 37 years, said she’d filled out the form in 2010 but couldn’t convince her neighbors to do so. “They’re afraid,” she said. “They tell you, ‘They’re not going to count me. They only count people with documents. We thought we were going to be investigated.'” Her friends who received the form threw it in the trash, she added.

Adela, who came to Fresno 10 years ago, had never filled out a census form either. “You come not knowing the laws,” she said. “People say, ‘Oh, don’t fill it out because you don’t have insurance. You’re not here legally. As a result, you can’t fill it out. It doesn’t count. Even if you fill it out, it doesn’t count.'” She also recalled seeing 2010 census forms in trash cans in Fresno.

Quezada explained that California received $77 billion annually from the federal government, allocated according to census data, for programs that many people in the room used, like Head Start, English-language classes, and Medi-Cal public health insurance. If these 25 women were counted, she said, then over 10 years they would attract funding on the order of “half a million dollars, in this little room.” She added, “I hope you see the magnitude of the consequence of not participating.”

The 2010 census, the most accurate to date, overcounted white residents by nearly 1 percent while failing to count 1.5 million people of color.

Francesca, a mother of four from Guerrero, Mexico, who had lived in Fresno for 18 years, raised her hand. She wanted to know why, despite staying at the same address in Fresno for 11 years, she didn’t receive a census form in 2010. “Almost everyone I know has never filled out a form,” she said. She wondered if that was one reason there weren’t enough teachers at her children’s schools and the classes were too large. (Census data helps school districts decide where to build new schools and hire teachers.)

Twenty percent of Californians live in hard-to-count areas like Fresno, where more than a quarter of all households failed to mail back their 2010 census forms, including a third of Latinos and African Americans, Quezada told the group. She pulled up a map showing that California contains 10 of the 50 counties in the country with the lowest census response rates. Those 10 counties are home to 8.4 million people; 38 states have smaller populations.

“There I am,” Francesca said, pointing at the map.

“Yes,” Quezada responded. “There you are.”

After the 2010 census failed to count 1.5 million US residents of color, the government might have been expected to devote more resources to ensure an accurate count. Instead, in 2012 Congress told the Census Bureau, over the Obama White House’s objections, to spend less money on the 2020 census than it had in 2010, despite inflation and the fact that the population was projected to grow by 25 million. After Trump took office, Congress cut the bureau’s budget by another 10 percent and gave it no additional funding for 2018, even though the census typically receives a major cash infusion at this juncture to prepare for the decennial count. (In late March, Congress allocated $1.3 billion in additional funding for the 2020 census, double what the Trump administration requested.)

The bureau’s director, John Thompson, testified on Capitol Hill in May 2017 that the budget cuts would force “difficult decisions.” A week later, he announced his resignation. The bureau canceled field tests last year in Puerto Rico and on Native American reservations in North Dakota, South Dakota, and Washington state that were designed to help the census reach hard-to-count communities. It then eliminated two of three “dress rehearsals” planned for April 2018, leaving Providence, Rhode Island, as the only site to test the bureau’s new technology before the 2020 census begins. (Rhode Island’s secretary of state says she’s received almost no communication from the bureau about the test.) Prewitt, the census director in 2000, compared the situation to the Air Force putting a new fighter plane into battle without testing it first. “You would never do that to the military,” he said, “but they’re doing that to the census.”

The Census Bureau has half as many regional centers and field offices today as it did in 2010. The Denver office oversees a region that stretches from Canada to Mexico. With the Boston office closed, the New York office covers all of New England. There are only two census outreach workers for all of the New York City metro area, according to Jeff Wice, a census expert at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in New York. The first digital census may make the process more convenient for some people, but 36 percent of African Americans and 30 percent of Hispanics have neither a computer nor broadband internet at home, and a Pew Research Center survey published last year found that more than a third of Americans making less than $30,000 a year lack smartphones. In California’s Central Valley, “people aren’t just sitting around in a beaten-down trailer or an old motel on their laptop waiting to fill out their census form,” says Ilene Jacobs, director of litigation, advocacy, and training for California Rural Legal Assistance. (The Census Bureau will partially mitigate this issue by mailing paper questionnaires to the 20 percent of American households that have poor internet access.)

States expected to gain and lose congressional seats after 2020 These changes assume a fairly conducted census. A politicized one could distort the map. Source: Election Data Services

Quezada and Sanjuan identified more than 600 unconventional structures in Fresno that could be sent census notices in 2020, increasing the number of housing units in the Census Bureau’s database by 6.3 percent in the areas they canvassed. But there will be fewer people dispatched by the bureau to count their occupants in person if they fail to respond, with the number of enumerators nationally dropping from more than 500,000 in 2010 to about 300,000 in 2020.

The technological shortcomings of the census are becoming apparent. Last year, the Government Accountability Office labeled it a “high risk” program and warned that the census website’s scheduled launch in April 2020 could resemble the disastrous HealthCare.gov rollout in 2010. The GAO found that only 4 of the bureau’s 40 technology systems had cleared testing, and none were ready to be used in the field.

Cybersecurity is also a major concern. Thompson says the bureau receives a “large number of attacks” every day. An internal review in January listed cybersecurity and public skepticism of the bureau’s ability to handle confidential data as the top two “major concerns that could affect the design or the successful implementation of the 2020 census.” The GAO has warned that “cyber criminals may attempt to steal personal information collected during and for the 2020 Decennial Census.” Hackers, including from Russia, could even seek to manipulate the overall count by breaking into the bureau’s databases.

Strong leadership could remedy some of these deficiencies, but there’s essentially no one steering the ship. Thompson announced his resignation on May 9, 2017, the same day FBI Director James Comey was fired. Thompson’s deputy, Nancy Potok, had already left to become the country’s chief statistician. The administration still hasn’t nominated anyone to replace them.

In November, Politico reported that Thomas Brunell, a professor of political science at the University of Texas-Dallas, would become the bureau’s deputy director, the position in charge of running the decennial census. Unlike past deputy directors, who were nonpartisan career civil servants with extensive census experience, Brunell had never worked in government. He had, however, written a 2008 book called Redistricting and Representation: Why Competitive Elections Are Bad for America, which provocatively argued that segregating voters by party affiliation in ultrasafe electoral districts offered them better representation than spreading them across competitive ones. He’d also been hired by Republicans in more than a dozen states as an expert witness in redistricting cases, defending some GOP-drawn maps that were later struck down by federal courts for racial gerrymandering.

The reports about Brunell sparked furious pushback from civil rights advocates. “It’s breathtaking to think they’re going to make that person responsible for the census,” former Attorney General Eric Holder told me. “It’s a sign of what the Trump administration intends to do with the census, which is not to take a constitutional responsibility with the degree of seriousness that they should. It would raise great fears that you would have a very partisan census.”

Prominent anti-immigration hardliners are hoping to use citizenship data from the census to further reduce immigrants’ political influence.

In February, Brunell withdrew from consideration. Yet the bureau has already become politicized. Last year, Trump installed Kevin Quinley, the former research director at Kellyanne Conway’s Republican polling firm, whose clients included Breitbart News, as a special adviser to the bureau. Quinley reports to the Office of White House Liaison at the Commerce Department, which reports to the White House, according to a former department official. “If something like that happened to me as a director, I would feel intimidated by it,” says Prewitt. In March, the bureau chose as its head of congressional affairs a top aide to former Sen. David Vitter (R-La.), who repeatedly introduced legislation to add a question about US citizenship to the census form.

The push to include a citizenship question on the 2020 census came from the Justice Department, which requested the change in December. The department said it needed the information to enforce the Voting Rights Act. Gupta, the former head of the department’s Civil Rights Division, says that’s “plainly a ruse to collect that data and ultimately to sabotage the census.” Six former directors of the bureau who served under Republican and Democratic presidents wrote a letter opposing the citizenship question. Steve Murdock, who led the census from 2008 to 2009 under President George W. Bush, told me, “It would be a horrendous problem for the Census Bureau and create all kind of controversies.” When I asked immigrants in the Fresno area whether they would respond to the census if it included a question about citizenship, virtually all of them said no.

Prominent anti-immigration hardliners, including Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the former vice chair of Trump’s election integrity commission, are hoping to use citizenship data from the census to further reduce immigrants’ political influence. They have issued a radical proposal to draw legislative maps based on the number of citizens in a district rather than the total population, which would significantly diminish political representation for areas with large numbers of noncitizens.

Even before the Justice Department proposed the citizenship question, field surveys and focus groups conducted by the bureau in five states in 2017 found that “fears, particularly among immigrant respondents, have increased markedly.” Interviewees “intentionally provided incomplete or incorrect information about household members due to concerns regarding confidentiality, particularly relating to perceived negative attitudes toward immigrants,” according to a memo from the Center for Survey Measurement, a division of the bureau. One Spanish-speaking field representative told the bureau that a family moved away from a trailer park to avoid being interviewed: “There was a cluster of mobile homes, all Hispanic. I went to one and I left the information on the door. I could hear them inside. I did two more interviews, and when I came back they were moving…It’s because they were afraid of being deported.”

Such fear has precedent. During World War II, the Census Bureau gave the names and addresses of Japanese Americans to the Secret Service, which used the information to round up people and send them to internment camps. That abuse led to strict confidentiality standards for the bureau. But many immigrants will never trust the Trump administration with their personal information. “Immigrants and their families all feel under attack, under siege, by the federal government,” says Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, who serves on a Census Bureau advisory committee. “And then we have to turn around and tell these same people, ‘Trust the federal government when they come to count you.'”

The Commerce Department now estimates that only 55 percent of Americans will initially fill out the census in 2020 after receiving a postcard in the mail, down from 63 percent who sent back the first form in 2010. The need to reach out to the remainder of the population will drive up expenses and could result in further cutbacks. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, who worked as an enumerator while attending Harvard Business School, told Congress in October that the census would cost $3 billion more than initially projected.

Already, the bureau’s outreach is lagging. For the 2010 census, it ran a $340 million promotional ad campaign featuring Winter Olympians, NASCAR drivers, and Dora the Explorer. “Everyone counts on the census form!” Dora said in one ad. The popular Telemundo telenovela Más Sabe el Diablo (“The Devil Knows Best”) even featured a storyline where the character Perla got a job working for the Census Bureau in New York City.

So far, the bureau has only 40 employees working with local governments and community groups on outreach, far short of the 120 at this point 10 years ago. The bureau is focusing its limited budget on perfecting the new technology it will use in 2020, shortchanging the advertising and local partnerships it typically uses to reach hard-to-count communities. (More than 30 private foundations—including the Oakland, California-based WKF Fund, which sponsored the outreach effort in Fresno—are attempting to fill the void and have raised $17 million to support community groups working on the census.) “They’re going to have to spend a lot of money to convince people it’s okay to be counted,” says Thompson. If the money isn’t there, “you’re not going to count everyone.”

After the 1990 census failed to count 4 million people—including 4.6 percent of African Americans, 5 percent of Hispanics, and 12 percent of Native Americans—the bureau issued a proposal to more accurately tally minority communities. It would use statistical sampling, which included detailed demographic data and survey research, to adjust the final census count and compensate for the demographic skew. That provoked a furious response from Republicans, who claimed sampling would be inaccurate and cost their party 24 seats in Congress and 410 seats in state legislatures. “At stake is our GOP majority in the House of Representatives as well as partisan control of state legislatures nationwide,” said Republican National Committee Chair Jim Nicholson. House Speaker Newt Gingrich sued the Census Bureau and took the case to the Supreme Court, which ruled 5-4 in his favor, even though, as Justice John Paul Stevens wrote in his dissent, “the use of sampling will make the census more accurate than an admittedly futile attempt to count every individual by personal inspection, interview, or written interrogatory.”

Brookings Institution demographer William Frey projects that in the 2020 census, for the first time, the white share of the population will fall below 60 percent. Trump, who won the white vote by 20 points in 2016, would stand to gain politically if the census were manipulated to slow that shift. Undercounting minority populations would do the greatest harm to states like California, which has the most immigrants in the country. A significant undercount in 2020 could cost the state more than $20 billion over a decade and potentially one or two congressional seats and electoral votes. California is planning to spend $50 million over the next two years on outreach to hard-to-count populations.

“If we lose a congressional seat or two, our voice is minimized,” says state Rep. Joaquin Arambula, a Democrat from the Fresno area. “Our representation in the Electoral College is diminished. Our ability to influence who the next president is has changed. And it’s not reflective of what our democracy truly represents: one person, one vote.”

Some former directors of the census worry Republicans could simply choose to disregard the 2020 count. There’s precedent for that, too.

Back in 1920, the census reported that for the first time, half the population lived in urban areas. Those results would have shifted 11 House seats to states with most of these new urban immigrants, who tended to vote Democratic. The Republican-controlled Congress recoiled. “It is not best for America that her councils be dominated by semicivilized foreign colonies in Boston, New York, and Chicago,” said Republican Rep. Edward Little of Kansas.

Congress refused to reapportion its seats using the 1920 census. Instead, it imposed drastic new quotas on immigration. It didn’t adopt a new electoral map until 1929.

There’s no indication Congress will ignore the results of the 2020 census. But Prewitt sees parallels between the Republican Congress of 1920 and the one today. “You could make a plausible argument that one party benefits from the current distribution of seats across the legislative bodies, and they can’t necessarily improve on the ratio they now have, so therefore why reapportion?” he says. “It’s unlikely, but not implausible.”

A day after canvassing the alleys of east Fresno, Quezada and Sanjuan drove me 30 miles south, past almond, pistachio, and orange fields. We reached a sprawling, unofficial trailer park, three miles square, inhabited by farmworkers and known as Tijuanitas.

Across the street from a grape field, we met a woman named Jacinta in front of her white trailer, next to a huge pile of abandoned refrigerators and tires. Her three children played by a plywood chicken coop in the backyard while her husband was out picking lettuce.

Jacinta arrived 11 years ago from Oaxaca, Mexico, where she’d grown up speaking Triqui, an indigenous language. She doesn’t remember receiving a census form in 2010 and said that if anyone from the government came to Tijuanitas, she wouldn’t open the door. When Quezada asked whether she would fill out the census form if she received one, Jacinta responded, “I can’t read. How can I fill it out if I can’t read or write?”

Her next-door neighbor, a grape picker named Gilberto, had lived there for 20 years. A cage with two doves hung from a tree in his front yard; his work tools dangled from another. He was also from Oaxaca but spoke Mixtec, another indigenous language. When Quezada asked if he’d ever received the census form, Gilberto said no. “The census is for US citizens only,” he said. “If I received the form, I would return it because I’m not a US citizen.” Quezada told him the census counted noncitizens, too. “I didn’t know that,” Gilberto responded.

Tijuanitas isn’t visible from any major roads. It’s accessible only by a pothole-filled dirt road. It lacks safe drinking water and internet access, according to Quezada. Many residents have no street address and receive mail at PO boxes in nearby San Joaquin. From the perspective of the Postal Service or internet providers or utility companies, it’s as if Tijuanitas doesn’t exist. It appears ever likelier that the 2020 census will regard Tijuanitas and other underserved and neglected communities across the country the same way.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

I thought I’d done everything right: breastfeeding my children, a careful diet, plenty of exercise. I wasn’t overweight and didn’t have a family history. I bought BPA-free bottles for my filtered water. But on a visit to the radiology department last spring, a pair of red brackets highlighted something worrisome on the ultrasound monitor.

Invasive lobular carcinoma—a malignant breast tumor. This spidery little beast measuring nearly three centimeters meant I had stage 2 cancer.

At 47, I was a decade and a half younger than the median age for breast cancer diagnosis in the United States. Was this just bad luck? Maybe, but the journalist in me was still curious to know: Why me? So I dug into the literature on risk factors to see where I might have fit in. It’s an impossible question to answer definitively for an individual, like trying to prove that a single weather event was caused by climate change. As one doctor told me, “You know who’s at risk for getting breast cancer? People with breasts!”

Still, most of the broad indicators didn’t seem to apply to me. The biggest one is age: The median diagnosis in the United States is at 62, and the highest breast cancer rates are in women older than 70. Another is taking hormone replacement therapy after menopause, but I’m premenopausal and haven’t taken it. Obesity raises risk, but I’ve never been overweight.

Then I saw one that gave me pause: alcohol consumption. I’m not a heavy drinker, but like most women I know, I have consumed a lot of alcohol in my lifetime.

While doctors have frequently admonished me for putting cream in my coffee lest it clog my arteries—a correlation that’s been pretty thoroughly debunked—not once has any doctor suggested I might face a higher cancer risk if I didn’t cut back on drinking. I’d filled out dozens of medical forms over the years asking how much I drank every week, but no one ever followed up other than to say with nodding approval, “So you drink socially.”

The research linking alcohol to breast cancer is deadly solid: Alcohol, regardless of whether it’s in Everclear or a vintage Bordeaux, is carcinogenic.

I quickly discovered that way back in 1988, the World Health Organization declared alcohol a Group 1 carcinogen, meaning that it’s been proved to cause cancer. There is no known safe dosage in humans, according to the WHO. Alcohol causes at least seven types of cancer, but it kills more women from breast cancer than from any other. The International Agency for Research on Cancer estimates that for every drink consumed daily, the risk of breast cancer goes up 7 percent.

The research linking alcohol to breast cancer is deadly solid. There’s no controversy here. Alcohol, regardless of whether it’s in Everclear or a vintage Bordeaux, is carcinogenic. More than 100 studies over several decades have reaffirmed the link with consistent results. The National Cancer Institute says alcohol raises breast cancer risk even at low levels.

I’m a pretty voracious reader of health news, and all of this came as a shock. I’d been told red wine was supposed to defend against heart disease, not give you cancer. And working at Mother Jones, I thought I’d written or read articles on everything that could maybe possibly cause cancer: sugar, plastic, milk, pesticides, shampoo, the wrong sunscreen, tap water…You name it, we’ve reported on the odds that it might give you cancer. As I schlepped back and forth to the hospital for surgery and radiation treatments, I started to wonder how I could know about the risk associated with all these other things but not alcohol. It turns out there was a good reason for my ignorance.

I was born and raised in Utah, and after my cancer diagnosis, I wondered what would have happened if I’d stayed put. My home state has one of the lowest rates of breast cancer in the country. Observant Mormon women don’t drink, and like other populations that abstain, they have significantly lower rates of breast cancer than drinkers. In Utah, Mormon women’s breast cancer rates are more than 24 percent lower than the national average. (Mormon men have lower rates of colon cancer, which alcohol can also cause.)

Researchers suspect the low overall rate of breast cancer in Utah has to do with the LDS church’s strict control over state alcohol policy. Gentiles, as we non-Mormons are called, grouse mightily over the watery 3.2 percent beer sold in Utah supermarkets, the high price of vodka sold exclusively in state-run liquor stores, and the infamous “Zion Curtain,” a barrier that restaurants were until recently required to install to shield kids from seeing drinks poured. Yet all those restrictions on booze seem to make people in Utah healthier, Mormon or not, especially when it comes to breast cancer.

Epidemiologists first recognized the connection between cancer and alcohol consumption in the 1970s. Scientists have since found biological explanations for why alcohol is carcinogenic, particularly in breast tissue.

When you take a drink, enzymes in your mouth convert even small amounts of alcohol into high levels of acetaldehyde, a carcinogen. People who consume more than three drinks a day are two to three times likelier to contract oral cavity cancer than those who don’t. Alcohol also damages the cells in the mouth, priming the pump for other carcinogens: Studies have found that drinking and smoking together pose a much higher risk of throat, mouth, and esophageal cancer than either does on its own.

Alcohol continues its trail of cellular damage as enzymes from the esophagus to the colon convert it into acetaldehyde. The liver serves as the body’s detox center, but alcohol is toxic to liver cells and can scar the organ tissue, leading over time to cirrhosis, which raises the risk of liver cancer.

Researchers estimate that alcohol accounts for 15 percent of US breast cancer cases and deaths.

As acetaldehyde courses through the body, it can bind to DNA, causing mutations that can lead to cancer, particularly in the colon. Alcohol is suspected of inflicting a double whammy on breast tissue because it also increases the level of estrogen in a woman’s body. High levels of estrogen prompt faster cell division in the breast, which can lead to mutations and ultimately tumors.

Researchers estimate that alcohol accounts for 15 percent of US breast cancer cases and deaths—about 35,000 and 6,600 a year, respectively. That’s about three times more than the number of breast cancer cases caused by a mutation of the BRCA genes, which prompted Angelina Jolie, who carries one of the abnormal genes, to have both her healthy breasts removed in 2013. The breast cancer risk from alcohol isn’t nearly as high as the lung cancer risk from smoking. But alcohol-related breast cancer kills more than twice as many American women as drunk drivers do. And alcohol is one of the few breast cancer risk factors women can control. Others, like starting menstrual periods before the age of 12 and entering menopause after 55, are baked in.

Overall, American women have about a 12 percent lifetime risk of getting breast cancer. Walter Willett, an epidemiology professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health who has conducted studies on alcohol and breast cancer, says a woman who consumes two to three drinks a day has a lifetime risk of about 15 percent—a 25 percent increase over teetotalers. By comparison, mammography reduces the death rate from breast cancer by about 25 percent. “Alcohol can undo all of that at about two drinks a day,” Willett says.

When the evidence of alcohol’s cancer risks emerged, public health advocates sought to spread the word. In 1988, California added alcohol to its list of cancer-causing chemicals that required a warning label. The next year, when Congress first mandated nationwide warning labels on alcohol, advocates tried to include cancer on them. Battered by activism around drunk driving and fetal alcohol syndrome, the booze industry was already in a slump, with alcohol consumption per capita on a steep slide since its 1981 peak. Fearing health advocates would do to alcohol what they had done to tobacco, the industry fought back with an audacious marketing campaign.

Alcohol companies worked to rebrand booze as a staple of a healthy lifestyle, like salads and jogging. The wine industry led, with vintner Robert Mondavi taking rabbis and doctors on educational tours about the alleged health benefits of moderate drinking. He told the New York Times in 1988 that wine “has been praised for centuries by rulers, philosophers, physicians, priests, and poets for life, health, and happiness.

The industry’s attempt to transform its products into health tonics might never have succeeded without the help of Morley Safer. In 1991, Safer hosted a 60 Minutes segment about the “French paradox,” the idea that the French eat heaps of red meat, cheese, and cream but have lower heart disease rates than Americans, who were many years into a low-fat dieting craze. On the show, he held up a glass of red wine and declared, “The answer to the riddle, the explanation of the paradox, may lie in this inviting glass.” New research, he said, showed red wine might flush out fatty deposits on artery walls and counteract the effects of the heavy French diet.

That TV episode, which according to the International Wine & Food Society was viewed by more than 20 million people, created a media sensation and caused a spike in red wine sales nationwide. Researchers soon debunked the idea that wine was helping French heart health, and France’s heart disease rate turned out to be higher than advertised. Meanwhile, all the wine the French consumed was killing large numbers of them. The same year as the 60 Minutes episode, France passed some of the world’s strictest regulations of alcohol advertising to combat prevalent liver cirrhosis.

The Distilled Spirits Council of the United States “is working to ensure cultural acceptance of alcohol beverages by ‘normalizing’ them in the minds of consumers as a healthy part of a normal lifestyle,” the group’s CEO said in 2000.

Even so, the US wine industry lobbied to include a positive health message about alcohol in the 1995 Dietary Guidelines for Americans published by the Department of Agriculture. The new guidelines removed language indicating that alcohol had “no net health benefit” and stated that for some people, moderate alcohol consumption might reduce the risk of heart disease.

At a conference of beer wholesalers in 1996, the Miller Brewing Co.’s vice president of corporate relations touted the success of the 60 Minutes episode and the subsequent changes in government health messages as progress in the industry’s effort to brand its products as healthy. She urged attendees to open every meeting with an elected official by saying, “Alcohol can be part of a healthy diet.”

Over the past two decades, the alcohol industry has gone all out to tie its products to an active lifestyle. Peter Cressy, the former CEO of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS), the liquor lobby, explained in 2000, “DISCUS is working to ensure cultural acceptance of alcohol beverages by ‘normalizing’ them in the minds of consumers as a healthy part of a normal lifestyle.”

Alcohol companies, long sponsors of football games and NASCAR events, now sponsor 5K races and triathlons. During last year’s Super Bowl, a Michelob Ultra ad featured extremely fit people working out and then grabbing a beer to quench their thirst. (Drinking alcohol after exercise causes dehydration and impedes muscle recovery.) Hard liquor companies concocted products like Devotion Spirits vodka, which supposedly contained a protein that would help build muscle while preventing hangovers. (In 2012, Devotion Spirits withdrew many of its health claims after the Federal Trade Commission opened an investigation.)

Indeed, the supposed health upside of moderate drinking is one of the industry’s go-to talking points. When Mother Jones reached out to the leading beer and liquor companies and the major industry groups, those that responded acknowledged the connection between alcohol and cancer, but some argued the risk belongs mostly or entirely to heavy drinkers. Sarah Longwell, the managing director of the American Beverage Institute, said in a statement that “a substantial number of well-conducted studies reveal no correlation between cancer and moderate to light alcohol consumption.” Moderate drinking, she noted, has been found to reduce the risk of heart disease, among other benefits. “There has been a concerted effort by some researchers to reverse that knowledge,” she said in an earlier conversation. “I think it is flying in the face of good science.”

Marketing alcohol as a health product should be a tough sell. Cancer is only one of the many ways it can kill you. Drunk driving, alcohol poisoning, injuries, domestic violence, liver disease—alcohol is responsible for the deaths of nearly 90,000 Americans every year, more than double the estimated 40,000 US opioid deaths in 2015. To overcome this hurdle, the industry needed to give its PR campaign scientific backing. The strategy came straight from the tobacco playbook, which wasn’t a surprise: Sometimes the companies were one and the same. The tobacco giant Philip Morris, which bought Miller in 1970, later became Altria, which today has a big stake in Anheuser-Busch.

Big Tobacco had set up research centers to dispute science tying smoking to lung cancer and funded research designed to show benefits from smoking, like stress reduction, to help fend off stricter regulation. The alcohol industry took a similar tack, aided by research it had been funding since the late 1960s. In a 1993 book called Forward Together: Industry and Academia, Thomas Turner, the former dean of the Johns Hopkins University medical school, explained how, starting in 1969, he had worked with the heads of the world’s biggest beer companies to create the Alcoholic Beverage Medical Research Foundation (now called the Foundation for Alcohol Research). The foundation took academics to exotic destinations for conferences and gave grants to scientists.

Between 1972 and 1993, Turner bragged, the beer foundation and its precursor funded more than 500 studies on alcohol and distributed grants to dozens of researchers and universities. One was Dr. Arthur Klatsky of Kaiser Permanente. In the early 1970s, Klatsky had access to extensive data through Kaiser’s health system that included information about patients’ alcohol intake. In 1974, he published one of the first papers suggesting that light drinkers had lower rates of heart disease than abstainers. Soon after, the beer foundation started funding Klatsky’s data collection at Kaiser, a relationship that continued for decades. Between 1975 and 1991, according to Turner’s book, the foundation contributed $1.7 million to Klatsky’s research on alcohol and health. The industry widely promoted his work suggesting health benefits from drinking, and Klatsky is still quoted regularly in the media, often without any disclosure of his relationship with the industry.

“You’re looking at industries that are adept at creating doubt when it comes to protecting their profits,” says one public health advocate.

Klatsky says industry funding has never compromised the objectivity of his research. He notes that the first study he did with beer foundation money showed that drinkers had an elevated risk of high blood pressure. He also published an early study on the link between alcohol and breast cancer. “I think that most people who know me and know my work think I’m unbiased,” he told me. “I see both sides of the alcohol issue. It’s a double-edged sword.”

The industry has also funded researchers who cast doubt on studies that pose problems for it. For example, the Distilled Spirits Council paid for a 1994 study by Dr. H. Daniel Roth, who was then helping Philip Morris reach a settlement with lung cancer victims, that disputed the link between alcohol and breast cancer. “You’re looking at industries that are adept at creating doubt when it comes to protecting their profits,” says Robert S. Pezzolesi, the founding director of the public health group New York Alcohol Policy Alliance.

In the early 1990s, the beer foundation funded research by George Koob, who served as a foundation adviser between 1999 and 2003. In 2014, he became director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), the only federal agency devoted exclusively to alcohol research.

Washington’s revolving door sends people in both directions. At least a half-dozen government officials working on alcohol policy have left for gigs with the industry over the past 20 years. Among the most prominent is Dr. Samir Zakhari, the former director of the Division of Metabolism and Health Effects at the NIAAA. In 2012, the Distilled Spirits Council hired him to head its science office.

The NIAAA has long recognized that alcohol increases breast cancer risk, and literature on the Distilled Spirits Council’s website acknowledged this, too, although it appears to have been taken down. But in 2015, Zakhari published a scientific journal article asserting that “there is no solid evidence associating moderate alcohol consumption with an increased incidence of breast cancer.” He advised women worried about cancer to consult a doctor because “moderate alcohol consumption has been associated with potential health benefits, including decreased risk of coronary artery disease and overall mortality, protection against congestive heart failure, decreased risk of ischemic stroke, and protection against type 2 diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis.” An industry group recently cited the paper to try to fend off restrictive government recommendations about alcohol consumption in the United Kingdom.

Zakhari keeps in touch with his old colleagues at the NIAAA, according to emails Mother Jones obtained through a public records request. In 2014, the Baltimore Sun ran an op-ed by the industry-supported Competitive Enterprise Institute that complained tax dollars were paying for “anti-alcohol advocacy” and cited an NIAAA-funded study about industry marketing to underage drinkers that had been conducted by David Jernigan, the director of the Johns Hopkins University Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth. An email circulated among NIAAA employees alerting them to the article. Koob, the NIAAA director, forwarded the email thread to Zakhari and wrote, “Sam: For the record. This will NOT happen again. I will NOT be funding this kind of work under my tenure.” Zakhari responded that some researchers advocated these types of studies “out of shear [sic] ignorance or because they are sympathetic,” but that he was confident Koob would “spend research money on real science.”

Zakhari takes issue with the idea that he is emblematic of Washington’s revolving door and says the 2015 paper “reflects my personal scientific opinion.” In a statement to Mother Jones, he said, “I came to the Council, after my retirement from NIH, because I share their commitment to responsible alcohol consumption. My dedication to evidence-based research remains the same regardless of where I am employed.”

My discovery that alcohol consumption was a risk factor for my breast cancer contradicted everything I thought I knew about drinking. Like 76 percent of Americans surveyed by the American Heart Association in 2011, I believed a little wine was good for the ticker. The fact is, people want to believe that drinking is good for them, and the science in this field is easy to manipulate to convince them.

Scientists have long known that heavy drinking causes high blood pressure, strokes, and heart attacks. That’s why early studies investigating drinking and heart disease started with the logical supposition that people who abstain from alcohol should have low rates of heart disease compared with moderate or heavy drinkers. As it turned out, they didn’t. When plotted on a curve, drinkers fell into a J-shaped pattern: Abstainers in the studies had rates of cardiovascular disease similar to those of heavy drinkers.

But this J-curve is deceptive. Not all the nondrinkers in these studies were teetotalers like the ones I grew up with in Utah. The British epidemiologist A. Gerald Shaper began a wide-ranging men’s heart health study in the late 1970s, and when he examined the data, he found that 71 percent of nondrinkers in the study were actually former drinkers who had quit. Some of these ex-drinking men were as likely to smoke as heavy drinkers. They had the highest rate of heart disease of any group and elevated rates of high blood pressure, peptic ulcers, diabetes, gallbladder disease, and even bronchitis. Shaper concluded that ex-drinkers were often sicker than heavy drinkers who hadn’t quit, making them a poor control group.

Yet for decades, researchers continued to include them and consequently found an implausible number of health benefits to moderate drinking, including lower rates of deafness and liver cirrhosis. The industry has helped promote these studies to doctors.

That’s one reason why, until recently, alcohol’s heart health benefits have been treated as incontrovertible science. But in the mid-2000s, Kaye Middleton Fillmore, a researcher at the University of California-San Francisco, decided to study Shaper’s ex-drinkers. When no one in the United States would fund her work, she persuaded Tim Stockwell, then the director of Australia’s National Drug Research Institute, to help her secure Australian government funding.

Stockwell and Fillmore analyzed decades’ worth of studies on alcohol and heart disease. Once they excluded studies with ex-drinkers—which was most of them—the heart benefits of alcohol largely disappeared. Since then, a host of other studies have found that drinking does not provide any heart benefits. (Some studies have found that drinking small amounts of alcohol—sometimes less than one drink per day—can be beneficial for certain people at risk of heart disease.) Robert Brewer, who runs an alcohol program at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, says, “Studies do not support that there are benefits of moderate drinking.” The Agriculture Department removed language suggesting that alcohol may lower the risk of heart disease in the most recent US Dietary Guidelines.

Yet the debate rages on, in part because the industry continues to fund and promote studies indicating that alcohol helps the heart. The NIAAA is currently embarking on another one with $100 million in funding, most of which was solicited directly from the industry, according to the New York Times. The study was planned in consultation with industry leaders and pitched as a way to prove that moderate drinking can be healthy. It is being billed as the most definitive study on moderate drinking to date, but it will likely understate the risks, partly because it won’t run long enough to track any increases in cancer rates. At least five researchers on the project are past recipients of industry money.

“What is the point of this [pro-alcohol] research?” asks a public health professor. “Even if it turns out that there are true benefits, we’re not going to start recommending that people who have never had alcohol before start drinking.”

Public health experts say that even if there is a small heart benefit from alcohol, it will never outweigh the risks. Alcohol “would never be approved as a medicine,” says Jennie Connor, a preventive- and social-medicine professor at the University of Otago in New Zealand who wrote one of the landmark papers linking alcohol to cancer. “It’s addictive, like opioids. If you give medication to people that could affect their unborn child or make them aggressive and hit their wife, what kind of medicine is that? From a public health standpoint, using alcohol for heart disease is utterly wrong. It goes against everything medical people do.”

“From a pure scientific perspective, what is the point of this [pro-alcohol] research?” asks Michael Siegel, a professor at the Boston University School of Public Health. “How is it going to change policy or practice? It’s not. Even if it turns out that there are true benefits, we’re not going to start recommending that people who have never had alcohol before start drinking.”

There are far safer ways than drinking to reduce the risk of heart disease—walking, for instance—that also won’t give you cancer. That’s why the American Heart Association strongly warns people not to start drinking if they don’t already.

I drank my first beer when I was 13. My dad and I had been out pheasant hunting on a cold day. After we bagged our birds, we got into the Jeep to warm up, and my dad handed me a Mickey’s Big Mouth. It was nasty, but I drank it to prove my worthiness of the adult gesture. When I was done, he said, “You wanna drive?” That was Utah in the ’80s, at least if you weren’t Mormon.

Later, I went to a Catholic high school, where we distinguished ourselves from the future missionaries in the public schools with excessive drinking. Even in Utah, booze was easy to come by. There was Doug at Metro Mart, who sold us beer from the drive-thru window. When he wasn’t around, we stole it from our parents, siphoning off small amounts of bourbon, rum, gin, and vodka and then dumping the whole awful mix into a cola-flavored Slurpee and sucking it down through a straw.

I went off to the University of Oregon, where Animal House had been filmed 10 years earlier. During my time there, the university decided to crack down on underage drinking on campus. Riots broke out, and the local police had to deploy tear gas.

I’ve never drunk as heavily as I did before I could legally buy a drink. My experience isn’t unusual. Ninety percent of alcohol consumption by underage Americans is binge drinking, defined as four or more drinks on one occasion, according to the CDC. I’ll never know for sure, but all the drinking I did in my adolescence may have helped pave the way for the cancer I got at 47.

Human breast tissue doesn’t fully mature until a woman becomes pregnant. Before then, and particularly during puberty, breast cells proliferate rapidly, which may make them especially vulnerable to carcinogens. That’s one reason why never getting pregnant is itself a risk factor for breast cancer. Scientists have understood this for nearly 40 years, thanks to studies of women in Nagasaki exposed to radiation from the atomic bomb. Japanese women who’d been exposed before age 20 had the highest rates of breast cancer. Other studies suggest that the risk of premenopausal breast cancer goes up 34 percent for every daily drink consumed before the age of 30. And the longer women go between their first period and their first baby, the riskier drinking becomes.

With a first pregnancy at 33, I had a good 20 years of drinking to damage my breasts, and my adolescent binge drinking may have been especially devastating. Dr. Graham Colditz, a cancer prevention specialist and epidemiologist at Washington University in St. Louis, wrote in the British medical journal Women’s Health in 2015 that “women who report seven drinks on the weekend but no alcohol consumption on the weekdays may have higher risk of breast cancer as compared with those who consistently have one drink every day.” One study Colditz cited found a nearly 50 percent increase in breast cancer risk among women who consumed 10 to 15 drinks over a typical weekend compared with those who had no more than three.

Colditz says cancer prevention efforts haven’t kept up with demographic trends. As women across the globe have delayed childbearing, he says, “We’ve really extended this period of life when the breast is most susceptible, and we haven’t mounted a prevention strategy to counter the marketing of alcohol.”

Liquored Up US per-capita alcohol consumption, in gallons of ethanol per year Source: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

In fact, just as the evidence was becoming clear that women are disproportionately vulnerable to alcohol’s cancer risks, the industry mounted a campaign to get them to drink even more. “Women all over the world are underperforming consumers,” explains Jernigan, the Johns Hopkins researcher who is now a professor at the Boston University School of Public Health. The distilled spirits industry, facing flagging sales, created “alcopops”—sweetened alcoholic beverages such as Zima, Smirnoff Ice, and Skyy Blue that are packaged in childlike bright colors. Marlene Coulis, director of new products at Anheuser-Busch, explained in 2002, “The beauty of this category is that it brings in new drinkers, people who really don’t like the taste of beer.”

Just who were those “new drinkers” who didn’t like beer? Federal data shows the median age for the first consumption of alcohol is about 14, and Jernigan says the people who don’t like the taste of beer tend to be young women. The alcopop-makers managed to convince state and federal regulators that the products were “flavored malt beverages” like beer, even though the main ingredient was distilled spirits. The designation allowed companies to sell these products in convenience stores that also sold beer, at a much lower tax rate than hard liquor required, making them more accessible to underage drinkers. The liquor companies then blasted the youth market with ads for the new products.

The distilled spirits industry had voluntarily given up advertising on the radio back in 1936 and on TV in 1948 to avoid regulation by Congress, but it jettisoned those pledges in 1996. Still, TV liquor ads didn’t fully take off until the advent of alcopops. In 2001, says Jernigan, there were fewer than 2,000 ads for spirits on cable TV. In 2009, that figure had jumped to more than 60,000, and many ads targeted TV audiences with large numbers of viewers too young to drink legally. (In 2012, all the major TV broadcast networks also abandoned their ban on liquor ads.) In an email to Mother Jones, Coulis said the idea that alcopops were intended to appeal to underage drinkers is a “gross mischaracterization and absolute falsehood.”

“They’re marketing a carcinogen. Can you imagine if Philip Morris did a pink tobacco pack? People would be up in arms.”

Traditionally, young people in the United States have been beer drinkers, but in the early 2000s, surveys showed that women were increasingly turning to harder stuff, and they’ve remained there. Ads and products now push alcohol as a salve for the highly stressed American woman. There are wines called Mother’s Little Helper, Happy Bitch, Mad Housewife, and Relax. Her Spirit vodka comes with swag emblazoned with girl-power slogans like “Drink responsibly. Dream recklessly.” Johnnie Walker recently came out with Jane Walker scotch, to market a liquor “seen as particularly intimidating by women,” according to the company. (Johnnie Walker is owned by Diageo, a multinational alcohol conglomerate. One of Mother Jones‘ board members is also an executive at Diageo.)

Booze-makers have also “pinkwashed” products targeted at women, literally draping the ads in pink ribbons, with promises to donate some proceeds to breast cancer charities. In 2015, Alcohol Justice, a California-based policy advocacy group, found 17 brands of pinkwashed booze. “They’re marketing a carcinogen,” says the New York Alcohol Policy Alliance’s Pezzolesi. “Can you imagine if Philip Morris did a pink tobacco pack? People would be up in arms.”

The campaigns seem to have worked. An NIAAA study found that drinking by women jumped 16 percent between 2001 and 2013, more than twice the increase among men. The change is greatest among white women, 71 percent of whom drink today, compared with 64 percent in 1997, according to a Washington Post analysis. The alcohol-related death rate for white women more than doubled between 1999 and 2015.

The ad is graphic: A glass of red wine spills onto a white tablecloth and starts to form the image of a woman. “Alcohol is carcinogenic,” the narrator says. “Once absorbed into the bloodstream, it travels through the body. With every drink, the risk of cell mutations in the breast, liver, bowel, and throat increases. These cell mutations are also known as cancer.” The wine pools around the woman like blood, and the narrator advises limiting cancer risk by not having more than two drinks on any day. The ad campaign aired in 2010 in Western Australia.

In England in 2013, a public health charity broadcast an ad campaign featuring a man drinking a beer with a tumor at the bottom of the glass, which he ultimately swallows as the narrator explains, “The World Health Organization classifies alcohol as a Group 1 carcinogen. Like tobacco and asbestos, it can cause cancer.”

Other countries have begun to take heed of alcohol’s cancer risks. For the first time, in 2010, the World Health Organization issued a global strategy for reducing the harms of alcohol. It recognized cancer as one of those harms and called on countries to implement measures to lower consumption. Many have done so. South Korea has tightened its recommended alcohol limits, and new Dutch guidelines urge people not to drink at all, but if they do, to consume no more than one drink a day. In December, Ireland’s upper house of parliament approved a cancer warning label for alcohol that is now being debated in the lower house. Even the Russians raised their alcohol taxes. (Canada recently launched an experiment to test cancer warning labels on alcohol in the Yukon but stopped the project a month later amid intense pressure from alcohol companies.)

“If you take 1,000 women, 110 will get breast cancer without drinking,” said England’s chief medical officer. “Drink up to these guidelines and an extra 20 women will get cancer because of that drinking.”

In 2016, Britain reduced its recommended alcohol consumption limit for men to the same level as for women, about six pints of beer a week. Sally Davies, the chief medical officer for England, told the BBC, “If you take 1,000 women, 110 will get breast cancer without drinking. Drink up to these guidelines and an extra 20 women will get cancer because of that drinking. Double the guideline limit and an extra 50 women per 1,000 will get cancer…That’s not scaremongering. That’s fact.”

It’s not the kind of straight talk you’re likely to hear in the United States, where the industry is fighting to prevent cancer fears from hurting its bottom line. In spring 2016, the American Beverage Institute’s Longwell told a brewers’ conference that public health officials “want to tell you that alcohol causes cancer,” according to the Wall Street Journal. Such public health activism, she suggested, was a threat to the industry’s “health halo.” At another 2016 conference, Jim McGreevy, president of the Beer Institute, an industry lobbying group, said of public health advocates, “We can’t let them gain traction.” He did not respond to a request for comment.

Pinkwashing Alcohol companies have tried to persuade consumers they can help fight breast cancer by purchasing “pinkwashed” products that benefit cancer charities, obscuring alcohol’s proven breast cancer risk.

For more than a decade, the alcohol industry has bulldozed long-standing public health regulations designed to reduce harmful consumption. It has mounted successful campaigns to allow the sale of liquor in supermarkets and on Sundays and to loosen restrictions on the hours liquor can be served in restaurants and bars. Not surprisingly, alcohol consumption per capita in the United States, which hit a 34-year low in 1997, has shot up to levels not seen in two decades.

Alcohol companies are enormous multinational corporations. AB InBev controls nearly 50 percent of the US beer market, including the all-American brand Budweiser. Jernigan analyzed Nielsen data and estimated that the industry spent $2.1 billion on advertising in 2016, a figure that doesn’t include online ads or those in stores. It also spent $30.5 million last year to lobby Congress. The Distilled Spirits Council, which alone spent $5.6 million on federal lobbying last year, holds whiskey tastings on Capitol Hill attended by Democrats and Republicans alike. “Alcohol is the drug of choice of the people who make the laws,” observes Jernigan.

While other countries are considering World Health Organization recommendations to impose steeper alcohol taxes, the tax law President Donald Trump signed in December further slashed US alcohol excise taxes, which, thanks to inflation, were already down as much as 80 percent since the 1950s.

Under the Influence Alcohol industry spending on lobbying Source: OpenSecrets

Koob, the NIAAA director, has attended events at the Distilled Spirits Council and met with its representatives, according to documents obtained through a public records request. He gets holiday party invites from the Beer Institute and meets with its CEO. In 2015, Koob and the NIAAA’s director of global alcohol research appeared in a promotional video for AB InBev’s “global smart drinking goals,” filmed at an AB InBev Global Advisory Council meeting.

“We went through the normal procedures here at NIH for approval, and we were given approval to do it,” says Koob. “Under no circumstances are we promoting alcohol beverages or any product. That’s not our nature. But if people want to help prevent alcohol misuse, we’re all for it.”

Boston University’s Siegel counters, “The whole idea [behind the campaign] is that if you drink properly, not to excess, it’s okay. That’s not true. If you drink moderately, you’re increasing your risk of cancer, and that’s the part of it they don’t want people to know.”

After I had surgery to remove my tumor, my oncologist sent me to see the cancer dietitian last June. The dietitian outlined a joyless regimen so complex it required a spreadsheet for compliance. Along with more fish and flaxseed, she recommended five weekly servings of cruciferous vegetables like broccoli, as well as loads of beans for additional fiber. She put the kibosh on bacon and sausage—processed meats are considered carcinogenic. She instructed me to eat natural soy like tofu at least three times a week but not processed soy like that found in garden burgers because it can boost cancer-causing estrogen levels. And she sternly admonished me to lay off the cream in my coffee.

Not once did the subject of alcohol come up. “There’s more data for counseling you to decrease alcohol than to eat broccoli or tofu,” says Noelle K. LoConte, an oncologist and associate professor at the University of Wisconsin. But she says the message about alcohol and cancer hasn’t gotten out, even to cancer doctors, which may be one reason not a single one of my doctors raised the issue with me before or after I was diagnosed.

To address this problem, in November LoConte co-authored a statement from the American Society of Clinical Oncology that officially declared alcohol a cancer risk. (The society also commissioned a poll, which found that 70 percent of Americans had no idea alcohol can cause cancer.) In its statement, the group called for policy measures to reduce alcohol consumption and prevent cancer, the same ones recommended by the US surgeon general, the federal Community Preventive Health Task Force, and the World Health Organization. They’re similar to strategies that brought down smoking rates: higher excise taxes, limits on the number of outlets selling alcohol in a particular area, stricter enforcement of underage drinking laws, and caps on the numbers of days and hours when alcohol can be sold.

There’s a huge body of research supporting the effectiveness of these policies, yet there is not a single public health group in Washington lobbying for any of them. The few groups that once battled with the alcohol industry have abandoned the effort in recent years. The American Medical Association, which used to focus on alcohol-related harm and campus binge drinking, stopped working on alcohol policy in 2005. The Ralph Nader-linked Center for Science in the Public Interest stopped during a budget crunch in 2009. That same year, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, which for decades had been one of the biggest funders of efforts to reduce underage drinking, largely pulled out of the field.

“It’s astounding that one of the leading causes of premature death and illness is ignored by almost every foundation that works in the health area,” says Richard Yoast, who ran the AMA’s alcohol programs until they ended in 2005.

Pop Culture In the early 2000s, the alcohol industry sought to attract new drinkers—often young and female—with “alcopops,” sweetened drinks in bright childlike colors. The industry has also tried to brand alcohol as healthy with ads featuring athletes.

Government funding for alcohol harm reduction has also dried up. In 2009, the Justice Department budget for grants to states to enforce underage drinking laws was $25 million. By 2015, it was zero. At the request of the Obama White House, Congress also eliminated an Education Department program that combated underage drinking, among other initiatives.

Without independent funding for public health work on alcohol policy, the industry has filled the void, creating nonprofits to promote “responsible” drinking. Industry groups have used these to respond to the news about alcohol and cancer. When I asked the Beer Institute to comment for this story, a spokesman sent me a link to a report from the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking, a nonprofit funded by the world’s largest alcohol companies, and quoted one line from the report: “The most clear association of cancer risk is with heavy drinking, particularly regular heavy drinking over extended periods of time.”

“The female consumer is seen as part of the alcohol market that needs to be marketed to more. The female drinker is the last person you want to be a fully informed consumer.”

Mark Petticrew, a professor of public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, recently published a study finding that many alcohol industry websites and nonprofits have actively misled the public about the link between alcohol and cancer. They suggest that only problem drinkers have an elevated risk of cancer and present long lists of other risk factors to confuse readers, particularly when it comes to breast cancer. “Female consumers are more health conscious than male consumers,” Petticrew explains. “The female consumer is seen as part of the alcohol market that needs to be marketed to more. The female drinker is the last person you want to be a fully informed consumer.”

Over the past 30 years, breast cancer survivors have become a powerful political force in their own right, raising millions of dollars for research and education. But wine tastings are a staple of breast cancer fundraising events. The Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center at Georgetown University has been holding a “women and wine” fundraiser annually for breast cancer research for more than a decade. “Brews for Breast Cancer” events have proliferated. In October, the American Cancer Society threw its 40th annual Wine and Spirits Industry Gala in New York City “to support the Society’s mission of eliminating cancer as a major health problem.”

In response to questions from Mother Jones, Dr. Richard Wender, the chief cancer control officer for the American Cancer Society, says alcohol is much less risky than tobacco. “Our goal is to find the right balance that allows companies to engage with us, while staying true to our values and our public health mission,” he says.

The more I looked into the conflicts of interest among those responsible for informing the public of alcohol’s health risks, the more I began to recognize my own industry’s entanglement. The press, which starting with Morley Safer has flooded readers with stories declaring that drinking is good for your health, has repeatedly accepted alcohol companies’ largesse. In 2016, the Wall Street Journal sponsored a party with the Distilled Spirits Council at the Republican National Convention. In April 2017, the council and the Beer Institute helped pay for a “Toast to the First Amendment” party with RealClearPolitics.

In 2016, the president of the Distilled Spirits Council, Kraig Naasz, wrote in an email newsletter that the group had recently treated writers from a wide range of publications to cocktails at a New York bar during a lunch briefing on alcohol and health. On hand to chat up the journalists was Zakhari, the former NIAAA scientist. “The presenters underscored that moderate alcohol consumption can be incorporated into a healthy adult diet,” Naasz reported.

The Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility, funded by companies such as Bacardi and Diageo, paid for journalists to attend workshops last year held by the Poynter Institute, the self-appointed watchdog of journalism ethics. “The conflict of interest is so big it makes me gasp,” New York University nutritionist Marion Nestle told Health News Review when it broke the story on Poynter. “The alcohol industry wants journalists to extol the (purported) health benefits of drinking alcohol and to minimize the risks.”

Kelly McBride, Poynter’s vice president, says the foundation’s involvement did not affect the content of the workshops and the institute may collaborate with the foundation again. “They are a non-profit foundation that promotes responsible consumption of alcohol,” she said in an email. “They funded workshops where we taught journalists to apply the skills of fact-checking to scientific research. That seems like a consistent overlap of purpose.”

Susan Sontag once wrote that telling people about your cancer diagnosis tends to fill them with mortal dread. But when I’ve disclosed my illness to friends and told them that alcohol can cause breast cancer, I’ve never invoked enough mortal dread to deter anyone from ordering a second drink. Most women have no idea drinking causes breast cancer, and they really don’t want to be told that it does.

Marisa Weiss, a breast oncologist and the founder of BreastCancer.org, gives talks on college campuses, where she explains to young women the cancer risks they face from drinking. “I see the same people get completely trashed that night,” she laments. But she understands why. “It’s because life is a bitch,” she says. “We work long hours, and alcohol becomes like self-medication. It’s relaxing. It’s fun.”

I get it. But you know what’s not fun? Watching your 10-year-old daughter keen and hyperventilate after you tell her you have cancer. Or having six-inch needles full of radioactive dye plunged repeatedly through your nipple, without anesthesia, so a surgeon can see if the cancer has spread to your lymph nodes. Or leaving work early while awaiting biopsy results because your hands are shaking so badly you can’t type. Cancer isn’t fun, in ways far beyond the obvious. And in relative terms, I’ve had it easy so far. I’m still alive.

A few months ago, I plugged my data into the National Cancer Institute’s breast cancer risk calculator to see what my odds had been before I discovered my tumor. The bare-bones assessment showed I had a 1.1 percent risk of getting breast cancer in the next five years. The calculator doesn’t account for my alcohol consumption (or the protective effects of exercise and breastfeeding), but the experts I’ve spoken with say booze probably bumped up my risk.

I’ll never know for certain whether alcohol caused my cancer. There are so many factors: Just in December, a Danish study found that being on birth control raises the risk of breast cancer more than previously thought. What I do know is that cutting back on drinking, particularly when I was young, is virtually the only thing I could have changed about my lifestyle to try to prevent this cancer if I’d been fully informed. Now I’ve mostly given up alcohol to hedge my bets against a recurrence. I can’t be sure I would have done the same thing if someone had told me when I was 15 or 20 that drinking could give me breast cancer. I’d like to think so—I never smoked—but there’s no guarantee I wouldn’t have been just like the students Weiss talks to. At least they have a choice—they’ve been told the risk they’re taking. Like most women, I didn’t have that choice, and a powerful industry worked to keep it that way.

So, what do you think?

Tell us how you’re reacting to this story by sharing your thoughts. We may use your response in a follow up story.

We may share your response with our staff and publish a selection of stories which could include your name, age, and location. We respect your privacy. Your email address will not be published and by providing it, you agree to let us contact you regarding your response.Coming soon!

In the meantime, you can find us on Twitter, Tumblr, Facebook, and Google+.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

This article was published in partnership with ProPublica Illinois.

By last summer, Laqueanda Reneau felt like she had finally gotten her life on track.

A single mother who had gotten pregnant in high school, she supported her family with a series of jobs at coffee shops, restaurants, and clothing stores until she landed a position she loved as a community organizer on Chicago’s West Side. At the same time, she was working her way toward a degree in public health at DePaul University.

But one large barrier stood in her way: $6,700 in unpaid tickets, late fines, and impound fees.

She had begun racking up the ticket debt five years earlier, in 2012, after a neighbor who saw her riding the bus late at night with her infant son sold her her first car, a used Toyota Camry, for a few hundred dollars. She was grateful for the shorter commute to work but unprepared for the extra costs of owning a car in Chicago.

That year alone, Reneau got 15 tickets, including seven $200 citations for not having a city sticker. Later, she received a dozen tickets for license plate violations on another used car that couldn’t pass emissions testing, a state requirement to renew her plates.

“Those tickets have followed me until this freaking day,” said Reneau, who is 25.

Because of the unpaid tickets, the city garnished her state tax refunds. Her car was impounded and she couldn’t pay for its release. Her driver’s license was suspended. Unable to come up with $1,000 to enter a city payment plan, Reneau did what thousands of Chicago drivers do each year: She turned to Chapter 13 bankruptcy and its promise of debt forgiveness.

“I know I’m putting a Band-Aid on the problem,” she said. “But right now, my immediate need is to get a car so I can get to work and get my son to school.”

For Chicago’s working poor, and particularly for African Americans, a single unpaid parking or automated traffic camera ticket can quickly spiral out of control and threaten their livelihoods. Bankruptcy offers a temporary reprieve, giving these motorists the chance to resume driving without fear of getting pulled over or losing their vehicles to the city pound.

The problem has gotten worse over the past decade, ProPublica Illinois found in an analysis of bankruptcies filed in the Northern District of Illinois, which includes Chicago and its suburbs.

In 2007, an estimated 1,000 Chapter 13 bankruptcies included debts to the city, usually for unpaid tickets, with the median amount claimed around $1,500 per case. By last year, the number of cases surpassed 10,000, with the typical debt to the city around $3,900. Though the numbers of tickets issued did not rise during that time, the city increased the costs of fines, expanded its traffic camera program, and sought more license suspensions.

Tickets brought in nearly $264 million in 2016, or about 7 percent of Chicago’s $3.6 billion operating budget.

The result: more debt due to tickets.

Legal experts say what’s happening in Chicago’s bankruptcy courts is unique. Parking, traffic, and vehicle compliance tickets prompt so many bankruptcies the court here leads the nation in Chapter 13 filings.

It’s a problem fueled both by the city’s increasingly aggressive ticketing to boost revenue—tickets brought in nearly $264 million in 2016, or about 7 percent of the city’s $3.6 billion operating budget—and a handful of law firms that pitch bankruptcy protection as a cheap solution to drivers’ woes.

Advocates for the poor say the bankruptcy statistics are symptoms of a broken city system that unfairly burdens those least able to afford tickets, much less late fees and other penalties. Motorists with crushing ticket debt who want to get back behind the wheel are stuck choosing between a city payment plan they often can’t afford or a bankruptcy plan that’s cheaper to enter but likely to fail.

When bankruptcy cases are dismissed, drivers risk losing their cars and licenses again, setting up a cycle of more debt and potentially more bankruptcies.

“If you’re a city government that has a policy of basically balancing the budget by issuing huge numbers of traffic tickets, you have to expect this response,” said John Rao, an attorney who specializes in bankruptcy at the nonprofit National Consumer Law Center. “There’s obviously a market for consumers who are in need of relief, and while it’s not the perfect form of relief, the other options aren’t that great either.”

Debt That Lasts Forever

Each year, the City of Chicago issues more than 3 million tickets for a wide range of parking, vehicle compliance, and automated traffic camera violations, from $25 citations for broken headlights to $250 tickets for parking in a disabled zone.

The overall numbers of tickets had been on the decline until 2013, when the city’s first speed cameras came online. More citations are issued here, per adult, than in Los Angeles or New York City.

Ticket debt piles up disproportionately in the city’s low-income, mostly black neighborhoods. Eight of the 10 ZIP codes with the most accumulated ticket debt per adult are majority black, according to a ProPublica Illinois analysis of ticket data since 2007 and figures from the US Census.

Those neighborhoods account for 40 percent of all debt, though they account for only 22 percent of all the tickets issued in the city over the past decade—suggesting how the debt burdens the poor.

Edward Morrison, a law professor and economist at Columbia Law School who has studied the ties between ticket debt and bankruptcy in Chicago, said low-income, African American households are more affected by ticket debt because they have less money to pay tickets even before debt mounts.

Tickets for red-light camera violations—issued when drivers turn illegally or run through a red light—make up the greatest number of all citations.

But compliance tickets for lacking a city sticker or having expired plates—the kinds of citations Reneau got repeatedly in her first years of owning a car—are disproportionately involved in bankruptcy cases.

Indeed, sticker violations were the largest source of ticket debt in Chicago. They accounted for about 19 percent of citations connected to bankruptcy cases but only 4 percent of those marked paid. City stickers, which must be purchased annually, cost about $87 for most passenger vehicles.

“So if you don’t have the money to pay the city sticker and you get a ticket, what makes you think you’re going to have the money to pay the ticket?” said Salvador J. Lopez, a bankruptcy attorney with the consumer law firm Robson & Lopez LLC. “It’s very easy for the average person to say [filing for bankruptcy over tickets] is being irresponsible, but let’s take a look at what’s causing people to rack up these tickets.”

The city mails vehicle owners multiple notices to give them time to pay or contest tickets before fines double, get sent to collections, or land a car on a list to be booted. Once debt accumulates, it can last forever because there’s no statute of limitations for unpaid tickets in Illinois. Chicago motorists owe $1.45 billion in ticket debt dating to September 1990.

By comparison, ticket debt in Los Angeles, where the statute of limitations is five years, is $21 million. In New York City, with a statute of limitations of eight years, ticket debt totals $238 million, according to officials.

In addition to booting and impounding vehicles, the city has another weapon at its disposal: It can move to suspend licenses after drivers accumulate 10 unpaid parking tickets or five unpaid traffic camera tickets.

In 2016, Chicago asked the state to suspend licenses of more than 21,000 drivers, up threefold since 2010, according to the city’s finance department. One reason for the increase: In 2013, the city started counting such compliance violations as not having a city sticker against drivers for license suspensions.

“It seems like the city is shooting itself in the foot. How can people pay the city if they can’t get jobs?”

Meanwhile, “anti-scofflaw” rules prevent those with unpaid tickets or other debts to the city from accessing contracts, licenses, and even grants for low-income homeowners who want to replace their home furnaces. Taxi and ride-share drivers can’t work in the city if they have ticket debt.

Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who has faced one budget crisis after another since coming into office in 2011, made cracking down on “scofflaws” on the municipal payroll an early priority.

“If you owe a parking ticket, you owe a bill, you have to pay. The free ride is over for everybody,” Emanuel said in 2011. “I want people to know that the whole city’s watching.”

Municipal jobs—from driving a bus to teaching in a classroom—have long been off-limits to drivers with ticket debt, unless they’re on a city payment plan or in bankruptcy. Tracy Occomy Crowder, an organizer with Community Organizing and Family Issues, a nonprofit that works mostly with low-income women of color, said her group became interested in the issue after learning that a longtime parent leader said she couldn’t get a job as a recess monitor at her son’s elementary school because of unpaid tickets.

“It seems like the city is shooting itself in the foot,” Occomy Crowder said. “How can people pay the city if they can’t get jobs?”

In January, COFI issued a series of recommendations to the city on how to make ticket debt less punishing for low-income families as part of the release of a report called “Stopping the Debt Spiral.” Among them: make it easier for people with ticket debt to get municipal jobs and licenses; make payment plans more accessible; and waive late penalties on ticket debt.

COFI is also asking the city to create a task force modeled after one in San Francisco studying how municipal fines and fees disparately impact low-income people of color. This issue has gained national attention since the release of a 2015 US Department of Justice report that highlighted, in part, how the criminal justice and court systems in Ferguson, Missouri, relied on excessive fines and fees to generate revenue.

Alex Kornya, an assistant litigation director of Iowa Legal Aid who has studied the impact of court debt on the poor around the country, said what’s happening in Chicago is part of a broader trend of local governments using “systems that were made to ensure the public safety as revenue generators.”

“You’ve introduced this perverse economic incentive which has flipped the system upside down,” he said.

No Good Option

Laqueanda Reneau is a petite woman with a steady gaze. She speaks guardedly, aware from experience that she may be judged by her appearance and circumstances: a single, young black mother who can barely make ends meet.

“I know what my stance is in this world,” she said.

She can relate to the residents she works with in her job as a community organizer in the neighborhood where she grew up.

“I want to work on something that has to do with inequities, making sure that communities that need resources are able to get to those resources, whether it’s health or economic development,” she said. “I just want to make sure people have the opportunities to get—what do they say?—the American Dream.”

Her own dream—to join the Navy, go to college, and become a nurse—got derailed as a high school senior, when she got pregnant. Not long after she had her son, she left her parents’ home.

“You ever try to call the city and ask for an extension, like you might do for a light bill? Other places, you can get an extension. But not with the city.”

She acknowledges getting one ticket after another and not paying them. She needed the money she earned, she said, to pay rent, buy food, and put gas in her car. The tickets were not a priority for her survival, and she said she wasn’t aware of the potential consequences.

After surrendering her car to the city’s impound lot and losing her license because of unpaid tickets, Reneau studied her options. At the time, she and her then five-year-old son were living in a room they rented in a house with another family in South Holland, in the Far South suburbs. Their daily commute on public transportation was draining—for both of them.

Each morning, Reneau took a commuter train, then a bus to drop off her son at school on Chicago’s South Side. Then she took two subway trains to her job as an organizer for a community group with offices on the city’s North and West sides. After work, she rode another subway train or a bus to classes at DePaul. Then she headed home.

“He’s not going to bed until 11 p.m., then we have to get up at 6 a.m., and he’s tired in the morning,” Reneau said. “He hasn’t got his full rest. I realized how much of a chain reaction that is.”

Some days she would borrow a friend’s car and drive illegally to cut down the travel time. But that made her anxious, especially after she got pulled over one night. Luckily, she said, the officer let her off with a warning after seeing her son in the back seat.

She qualified for the city’s hardship plan, which requires a down payment of $1,000 or 25 percent toward total ticket debt, whichever is lower. But she didn’t have the money. Reneau considered signing up for a city payment plan to recover her driver’s license and get another car. Of the $6,700 she owed the city—for a range of parking tickets, sticker violations, and camera infractions—less than half was for the original tickets; the rest was late penalties, 22 percent collection fees, impound fees, and even a $20 fee for the cost of suspending her license.

And even if she could have afforded it, Reneau doubted a city payment plan was best for her. She’d tried plans in the past but was unable to keep up with the required monthly payments. Each time she defaulted, she incurred a new $100 penalty.

“You ever try to call the city and ask for an extension, like you might do for a light bill?” she asked. “Other places, you can get an extension. But not with the city.”

Then one day she heard a catchy jingle on the radio for the Semrad Law Firm, which also calls itself DebtStoppers. It handles more ticket-related Chapter 13 cases than any other firm in the Northern District of Illinois, according to a ProPublica Illinois analysis of case data.

“I still remember the song. I find myself singing it,” Reneau said. “One of the first things they say is about…how you can get your license back. About the zero dollars down.”

Filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, she soon learned, was cheaper than getting on a city payment plan.

‘Is That a Band-Aid?’

There are two main types of consumer bankruptcy in the US Chapter 7. Filing under Chapter 7 can take just a few months and requires the liquidation of assets, although most filers do not have enough to clear a legal threshold that requires them to give anything up. Almost every Chapter 7 bankruptcy results in debt forgiveness.

Under Chapter 13, debtors get to hold onto their assets, like a home or car. But in Chapter 13, debtors have to apply their disposable income each month toward payments to creditors for up to five years. Only when a plan is completed will the rest of the debt be discharged, which is often difficult for poor people to manage.

Last fall, ProPublica reported that black debtors across the country disproportionately file under Chapter 13, when compared with whites. It’s a trend that’s particularly evident in Southern cities like Memphis because of the sheer volume of cases. There, debtors choose Chapter 13 because it’s cheaper at the outset, but they wind up paying thousands of dollars more in legal fees.

It’s a similar story in Chicago, where larger firms can offer to file a Chapter 13 case for zero down and charge $4,000 in legal fees as part of the required monthly payments. Chapter 7 cases, meanwhile, typically cost about $1,000, often with the debtor required to pay the money up front.

But there’s a more practical reason to file under Chapter 13: If you have ticket debt, unpaid tickets can be discharged under Chapter 13 but not under Chapter 7.

Reneau’s debt, for example, is almost entirely tickets. Her only other debt, according to her bankruptcy filing, is a few hundred dollars in credit cards, plus about $12,600 in student loans. Her student loans are in deferment and, in general, cannot be forgiven in bankruptcy.

FROM TICKETS TO THE TOW YARD

One reason so many Chicago drivers file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy over unpaid tickets is to protect their vehicles from the city impound lot. The city sends drivers multiple notices before fines double, go to collections, or land a car on the boot list. (Photos by Marc Monaghan for ProPublica.)

The immediate benefit of bankruptcy is time, thanks to a legal reprieve known as an “automatic stay.” This protection allows drivers to lift license suspensions tied to some kinds of debt and keep their vehicles off the boot list for as long as their bankruptcy case is active.

But bankruptcy is not a long-term solution for these debtors, who are poorer and disproportionately black and have fewer assets when compared with other people who file for bankruptcy under Chapter 13.

ProPublica Illinois analyzed the outcomes of a sample of almost 1,000 Chapter 13 cases filed in 2010, and found that fewer than a quarter that included unpaid ticket debt ended successfully. By contrast, cases without tickets were more likely to end successfully; according to the analysis, about half ended with debt relief.

Patrick Semrad, managing partner of DebtStoppers, acknowledged most Chapter 13 bankruptcies involving ticket debt get dismissed before drivers get a discharge. But he doesn’t think that necessarily makes them failures.

“For people with Chapter 13s, it’s not as fast or as clean [as Chapter 7 bankruptcy], but they’re able to get things like their car right away, or stop a foreclosure, or get their license back, or keep a job,” he said. “And so it’s not just about the debt. If someone is able to keep a job for a year or two years, is that a Band-Aid? I don’t think so.”

A New Tactic

Over the years, city officials have looked for ways to stem the flood of bankruptcies involving ticket debt. Because drivers in bankruptcy pay creditors such as the city pennies on the dollar, and because so many of their cases end in failure, the city recovers little from them. Of course, when bankruptcies are dismissed, the city and its debt collectors can go after drivers, their licenses, and vehicles once again.

City officials were especially frustrated by what, by all accounts, was an only-in-Chicago phenomenon: Motorists were filing for bankruptcy in droves to get impounded cars released without paying any impound fees or underlying ticket debt. To the city, what’s happened in bankruptcy court has been an abuse of the system: Drivers were ignoring tickets they lawfully deserved and then filing for bankruptcy to avoid paying what they owed. Meanwhile, attorneys were profiting off the cases even when the drivers got no debt relief.

The impound-to-bankruptcy phenomenon started in 2009, when a federal appellate court ruling extended the automatic stay to repossessed vehicles. Attorneys at DebtStoppers—which had filed the initial case—soon realized the ruling could also apply to cars and trucks impounded by the city because of unpaid tickets.

“We didn’t know this means we’re going to get all these parking ticket cases, but we knew anybody who was holding a car was now going to return the car immediately,” Semrad said. “And we enforced it vigorously.”

In 2016, an estimated 3,770 impounded vehicles were returned to drivers in bankruptcy. That represented more than a third of all Chapter 13 cases filed that year involving Chicago ticket debt.

“It was a pretty big nightmare for us,” said David Holtkamp, a senior corporation counsel for the city who oversees bankruptcy matters. “People were filing these cases they had no intention of completing. They’d file it, get the car out, and then the case would ultimately get dismissed…And then they would file again.”

Last year, the city unveiled a new legal strategy to deter these kinds of bankruptcies. It now claims liens on impounded vehicles, which allows the city to hold onto them until the underlying ticket debt is recognized as a secured claim in bankruptcy court—meaning it will get paid out in full during a bankruptcy payment plan.

“People were filing these cases they had no intention of completing. They’d file it, get the car out, and then the case would ultimately get dismissed…And then they would file again.”

The tactic, yet another move in what seems like a cat-and-mouse game between the city and indebted drivers, has been upheld by some bankruptcy judges but is being appealed by motorists and their lawyers.

City officials say the liens aren’t just about the city’s bottom line; they say it’s also a consumer protection issue, a way to save drivers from bankruptcies that are likely to get dismissed without debt relief. Instead of paying a bankruptcy lawyer, city officials say, drivers should enter into payment plans with the city where every dollar goes directly toward outstanding debt.

In a way, Racheal White’s experiences with bankruptcy help illustrate this.

A single mother of two teenage boys, White moved reluctantly to the South Shore neighborhood a few years ago when she could no longer afford rent in the suburbs. Almost immediately, she started accumulating tickets, many of them speed camera violations.

White depended on her car, which she lovingly calls “Rosie,” to get to a range of contract work across the metro area, including her main job as a dental assistant, a gig handing out product samples at stores and events, and an acting job as a hospital patient for medical students.

Watch ProPublica’s video on ticket debt in Chicago:



White, 35, couldn’t afford to pay the tickets, and eventually her car got on the city’s boot list. She filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy in 2016 to get a grip on her finances, and also to protect her car.

“Bankruptcy gives you a nest, like a covering,” she said. “It allows you to breathe so you can find a way to get yourself out of a hole, to not worry about having your license suspended or getting your car repossessed or your car booted.”

But less than a year later, her bankruptcy case fell apart. The dentist office where she worked cut back her hours, and she couldn’t afford to keep up with her payments. Her case was dismissed last fall.

She had made eight payments totaling $2,275, according to a final report issued by the Chapter 13 trustee who administered the case. More than $1,900 went to legal fees. Another $105 went to cover the trustee’s expenses. And $243 went toward her car loan—most of it for interest. Not a dime went to her unsecured debts, including the unpaid Chicago tickets.

Within weeks of her case getting dismissed, White’s Nissan went back on the city’s boot list and was impounded. White borrowed money from her mother to get on a city payment plan and get her car back.

Then she filed for bankruptcy again.

On Borrowed Time

In February, less than eight months after she filed for bankruptcy, Laqueanda Reneau told her lawyer to file the documents to dismiss her case. She had been making her bankruptcy payments on time, with $175 garnished from her paychecks each month. But as tax season approached, it dawned on her that she’d also have to hand over most of the $5,000 to $6,000 she said she expects to receive in her federal tax refund, which is considered income and must be taken into account in bankruptcy payment plans.

Reneau wasn’t willing to do that. She typically saves her tax refunds to deal with emergencies and “immediate needs that come up…throughout the whole year.”

Last year, she used $2,300 from her refund to buy a 2003 Kia Sorento. This year, Reneau wants to move into her own apartment in the city with her son. She plans to set aside enough money for the security deposit, rent, furnishings, and basic household items like plates.

When her case is officially dismissed, she knows she’ll be on borrowed time before the city moves to suspend her license and puts her car on the boot list again. She hopes to get on a city payment plan before that happens.

David Eads contributed to this report.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Back in 2012, Princeton professor Tracy K. Smith won a Pulitzer Prize for the poetry collection Life on Mars. But her highest distinction came last year, when Smith, 46, was named US poet laureate. Wade in the Water, her latest book, deftly covers 250 years of the American experience, from the refugee’s plight to a company’s toxic spill to the complications of black motherhood. The slim, potent volume, out this week, includes “found” poems drawn directly from letters between slave owners and from black Civil War soldiers seeking redress—Smith visits these hauntings on her readers without ever sounding didactic or preachy. In conversation, she reveals herself as a soulful teacher intent on using her stature to mend the nation’s oldest divisions.

Mother Jones: As poet laureate in a time of political upheaval, what do you see as your responsibility to the people?

Tracy K. Smith: I see it as saying this thing, poetry—language being applied as fearlessly as possible in pursuit of many-faceted emotional truths that we live with—is useful, humanizing. This voice that made a stab at naming something that maybe you have felt, too, makes the world more real and makes us more capable of recognizing each other.

MJ: How has your own work functioned as that sort of bridge?

“It’s really exciting when somebody says, ‘You’re black, I’m white. You’re from one place, I’m from another. And yet your mother in this poem is my mother.’”

TS: I’m working on an opera drawing from the history of land ownership in the South, and so I was visiting coastal Georgia with historian Erskine Clarke. He read my memoir before we met, and he said, “Seeing [the way] you’re stirring the cheese into the grits, I know that!” And somehow, all of the distances between us—his age, his culture, his gender, his generation—suddenly got really small. That can happen as often as we’re willing to let it. I sometimes feel anxious in the South because I don’t know what my role is. It’s really exciting when somebody says, “I don’t know your mother. You’re black, I’m white. You’re from one place, I’m from another. And yet your mother in this poem is my mother.”

MJ: Tell me about your mother and father.

TS: They were born in Alabama in the mid-’30s, both from big rural families. My father joined the Air Force—that’s why my childhood was spent in California. My mom was deeply faithful and believed that instilling in our family a sense of duty and trust in God would do a lot to counteract all of those forces telling me that you’re small, you don’t matter—because you’re black. My dad was an engineer, a meticulous man who was fascinated by how things were made, how systems operated—as interested in the natural world as he was in science and technology. So there was this beautiful sense of curiosity and wonder that brought to our home an order.

We were taught to be respectful. I think it wasn’t until my brothers and sisters were in college that we stopped calling my dad “sir.” He died in 2008, and I remember my siblings and I saying his life for us can be divided between when he was Dad and when he was Floyd. It was a moment when he felt that he had succeeded in raising us. My mom passed away when I was in my early 20s, so I didn’t have that adult relationship with her. A lot of my memoir is really about trying to find who she might have been beyond who she was to me growing up.

MJ: Does your father’s passion for engineering factor in when you’re crafting a poem?

TS: Maybe. I was wrapping Christmas presents and my sister was visiting and I said, “I think of Dad every time I do the presents so beautifully.” He really loved making things—he used to make furniture. So maybe you’re working through feelings and questions in the first draft, and then you’ve got to start sanding down the edges and make sure everything’s squared off. I know a lot of poets whose parents are engineers.

MJ: My mother and stepfather are both engineers! I can’t wrap a present or pack a dishwasher or pack for a trip without thinking about them. I find it coming up in my stanzas as well. How could I be more efficient? What’s the value of a word as opposed to space?

TS: Isn’t that funny?

MJ: In parts of the book, you relinquish the spotlight to the voices of others. Was it difficult for you to step aside?

“Most antebellum history has to do with white stakeholders. There are very few even names of the enslaved.”

TS: It was sort of involuntary. I hadn’t written many poems after Life on Mars and I was invited to write one about the Civil War for the National Portrait Gallery. I had to find material that was interesting to me—maybe in the experience of black soldiers and their families. Most antebellum history has to do with white stakeholders. There are very few even names of the enslaved.

I was reading Dwelling Place, Clarke’s book. He’s done a lot of work to re-create the black version of this time period as it rips through a family. There are all these letters from the Charles Colcock Jones family about how much they love to bid on slaves and how much a chore they are to maintain, and “What are we going to do with these people? They’re starting to want things for themselves that don’t line up with our priorities as slaveholders.” Reading these letters, there’s another story. I wanted to find what’s between these lines, and so the poems came out of that. What was really compelling about the Jones family is that they struggled with, “Okay, should we get rid of this institution?” And ultimately they decided, “We’re going to tell ourselves we can educate the enslaved through religion and sort of assuage our anxiety.” But the further they got into this lifestyle, the further they got from Christianity.

MJ: When I read your poem “The Greatest Personal Privation,” I was physically angry. I felt as if I were carrying the burden of the speaker as well as the burden of the enslaved. How do you keep your head about you as you delve into this horrific material?

“My anger, frustration, indignation, and certainty are going to be damaging to the poem if I give them free rein.”

TS: My anger, frustration, indignation, and certainty are going to be damaging to the poem if I give them free rein. I have to find a way of letting the language guide me to understand that I am as complicit in what is wrong with a situation as I am certain of what is right. If a poem can’t do that, then it doesn’t feel honest. If I use my moral convictions like a crutch, like a stick to point out, “This is bad,” then the poem is doing nothing more than just being, I don’t know, what I might say at a dinner party.

The Civil War poem, “I Will Tell You the Truth About This, I Will Tell You All About It,” was heavy lifting because it’s taken verbatim from pages of letters. Even the spelling was the same. I went through with the highlighter and said, “Okay, here, here, I hear a statement here.” Almost like dowsing. But dowsing brought forth the emotions you talked about: How could anyone think this is acceptable?

MJ: The New York Times wrote that you plan to use your poet laureate position to be a “literary evangelist” and hold events in small towns and rural areas. Why prioritize those places?

TS: I’m eager to get a sense of what poetry means in places where there aren’t literary series, festivals, and universities bringing writers through. It is a huge priority. It’s going to start in various communities in New Mexico: a military base, a Native American school. These conversations, I hope, will be different.

MJ: If poetry were a small town, where would it be and what would it need?

TS: I love the metaphor of that question.

MJ: When you interview a poet, you gotta bring the metaphors!

TS: It would be in a place where there are animals living near people and trees that seem to have old stories they could transmit. But it would also have to be characterized by a darkness—a place that has a legacy of loss or something connected to shame. When I think about poems, I think about the fact that they literally require a studious quiet. You have to really curate the space to hear them speak the urgent yet quiet things that poems say. It would have to be a place that could foster that. I’m not saying cities aren’t poems, but there’s something that gets drowned out.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

This story was originally published by Atlas Obscura and appears here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration.

Far from shore, the ocean floor is more than an unbroken swath of sand and mud: It can be blanketed with lush, green carpets of seagrass. These wavy expanses are biodiversity hotspots and have significant ecological benefits, but because so little of the ocean has been surveyed and mapped, scientists don’t know exactly where all of these green spaces are. “We know more about the surface of Mars than the ocean floor,” said American Museum of Natural History ichthyologist John Sparks at a recent event at the museum.

There’s a general consensus that these undersea meadows are numerous and widely dispersed in shallow and deeper water alike, since seagrasses can survive on fewer nutrients than some other plants can manage. But grasses growing far beneath the waves often go unstudied compared to those closer to shore. Since green turtles (Chelonia mydas) are known to nibble on seagrasses, researchers at Swansea University trailed them, with the idea that they might lead the way to their sunken grazing grounds.

The scientists tagged turtles with GPS devices when the reptiles clustered to nest on shore, 18 in total. Satellite tracking then helped the researchers follow them—eventually to the Great Chagos Bank, a vast atoll in the Western Indian Ocean. With information about location and depth in hand, divers went to check out where the turtles were headed.

In this remote tract of ocean, the scientists found previously unknown meadows of a seagrass known as Thalassodendron ciliatum. Writing in Marine Pollution Bulletin, the researchers describe the abundance of marine life they encountered there—nearly a dozen fish species, including a large shark.

Seagrass is a natural carbon sink, locking it up like terrestrial trees and a host of marine photosynthesizers, including salt marsh grasses, mangroves, kelp, and phytoplankton. One acre of seagrass swallows around 740 pounds of carbon each year, roughly the same amount released into the atmosphere by a car covering 3,860 miles. That adds up to as much as 80 million tons annually.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

This story was originally published by Undark and appears here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration.

An oversized paper mâché sunflower rose like a pale moon against the dusk of a central Brighton park. Amid the shivering group of 30 people on the chilly south coast of England, a funereal gong sounded. Several faces were hidden behind self-made bat masks in black and pink. Some wore construction paper bat ears. One woman sported a set of massive fine-mesh bee spectacles like cartoon aviator goggles. They were all there to participate in a mourning ceremony for the Remembrance Day for Lost Species (RDLS).

I stood among them, maskless and foot-cold, unable to decide whether this was wonderful or absurd. In the grand scheme of conservation, what difference could a ritual for pollinators held in a narrow park between two busy Brighton streets make?

According to a 2016 United Nations-sponsored study, 40 percent of invertebrate pollinator species (bees and butterflies) and 16 percent of vertebrate pollinators (bats and birds) are currently threatened with extinction. As pollinators are increasingly endangered due to habitat loss and pesticides, so too are the plants they pollinate—including an estimated one-third of global food crops that rely on insect pollination.

One of the unspoken aspects of extinction is that, with the exception of a few iconic animals (the passenger pigeon, the dodo), knowledge of an extinct animal all but vanishes once the species is gone. The ecosystems in which the animal or plant played its own role will alter, adapt, and depending on which species are lost, survive in one form or another. Barring dedicated research, human knowledge of that animal vanishes because often, our understanding of that species’ place in its system is nascent or non-existent when the animal goes extinct.

When Persephone Pearl, the artist at the center of the group in Brighton, viewed a taxidermic thylacine in the Bristol Museum and Art Gallery in 2010, she was deeply moved, first to tears, and then to action. The thylacine, a unique carnivorous marsupial that went extinct mainly due to hunting in Tasmania some 80 years ago, became the inspiration for a ritual that would honor the passage of creatures most people had never heard of. It’s since become something of a mascot for RDLS, which has been held annually since 2011.

RDLS is part of a growing movement that uses art and performance to confront the loss of animals and places to human development. This includes honoring endlings, a sweet word for the last survivors of species doomed to die. What I was watching, it turns out, was performance art, grieving, mourning, and community building, all wrapped into one.

What I was watching, it turns out, was performance art, grieving, mourning, and community building, all wrapped into one.

Experiencing sadness at personal loss is as easy as falling down. But how do we mourn a bee or a butterfly, a bat or a bird? Talking about habitat loss is nothing new. Henry David Thoreau wasn’t just complaining about the perils of industriousness for the soul when he wrote about “shearing off those woods and making earth bald before her time.” Still, this particular kind of dramatization —dubbed ‘eco-grief’—was something new for me. RDLS and groups like it are essentially creating outlets for coping with this sadness. The problem with denying death’s stealthy proximity is that, when it comes, we find ourselves unrehearsed.

The rituals of most religions are, by definition, for and about humanity. What we are missing is a conscious preparation for death’s possibility — not necessarily ours, but that of Earth’s other species. This is where artists can step in.

Most of those heavily involved in RDLS have at least a partial creative background,” says Matthew Stanfield, a relative newcomer who has been closely involved with the Remembrance initiative since 2016. “Artistry has been and continues to be a big part of the initiative.” RDLS is a loose collective that invites anyone to participate; there are no blueprints other than a mutual desire for expression.

Pearl, with bright orange socks and a thick hat that did nothing to disguise her emotional focus, kept her hand on the giant sunflower as if it were a talking stick. Eyes closed, she explained the paper flower and its embellishment of dead flowers was a symbol of pollinators, of the crops that are grown with pesticides that affect pollinators; it was a stand-in for both the natural world and the world of agriculture.

Stanfield, a young man with barely tamed hair and dignified manner, had a prepared statement of the rising necessity of rituals for mourning out of respect for the animal “ghosts of our fellow travelers.” It was a good speech, half improvised and all the more heartfelt for it.

“I’m sorry, wait. I’m just not ready to move on yet. I’m not in the place for solutions yet. I’m too pissed off.”

Everyone paused and regarded the sunflower, which was due to be burnt as a pollinator pyre. It was torn and bent in a couple of places from being dinged against lampposts during our procession from the gallery to the park. An older man, greying beard bundled against the cold in a large scarf, exchanged a glance with Pearl and embarked on a more upbeat statement of what can be done, action that can be taken to support and protect pollinators in the U.K.

Before he got more than a couple of sentences in, Pearl stopped him. “I’m sorry, wait. I’m just not ready to move on yet. I’m not in the place for solutions yet. I’m too pissed off.”

She launched into a bitter litany of complaint. She’s as pissed off as someone might be who knew each bee personally, and watched them crumple and die. Her voice shook and she squeezed the tip of a sunflower petal to a sharp paper dart.

This RDLS gathering reminded me of my 1960s California hippie childhood, replete with countless self-fashioned ceremonies in all their messy, well-intentioned glory.

At this point, people pushed up their pink and black bat masks or wore them like scarves. The bumblebee goggles were removed. The procession through the streets had been a cheerful, bumpy rollick, but now the real face of grief and anger behind the absurdist theater was revealed.

One thing I’ve learned is that real spectacle starts where tamed emotion ends. At the pollinator procession, people aired their grievances, and all of the complaints began with anger. Isn’t anger at an original insult, at a profound loss, the very cornerstone of grief?

That might be why, in spite of being there as an observer, I heard my own voice rising with those around the sunflower in Brighton, lamenting a recent loss of my own: an old cherry grove lost to suburban development where I live in rural France, and the numerous birds’ nests in the unfinished house walls that had been smashed one day in early spring.

I only realized how furious I still was while standing there in Brighton. Angry at the impatient developers for not waiting a couple of weeks until the fledglings had flown, angry at the loss of the orchard, angry that I had fed groups of birds through several winters only to have them killed for the expediency of a construction schedule, angry at myself for not doing anything about it. There was a murmur of sad disgust as I finished my story, a moment of shared silence while I pictured the grove in its former glory, rich with birdsong, thick with bees, heavy with summer cherries. Then it was someone else’s turn.

When I was a kid in Golden Gate Park, I used to lie on the lawn, facing the sky, and feel myself as a part of the grass and trees, the park, the life all around me. There was no inkling then that any of it could ever disappear, or that I would be ill-equipped to confront the empty spaces that awaited.

Stanfield told me that learning about endangerment and species loss is how he got involved in the natural world in the first place. In this modern age of nature disconnect, where fewer and fewer people experience nature in a direct way, I suspect he’s not alone. Like Persephone Pearl and many others, Stanfield felt a fascination with certain extinct animals such as the thylacine.

The endearing strangeness of the thylacine draws people in with the seduction of a bygone era, like a crush on a long-dead movie star. Online conversations are replete with shared images and information, affectionate mash notes, and insider tidbits. What prods people into outrage is the injustice and recklessness of thylacine history, the government-sponsored bounty hunting and extirpation of a unique creature. This anger often piques an interest in species that are undergoing the extinction process today, or which have recently become extinct.

Most of the people I spoke with while discussing RDLS are open about experiencing depression. Creating rituals for dead species would seem to be the last thing that would alleviate the blues. But if the colossus of human impact on the environment weighs heavily on their minds and hearts, they say work with RDLS offers comfort.

Creating rituals for dead species would seem to be the last thing that would alleviate the blues. But if the colossus of human impact on the environment weighs heavily on their minds and hearts, they say work with RDLS offers comfort.

A 2014 study by researchers Michael I. Norton and Francesca Gino at Harvard Business School on the value of mourning rituals in times of bereavement looked into the role that rituals played in building resilience when dealing with feelings of loss. A key discovery was that ritual—any ritual, private or public, traditional or personal—helped people cope with misfortune, as long as it was actually practiced. From burning the photos of a broken relationship to continuing the activities shared with a deceased spouse, those experiencing loss felt better by processing their grief. If tears and wishes can offer respite from sadness, it’s action that gives us control over grief.

Water, earth, and fire are the ritual standbys of humans, and at the pollinator procession, it was time for fire. The brisk wind (a fourth reliable element of ritual) had risen, so the large paper sunflower was broken into pieces that could be burned in a small fire pit rather than go up in a larger conflagration. The flower was big and took forever to burn down, the air was frigid, and people started to drift off with the ashes into the dark of night. That’s the problem with homemade rituals. It’s hard to tell when they end.

Maybe it was the harsh wind or the smoke from the burning sunflower effigy, but I shed a few tears among strangers in Brighton. Walking alone toward the English Channel afterwards, I was surprised to find that I had actually released some of my anger about the birds that had visited my garden annually, and now were gone.

Grieving is never going to get easier, but it can be shaped. It’s no surprise that the RDLS ceremony was a loose wobble of lament, humor, and ashes. It’s a new approach to a new phenomenon. Of course we should all be doing what we can to prevent habitat loss, to prevent extinction where we can, in whatever way we can. The extinction wave right now, unchecked by immediate human action on a vast scale, will affect and afflict everyone in unpredictable ways.

Pretend it’s not happening or acknowledge that it is, the wave is already crashing, and the horizons are changing. It’s time to figure out what kind of ritual raft will keep us afloat.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

If EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt survives the onslaught of accusations of mismanagement and excessive spending with his job still safe, he has his biggest benefactors to thank. The #StandWithScottPruitt campaign has flooded the White House with pleas from Trump donors and conservative and industry-aligned groups to defend Pruitt, chalking up the revelations about his ethics scandals to a “smear campaign” from the “radical left.”

Pruitt, technically, can be easily replaced because the fossil fuel industry now has an ally in the EPA’s number two spot. Andrew Wheeler, a recent coal lobbyist who used to work for the Senate’s biggest climate change denier, would take over as acting administrator should Pruitt leave.

So, why is Pruitt still so valuable to Trump donors like Harold Hamm, the Oklahoma oilman who chaired Pruitt’s attorney general reelection campaign and called Trump last week?

The answer doesn’t appear to be that Pruitt is a legal genius who has rapidly and effectively gutted regulations in a way that satisfies the courts. “They’re producing a lot of short, poorly crafted rulemakings that are not likely to hold up in court,” Richard Lazarus, a professor of environmental law at Harvard, told the New York Times. Six of his regulatory rollbacks have already been struck down, the NYT adds. Natural Resources Defense Council’s David Doniger has also argued that many of Pruitt’s regulatory rollbacks are still “years away from being done”

But the right wing doesn’t just think Pruitt is efficiently reversing regulations to reduce the EPA to “little tidbits”; they’re happy with his all-out assault to hollow out environmental oversight and enforcement. “Pruitt is the most conservative member of the cabinet, both in temperament and action,” Republican strategist Mike McKenna told Bloomberg. Indeed, he’s always been seen as a “conservative icebreaker” by Oklahomans in his home state.

Pruitt isn’t just valuable to his base—the industries he regulates—for the formal actions he’s taken on the regulatory front, even if they are likely to get tied up in litigation. Former EPA attorney Joseph Goffman, Harvard Environmental Law’s executive director, has been tracking the dozens of air, water, and climate regulations Pruitt has taken aim at so far. And Goffman has a counterargument: Pruitt has undermined environmental protection in ways that are not so easy or straightforward to untangle with a lawsuit.

“He certainly sent the signal that in any given instance his policy preference is achieving lower levels of pollution reduction and achieving pollution reduction on a slower schedule,” Goffman says.

“He certainly sent the signal that in any given instance his policy preference is achieving lower levels of pollution reduction and achieving pollution reduction on a slower schedule.”

Those signals matter, Goffman continues, because “it’s to the advantage to any individual company to know all its competitors are playing by the same rules,” and when the baseline is lowered, companies have little reason to adopt new pollution controls.

Take one example: Pruitt canceled an information request last year that required oil and gas companies to submit a range of data about how to reduce their methane leaks to the EPA. The oil industry, which announced a string of voluntary initiatives to reduce methane in the Obama administration as it looked ahead to regulation, now has little incentive to deal with these leaks. Now that it’s stalled, there is still limited information about industry methane leaks.

“Had it been collected, the agency would have had a rich store of new information and new data to reduce methane from the oil and gas sector,” Goffman says. “The concept of sending signals goes beyond rhetoric, and it goes to all sort of investment decisions that polluting sources and tech investors make pretty far upstream, depending on whether they expect the EPA to be moving forward to implement or enforce.”

For all his controversy and bluster—he’s known to issue press releases and go on the conservative media circuit to tout things before they happen—after only 14 months he’s left damage that may be difficult to ever repair. He’s overseen a stark drop in enforcement fines against polluters, plus he’s appointed industry-friendly advisers to the EPA’s science advisory boards, reshaping how the agency studies science. He’s expected to sign a directive soon that bars the agency from using a wide range of public health studies in crafting regulations. The EPA used to have up-to-date information about the state of climate change science; now, one must dig through the Obama EPA archives to pull out information that is no longer updated. He’s driven out experts on staff, leaving major gaps in programs that the EPA oversees—it will be a long slog for a new administration to recruit and train staff to refill these roles.

“It’s the work that’s not being done that’s having the biggest impact,” Goffman says.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

“We the people are ready to leave,” sang a small choir of climate activists in downtown San Francisco, “’cause the White House makin’ it hard to breathe.”



That was the rallying cry in support of the 21 plaintiffs, ages 22 and younger, who are suing the federal government for causing climate change damages and thereby violating their constitutional rights. Last year, on December 11 , a crowd of around 100 people gathered across the street from the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco where oral arguments were being heard as the government defendants tried to argue the case should not go to trial.

But the court ruled in favor of the young plaintiffs last month, and on Thursday, a US magistrate judge set a trial date for October 29 in Eugene, Ore.

“We’ve got our track shoes on and we’re ready to get this case all set for trial,” Phil Gregory, lead co-counsel for the plaintiffs, told Mother Jones.

constitutional right to life, liberty, and property is being violated, in addition to their public trust rights. They are supported by The plaintiffs in Juliana v. the United States are arguing that the US government has known for decades that carbon dioxide emissions are endangering the planet. By allowing the production of fossil fuels to continue, the lawsuit alleges, the plaintiffs’constitutional right to life, liberty, and property is being violated, in addition to their public trust rights. They are supported by Our Children’s Trust , a nonprofit group that works to amplify young voices demanding a stable climate and by Earth Guardians , an organization with a similar mission that is also a plaintiff on the case.

That the plaintiffs are young is a big part of their legal argument. As the government continues to neglect the consequences of climate change, they say, their future selves—and their future children—will suffer.

“This has to be one of those moments of people coming together uniting and fighting for justice,” said 17-year-old Xiuhtezcatl Martinez, one of the plaintiffs and Earth Guardian’s youth director, outside the courthouse in December. “This is about more than politics and the environment; it’s about our futures.”

The goal of the suit is to establish a climate recovery plan, Gregory says, based on the best available science, including replacing fossil fuel energy with renewables. “We have an energy addiction,” he says. “Our Congress and President—and not just this President—have done nothing to take the necessary steps to halt the state-created danger.”

The case’s origins date back to the Obama administration, when Julia Olson, an attorney from Eugene, Ore., gathered a group of young climate advocates and additional attorneys to file the suit against the government in 2015. Trump’s team inherited this case and made an attempt to stop it last year. Over the summer, the US legal team asked the Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit to review a 2016 decision that allowed the case to move forward, known as “a petition for writ of mandamus.” The Trump administration argued that preparation for trial—which could uncover scores of documents and communications related to fossil fuel companies—would be an unreasonable burden for the government. In response, the courts agreed to hear the oral arguments. In March, they denied the petition, which paved the way for a trial date.

Gregory says he thinks that the Trump administration will make another attempt to stop the case. He tells Mother Jones that Trump’s team has until June to propose that the case go straight to the Supreme Court, where the team could file a similar petition, asking that the recent decision allowing the case to proceed to trial be reviewed. “The federal government is scared to put climate science before a federal court,” he says. “I don’t think [President] Trump and [Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott] Pruitt have the guts to let a judge decide this issue.”

At the December rally in San Francisco, the youngest plaintiff, Levi Draheim, took the mic. The 10-year-old lives on a barrier island in Florida. He told the crowd that after Hurricane Irma, when catastrophic winds tore through Carribean Islands and southwest Florida in September, his street was underwater. “I have been affected by climate change,” he said. “If we don’t stop climate change then I might not have a home when I’m older.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Michael Cohen, an attorney long known as President Donald Trump’s fixer, has become Trump’s biggest headache.

Cohen finds himself at the intersection of two related lines of investigation, one into the Trump campaign’s suspected coordination with Russia, and the other into Trump allies’ alleged payoffs to people who claimed knowledge of Trump’s infidelities.

Cohen’s perilous situation came into further light on Friday when McClatchy cited two sources who say Special Counsel Robert Mueller has “found evidence that Cohen secretly made a late-summer trip to Prague during the 2016 presidential campaign.”

On Saturday, Cohen disputed the report. But if Cohen did make such a trip, it would be in line with a meeting originally described in the so-called Steele dossier, a series of raw intelligence reports written in 2016 by former British intelligence agent Christopher Steele. The dispatches record claims by Russian sources that Cohen met in Prague in August 2016 with Kremlin officials as part of Cohen’s purported role “in a cover up…to prevent the full details of Trump’s relationship with Russia being exposed.” Since publication of the dossier, Cohen has vociferously denied that he traveled to Prague, even suing Buzzfeed for publishing Steele’s reports. “I have never been to Prague,” Cohen reiterated in a Saturday appearance on CNN.

The disclosures raise the prospect that Cohen may have cut other deals to bury salacious claims about Trump.

Proof of Cohen’s presence in Prague would amount to the strongest evidence yet that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia to help Trump win the 2016 election. But apart from the travel allegation, the McClatchy report highlights how integrated Cohen was with Trump’s affairs, and how big of a problem Cohen may prove for his old boss and client.

In a hearing in the wake of a federal raid on his office, home, and hotel room, prosecutors in the Southern District of New York revealed Friday that Cohen is a subject in a months-long criminal investigation, reportedly focused at least in part on his role in arranging a nondisclosure deal and $130,000 payout to Stormy Daniels. The pornographic actress, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, accepted a payment from Cohen shortly before Election Day in 2016 in exchange for her silence on a sexual relationship she says she had with Trump in 2006. Daniels’ lawyer, Michael Avenatti, said on Friday that his client may attend a Monday hearing being held in connection with the Cohen raid.

On Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported that Cohen late last year helped arrange a $1.6 million payment by Elliott Broidy, a top Trump fundraiser and defense contractor, to a former Playboy model who claimed that Broidy impregnated her. According to Broidy, who stepped down as a Republican National Committee vice chairman in the wake of the report, Cohen inserted himself into the matter after speaking to Keith Davidson, an attorney who also represented Daniels when she agreed to accept the hush payment from Cohen. Cohen then negotiated an agreement with Davidson on Broidy’s behalf, receiving, according to CNBC, a $250,000 fee for brokering the deal.

Cohen has also admitted he was in contact with American Media Inc., the owner of the National Enquirer, during the company’s disscussions with a Trump Tower doorman who eventually obtained $30,000 for exclusive rights to a story he told suggesting Trump had fathered a child out of wedlock with an ex-employee. The tabloid then did not publish the story, in an example of a tactic known as “catch and kill.”

The disclosures raise the prospect that Cohen may have cut other deals to bury salacious claims about Trump. If Cohen and AMI’s payments were designed to prevent the disclosure of information that would hurt Trump’s presidential bid, they could be found to be illegal in-kind contributions far in excess of personal contribution limits.

Cohen’s contacts on the Moscow project came as candidate Trump was falsely insisting he had no business interests in Russia.

Cohen also figures in the Trump-Russia investigation through his efforts, in 2015 and early 2016, to help Trump secure a licensing deal for construction of a Moscow high rise. In January 2016, Cohen emailed Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman in bid to secure Kremlin help launching a new Trump Tower. Cohen’s contacts on the project came as Trump was on the campaign trail, falsely insisting he had no business interests in Russia.

After the election, Cohen delivered to Michael Flynn, Trump’s first national security adviser, a so-called peace plan for Ukraine that was developed by pro-Russian Ukrainian lawmaker. The plan would have ended U.S. sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014 in response to its incursion into Ukraine in exchange for minimal Russian concessions. Mueller and congressional investigators are also known to be looking into both matters.

A significant portion of Cohen’s wealth has come through the taxi industry, and federal investigators are also said to be examining whether Cohen committed bank fraud when he secured loans using a taxi medallion business as collateral, the Washington Post reported.

The web of investigative threads surrounding Cohen has not only eliminated his effectiveness of as an advocate for the president: they’ve made him a massive liability, offering a dizzying array of avenues for Mueller to explore. The president is likely foremost among the Americans who are, for now, left wondering what secrets the FBI’s investigation into Cohen have unearthed.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

The second “March for Science” is happening across the globe on Saturday. Last year’s edition drew out some 1.1 million scientists, students, and other supporters of evidence-based policy making. Organizers are expecting a much smaller turnout today, but events in support of the march are taking place all over the world.

Let’s start from the bottom—in Antartica:

Message of support from Antarctica: overwinterer at the Neumayer Station support the #MarchForScience @ScienceMarchDC pic.twitter.com/ISrptu1Gfi — AWI Media (@AWI_Media) April 14, 2018

Mother Jones‘s Jeremy Schulman is on the ground at the main rally in Washington, DC, where he’s already spotted some noteworthy protest signs.

This is Samantha Swamy, who says “science needs to be a higher priority on the government agenda” #MarchForScience pic.twitter.com/CuTm6UYChQ — Jeremy Schulman (@jeremyschulman) April 14, 2018

You can watch a live stream of the rally below:Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

This story was originally published by High Country News and appears here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration.

Since his confirmation in March 2017, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke’s push to trim the department he oversees while opening more public lands to energy development has been lauded by Republicans and denounced by Democrats. When it came to the budget, however, both sides agreed on one thing: no big cuts. In the omnibus federal budget, which recently passed with solid bipartisan support, Congress decided the Department of Interior was worth nearly $2.5 billion more than the administration had proposed.

The Trump administration had proposed substantial budget cuts at a time of record visitations to public lands, billions of dollars of maintenance backlogs, and some of the lowest staffing levels in decades at agencies like the National Park Service and Bureau of Land Management. But in the appropriations bill signed March 23, the Fish and Wildlife Service and BLM each received more than a quarter billion dollars more than requested, and the National Park Service got almost $650 million more than the secretary asked for. Still, Zinke and the administration have other ways to cut back and redirect spending to bring it in line with their vision of budget cuts and bureaucratic reshuffling.

Among the programs that got a boost from Congress was the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which uses money from oil and gas leasing to support public lands access. The fund purchases land, provides grants to states and municipalities, and supports conservation easements for farmers and ranchers. Zinke’s department had proposed restructuring the program and cutting spending by over $330 million. Instead, Congress bumped up funding from $400 million in 2017 to $425 million in 2018.

The bill touted the importance of the Land and Water Conservation Fund for promoting recreational access and instructed the agencies to continue designating important lands that could be acquired through it. In a statement following the bill, the Nature Conservancy praised the program and the spending levels it set. “The passage of today’s spending bill demonstrates that bipartisan cooperation can lead to significant progress for conservation in America,” said Nature Conservancy CEO and President Mark Tercek in a press release.

Congress also increased spending on agencies that serve tribal nations. The administration’s proposed budget included more than $370 million in cuts to the Bureaus for Indian Affairs and Education and more than $100 million in cuts to BIA education programs. “These reductions are untenable and absolutely break the trust responsibility to Indian tribes,” the National Congress of American Indians stated in its analysis of the proposed budget.

Instead of going along with the proposed cuts, Congress voted to boost spending for the bureaus by more than $200 million over last year’s budget. Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.), who chairs the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, said after the bill’s passage that it “rejects the president’s dangerous proposed budget cuts and instead provides funding increases that will lead to healthier communities and better outcomes across Indian Country.”

Still, the administration is eyeing ways to work around the spending increases. Federal law prohibits agencies from not spending the allocated funds, but the executive branch can still ask for cuts and influence how money is spent through reviews of grants by political appointees and staffing shake-ups.

The relationship between the power of purse held by Congress and the executive’s authority to spend money can be traced to the Nixon administration. After Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972, President Richard Nixon decided that the price tag for the new legislation was too high. Nixon directed the Environmental Protection Agency not to allocate more than $10 billion in Clean Water Act grants between 1972 and 1974, much to the appropriators’ chagrin.

In response, Congress passed the Impoundment Control Act of 1974. The law created the Congressional Budget Office, a bipartisan office that advises Congress on budgeting matters, and led to the formulation of dedicated House and Senate appropriations committees that are responsible for crafting the federal budget. The law also required agencies to spend all the funds they’re allotted and established a formal process for the president to request reductions, called rescissions.

The Trump administration is currently working on a rescissions package with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif). Matt Sparks, McCarthy’s communications director, confirmed that the representative is working on a package to trim the bill, but wouldn’t comment on possible cuts. If the administration asks for rescissions, Congress has 45 days to grant or deny its requests.

Since the Impoundment Act was put into place, the popularity of rescissions has ebbed and flowed. Presidential rescissions were popular during the Reagan administration, when Congress agreed to reduce spending levels by hundreds of millions of dollars. Recently, the tactic has fallen out of favor; neither George W. Bush nor Barack Obama made rescission requests.

The Trump administration seems to be examining all avenues in its pursuit of lower spending. Since the 2018 budget bill passed last month, President Donald Trump and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin have suggested that Congress should give the president the power to make line item vetoes, something that was ruled unconstitutional in 1998 after President Bill Clinton had been temporarily vested with the authority. Overturning the funding priorities set in the bipartisan spending bill would likely be a tough sell in the Senate, where Republicans hold a slim 51-49 majority.

Absent reductions to spending levels, Interior can stall funding for staffing and programs that don’t fit the vision of department leadership and redirect grants through a new process. Under Zinke’s leadership, the department has developed a political review process for grants doled out by its agencies, intended to make sure departmental grants match the administration’s political priorities. According to documents obtained by the Washington Post, many discretionary grants above $50,000 are subject to review by political appointees in Interior’s leadership. The memo specifically notes grants to nonprofit organizations and higher education institutions as being subject to review by Steve Howke, a lifelong friend of Zinke’s, who had a 30-plus-year career at credit unions before he joined Interior.

The agency can also plot its own course by moving around senior staff and pursuing buyouts, which can stall spending by creating vacancies in hard-to-fill positions. There are few ways to not spend money in congressional budgets, but “agencies can say they’re having a hard time finding people to fill jobs and drag feet on spending that way,” says Richard Kogan, a senior fellow with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a progressive economic policy think tank in Washington, DC. The department touts the moves as an effort to get more staff in field positions. But former Interior officials warn that losing senior staff could mean the loss of valuable experience, including knowledge of how the agencies work and of who their most important partners are.

Even as Interior comes to terms with the spending levels set by Congress, the budget hearings for the 2019 budget are already underway. And the second budget from the administration and Zinke looks similar to the first one, with major cuts to land management agencies and tribal programs. The response to Zinke’s trips to Capitol Hill to defend next year’s budget offers a clear indication of the partisan reaction to the administration’s vision for Interior. In a budget hearing before the Senate Energy and Natural Resource Committee, Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Ala.) broadly praised the direction being set by Zinke and his willingness to open up new drilling sites in her state, while Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) called his tenure an unprecedented attack on public lands and an “abandonment of the secretary’s stewardship responsibility of our public resource.”

In this year’s budget, Congress rejected the slimmed-down version of the Interior Department proposed by Zinke and the Trump administration. With more time to evaluate the agency’s progress and direction, Congress will have the opportunity to set its own priorities for it again with the 2019 budget. How the department spends the 2018 budget will influence the amount and types of appropriations made for the next fiscal year. Moving forward, Congress can fund Zinke’s vision of a slimmer, reorganized Interior Department or, if lawmakers decide the administration is moving in the wrong direction, craft a more prescriptive budget that forces Interior to reflect the priorities of a Congress that has thus far rejected cuts to the department.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

It’s been a big week for Facebook. On Monday, the company began letting its users know if they were one of 87 million people whose data may have been shared improperly with Cambridge Analytica, a political research firm. Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, also testified before Congress this week, taking heat over a range of issues from the social network’s privacy and data-tracking activities to its potential role in Russian meddling in the election.

Like many others, I checked to see if my data had been shared with “This Is Your Digital Life,” the personality quiz app that allowed Cambridge Analytica to harvest the data. I found out that while I had never taken the quiz, one of my friends had. (You can check if your data has been accessed here.) As a result, the app likely had access to my public profile, birthday, current city, and which pages I liked. But in a previously undisclosed detail, Facebook also notes that a “small number of people” gave the quiz access to their Facebook timeline, posts, and private messages—which may have included my personal messages and posts as well.

Since the Cambridge Analytica scandal, there’s been renewed attention to online privacy settings. There are multiple articles showing you how to change your privacy settings and even delete Facebook altogether. Some people are downloading their data to see exactly what information Facebook has collected about them. (The results can be a little frightening, as one New York Times writer details.)

Even with these guides, it can still be confusing to understand exactly how much these sites know about you and your network. That’s partly because Facebook really does collect a lot of data about you—and in detailed ways you might not expect. Facebook’s evolving terms of service and privacy policies have allowed the network, and third parties and advertisers on the platform, access to all sorts of information about you. For example, Facebook tracks your activity across websites outside the platform, including not just what sites you visit, but whether you’ve made purchases or shared information with a company—that’s how it knows what ads should be targeted to you. If you’ve ever used Facebook’s Messenger app, you’ve likely given the company access to your phone contacts. According to a recent survey about Facebook users and their expectations, nearly 60 percent of respondents expected the company to collect some data about them. But when asked about a specific practice, such as collecting data about your location even when you’re not using Facebook, nearly 70 percent of people did not expect the company to do so.

As Facebook and other tech companies face increasing scrutiny over their data-collecting activities, we want to hear from you: What are you most concerned about? Have you done anything? We may use your response in a follow up story. And of course, we’ll respect your privacy.

We may share your response with our staff and publish a selection of stories which could include your name, age, and location. We respect your privacy. Your email address will not be published and by providing it, you agree to let us contact you regarding your response.

Image credit: fatesun/GettyLooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Judy Jones was watching the 11 p.m. news on her local NBC affiliate, WPBN, one evening when she saw her first “Terrorism Alert Desk,” a news segment that’s run daily across all TV stations owned by Sinclair Broadcast Group. Jones, a retired nonprofit director in Traverse City, Michigan, remembers thinking: “You’re kidding me—what kind of terrorism report are we getting on our local station?”

Since then, Jones says she’s noticed other segments that just didn’t seem to fit with her usual mix of local news updates, high school sports, and weather, which, she notes, “is very important up here.” These segments were much more nationally-focused, with a strong political slant. One was “Bottom Line with Boris,” a short commentary from Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump White House staffer who now serves as Sinclair’s chief political analyst. “I continued to watch for a couple of months, trying to figure out what the heck was going on,” she says. In March, she decided to stop watching the station altogether, despite following it for years.

“There’s something about getting a terrorist report that is really demoralizing, when there really isn’t a terrorist situation,” says Jones. “I feel really bad for the newscasters, because this is their job, and they’re good, local citizens.”

Last November, we reported on how Sinclair Broadcast Group, a media empire that currently owns 193 TV stations across the country, has been pushing conservative viewpoints into local news programming. Sinclair recently spurred outrage after it forced its anchors across the country to read the same script decrying fake news as “dangerous to our democracy,” the results of which were captured in a chilling viral video from Deadspin. (President Donald Trump rushed to the group’s defense, tweeting that Sinclair is “far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke.”) As our reporter Andy Kroll writes, “No media company—not even Fox News—has done more to ingratiate itself to the Trump administration than Sinclair.” And its influence will likely grow. If Sinclair successfully acquires Tribune Media, the group’s pro-Trump programming would reach three-quarters of US households.

When we first published our investigation into Sinclair Broadcast Group, we asked readers to share what they were seeing on their local news stations. We recently followed up on their observations—here’s what they said. (Responses have been lightly edited their for length and clarity.)

“KATU read the mandated script about how one needs to be aware of fake stories and that KATU would always state the truth. When I heard this I knew something was very wrong. Then I heard what was going on. I can no longer watch on good faith my local news on KATU, channel 2, in my market. This is extremely dangerous. I am 70 years old and am not stupid.” – Janice Whiting, Tigard, Oregon

“We have WLOS in Asheville, North Carolina as our ‘local’ station and the only one available to us that even begins to discuss news of local interest to Western North Carolina… I was in disbelief when I first observed Mr. Hyman standing in front of his TV audience, arms crossed, and heard him discuss his “point.” He was so obviously preaching an opinion during the 11 p.m. news, that I thought at first I had inadvertently changed channels to Fox cable news. Since then, there have been all-too-frequent “news events” supplied to us as factually slanted, disguised opinion in lieu of any actual reporting that would allow us to form our own opinion of any particular event.” – Roy Osborn, Cullowhee, NC

“Before I ever heard about Sinclair Broadcasting I saw a “Boris Blurb” on KBOI, Boise’s local CBS affiliate. “Listen to this,” I said to my wife. “This is a commercial by a Trump organization.” I waited to see the disclaimer. It did not appear. It was masquerading as local news. I have set my machine not to record channel 2, will not watch it, nor will I assist it in any of its local endeavors.” – Michael Stoy, Boise, Idaho

“There was a half-hour spot on WLOS TV, the ABC affiliate in Asheville that is owned by Sinclair called, “The Rise of Terrorism: Clash of Cultures” with Sebastian Gorka. It is not listed as paid programming, a common thing in similar slots on Saturdays. It’s pretty classic anti-Islamic alt-right scare tactics. No credits, just straight into news at 6, a spot that might give it credibility by association in the minds of some parts of the audience. When WLOS in Asheville, a Sinclair station, ran their spot about ‘fake news’ by two members of the news staff they directed concerns to their ‘Content Concern’ page. I responded telling them [about the Gorka segment] along with a ‘shame on you and on Sinclair Broadcasting.’ Aside from that incident, which I found alarming, and the recent ‘statement,’ I haven’t noticed any other effects of Sinclair ownership on local news with WLOS. As far as any local news goes, WLOS is decent and even better than much of it out there. Sinclair concerns me, but WLOS news coverage has not been the cause of that concern.” – Lori Gilchrist, Mitchell, North Carolina

“In the Portland, Oregon market, Sinclair owns KATU Channel 2. I have stopped watching on a regular basis, since I watched John Oliver’s segment on Last Week Tonight. I started noticing the ‘Terror Alert Desk’ segments as well as the ‘Bottom Line with Boris’ segments. I was shocked when the Boris segments started showing up, because I’d seen Boris being chopped off at the knees on Joy-Ann Reid’s weekend morning show. I lost all respect for my favorite local station. I really admired the local news staff but was very disappointed to see the propaganda being pumped into my living room, with no disclosures as to content or bias. It’s kind of sad, after all these years, they’ve been a staple. Now, if you can’t trust the source you’re getting your information from, there’s no point. I don’t mind having an occasional statement that I can go and verify and not verify, but when the agenda behind the story is being hidden, that makes me angry. ” – Kathey Roberts, Aumsville, Oregon

“Sinclair owns KATV, the ABC affiliate in Little Rock, Arkansas. My family has watched the station for decades. The Boris segments seem to be popping up more often, and they’ve always rubbed me the wrong way. The personality of the station is very community involved, while these segments don’t fit the tone and seem so forced. I’ve always thought that local stations shouldn’t have bias, and this to me is jarring—it’s made me dislike my favorite TV station. I don’t hold it against the personalities; I know it’s not their fault. They have to do it. It seems wrong that [Sinclair] can have so much influence.” – Anonymous, Little Rock, Arkansas

“I have watched WSYX-ABC 6 in Columbus, Ohio. I do not understand what all the hype is about. No one in this town watches 6 for news. It consistently finishes 7th place in a three horse race. The commercials or spots are so heavy handed and over the top, you cannot possibly take them seriously. Those “news” commentaries by Hyman and others are so dreadful, Howard Beale himself would shudder… I do not like the consolidation of news stations in this country—it might even be the reason why this country is so fractured now. Two different sides of America, separated by a wall of information, flinging crap back and forth, distracting us from the real problems in this country, and all the Kings horsemen standing idly by laughing at the distraction as this country is being plundered.” – Brian Commeans, Columbus, Ohio

If your TV station is owned or operated by Sinclair Broadcast Group, tell us what you’re seeing and what you think of the programming. You can check for your station on this map. We may include your response in a follow up story.

We may share your response with our staff and publish a selection of stories which could include your name, age, and location. We respect your privacy. Your email address will not be published and by providing it, you agree to let us contact you regarding your response.

Image credits: Oliver Contreras/SIPA/AP; jakkapan21/GettyLooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

In recent months, accusations of sexual harassment have cropped up at major restaurants across the country. Even at eateries where high-profile chefs haven’t come under scrutiny, tipped workers often face harassment from customers—a fact we’ve been hearing more about since the #MeToo movement grabbed the national spotlight.

For the most recent episode of Bite, our food politics podcast, we asked you how #MeToo has affected your relationship with restaurants. Listen to some of the responses at the end of the episode, and read some of them below.

The responses below have been lightly edited for length and clarity.

“I said, ‘Oh, I’m so sorry,’ turned to face him, and dumped an entire tray with 10 glasses of red wine on him.”

“I was a waitress for several years in an upscale restaurant and was repeatedly harassed by customers. One middle-aged white guy grabbed my butt as I walked by his table. I told him ‘don’t touch’ and walked away. When he did the same thing again, five minutes later, I said, ‘Oh, I’m so sorry,’ turned to face him, and dumped an entire tray with 10 glasses of red wine on him. [The] manager came running over. I said that the tray ‘slipped’ because ‘someone’ grabbed my rear end. I did not get fired. These days, as a customer, I look for restaurants that hire equal numbers of male and female waitstaff, have women managers in the dining area, and do NOT make the females wear stupid, sexist outfits. I ask the women what it’s like working there. I also intervene fast, as an older female, when I see anyone hassling a waitress. I say ‘Hey, stop dissing women—that’s not okay—show some respect.’ Older women can do a great job of instant bystander intervention to help protect our young sisters in the industry.”—M. Langelan, Bethesda, Maryland

“I’m boycotting Shipley’s Donuts down here in Texas! I don’t care if it’s free, if there’s a box of kolaches sitting on the table. Even if the franchise owners are mostly separate, I will never give my money to that business again.”—Mary-Ann, Houston, Texas

“I have tipped 20 percent of the bill for decades in cash to the waitstaff regardless of service quality. They often don’t have health coverage. They have bad days, too. They are no less deserving of compassion and respect. In my youth I waited tables where drunk young men seemed to think they deserved a piece of my femaleness. I gave them prompt service, knowing not to expect a tip since I wouldn’t appease them. I would not patronize any restaurant where injustice was uncovered until there was documented change and restitution. Extend that to any business.”—Carol Odbert, Brookeville, Maryland

“I never worked in the food industry. This hasn’t prevented me from experiencing my own sexual discrimination and #MeToo moments, and I truly appreciate what women in service who struggle to make a living wage go through. I offer them a courtesy of kindness and generosity in tipping, sometimes to their surprise. I don’t think they get that often, and we owe that to people who serve and wait on us.”—Cindy Olsen, Yellow Springs, Ohio



“I have tipped 20 percent of the bill for decades in cash to the waitstaff regardless of service quality.”

“I was a professional cook for 10 years, and none of the revelations have been surprising to me. I’m ecstatic these stories are being told at last, though. I remember an interview I had for a line cook job once where the kitchen manager blatantly asked me if sexual harassment exists in the kitchen. By merely asking the question, he proved that not only did he know the answer was yes, but that he also knew it’s a huge problem. Of course, what he wanted to hear was ‘no,’ so that he could go on with his illusions. So, yeah, I’m really happy #MeToo is reaching restaurants now.”—Rachel, Boulder, Colorado

“I care about food, not the internal HR matters of restaurants.”—LFP, Charlottesville, Virginia



“My relationship with restaurants hasn’t changed because I don’t frequent one that’s been outed and haven’t witnessed anything untoward. I’ve always been respectful to waitstaff and other workers, so I haven’t had to change my behavior. What has changed is that I’m really disappointed in Mario Batali. He was fun to watch, and I thought he was a really nice person because of his charitable work. I’m glad that the Food Network took him off their network. When I occasionally see him now on something, all I can think is, ‘I really don’t like that guy anymore.’ Sort of ruins the whole program.”—Cris Field, Orlando, FloridaLooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

The Republican chairman of the House Agriculture Committee proposed a dramatic change in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) today that would tighten eligibility rules and require some six million “work-capable” adults to work at least 20 hours a week or attend job-training classes for an equal amount of time in order to receive monthly benefits that now average $123 per person. Under the farm bill sponsored by Chairman Michael Conaway, the government would give $1 billion a year to states to provide training slots for every SNAP participant subject to the work requirement.

Unveiled two days after President Trump called for new or tougher work requirements for the federal food stamp program, Conaway’s proposal for “modernizing SNAP” is expected to dominate farm bill debate. Democrats stopped negotiating with Conaway a month ago, saying he was pursuing radical SNAP changes. In a video released in conjunction with the announcement of the proposed farm bill, Conaway said his approach “maintains and strengthens the great American tradition of self-sufficiency—that compels us to work to improve our station in life.”

The anti-hunger group Food Research and Action Center said “harsh SNAP eligibility limits” will bring “greater poverty and hunger” to poor Americans rather than Conaway’s vision of a helping hand.

The work and training requirements were “designed to be a hassle factor so people drop out of the program,” said Democratic Rep. Collin Peterson.

Food stamps make up the lion’s share of spending in the broad-spectrum legislation, which covers everything from crop subsidies and rural development to famine relief. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that SNAP will cost $65 billion a year in the near future. The farm bill overall would cost about $87 billion annually. The Conaway bill would make relatively minor changes in crop subsidies but would eliminate the Conservation Stewardship Program, the USDA’s first green-payment program, which now covers 70 million acres. Elements of the CSP would be folded into the cost-sharing Environmental Quality Incentives Program.

No one will be forced out of SNAP, insisted Conaway, although he said some people may drop out voluntarily. The Democratic leader on the committee, Collin Peterson, said the work and training requirements were “designed to be a hassle factor so people drop out of the program.”

Under Conaway’s proposal, about a million people are expected to disappear from SNAP over 10 years, because they will get better-paying jobs, they won’t work enough hours, or they’ll drop out of the training program. Enrollment would fall by an additional 300,000 people with the elimination of a broad-based categorical eligibility provision that allows people with incomes above 130 percent of the poverty line to apply for SNAP regardless of assets.

“This bill attempts to change SNAP from a feeding program to a work program,” said Peterson. He said Conaway “put the farmers and rural communities who rely on the farm bill’s safety net programs at risk in pursuit of partisan ideology on SNAP.”

The think tank Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said a multi-faceted and effective job training system for SNAP could easily cost $1 billion a month nationwide, far more than the annual $1 billion in the Conaway bill, based on the track record of work requirements for federally supported welfare. “The almost-certain result would be greatly under-resourced work programs that offer few, if any, services to help people gain skills and jobs,” it said. At the same time, recipients would have to show compliance with the requirement for work or training.

The work requirement for adults aged 18 to 59 would not apply to the elderly, disabled people, pregnant women, or adults caring for children younger than 6. Children, the elderly, and the disabled account for the majority of SNAP recipients.

Conaway’s package also would reduce the leeway states have to exempt people from the work requirement, which is now tied to a 90-day limit on benefits in a three-year period to so-called able-bodied adults without dependents. Up to 60 percent of current waivers would be eliminated.

At latest count, 40.7 million people received SNAP benefits.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

District attorney races are rarely competitive. Roughly 85 percent of incumbents run unopposed in campaigns that draw little fanfare. The result, some criminal justice experts say, is that tough-on-crime DAs have reigned for decades, driving a nearly 30-year surge in jail and prison populations with their aggressive charging and sentencing policies. And while this inertia persists, a recent push by progressive groups to replace old-school DAs with reform-minded challengers is reshaping local races all over America this year.

There are more than 2,400 district attorneys nationwide, but because most DA races happen during midterm elections, only about 100 were up for reelection last year. Only a few of them faced challenges from criminal justice reform candidates. (Exhibit A was Philadelphia’s Larry Krasner, who promised to work toward reducing the number of people behind bars and won handily.) This year, more than 1,000 incumbents are up for reelection and at least 40 are being challenged by reformers, according to Becky Bond, executive director of Real Justice PAC, a national organization run by former Bernie Sanders campaign staffers.

Some reform-minded DA candidates have received a boost from local organizing. Billionaire George Soros has also reportedly funneled at least $11 million into nearly 20 local district attorney races around the country since 2015. Progressive national groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union, Real Justice PAC, and Color of Change PAC have gotten involved, too.

These groups are scaling up their efforts this year, injecting money and manpower into dozens of local DA races. “It’s often prosecutors that are standing in the way of even the most modest, common sense reforms to the criminal justice system,” says Taylor Pendergrass, a senior campaign strategist at the ACLU’s Campaign for Smart Justice. The campaign, which aims to reverse mass incarceration, was heavily involved in last year’s Philadelphia race. Krasner, who took over as DA in January, has already made significant reforms, eliminating bail requests for many low-level offenses and directing his assistant DAs not to charge some smaller offenses at all.

“It’s often prosecutors that are standing in the way of even the most modest, common sense reforms.”

This year, Pendergrass says, the ACLU plans to get involved in 25 to 30 DA races in at least 14 states. These include the race in Oakland, California—where Pamela Price, a career civil rights attorney, is running on a platform to end cash bail and expand diversion programs for low-level offenders—and in the most populous county in Massachusetts, which includes Cambridge, where Donna Patalano, a defense attorney, is campaigning on promises that include getting rid of mandatory minimum sentences. Other DA candidates are promising to hold police accountable for missteps and provide the public with greater transparency. “Our focus on prosecutors now is borne out of a desire to tackle head-on the way prosecutors drive mass incarceration and racial disparities in the criminal justice system through their daily decision-making,” Pendergrass told me.

The Black Lives Matter movement—and recent research involving prosecutors’ embrace of tools such as mandatory minimums and three-strikes laws—have highlighted the role of district attorneys in driving mass incarceration. The primary aim of the ACLU, Pendergrass says, is to educate voters about a district attorney’s role in shaping decisions about bail, charging, and sentencing; point out how candidates differ on key issues; and encourage people to support those who support reforms. (As a non-partisan organization, the ACLU cannot endorse specific candidates.) “There’s almost no criminal justice reform we talk about that a DA in theory couldn’t do on their own,” says John Pfaff, a criminal law professor at Fordham University. So “any amount of attention on them has to be good. It’s not going to be a cure-all, but it’s an important and significant step forward.”

DAs are now “being defeated in a lot of races where there’s a focus on policy. And the policy that’s winning is: ‘Let’s get fairer.'”

The ACLU, Pendergrass says, is especially interested in races in cities that, like Philadelphia, are major contributors to their state’s prison population. In that race, the group’s Pennsylvania branch teamed up with about a dozen local groups to create and distribute mailers, and hired formerly incarcerated people to canvass in neighborhoods with historically low voter turnout—places where many residents have had close encounters with the criminal justice system. The group also organized a voter forum where candidates were pressed on their positions. The effort helped drive a nearly 70 percent increase in voter participation over the previous election. Krasner won in a landslide.

“I think it’s a significant shift in criminal justice politics,” says David Sklansky, an expert on prosecutorial powers at Stanford Law School. When district attorney races were competitive in the past, those races “focused on personality. To the extent that they focused on policy, they competed on who could issue the harshest punishment.” Now DAs are “being defeated in a lot of races where there’s a focus on policy. And the policy that’s winning is not ‘Let’s get tougher,’ but ‘Let’s get fairer.'”

Real Justice PAC, meanwhile, has sought to recruit candidates to challenge incumbent DAs, and it works directly with the candidates it endorses, says activist Shaun King, an organizer for the group. In Dallas, King says, RJP helped Democratic candidate Elizabeth Frizell shape talking points and craft promotional materials in advance of her March primary. RJP also worked with the Texas Organizing Project to assemble some 15,000 volunteers to canvass and send out mailers, and raised $100,000 to help the local group mobilize volunteers in the days before the balloting. Frizell won more votes on Election Day than her opponent did, King says, but she ultimately lost based on early voting for her opponent by mail.

RJP is now mounting similar efforts in cities such as Sacramento, California, which is still reeling from the fatal police shooting of Stephon Clark—and where incumbent DA Anne Schubert has been criticized for her failure to file charges in numerous police shooting cases on her watch. Last week, RJP donated $13,000 to candidate Noah Phillips, currently an assistant DA, who is challending Schubert with a reform platform that includes greater transparency about the DA’s handling of officer-involved shootings.

Bond, RJP’s director, says her group now relies on a tactic that was key to the unexpected success of the Sanders campaign: It identifies likely supporters of its favored DA candidate using publicly available information and then reaches out to those people. Hundreds of volunteers are calling and texting these potential supporters, asking them to donate, volunteer, and, of course, vote for the preferred candidate when the time comes. “People are hungry for change and want to get involved. They’re just not being asked to do something that’s actually going to solve the problem,” Bond says. “Part of what we do at Real Justice PAC is we’re telling people, ‘Here’s one way you can solve part of this really important problem’—and then we give them a role.”

In Texas in March, 7 of 13 incumbent DAs up for reelection were defeated.

The local push for decarceration is a far cry from the criminal justice policies endorsed by the Trump administration. Last May, Attorney General Jeff Sessions directed federal prosecutors to charge nearly all defendants with the “most serious readily provable” offense. Last month, on the direction of the president, Sessions instructed prosecutors to seek the death penalty against certain drug traffickers. The progressive focus on DA races appears to be paying off, though. In Texas last month, 7 of 13 incumbent DAs seeking reelection were defeated, the Texas Tribune reported—and often by reform-minded challengers.

Pendergrass hopes to capitalize on anti-Trump energy to boost those numbers further. In a national poll conducted for the ACLU last October, nearly 90 percent of respondents said prosecutors should actively work to end mass incarceration and to reduce racial bias in the criminal justice system. “The public wants issues of mass incarceration and racial injustice to be tackled. So I think that the public statements from Trump and Jeff Sessions supporting a return to the tough-on-crime [and] the war on drugs era is really concerning,” he says. “It can be very motivating to a public that has a really strong desire to see elected officials confront mass incarceration and racial injustice and take it head on.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

The Department of Justice is looking to stop asking 16- and 17-year-olds about their sexual orientation and gender identity in the National Crime Victimization Survey. Critics say the move is a way for legislators to leave LGBT teens out of policy decisions.



The twice-a-year national survey asks about 135,000 households questions about the frequency and nature of both reported and unreported crimes. Questions about sexual orientation and gender identity have been included in the survey since July 2016. These questions are voluntary and confidential—teens who don’t wish to answer them don’t have to. But in a Federal Register notice on Wednesday, the Bureau of Justice Statistics requested to raise the minimum age for those questions from 16 to 18 “due to concerns about the potential sensitivity of these questions for adolescents.”

The request quickly prompted a response from the University of California-Los Angeles’ Williams Institute, a think tank dedicated to LGBT research. “The Bureau of Justice Statistics at the Department of Justice has been a leader in advancing knowledge about the LGBT population, but the Bureau’s new leadership seems to want to bury its head in the sand,” Director of Federal Policy Adam Romero says in the statement.

“What’s measured is what matters when it comes to public policy,” says Eliza Byard, executive director of the New York-based Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network. She points out that similar questions on another survey, the Youth Risk Behavior Survey, have been crucial to shaping programming at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In August 2016, the CDC published a report on health disparities in lesbian, gay, and bisexual high school students for the first time, finding that these teens are at an increased risk for experiencing violence. Byard notes that data has been “hugely important for designing public health programs run out of the CDC.” The CDC’s own website states: “Collecting information about students’ sexual identity and about the sex of their sexual contacts is necessary.”

Williams Institute scholars point out that teenagers have been answering questions about their LGBT status in other federal surveys for years. The Youth Risk Behavior Survey includes respondents as young as 13, and the National Survey of Family Growth includes respondents as young as 15, according to their press release. At the National Center for Lesbian Rights in San Francisco, youth policy director Shannan Wilber notes that the Prison Rape Elimination Act requires juvenile detention facilities to screen inmates for risk of abuse based on “whether the inmate is or is perceived to be gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming,” among other criteria.

“When groups of people are invisible, their problems are invisible,” says LGBT advocate Shannan Wilber.

For both Byard and Wilber, the Justice Department’s request is a way to erase LGBT youth from the equation. “When groups of people are invisible, their problems are invisible,” Wilber tells Mother Jones. The National Center for Lesbian Rights plans to file public comments, and Wilber expects other organizations will as well.

But, Wilber says, if the Justice Department’s request is granted, there may not be legal recourse available—which could lead to new hurdles for the community she works to support. “You have to have data and information to make informed decisions, and to make public policy, about what’s actually happening,” Wilber says. “To take the position that you’re no longer going to collect this information is really taking the position that you’re not going to address these problems.”

The request is open for public comments until May 11.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

I don’t have anything new on the high-speed photo front, but I’ll come up with something eventually. In the meantime, here are a few more bees and hummingbirds. First up, a hummingbird:

This picture shows the bird’s back and tail, for our birding folks who keep saying they need to see this. Hopefully we can now determine once and for all which type of hummingbird this is.

Next up is a very good freeze frame of a bee in flight:

The curvature of the lower wing is, I’m pretty sure, an artifact of how the shutter works at high speeds. The camera’s firmware allegedly compensates for this effect, called “rolling shutter,” to produce a proper rendering of reality. This fine piece of Sony marketing explains:

Most of the time this works as advertised. Every once in a while, though, it can’t quite fix things properly, and you get some curvature in very fast moving objects. That’s what happened here.

Finally, here’s another bee, just because.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On Friday night I snarked that the NAEP folks—who produce the “gold standard” of student testing—couldn’t even count to two:

Muphry’s Law states that “If you write anything criticizing editing or proofreading, there will be a fault of some kind in what you have written.” Sure enough, a regular reader emails to say that I got this wrong. Here are the exact numbers:

2015 score: 265.4, which rounds to 265.

2017 score: 266.6, which rounds to 267.

Difference: 1.2, which rounds to 1.

This is actually a really nice example of how rounding numbers can get you into trouble. And it means that I have to change my criticism from NAEP’s too-weak arithmetic skills to its too-strong adherence to house style. Obviously their house style for simple graphics like this is to use only whole numbers. That’s probably a good style rule. But accuracy and clarity are always your main goal, and there are rare occasions when you just have to make style exceptions. Here’s what the chart should have looked like:

Maybe there’s another way to do this, but one way or the other, the graphic simply can’t be allowed to display what looks like an obvious error. In long rows of numbers, you sometimes see the disclaimer “does not add to 100 due to rounding,” or something similar. Maybe something like that would be enough. But I suspect that the cleanest and clearest way of getting this right is to break the style rule. I sympathize with style nazis, since I tend to be one myself, but every once in a while house style rules just have to be broken.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

We have fired some missiles at Syria again:

Mr. Trump characterized it as the beginning of a sustained effort to force Mr. Assad to stop using banned weapons….“We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” Mr. Trump said. ….Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told reporters at the Pentagon on Friday night that the strike was completed and was designed as a one-night operation. “Right now this is a one-time shot and I believe it has sent a very strong message to dissuade him to deter him from doing it again,” he said.

The Trump White House runs like a Swiss watch, doesn’t it?

I don’t want to get bogged down in a dense discussion about American involvement in Syria, but I will say this: I’m not opposed to the proposition that anyone who uses chemical weapons should be prepared to pay a price. A judicious enforcement of the taboo against chemical weapons is worth it. If we commit to this, however, it can’t apply solely to countries we don’t like. It better apply to everyone, even if they’re fighting a war we don’t care much about. Are we prepared for that?Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

A few weeks ago, the Justice Department’s inspector general rushed out a draft copy of its report on Andrew McCabe to Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Why? So that Sessions could fire McCabe 26 hours before he qualified for his full pension and retired.

Well, the final report has now been released and I’ve read it. But first, here are the background facts:

As deputy director of the FBI, McCabe had oversight authority over all FBI investigations, including the Clinton email investigation and the Clinton Foundation investigation.

A year earlier, McCabe’s wife had run as a Democrat for a state senate seat in Virginia. Like most Democratic candidates, she received money from a PAC controlled by Clinton pal Terry McAuliffe. During the 2016 presidential campaign, conservative media went berserk over this, claiming that McCabe had been influenced by his wife’s connections to go easy on Clinton.

Near the end of the 2016 campaign, the Wall Street Journal ran an article implying that McCabe had also tried to slow walk the Clinton Foundation investigation.

In fact, McCabe had done just the opposite: in a phone call with the Justice Department he had refused to allow any political interference with the investigation. A few days after the original article appeared, McCabe authorized an FBI press liason to tell this to the Journal on background for a follow-up article that appeared on October 30.

Everyone accepts this as the basic background of the case. What’s more, as deputy director, McCabe was authorized to speak to the press on background or to allow others to do it for him. The question is: did McCabe lie about authorizing this disclosure to the Journal? The inspector general says he did, and lays out the following timeline:

October 31, 2016: McCabe speaks to FBI Director James Comey about the Journal article. McCabe says he told Comey what he had done. Comey says he didn’t. May 9, 2017: The FBI inspection division, which is investigating a series of leaks, talks to McCabe. McCabe says he doesn’t know where this particular leak came from. July 28, 2017: The DOJ inspector general interviews McCabe, who says he doesn’t know who authorized the press liason to talk to the Journal. August 1, 2017: McCabe calls the inspector general to change his testimony. He now says that he recalls authorizing the disclosure. August 18, 2017: The FBI inspection division re-interviews McCabe, who confirms that he authorized the disclosure. November 29: The inspector general interviews McCabe again. McCabe confirms yet again that he authorized the disclosure.

The inspector general’s report concludes that McCabe lied multiple times: to Comey (#1), to the FBI inspection division (#2), to the inspector general (#3), and finally on November 29 when he told the inspector general his version of the conversation with Comey (#6).

McCabe has defended himself against all the charges:

He believes his recollection of the conversation with Comey is correct, and it’s Comey who is mistaken.

He says that the May 9 interview was about an entirely different matter and touched on the Journal article only briefly. “That is reflected in the fact that in a 12-page draft statement prepared by INSD, the WSJ article occupied a single paragraph.” McCabe says he never meant to imply that he didn’t authorize the disclosure.

He says the July 28 interview was primarily about the FBI’s overall handling of the Clinton email case. “The OIG investigators assured him they would not ask questions about matters that could involve him.” When they suddenly asked McCabe about the Journal article, “He attempted multiple times to end the discussion as quickly as possible.” That caused him to flub his response, and two days later he called back to correct his testimony.

I don’t know any more about this than anyone else, but McCabe’s defense sounds sort of sketchy. That said, this whole thing is over the most trivial and common kind of leak imaginable: a senior official defending himself and the bureau—truthfully—against a newspaper article that was objectively incorrect.¹ The information McCabe leaked was intended to defend both himself and the integrity of the FBI, and it was literally no more than a sentence or two that was completely harmless. The biggest charge is that McCabe’s leak effectively confirmed that the FBI was investigating the Clinton Foundation, but was anyone really in any doubt about that anyway?

I dunno. The inspector general didn’t believe McCabe’s story and concluded that he had “lacked candor.” Maybe that’s a firing offense no matter what the issue is and no matter who does it. But it sure sounds to me like the kind of thing that wouldn’t normally get a guy fired 26 hours before his retirement unless the president of the United States was gunning for him. Obviously Trump was, and he issued his usual unhinged gloating over the downfall of an enemy after the inspector general’s report was released:

DOJ just issued the McCabe report – which is a total disaster. He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey – McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

¹And not just incorrect: it was part of a coordinated campaign of character assassination from a presidential campaign.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

When I ask Christine Hernandez, a mother of four, slender in stature and bold in manner, how best to scout for abandoned homes—the bleak dwellings with the boarded-up windows and ripped-out drywall, their innards packed with leftover syringes, rotting debris, and the peculiar loot of previous dispossessed tenants—she says it’s best to send someone who won’t draw too much suspicion from cops or neighbors. “I’m a woman, and small,” she notes. “Not super intimidating, you know?”

It was about two years ago when Hernandez, who works at a community development organization, and her husband, Emilio, a painter, were forced to leave their ramshackle home in Oakland, California, after trying to get their landlord to make repairs. They started touring listings and seeking out “For Rent” signs in windows. But in the nutso housing crisis plaguing the Bay Area, where one-bedroom apartments in Oakland rent for more than $2,000 a month—never mind a home with space for a family of six—they found themselves, like so many others, hopelessly priced out. What they did notice was a shocking abundance of forsaken properties. They started performing reconnaissance. “A lot of them were already occupied, so, you know, that’s that,” she says. “A lot of them had burn damage, so you can’t really do much with that.”

Then on a clear October morning in 2015, they found a three-bedroom, one-bath house that had been a haven for drugs and prostitution. They pried open a section of the chain-link fence surrounding the property, scurried inside, and explored by flashlight. The kitchen had no counter, no sink, no pipes. Burn marks scoured the home. “It was a total mess,” says Hernandez, but a mess could be cleaned up. They got to work.

The right to adequate housing—not just four walls and a roof, but “a safe and secure home and community in which to live in peace and dignity”—is decreed by the United Nations, but you wouldn’t know it by looking around California, where nearly a quarter of the nation’s homeless people live. The housing crisis is often described as a shortage, the only solution being that we build our way out of it. But for every American living on the street, there are 13 empty, off-market units. In Oakland, where buyers routinely offer hundreds of thousands of dollars over asking prices, there are nearly four vacant properties for every homeless person. It’s not so much an issue of scarcity, but of distribution.

Squatting, or “occupying,” as its practitioners tend to prefer calling it, is a shaky existence, Hernandez’s family immediately discovered. On their first day, they encountered an outraged neighbor. “She was like, ‘You have kids? You’re going to be living in that filth and squalor?'” The cops came later, walking in on them as they were patching the walls, interrogating them about how they had gotten inside. A nearby house would occasionally host illicit gambling nights that would “inevitably involve gunfire.” Two days before their eldest daughter’s 17th birthday, a bullet entered her bedroom window, bounced around, and slammed a hole in the wall two feet from her head. She still has the slug, a smashed-up metal keepsake, on her dresser.

But the worst was when a representative from a bank busted in. Christine and Emilio arrived home to find the front door smashed and the locks changed. The house was ransacked, their valuable possessions stolen. The water was turned off and the power had been shut down. Flyers from a company called M&M Mortgage Services, which offers “debris removal” and “eviction services,” festooned the house: “This property was found to be vacant and/or unsecured,” they read. “It has been secured against entry by unauthorized persons to prevent possible damage.” The company operatives had let the family’s dog loose and it went missing for days.

Scouring the internet for information on how to fight back, Hernandez came across an organization run by an Oakland man who had used a little-known law called “adverse possession” to gain ownership of a home he’d occupied for more than a decade. Passed down from common law, the legal doctrine varies from state to state, but the basic gist is that anyone can legally claim an abandoned property if he or she occupies it and pays its back taxes for a set time and as long as no one else steps forward and proves ownership.

The man was Steven DeCaprio, and his organization, called Land Action, was dedicated to helping squatters. Hernandez and her family went off to find him.

DeCaprio is 45 years old, with a salt-and-pepper crew cut and beard. About 15 years ago, unemployed and recently evicted, he was living out of his van when he first saw the home that he now owns—a turn-of-the-century bungalow in a poor West Oakland neighborhood. Plywood stood in for the front door, the back of the house hung off the foundation, the kitchen floor was burned down to charred beams, and an acacia tree had grown through a hole in the roof. The top floor, open to the sky, was littered with animal carcasses.

He researched property records and learned that the previous owner had died in the 1980s and no one had claimed the house. DeCaprio broke in, and with a crew of friends he started what would become a yearslong process of rehabilitating the property. They added locks, installed a solar power system, drew baths over a propane stove, and had fires in the backyard. “Wild West meets cyberpunk,” he says.

After countless run-ins with the police, DeCaprio finally gained title to the home. In California, adverse possession requires five years of paying taxes and navigating a bureaucratic maze of tax assessors, the courthouse, property records, and in some instances litigation to force a county to accept tax payments. It also requires an extraordinary amount of good fortune: Until they become adverse possessors, squatters are trespassers, subject to criminal charges whether an abandoned property’s owner complains or not.

DeCaprio’s idea to create Land Action came after the Supreme Court’s infamous 2010 Citizens United ruling, when he had an epiphany over the phrase “Corporations are people.” “Homeless people should form a corporation,” he thought. He modeled Land Action off a tactic he had seen real estate speculators use: They form a collection of limited liability corporations to act as titleholders to conceal their ownership. Land Action would function as a title holding company to shield squatters until their paperwork cleared.

DeCaprio pursued a law degree through an independent study program and passed the bar exam. The State Bar of California has declined to issue his law license, saying that an old misdemeanor trespass charge may make him ineligible on moral grounds. He is appealing. But with or without the license, he’s become a squatting guru, leading seminars to often desperate people up against eviction.

This activism has come with costs. Not long ago, DeCaprio was facing several years in jail and tens of thousands of dollars in fines for felony conspiracy charges stemming from assisting two Oakland squatters in 2015. When those charges were finally dropped in late 2017, DeCaprio and his colleagues interpreted it as a confirmation that adverse-possession claims might be a viable strategy for housing for at least some of the Bay Area’s burgeoning homeless population.

On a stormy night in January, I tagged along with DeCaprio as he drove to a city commission meeting about a homeless encampment in Berkeley. As he steered through the rainy streets, he said that in his nearly two decades of working on housing rights, he’d “never seen such an acute amount of displacement and homelessness.” The dot-com boom and the foreclosure crisis were nothing compared with the speculation that’s occurring now, “this new real estate bubble that keeps expanding.”

For some squatters, adverse possession is a goal, but it’s not necessarily the goal. “Most of the people I’ve worked with, squatting has been more of a temporary solution to their problems,” says DeCaprio. “You can get a lot accomplished if you have a few months or a few years in a house to get your shit together. When you have no other housing available and you’re squatting, every fucking day is a victory.”

Take Hernandez. After the house was put up for auction, she brainstormed with Land Action and went back armed with a stack of bright yellow notices to hand out to potential bidders: “[This home]…is currently occupied by a family wishing and intending to continue tenancy,” the flyers read. “We know our rights and intend to assert and defend them.”

The place they had called home for the previous two years—the one they had relieved of layers of rotting refuse, and where they had installed appliances, gotten the plumbing and electricity up and humming, won over the neighbors, and planted a garden—was the first property auctioned that day, for one penny over the opening price to a sole bidder who intended to flip it. Soon, an eviction notice arrived.

Hernandez filed a motion to quash, which stated that her family hadn’t been properly served. “A lot of these eviction mill lawyers are not putting the names of the occupants on the complaints,” says DeCaprio. It’s a tactic used to expedite an eviction, he says. “These attorneys are making their money by volume and not really doing their jobs, and actually benefiting the speculators and the developers and the landlords who get these really fast evictions.”

“They know our names,” says Hernandez, when I visit her. “We met the new owner. We sat at this table. I made sure he had an opportunity to see this,” she adds, gesturing around the dining room. On a computer nearby, a slideshow of the house’s transformation plays—holes in walls are patched and painted, plumbing and appliances are installed, burn marks disappear. As she talks, her four-year-old daughter, Sofia Lina, occasionally interrupts with a facetious grin and a whisper, each time bearing new items in her tiny hands. “I want to show you my toys.” “Will you draw a circle on this?” “I want you to hear this song. It’s the Queen of Pony song.”

“But he was, you know, it’s an investment for him,” Christine says. “The longer we’re here, the more it cuts into his potential profit.”

In January, the court granted Hernandez’s motion; the owner will have to restart the eviction process. She’s been preparing a backup plan. “There’s a house that I’m looking at that isn’t occupied, and it has a hole in the roof and some other damage. It has a lot of debris in the yard,” she says. “A person recently inherited the house. I want to reach out to that person and say, ‘We’re happy to completely clean your house. We’ll paint it. We’ll fix your roof. We’ll take care of any business that needs to be taken care of, in exchange for you allowing us to live there for some agreed upon period of time.'”

Hernandez looks up. “We did this because we needed to do it,” she says, “and we do it without apology.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

After a covert Russian operation to fuel political divisions in the United States reached 146 million Facebook users in 2016, the company vowed to do more to stop fake news and propaganda in the lead-up to this November’s midterm elections. But a propaganda campaign underway in the Mexican presidential election is showing how easy it still is for unknown actors to use social media platforms to covertly influence elections.

Four websites in Mexico are using Facebook and Twitter to mount what appear to be coordinated attacks on Andrés Manuel López Obrador, the left-wing candidate who is leading in the polls ahead of the country’s July 1 election. Three of them are designed to look like traditional news sites; the fourth is a transparently anti-López Obrador page that claims the founders of López Obrador’s political party want to install a totalitarian regime in Mexico. It’s unclear who’s behind the sites—it could be foreign actors, special interests, or political campaigns themselves.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday and seek to reassure the American public that the company is working to stem the proliferation of political propaganda. But in the case of these four anonymous sites in Mexico, Facebook says they’re not violating its policies, and it seems to have no intention of stopping them or other sites that mount coordinated political attacks under the guise of news.

Together, the four sites have more than 250,000 Facebook followers, plus another 35,000 on Twitter. Their content is not fake news in the vein of the 2016 story announcing falsely that the pope had endorsed President Donald Trump, which spread like wildfire on social media. It’s more like Breitbart News articles attacking Democrats and painting Trump in the most flattering light. The difference is that Breitbart and its biases are well known, whereas these sites provide no information about who writes their content and were set up just months before the election but are designed to look like news outlets.

A Mexican Facebook user scrolling through her feed in search of political news might encounter what appears to be a news report from El Mexicano Digital, one of the four sites, that says López Obrador and the late Venezuelan strongman Hugo Chávez share “terrifying similarities.” Then, after seeing posts from established newspapers like La Jornada that look similar, she might come across a story from Cielo e Infierno (Heaven and Hell), the Facebook page for another of the four sites, Morena.mx, that refers to an old interview in which López Obrador said he had high blood pressure and claims ominously in a headline, “López Obrador Is Sick.”

Mother Jones has found distinct links among the four sites, suggesting they were created by the same person or people. Three of them registered with the same company within seconds of each other in December. The fourth was registered earlier, but it operates on the same servers as the other three, shares a Google Analytics account with them, and uses similar source code.

A Facebook representative tells Mother Jones that all the sites comply with the company’s policies. The representative declined to disclose whether the sites pay Facebook to promote their content in users’ news feeds, but says Facebook would allow them to do so.

No one knows who’s behind the sites—it could be foreign actors, special interests, or political campaigns themselves.

In January, Zuckerberg touted the company’s effort to promote “high quality news” in order to prevent “sensationalism, misinformation, and polarization.” But Siva Vaidhyanathan, director of the University of Virginia’s Center for Media and Citizenship, believes Facebook’s problem with misleading news posts is essentially unsolvable in a society that protect people’s right to free speech. “There’s no way to regulate content discrimination in the United States of America,” he says. “That just won’t pass First Amendment muster. That’s just never going to happen.”

The ability to create anonymous websites posing as legitimate news outlets is, of course, not new. What’s changed is that these sites can reach hundreds of thousands of people on Facebook, sometimes by paying the company to promote its posts. There appears to be little to stop any special interest in the United States—or a malicious foreign actor—from creating a group of phony news outlets and then paying to push coordinated messages to large numbers of unsuspecting readers.

Facebook is taking some steps to increase transparency before the midterm elections in the United States. The Facebook spokesperson says the company is planning to identify to users all the messages a particular page is paying to promote. The company also intends to tell users who is funding political ads, including issue ads that don’t mention a specific candidate, in the United States. Facebook announced on Friday that it will require pages with “large numbers of followers” to be authenticated, but it did not say what will be considered a large page or provide additional details about the authentication process.

After losing a disputed election in 2006 and coming in second again in 2012, López Obrador and his party, the National Regeneration Movement (known by its Spanish abbreviation Morena), are now the favorite to unseat the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which has ruled Mexico for all but 12 years since 1929. Ricardo Anaya from the right-leaning National Action Party (PAN) is in second in the polls. José Antonio Meade, the PRI candidate, is currently in third.

The four sites have dramatically expanded their reach in recent months. El Mexicano Digital had 18 Twitter followers in early January but now has more than 10,000. Some of its Facebook posts receive as many as 40,000 likes and other reactions, while many others receive only a handful, suggesting that the site may be paying Facebook, or an outside actor, to promote certain posts. Morena.mx’s Facebook videos have been viewed more than 8 million times, and some of its posts that read like press releases receive thousands of likes.

Morena.mx is the most transparently biased site: It has featured an image of López Obrador with blood dripping from his mouth. The other three sites appear more like independent news outlets, but they’re similarly critical of López Obrador. El Zócalo de México claims to offer a “deep” look at Mexican news. Pinche Hemeroteca, roughly “Fucking Archive,” claims that it exposes Mexican politicians’ “lies” and “incoherent positions.” El Mexicano Digital provides no information about itself but has reportedly paid Google to promote its stories when people search for López Obrador. A spokesperson for Google declined to comment.

“As long as Facebook is this big and Facebook behaves like Facebook, we’re kind of in for dark times,” says Siva Vaidhyanathan, director of the University of Virginia’s Center for Media and Citizenship.

The four sites’ Google Analytics account is publicly linked to only one other website: Méxic-on, which until recently identified itself as a project of the Mexican business advocacy group Consejo de la Comunicación (Communications Council). After this story was first published, the Consejo de la Comunicación logo disappeared from the page; shortly after that, all of the site’s contents were deleted.* Roxana Núñez, the director of corporate affairs at the Consejo de la Comunicación, says her organization was not previously aware of Méxic-on and the four sites attacking López Obrador. Méxic-on, she says, is not a project of the Consejo de la Comunicación.

The Consejo de la Comunicación’s president, Federico López Otegui, said last year that his organization would not be backing a candidate in the 2018 election, and Núñez says that’s still the case. The organization reportedly opposed López Obrador when he ran for president in 2006. Raúl Benítez Manaut, a professor of North American security issues at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), one of Mexico’s leading universities, says he would not be surprised if the Consejo de la Comunicación were opposing López Obrador behind the scenes. “The rich people in Mexico are really worried,” he says, noting proposals López Obrador has made that have concerned the business community. “And a big part of the middle class is really worried with [López Obrador] and they will try to stop him.”

Last month, a group of 60 media outlets, civil society groups, and universities in Mexico launched a project called “Verificado 2018” to fact-check stories in the lead-up to the Mexican election. Google, Facebook, and Twitter are part of the effort. Facebook also took out full-page ads titled “Tips to Detect Fake News” in major Mexican newspapers last month. But the company’s efforts to promote reliable news outlets may be undermined by less trustworthy pages’ ability to stay within Facebook guidelines and purchase ads to spread propaganda.

Twitter bots and trolls have often been seen as the main tool for manipulating Mexican voters through social media. Andrés Sepúlveda, a Colombian hacker, told Bloomberg Businessweek in 2016 that he received $600,000 to promote current Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and intercept his opponents’ communications in the 2012 election. As part of that effort, he said, he had a network of 30,000 Twitter bots at his disposal.

A Twitter spokesperson told Mother Jones that the company was working to educate voters and parties “on best practices to inform, consume, and debate electoral information on Twitter.” The spokesperson added that Twitter is “thinking of working with” INE to recommend lists of accounts to follow, publish data on what users are discussing, and create election-related emoji.

Sergio José Gutiérrez, a leading digital strategist for Mexican politicians, recently told the Spanish newspaper El País that there’s been a shift away from Twitter in 2018. “Parties have discovered more effective tactics,” he said, “such as generating fake news and publicity articles on supposed news sites that they sell to the highest bidder.” El Mexicano Digital and its likely affiliates appear to be part of that shift.

Esteban Illades, a Mexican writer who recently published a book on fake news, is skeptical about how much these misinformation campaigns will influence Mexican voters, who already have strong opinions about López Obrador. More significant may be the precedent they set for would-be propagandists in other political campaigns, like the US midterms, who will see that Facebook is doing nothing to stop these efforts.

Vaidhyanathan says Facebook’s struggles to promote high-quality news are likely to continue. “As long as Facebook is this big and Facebook behaves like Facebook, we’re kind of in for dark times,” he says, adding, “There’s nothing Facebook can do about it, frankly—unless it wants to completely alter what it is and what it does.”

This story has been updated to include a response from the Consejo de la Comunicación and to note that the content of Méxic-on was deleted after this article was published.