Coming soon!

In the meantime, you can find us on Twitter, Tumblr, Facebook, and Google+.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

President Donald Trump’s Twitter tirade against former FBI Director James Comey continued apace Monday morning. Trump accused Comey, who has just begun a major promotional tour for his new book, A Higher Loyalty, of lying to Congress about his handling of the FBI’s probe into Hillary Clinton’s email server. In the same 8:25 a.m. tweet, Trump also said that Comey, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, and “the others” had “committed many crimes.” (Who he meant by “the others” was unclear.)

Comey drafted the Crooked Hillary exoneration long before he talked to her (lied in Congress to Senator G), then based his decisions on her poll numbers. Disgruntled, he, McCabe, and the others, committed many crimes! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2018

This was just the latest in a stream of ill-tempered tweets from the president targeting Comey. On Sunday, he branded Comey a “slimeball,” “not smart,” the “WORST” FBI chief in history, and a “self serving” liar. He also threatened Comey with jail time.

In his new book, Comey is equally critical, though far more coherent, on the subject of Trump. “This president is unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values,” he writes. “His leadership is transactional, ego driven, and about personal loyalty.” Comey compares his interactions with Trump to his days prosecuting organized crime leaders: “As I found myself thrust into the Trump orbit, I once again was having flashbacks to my earlier career as a prosecutor against the Mob. The silent circle of assent. The boss in complete control. The loyalty oaths. The us-versus-them worldview. The lying about all things.”

Trump’s mention on Monday of “Crooked Hillary”—his long-preferred sobriquet for Hillary Clinton—is no doubt a reference to the debate swirling around Comey’s depiction in his book of how he handled the investigation into Clinton’s email server. Trump’s Monday morning tweet suggests that Comey was in cahoots with Clinton and wanted to absolve her of any wrongdoing before the FBI’s investigation was concluded.

Comey, in his own telling, says he likely treated Clinton more harshly because the polls showed that she was likely to win the presidential election. Asked by ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos about his decision to announce that the FBI had restarted its investigation into Clinton’s email server days before the election, Comey said: “I was operating in a world where Hillary Clinton was going to beat Donald Trump. I’m sure that it was a factor. I don’t remember spelling it out, but it had to have been. That she’s going to be elected president, and if I hide this from the American people, she’ll be illegitimate the moment she’s elected, the moment this comes out.”Here is the transcript of James Comey’s Sunday night interview with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos. It gets pretty deep in Comey-Trump fan-fic territory.

JAMES COMEY: I stood in the entrance to the green room, which is next to the blue room, and chatted with two Navy stewards who were there.

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: This is the residence?

JAMES COMEY: Yeah, in the residence. And looked around the room and quickly saw that all the furniture had been moved in the– in the center of the room. There was a small oval table and there were only two chairs and I could see two place cards. And I could see from where I was standing, one said, “Director Comey.” I assume the other was the president. And so that’s when I knew that it wasn’t a group dinner to get to know the leaders of our different agencies, that it was just the two of us.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Four years ago, the city of Flint changed its water source from Lake Huron to the Flint River. Almost immediately, foul-smelling, discolored water began coming out of city taps. For almost two years, the mostly low-income and black residents were left to cook, drink, and bathe in water that was contaminated with lead. The crisis led to criminal charges leveled at more than a dozen state and city officials, thousands of children with dangerous levels of lead in their bloodstreams, and the collapse of confidence between residents and their government.

Now, at the fourth anniversary of the water crisis, state and city officials say the crisis has ended and Flint’s water is safe to drink. But residents aren’t buying it.

“Flint residents have had a long journey that started with betrayal by all levels of government,” Marc Edwards, a scientist and Virginia Tech professor who was among the first to confirm Flint’s residents’ fear about their water. “It’s understandable that they’re not going to trust anyone.”

During the crisis, one resident’s water had 397 parts per billion of lead. There is no safe level of lead for children, but the federal limit of lead in water is 15 parts per billion. As part of a $450 million federal and state aid package, Flint residents were able to receive free bottles of water for cooking, drinking, and bathing at various water distribution centers. By the end of 2016, more than two years after the crisis began, lead levels in the city had finally fallen to 12 ppb. “There are several hundred million dollars used in Flint to improve the water system, and we’re starting to see those benefits,” Edwards says. “It’s better than many of its peer cities, but the trust issue is real.”

So, earlier this month, Republican Gov. Rick Snyder announced that the bottled water program would be ending once the distribution centers ran out. “We have worked diligently to restore the water quality,” he said, “and the scientific data now proves the water system is stable and the need for bottled water has ended.”

But for residents, that reassurance meant nothing. Ariana Hawk, a Flint resident whose children developed rashes after bathing in the water, told WJRT, an ABC affiliate, shortly after Snyder’s announcement, “I don’t trust the filter, I don’t trust the water. Everything that me and my kids do from cooking to boiling their water for a bath, we’re using bottled water, I do not trust anything.”

Her lack of trust has deep roots. The crisis began because the water from the Flint River wasn’t treated properly, so it leached lead off old lead pipes fitted in homes across the city. After nearly two years of complaints from people living in the city and denials from state and city officials, an emergency was declared and Michigan attorney general Bill Schuette opened an investigation into the crisis. By the time the water was switched back to Lake Huron in 2015, thousands of children’s blood registered high levels of lead and at least 12 people were dead from a Legionnaires’ disease outbreak related to the water switch. Schuette has charged more than a dozen officials with crimes, including Nick Lyon, the head of the state’s Department of Health and Human Services, accused of involuntary manslaughter for the death of an elderly man in 2015.

“The data we’ve collected is now not in disagreement with the state showing that Flint is in the range of federal standards. But that doesn’t mean its safe.”

Edwards notes that worried residents may have a point. “The data we’ve collected is now not in disagreement with the state showing that Flint is in the range of federal standards,” Edwards explains, “But that doesn’t mean its safe.” While lead service lines, the pipe that connects homes to municipal water sources, are a big source of contamination, Edwards explains that there are others that are inside the home and not owned by the government, including the glue that’s used to hold pipes together and galvanized steel pipes, which can contain lead in the coating. “It’s a risk in any old city with lead pipes,” he says.

Through the Flint Action and Sustainability Team Start program, an initiative funded by the state and federal government, officials are aiming to replace the 18,000 lead service lines across the city. As of December 2017, more than 6,000 pipes have been replaced.

Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha thinks the city should end the bottled-water service only when lead service lines can be replaced—which isn’t expected to happen until 2020.

This is wrong. Until all lead pipes are replaced, state should make available bottled water and filters to Flint residents.#FlintWaterCrisis https://t.co/z1gNVaDGXS — Mona Hanna-Attisha (@MonaHannaA) April 6, 2018

The Flint water crisis is playing a prominent role in the race for the governor’s mansion. Schuette, who is overseeing the charges related to the Flint disaster, has tried to distance himself from Gov. Snyder and his lieutenant governor, Brian Calley, who is the other top Republican in the race. As I previously reported, some see Schuette’s charges as an attempt to jockey for position in a close race:

The investigation has led to an increasingly tense relationship with Snyder. A particular point of contention has been Schuette’s prosecution of Lyon, a Snyder appointee who is the highest-ranking official to be charged in relation to the water crisis. Calley has accused Schuette of using the high-profile charges to exploit the Flint tragedy. “I don’t see how there can be any shadow of doubt that the process that [Schuette] has carried out has been highly politicized,” Calley said in November, according to the Detroit Free Press. That’s a concern that has been echoed by some Flint residents, as well. “It’s political grandstanding,” says Nayyirah Shariff, a longtime activist with the Flint Democracy Defense League. She argues that the attorney general didn’t act until national media attention forced him to get involved.

Flint now has one of the best researched water systems in the country. But overcoming the well-deserved trust issue may be nearly impossible. Debra Coleman, a Flint resident, told WNEM, a CBS affiliate, “Point blank. I don’t trust the water. It could be five years from now, and I’ll still never drink this water.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

EPA chief Scott Pruitt’s ethics problems keep piling up. In a legal opinion released Monday, the Government Accountability Office concluded that Pruitt’s decision to spend $43,238 on a soundproof privacy booth for phone calls in his office violated federal law. The booth’s cost far exceeded the $5,000 legal limit for how much a presidential appointee can spend “to furnish, redecorate, purchase furniture for, or make improvements” to his or her office. Pruitt’s office did not notify Congress about the excessive spending, the GAO contends, in violation of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act.

The GAO—which is the federal government’s independent watchdog—also found that the EPA allocated the funds in a way that violated a second federal law, the Antideficiency Act.

Pruitt had the booth built, according to the GAO, at the request of his security team so that he had a place to make and take “classified” phone calls and other calls to “discuss sensitive information.” Previous EPA chiefs did not use a secured phone booth in their office to run the agency.

Pruitt’s EPA has argued that the booth should not be considered an office redecoration or renovation and thus should not be subject to the $5,000 limit. The GAO’s report rejects that contention. The author of the opinion, GAO General Counsel Thomas Armstrong, does not say whether the $43,000 booth was the best way to provide a secure phone line for Pruitt. “EPA’s failure to make the necessary notification is the only subject of this opinion,” he writes. The GAO does not have enforcement power, which means Congress or another federal agency must take action if there are to be any legal consequences for the EPA’s violations.

Pruitt has faced growing criticism and angry questioning from Democratic and Republican lawmakers over his spending habits. Last week, a group of House and Senate Democrats published a detailed list of allegations suggesting mismanagement and lavish spending by Pruitt and his office. According to Kevin Chmielewski, a senior EPA official who served as Pruitt’s deputy chief of staff until he was put on unpaid administrative leave earlier this year, Pruitt apparently used his director of scheduling as his personal real estate agent, considered spending $100,000 a month on a private jet rental service, and told his staff to “find me something to do” in particular cities and countries that he wanted to visit for reasons apparently unrelated to his work at EPA.

Republicans also criticized Pruitt after the latest round of ethical violations. On Sunday, Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) ripped into Pruitt for citing security concerns as a reason he needed to fly first class. “I’d be shocked if that many people knew who Scott Pruitt was,” Gowdy said on Fox News Sunday. “The notion that I’ve got to fly first class because I don’t want people to be mean to me—you need to go into another line of work if you don’t want people to be mean to you. Like maybe a monk.”

.@TGowdySC on reports of Scott Pruitt's spending: "The notion that I’ve got to fly first class because I don’t want people to be mean to me, you need to go into another line of work if you don’t want people to be mean to you. Like maybe a Monk," pic.twitter.com/txcMxHEvtH — FoxNewsSunday (@FoxNewsSunday) April 15, 2018

Read the eight-page GAO opinion:Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Election officials and Democrats in Wisconsin have repeatedly argued that the state’s strict voter ID law allowed Donald Trump to win the state in 2016 by keeping thousands of voters—predominantly in Democratic-leaning areas—from the polls. Now a top Republican official in the state is saying the same thing.

“We battled to get voter ID on the ballot for the November ’16 election,” Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel, who defended the law in court, told conservative radio host Vicki McKenna on April 12. “How many of your listeners really honestly are sure that Sen. [Ron] Johnson was going to win reelection or President Trump was going to win Wisconsin if we didn’t have voter ID to keep Wisconsin’s elections clean and honest and have integrity?”

The law, which went into effect in 2016, required specific forms of government-issued photo identification to vote. In a cover story last year, Mother Jones reported that the law kept tens of thousands of eligible voters from the polls and likely tipped the state to Trump. A federal court found in 2014 that 9 percent of registered voters in Wisconsin did not possess the identification necessary to vote. In a University of Wisconsin study published in September 2017, 1 in 10 registered voters in Milwaukee County and Madison’s Dane County who did not cast a ballot in 2016 cited the voter ID law as a reason why. That meant that up to 23,000 voters in the two heavily Democratic counties—and as many as 45,000 voters statewide—didn’t vote because of the voter ID law. Trump won the state by 22,000 votes.

African Americans, who favored Hillary Clinton over Trump by an 88-to-8 margin, were three times as likely as whites to say they were deterred from voting by the law.

Indeed, turnout fell most sharply in black neighborhoods of Milwaukee that heavily supported Clinton. Nearly 41,000 fewer people in the city—where Clinton received 77 percent of the vote to Trump’s 18—voted in 2016 than in 2012.

Neil Albrecht, the executive director of the Milwaukee Election Commission, told me the voter ID law made the difference in the state. “It is very probable that between the photo ID law and the changes to voter registration, enough people were prevented from voting to have changed the outcome of the presidential election in Wisconsin,” he said.

Schimel is not the first top Republican official in Wisconsin to admit that the voter ID law affected the outcome of the election. In April 2016, Rep. Glenn Grothman, representing the eastern part of the state, was asked by a local TV news reporter why he was confident that a Republican presidential candidate would win Wisconsin in November. He responded, “I think Hillary Clinton is about the weakest candidate the Democrats have ever put up, and now we have photo ID, and I think photo ID is going to make a little bit of a difference as well.”

Though Schimel said the law would “keep Wisconsin’s elections clean and honest,” the state didn’t present a single case of voter impersonation in court that the law would have stopped. The law remains in effect for the 2018 elections and could once again boost Republicans running for reelection, including Schimel and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker.Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to our free newsletters.

From the time they first flirted at a party, Anne and Ludvin Franco were inseparable. It did not matter that Anne, a waitress, was Pennsylvania Dutch going back generations, while Ludvin, a cook, had grown up in the scrublands of eastern Guatemala.

It also did not matter to Anne or her open-armed family that Lulu, as they called him, was undocumented. At their wedding in 2013, the Americans and the Guatemalans danced the night away with Latin DJs imported from Queens.

On lawyers’ advice, the Francos waited to start legalizing his status through their marriage until late 2016, after he had lived a productive, crime-free decade in the United States. They never anticipated that President Trump’s promised immigration crackdown would be so swift, and so ruthless in their region.

“Oh, God,” Franco thought. “I’m done.”

By last spring, when Pennsylvania roads were starting to feel like a dragnet for immigrants without papers, Ludvin Franco had mostly stopped getting behind the wheel of a car. Often he relied on his wife to drive him, their twin toddlers buckled into the backseat. But the night his soccer team faced a rival in the semifinals of an indoor league, his wife was in the queasy first trimester of a second pregnancy. He headed out alone.

As Franco drove north on Route 309, a Hyundai pulled out of Bubba’s Pot Belly Stove Restaurant and crossed into his lane. He swerved to avoid hitting it, he later said, but failed. Nobody was injured. Franco got a couple of tickets.

A few weeks later, as Franco was leaving for work at dawn, lights flashed. Men in police vests approached: federal agents from the ICE section that normally pursues violent criminals. They knew about the crash.

“Oh, God,” Franco thought. “I’m done.”

By October, when his wife gave birth to their baby girl at an Allentown hospital, Franco had already been deported. He was 3,200 miles away, forced to watch the delivery on the tiny screen of his cellphone from his mother’s sweltering house in Zacapa, Guatemala.

Since Trump took office, deportation officers have been unshackled, as the White House describes it, from an Obama-era mandate to focus limited enforcement resources on deporting immigrants with serious criminal convictions. Across the country, they have been rounding up people like Franco who have sunk roots in this country, living for years, if not decades, with little fear of apprehension.

Nowhere, however, have federal agents more aggressively embraced their newfound freedom than in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Delaware, an investigation by ProPublica and the Philadelphia Inquirer found.

In 2017, the Philadelphia office of ICE, with agents fanning out into communities across its three-state region, arrested more undocumented immigrants without criminal convictions than any of the 23 other ICE offices in the country. This is especially striking given that Pennsylvania’s undocumented population ranks 16th in the country, with West Virginia’s and Delaware’s far behind that.

The reception has been decidedly mixed. In Pennsylvania, as across the country, many officials see undocumented immigrants as lawbreakers who burden the American economy, and they heartily applaud the way in which deportation officers here have worked hard to turn Trump’s campaign pledge of mass deportations into a reality.

With 11 million undocumented immigrants nationwide, the government has to choose whom to pursue.

“Obviously those numbers reflect that ICE in Pennsylvania is doing their job; they’re doing the work they’re supposed to do,” said U.S. Rep. Lou Barletta, a Republican known for a hard line against illegal immigration. “People here in Pennsylvania realize illegal immigration is a problem and it’s not only a threat to our national security, but it’s also a threat to families’ jobs.”

At the same time, with 11 million undocumented immigrants nationwide, the government has to choose whom to pursue. And as deportation officers increasingly venture outside jails and prisons—where the majority of their arrests still occur—they are making choices that can seem random, unfair, or sometimes unlawful, not only to immigrants but also to some officials inside the immigration system.

Many of the immigrants arrested in this region last year were simply hapless: They lived in buildings or worked in restaurants or traveled on rural roads that ICE was staking out. They were mushroom pickers in vans that got pulled over without cause; dishwashers in pizzerias that got raided without warrants; Latino men who loosely resembled other Latino men who were ostensibly ICE’s intended targets.

“At-large” arrests like theirs are the ones that terrify the immigrant community, break up families, disrupt workplaces, and drive people further into the shadows. And it is in carrying out these kinds of arrests that Philadelphia ICE appears to be an outlier, or perhaps, the statistics suggest, a harbinger.

For this series, reporters obtained and analyzed unpublished data showing monthly at-large arrests in each of ICE’s 24 regional offices in 2017. The analysis showed a large majority—64 percent—of the immigrants arrested in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Delaware had no criminal convictions. That compares with a minority—38 percent—in the country as a whole, though the national percentage trended upward over the course of last year.

To understand these arrests and their effects, reporters set out to track down as many regional cases as possible in a system that is notoriously opaque. There are no public records akin to police blotters in criminal cases. The names of ICE arrestees, and the circumstances of their arrests, are not released. Court records, too, are confidential, purportedly to protect immigrants’ privacy, though the policy protects the immigration system from scrutiny, too.

Reporters ended up examining more than 175 immigration arrests, which occurred during three large, multiday enforcement operations last winter, spring, and fall as well as during routine, daily apprehensions.

Reporters found that ICE officers under the jurisdiction of the Philadelphia regional office: Together, these cases paint the picture of an ICE region emboldened by a new commander-in-chief to disregard previous norms that distinguished among undocumented immigrants based on their family ties, work records, and conduct in this country. They reflect an organization that valued high arrest numbers and sometimes skirted the law, with little accountability in a system that rarely scrutinizes arrests.

Routinely swept up immigrants they encountered by chance when they set out to arrest somebody else, with what they called “collateral” arrests becoming the mainstay of their crackdown.

Informally expanded their definition of “criminal alien” to include immigrants who got traffic tickets or committed minor infractions like loitering.

Revived cases that they previously disregarded, using addresses in their database to pick up immigrants they had once deemed harmless, sometimes sending carloads of armed officers to arrest them.

Took advantage of state and local officials’ willingness to conduct their own informal immigration investigations, call ICE and detain immigrants for hours until federal agents arrived—despite the questionable legality of these practices.

Occasionally stepped over the legal line themselves, according to interviews, sworn affidavits, and court filings, by trespassing, conducting warrantless searches, engaging in racial profiling, fabricating evidence, and even soliciting a bribe.

In a statement, agency officials said: “ICE and its employees have been given the honor of a special public trust. In keeping with this trust, ICE’s enforcement activities are conducted with integrity and professionalism.’’ They added: “ICE conducts targeted immigration enforcement in compliance with federal law and agency policy.”

All told, the crackdown bombarded a system already overwhelmed. There were 11,643 cases pending in Pennsylvania’s immigration courts on March 1—a 62 percent increase over the end of fiscal 2016.

Immigration judges staggered under their growing caseloads. After his retirement in December, Walter A. Durling, a veteran immigration judge in York who took a relatively hard line on the bench, questioned the wisdom—and cost-effectiveness—of an approach that no longer puts “more serious aliens” first.

“Why take into custody an individual who has been here for 15 to 20 years, has U.S. children, and one arrest for harassment, public intoxication or some such piddling infraction?” he asked. “Or aliens with no arrest record but who were arrested by ICE looking for someone else?”

In 2016, the government would have considered it a waste of limited resources to track down, arrest, detain, and deport a taxpaying family man like Ludvin Franco just because a traffic accident brought him to its attention.

The Springfield Township Police Department in Bucks County, where Franco’s accident occurred, did not report him to ICE, Chief Michael A. McDonald said. Rather, it was ICE that called Springfield, seeking to confirm that citations had been issued to Franco for careless driving and driving without a license.

Deportation officers also took the additional step of interviewing the driver and passenger of the other car.

That interview provided a dollop of innuendo to the deportation officers’ arrest report. As if to bolster their case that Franco warranted removal, the officers wrote that the driver’s wife suffered a stroke approximately two weeks after the accident.

“It was unknown if this traffic accident caused his wife’s stroke,” the report said.

But Lisa Knedler, the driver’s wife, told reporters that her doctor did not think her seizure, as she called it, was in any way related to the crash, in which she was a passenger.

She added that she was nonetheless glad Franco had been deported.

“Let’s hope he doesn’t come back,” she said.

Came Out Swinging

Shortly after his inauguration, President Trump issued an executive order called “Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States,” which greatly expanded the population of undocumented immigrants who could be deported.

While immigrants with serious criminal convictions would still “come first,” any unauthorized immigrant would become fair game, Thomas Homan, acting director of ICE, told Congress: “If you’re in this country illegally and you committed a crime by entering this country,” he said, “you should look over your shoulder.”

Still, in their first big enforcement operations under the new rules, ICE offices in Los Angeles and New York effectively operated under the old rules. L.A. arrested 161 immigrants over five days, 94 percent of whom had criminal convictions, and New York arrested 41 over three days, 93 percent with convictions.

Philadelphia’s ICE office, in contrast, came out of the gates swinging. In an “ops plan” submitted to Washington, it proposed a 12-day arrest blitz named Operation Cross Check that would take aim at 255 targets, 70 percent of them “criminal aliens,” according to agency e-mails obtained through the Freedom of Information Act.

By the 12th day, agents had located only 92 of their intended targets but made up almost all the difference by arresting other immigrants they encountered along the way. In the end, they rounded up 248 people; only 35 percent had a conviction record.

“Immigration violators without criminal convictions include aliens who have been charged but not convicted with crimes, immigration fugitives, and repeat border crossers,” ICE noted in a statement.

And a pattern was established. By year’s end, Philadelphia ICE would arrest three times as many “noncriminal immigration violators,” in the agency’s term, as either Los Angeles or New York.

In a statement, ICE noted that “immigration violators without criminal convictions include aliens who have been charged but not convicted with crimes, immigration fugitives, and repeat border crossers.”

Each ICE field office has its own culture, and sometimes its own policies and procedures. Each office, too, has a different regional context, some working in urban centers under the watchful eye of established immigrant communities, others in more rural or suburban areas newly grappling with the immigration issue.

Philadelphia ICE’s region runs the gamut. It faces resistance in Pittsburgh and especially in Philadelphia, where most of the region’s undocumented immigrants live. But it has found allies in its rural and Rust Belt zones, where anti-immigrant sentiment runs hotter and where some local economies benefit from federal immigration detention contracts. (ICE paid York County $19.65 million in fiscal 2017 to house immigrant detainees in its prison.)

Getting direct insight into the Philadelphia ICE office itself has been difficult. The agency denied reporters’ requests to interview those who have run the office during the Trump administration. The National ICE Council, which represents 7,600 agency employees, declined to talk. Individual deportation officers, reached on their personal phones, declined too.

As best as could be determined, behind the office’s aggressive immigration enforcement lies some synergy of national, state, local, and ICE office politics. But the critical context is clearly an antagonistic relationship between ICE and the city of Philadelphia that predates the Trump administration.

Like other major cities, Philadelphia does not let ICE agents into its jails and declines to provide ICE advance notice of a suspect’s or inmate’s release without a judicial warrant.

“Some jurisdictions shut the door in our face: San Francisco was one, Philly was another,” said Sarah Saldaña, ICE’s national director for Obama’s two final years.

This posture made it harder for Philadelphia’s Enforcement and Removal Operations, or ERO, to produce high arrest numbers when the emphasis was on criminals. And high arrest numbers are the yardstick of ICE’s success, given that Congress judges the agency by how many detention beds it fills, Saldaña said.

Catherine Schack, who retired last year as an ICE lawyer in Philadelphia, said she instantly perceived a tougher mind-set there when she transferred from the Los Angeles office during the Obama era.

“The first thing I noticed was, ‘Holy mackerel, this town is supposed to be the City of Brotherly Love? Good grief,’” she said. “What I always saw in Philly was distinctly, ‘We need to bump up numbers.’ But after Trump took over, it was like somebody gave them an injection of testosterone. It was ERO on steroids.”

In the last year, Attorney General Jeff Sessions has singled out Philadelphia for special denunciation as a so-called sanctuary city, and Philadelphia has sued Sessions over his attempt to withhold federal grant money in retribution.

In response to questions about the Philadelphia ICE office’s high volume of noncriminal arrests, the agency portrayed the city itself as partly responsible.

“When cities do not honor ICE detainers, ICE officers are required to arrest aliens at large and may be more likely to encounter other removable aliens,” said Jennifer D. Elzea, a spokeswoman for the agency.

Still, noncriminal arrests did not soar equivalently in other sanctuary cities last year. A third of the arrests in the San Francisco ICE region, for instance, were immigrants without criminal convictions, compared with 64 percent for Philadelphia.

Also, only 33 of 248 arrests in Philadelphia ICE’s first big operation last year took place in Philadelphia proper, an analysis of internal records shows. Most of the collateral arrests, it appears, did not in fact result from searches for criminal immigrants whom the City of Philadelphia declined to hand over.

Defenseless

On a cold, dark morning early last year, Guillermo Peralta huddled in the entryway of a small, aluminum-sided apartment house on a modest residential street in York Springs. He was waiting for a ride to his job, packing eggs on a farm.

Peralta is short and stout, with a shy, ready smile for whomever crosses his path.

That morning, it was two federal agents named Joe Vankos and Chad Noel. They were on a mission to capture a 29-year-old convicted cocaine dealer from Mexico.

Instead, they stumbled across and arrested Peralta. Though regional ICE agents had picked up bystanders in the past, they were not supposed to. But in a new era where every undocumented immigrant is a potential target, Peralta was one of the first “collaterals” to be taken into custody. And one of the most defenseless.

It should have been immediately apparent that Peralta, who has difficulty speaking, had serious cognitive disabilities. A neuropsychologist who later examined him wrote in an assessment for the court that Peralta cannot read, write, or identify colors and that he is not competent to give informed consent “or to understand any but the simplest instructions, requests or commands.”

Yet ICE maintained in its arrest report that Peralta not only willfully engaged with Vankos but confessed his undocumented status, stated he was 46, and claimed he had a child in Florida.

“I don’t think he knows what deportation is, what it is to be a national or a citizen of a place. So how was he answering the ICE officers’ questions?”

Peralta, however, is childless and does not know his age, his pro bono lawyer, Craig Shagin, said. He was abandoned as a youth in rural Pennsylvania and has for decades made ends meet as an apple picker, pumpkin harvester, and construction worker in the Gettysburg area.

“I don’t think he knows what deportation is, what it is to be a national or a citizen of a place,” said Shagin. “So how was he answering the ICE officers’ questions? Either they made it up or maybe he was just saying, ‘Sí,’ to everything they asked. It’s easy to do when somebody has a gun and handcuffs in front of you.”

While Shagin is trying to get Peralta’s arrest thrown out, ICE is rarely willing to let anybody go without a fight. Prosecutorial discretion, encouraged during the Obama years partly as a way to show leniency where merited, has been all but eliminated.

In Peralta’s case, ICE lawyers argued that “even diminished intelligence does not necessarily mean that the respondent is incompetent.” Still, the government doesn’t seem in a terrible hurry to deport him; the next hearing in his case is not until January 2020.

After two months behind bars, Peralta was granted bail and returned to his home: a narrow room in a basement apartment, outfitted with a twin bed and a makeshift shrine to the Virgin of Guadalupe. Visited there by a reporter, he was welcoming but unable to respond to even rudimentary questions.

Asked his birth date, he said, “One, two.” Asked his address, he answered in halting Spanish, “I just live here.”

Rural Impact

On another morning last winter, also in the darkness before dawn, a van made its way through Reading, stopping every few blocks to pick up the Latino immigrants heading to work at a mushroom farm in Southeastern Pennsylvania.

After the last of 14 workers had boarded, the red and blue lights of a patrol car flashed behind them. A man wearing a police vest asked the driver for his license and registration, as if he were a local law enforcement officer. But he was with ICE.

ICE says in its press releases that it does not do indiscriminate sweeps and that reports of such sweeps are “false, dangerous and irresponsible.” While “additional suspects” are frequently encountered and arrested, its enforcement operations are targeted, it says.

But several times last year, federal immigration agents pulled over full vanloads of Hispanic workers in rural Pennsylvania without justification, immigrant advocates say.

“Nobody in that van was a target,” said Bridget Cambria, the driver’s lawyer. “It was not a proper stop.”

The driver and six passengers were arrested. Within minutes an ICE van arrived to cart them away.

Pennsylvania is the top mushroom producer in the country, and the industry is dependent on Mexican and Central American laborers. Pickers work long, hard days on farms that stink of steaming compost. Despite Trump’s assertions that such immigrants are stealing jobs, few Americans are willing to do that kind of labor, farm owners say.

“That argument doesn’t hold any water in agriculture,” said Mark O’Neill, spokesman for the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau.

The raid on the van, like subsequent arrests in mushroom country, frightened the mushroom pickers, their supervisor said in an interview. Two dozen quit, and they were hard to replace, forcing others to work even longer shifts.

There and at neighboring farms, workers were offered referral bonuses for new hires. Posters said, “Any employee referring a new employee will receive a $150 bonus AFTER the new employee completes their 90-day probationary period.”

In April, ICE moved on to another industry in rural Pennsylvania. Sweeping past “No Trespassing” signs, five officers stormed a poultry transport company and blocked the exits with their vehicles. They said they were searching for a man named Alix who worked at a company called MainJoy Unlimited. The agents were told: This is not MainJoy, and nobody named Alix works here.

Under duress, the chicken catchers admitted they were undocumented. And off they went to jail.

So the officers turned their attention to those who did work there, according to interviews with the workers and a company spokesperson. They lined up all the Latino employees—seven chicken catchers—with their faces against a wall. They made no move against some 14 non-Latinos standing nearby; instead they asked the coworkers to lead officers to any other Hispanic employees on the premises. (There were none.)

Under duress, the chicken catchers admitted they were undocumented. And off they went to jail.

Afterward, Luke Brubaker, a prominent dairy farmer from their region, mentioned the poultry transport raid in a meeting between Trump and agriculture-industry representatives. The president maintained that his immigration crackdown was not aimed at their farms, but Brubaker said he told the president that ICE had nonetheless been arresting essential workers in Pennsylvania agriculture.

While the poultry workers were detained, their company hired legal workers in their stead. But chicken catching is grueling, filthy work inside vast, sweltering coops where dust, feathers, and the stench of feces clog the air.

The new workers didn’t last more than an hour.

Held Without Warrants

Given what ICE’s Philadelphia field office saw as the City of Philadelphia’s recalcitrance, it looked elsewhere for assistance.

Early last year, it reached out to local law enforcement leaders in a concerted effort to make them “force multipliers,” emails obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union in Pennsylvania show. No departments signed formal agreements with ICE, but they understood that a new day had dawned.

“Some of the state troopers had incidents in which they were quite shocked when they called ICE and they got an immediate response,” said Thomas L. Day Jr., the police chief in Mount Holly Springs, Cumberland County.

In their eagerness to collaborate, some state troopers and local police officers took it upon themselves to question drivers and passengers about their immigration status during traffic stops, to make “courtesy calls” to ICE after car accidents, and to detain immigrants without warrants until ICE arrived for the handoff, which sometimes took hours.

Traffic cops were not the only locals willing to give ICE an assist. Early last year, a magisterial district judge in Camp Hill preempted the wedding of a Tajik couple by calling ICE on the groom and his best man, who were led away in handcuffs.

The judge, Elizabeth Beckley, also called ICE after Alexander Curtis Parker and Krisha Amber Schmick showed up at her courthouse last May.

Sweethearts since high school, they had always dreamed of a glamorous wedding venue, but, impatient to tie the knot, they settled on District Court 09-1-02, a squat, uninspired structure with mirrored windows, sandwiched between a car wash and a paint store.

When the constable announced he would be detaining Parker for ICE, the couple was stunned. Though born in Guatemala, Parker, 21, had been adopted by American parents when he was 8 months old. At that moment, he was technically undocumented, with his green-card renewal being processed. But he does not speak Spanish or consider himself an immigrant, much less a deportable one.

Philadelphia ICE was in the midst of its second big enforcement operation of 2017, and federal agents rushed to the courthouse with their biometric identification device. At about the time Parker had hoped to be slipping a ring onto his wife’s finger, he was reluctantly putting his own hand into a fingerprint machine.

But in this case, as rarely happened last year, ICE backed off. The judge, who did not respond to calls, emails, or visits to her courthouse, apologized and offered to proceed with the nuptials. Having already paid the $45 fee, Parker and Schmick uncomfortably allowed the judge to marry them, and celebrated afterward at a LongHorn Steakhouse.

A few months later, expecting a child, the Parkers decided to put the whole unsettling experience behind them. They left Pennsylvania and moved to Kissimmee, Fla., where Parker said he feels “safer from people like the judge that would try to do anything to have me deported.”

Rounding Up Traffic Violators

In press releases about its enforcement operations, ICE highlights—without naming—those with the worst criminal records, portraying its crackdowns as public safety measures intended to rid the country of the “bad hombres” Trump excoriated in his campaign speeches. Operation Cross Check, for instance, yielded “a 34-year-old male citizen of Guatemala with criminal convictions for sexual abuse of a minor.”

But most immigration arrestees with criminal records did not commit crimes against children or crimes of violence; the most common single offense in Operation Cross Check was driving under the influence. And in contrast with previous years, ICE rounded up new categories of offenders.

Rather than focusing solely on those convicted of crimes, ICE’s Philadelphia office apprehended immigrants who had been arrested for criminal offenses but had not yet had their day in court.

Regional officers also arrested immigrants with little prospect of deportation because their homelands habitually refuse to accept deportees. Last winter, they picked up Cho Van Le, a 65-year-old Vietnamese refugee who was serving one year of house arrest for helping his nephew run a marijuana grow house in Berks County. Because Le entered the United States before diplomatic relations resumed with Vietnam in 1995, he cannot be repatriated under an agreement between the two countries.

Nonetheless, he has been held for 14 months in immigration custody, longer than his criminal sentence, at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars to taxpayers. And he is not alone. Vietnamese refugees filed a nationwide class-action lawsuit in February claiming that dozens like Le have been picked up over the last year and are being subjected to prolonged and pointless detention.

ICE officers in Pennsylvania also aggressively pursued immigrants for traffic violations, or infractions too minor to qualify as misdemeanors, or offenses both minor and dated.

One Mexican man who lived in York was interviewed by immigration agents during the George W. Bush administration after he was sentenced to a weekend in jail for his third driving-without-a-license offense. They let him go, and left him alone. For a decade.

Early one morning last February, however, four armed agents from ICE’s violent criminal alien section seized the man, now 42, as he left his house. He spent three weeks behind bars, until he scrounged together $10,000 for bail.

“ICE had his address for 10 years and he didn’t even bother to move,” said his lawyer, Stephen Converse. “This is a flight risk?”

As with that man, ICE Philadelphia began making muscular shows of force to take into custody people who’d been checking in regularly with immigration authorities for years.

Knowing their days in the U.S. were numbered, she tried to arrange for a departure on her own terms.

Almost from the day that Adriz Iboy de Chiché, 23, crossed the border into Texas in 2015, with her baby, Sheynnon, in a sling on her back, ICE knew precisely where to find her: at a Doylestown apartment complex that is home to scores of other undocumented Guatemalan immigrants.

After Trump was elected, Chiché was ordered to wear an electronic monitor, and relinquish her passport and her son’s. Knowing their days in the U.S. were numbered, she tried to arrange for a departure on her own terms.

On July 25, however, as she, her son, and her husband settled into her sister’s car for their biweekly drive to the ICE office in Philadelphia, they were surrounded. One ICE officer removed the keys from the ignition, and the others pushed the Chichés onto the ground to be handcuffed. Inside the car, 2-year-old Sheynnon wailed.

On the Run

Over the course of 2017, across Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Delaware, immigrants seemed to vanish into thin air. Dishes piled up in the kitchens of Mexican restaurants, apples rotted on orchard grounds, stables went un-mucked.

One restaurant owner in Bucks County likened their dizzyingly abrupt disappearance to the sudden, Rapture-like departure of a sliver of the population on the television show “The Leftovers.”

And indeed, the leftovers felt the absences achingly.

For weeks after her husband’s apprehension last spring, Anne Franco would wake up without remembering, reach over to his side of the bed and confront the emptiness anew.

She took the twins, Maximiliano and Javier, to visit their father at the York prison. “Papa, papa!” they shouted through the plastic partition, behind which Franco sat in an orange jumpsuit, trying to hide his shame.

“He just kept telling me, through that phone, ‘I’m sorry,’” his wife said.

ICE refused him bond, calling him a potential menace to public safety because of “your Careless Driving and Driving without a License convictions.”

After her husband’s deportation, Anne Franco, seven months pregnant, took the twins to Guatemala. All three of them found it hard to adjust to the intense heat, the winding drives behind exhaust-belching trucks, and the lack of running water. Returning to Pennsylvania, the boys had diarrhea for a month, and Ludvin Franco felt as if his homeland had made them sick.

Once their daughter, Valentina, was born, Ludvin knew he had to take some kind of action to reunite with his family. And while his wife set about researching third-country options—Canada? Costa Rica?—Ludvin could think of only one solution.

At 4:30 one morning in mid-March, Anne was fast asleep in Quakertown when her phone startled her awake. It was Ludvin, hiding in a tree somewhere in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas. He had decided to take the risk of one more journey north, and it had been rough. He was jailed in Mexico for a week, and later robbed at machete point after his release. Now, having made it across the border, he had the Border Patrol on his tail.

He was cold, and he was hungry, and he was thirsty, he whispered to his wife. And then the call cut off.

For four days, Anne Franco heard nothing further. Calm and even-keeled through much of their ordeal, she finally got scared, imagining him lost in the desert.

But he had been captured. And almost as soon as he surfaced and made contact, he was sent by plane back to Guatemala yet again.

And then, as fate and bureaucracy would have it, Anne got a letter granting the initial interview to get her husband legalized through their marriage. It was 16 months after they first applied, and one president, and car crash, and deportation too late.Former FBI Director James Comey brushed off a question about possible Trump campaign collusion with Russia in his much-anticipated interview with George Stephanopoulos. He argued that the big question here is not about “collusion,” exactly, but whether Americans conspired, aided, or abetted Russian interference efforts.

Here’s the crucial part of the ABC transcript:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: While this is all going on in July of 2016, the FBI also opens an investigation into the Trump campaign. Why?

JAMES COMEY: Well– to be more clear, we opened an investigation into whether there were any Americans associated in any way with the Trump campaign who were working with Russia as part of Russia’s effort to influence our election. And so in late July, the FBI got information that there was somebody who had had– was a foreign policy advisor named Papadopoulos to the Trump campaign.

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: George Papadopoulos.

JAMES COMEY: Right, who had been talking to someone in London about getting dirt that the Russians had on Hillary Clinton as part of their effort to influence our campaign– the– our election. And the reason that was important was that was long before the– there was any public indication that the Russians had material they were going to dump, which they started dumping in mid-June.

JAnd so we opened, our counterintelligence division, in late July, an investigation to try and figure out– we know the Russians are trying to mess with our election. Are any Americans working with them, trying to help them?

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: You also had had your eye on Carter Page, who had also been working with the Trump campaign.

JAMES COMEY: Correct.

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: And what was your concern there?

JAMES COMEY: Similarly, trying to figure out is he in any way coordinating with the Russians, as part of their effort to influence our– our election? We hear the word “collusion” all the time. “Collusion” is not a word that’s familiar to me from my work. The question is, is anybody conspiring or aiding and abetting, helping, the Russians accomplish their goal of interfering in the American election? That’s what the counterintelligence investigation was about.When portions of James Comey’s much-anticipated memoir, A Higher Loyalty, started appearing last week, it was widely reported that the former FBI director compared President Trump to a mob boss. But in his interview with George Stephanopoulos, he went a step further, brutally calling Trump a “forest fire.” While the exchange wasn’t included in ABC’s Sunday broadcast, here’s the transcript:

JAMES COMEY: I worry that the norms at the center of this country– we can fight as Americans about guns or taxes or immigration, and we always have. But what we have in common is a set of norms. Most importantly, the truth. “We hold these truths to be self-evident,” right? Truth is the fourth word of that sentence. That’s what we are. And if we lose that, if we lose tethering of our leaders to that truth, what are we? And so I started to worry. Actually, the foundation of this country is in jeopardy when we stop measuring our leaders against that central value of the truth.

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Are we losing it?

JAMES COMEY: I think we are in part. But I think the strength of this country is that we’re going to outlast it. That there will be damage to that norm. But I liken President Trump in the book to a forest fire. Going to do tremendous damage. Going to damage those important norms. But a forest fire gives healthy things a chance to grow that had no chance before that fire.

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: How do we put it out?

JAMES COMEY: We put it out in two ways. We put it out first by not becoming numb to the fact that the truth is being assailed every day. By not deciding that it’s just too much to pay attention to because that’s the path to losing truth as the central value in this country. So all of us have to constantly be involved and call it out when we see the truth endangered, when we see lying. And then next, we need to get involved. The American people need to stand up in the public square and in the voting booth and say, “Look, we disagree about an awful lot. But we have in common something that matters enormously to this country. And our leaders must reflect those values.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin (R) issued an apology Sunday following outrage over his assertion that a walkout by teachers in the state likely led to children being sexually assaulted and facing other “physical” harms.

“I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them,” Bevin told a WDRB reporter on Friday after thousands of teachers demonstrated at the state capitol, leading to school closures around the state. Bevin’s comment sparked a public backlash and an official condemnation from Kentucky lawmakers.

In a video posted Sunday, Bevin apologized for the “unintended consequences” of his remarks. “For those of you who understood what I’m saying, thank you. But clearly a tremendous number of people did not fully appreciate what it was that I was communicating, and I hurt a lot of people,” he said. “I apologize for those who have been hurt by the things that were said. That was not my intent whatsoever.”

It is my responsibility to represent you, not only when I’m speaking to you but also when I’m speaking on your behalf. It is not my intent to hurt anyone…but to help us all move forward. We need each other. We’re in this together. #WeAreKY https://t.co/2MzQaoJGNk — Governor Matt Bevin (@GovMattBevin) April 15, 2018

Kentucky teachers have sparred with Bevin over his handling of the state’s pension plan and his recent veto of a budget bill that would increase school funding. State lawmakers overrode the veto on Friday. Teachers across the state are reportedly asking other educators to wear black on Monday in protest of the governor’s comments.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Vox features an interview today with constitutional lawyer Stephen Vladeck:

As a matter of US law, was the latest American military strike on Syria legal? Almost certainly not. To be legal, the strike would have to authorized either by some act of Congress or by the president’s own powers under Article II of the Constitution. And neither of those conditions appear to have been met here.

I’ve seen lots of versions of this opinion, but it’s wrong. In dorm-room-bull-session terms there might be something to it, but in practical terms there isn’t. If an action is approved, either implicitly or explicitly, by the executive, the legislative, and the judicial branches, then it’s constitutional. That’s how our legal system works. Full stop.

In this case, the executive obviously approved the action. Congress has had many opportunities to rein in these kinds of strikes, and they haven’t. Ditto for the Supreme Court, which has always given the president wide latitude in matters of military force.

Until this changes, lobbing missiles at anyone we want is constitutional.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Over at Quanta, they have an interview with Donald Richards, a statistician who has pioneered the use of a new and better way of measuring correlations:

Wolchover: How does distance correlation work? Richards: This is where the concept of a Fourier transform comes in….If you give me two probability distributions—the statistical spread of values that a variable takes on—and if I want to test whether the two distributions are the same, all I have to do is calculate their Fourier transforms. If these are equal then I know that the two probability distributions had to be equal, to begin with. The distance correlation coefficient, in layman’s terms, is a measure of how far apart these Fourier transforms are.

Ha ha ha. That’s the “layman’s” explanation. Richards must hang out with some pretty smart laymen. But let’s just pretend we all know what that means and move on. Last year Richards wrote a paper showing how distance correlation is better than bog-ordinary Pearson’s linear correlation. What prompted the paper?

Richards: This was prompted by an opinion piece in The Washington Post in 2015, by Eugene Volokh, a professor of law at UCLA. The title of the article is “Zero Correlation Between State Homicide Rate and State Gun Laws.” What he did was—you know, my eyes bugged out; I couldn’t believe it—he found some data on the states’ Brady scores, which are ratings based on the toughness of their gun laws, and he plotted the Brady scores on an x-y plot against the homicide rates in each of these states. And if you look at the plot, it looks like there’s no pattern. ….I was horrified. There are so many things wrong with this analysis….Should you even fit a linear regression line to this data set? If you look at the rest of the data, you don’t see any linearity to the relationship, and it’s easy to understand why: There are bunches of points that correspond to geographic and culturally similar regions. If you break up the states by region, then you see reasonably linear relationships starting to show up in the scatter plots. And then in each case, you find that the higher the Brady score, the lower the homicide rate.

Bloggers for the win! Though I have to admit I’m not sure whose side I’m on here. If I see a scatterplot that appears completely random to the naked eye, I’m pretty suspicious of efforts to massage the data with sophisticated techniques in order to extract a correlation. So…I’ll take this with a grain of salt. Still, at least Richards is speaking my language:

Wolchover: Do you hope that by developing better tools—like distance correlation—that eventually these methods will seep out into more common use? Richards: Yes, I hope so. And in fact, I have heard that one of the big pharmaceutical companies is now starting to use distance correlation methods. And I know that people in academia are using it more. I hope to live long enough to see distance correlation be a standard pull-down tab in Excel, or if not Excel, certainly on Wolfram Alpha. You enter your x-y data, and boom: It gives you the distance correlation. I live for that day!

Anybody who lives for the day when Excel will include an obscure statistical function is my kind of person. My hopes and dreams for Excel are a little more mundane, like being able to pick any starting point I want for a chart. I guess I’m a cheap date.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Here’s the latest from the supergeniuses in the White House:

President Donald Trump’s senior counselor, Kellyanne Conway, slammed former FBI Director James Comey as a publicity hound who is trying to promote his new book. “The president is very confounded that this person is always able to divert the spotlight to him,” Conway said told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos on the morning after his exclusive interview with Comey. “He has a very deft way of making things about him.” Conway also referred to Comey’s admission that he may have subconsciously expected Hillary Clinton to become the next president when he decided 11 days before the election to announce the reopening of an investigation into her emails. “He thought the wrong person would win,” Conway said.

First, I have no doubt that Trump is very sincerely confounded at Comey’s ability to grab the spotlight. That’s something only Trump himself is supposed to do.

Second, um, what? Conway said, “This guy swung an election. He thought the wrong person would win.” Conway is referring to Comey’s admission that he thought Hillary Clinton would win easily, which is one of the reasons he wasn’t worried about reopening the email investigation ten days before the election. So Conway is saying that Comey swung the election to Trump because he thought the “wrong person”—Hillary Clinton—would win. That’s an admission we’ve never heard from the White House before.

So was this just a case of Kellyanne Conway having too much coffee before the interview? She certainly sounds that way. Or just getting confused about the party line? Or what? She later “explained” that she was “being sarcastic.” Uh huh.

Welcome to Monday.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

The New York Times ran a piece this weekend about the growing burden of paying public pensions. Naturally it features a few examples of outrageously high pensions, but the overall gist is that the cost of pensions is getting so high that it’s crowding out spending on other things. Dean Baker comments:

Workers sign contracts that specify compensation. Most of it is in direct pay, but benefits like pensions are often part of the contract….Taking back pensions for which people worked is like taking back a portion of their pay after the fact. ….As far as the claim that public employees are overpaid, most research shows that they are actually paid less than their private sector counterparts, when controlling for education and experience….While the piece implies that public employees typically get generous pensions, this is not true. The Detroit pension system, which is referenced in the piece, pays an average annual benefit of $20,000 a year, or less than $1,700 a month. Most other public pension systems provide comparable benefits to typical employees as opposed to highly paid doctors and football coaches.

For the most part, public pensions are fairly ordinary. The biggest exception is police and firefighters,¹ who are often allowed to retire after only 20 years; are allowed to spike their pensions; are able to take part in special semi-retirement programs that boost their pensions even more; frequently take disability pensions; and just generally have pensions that pay them a high percentage of their working salaries.

But put that aside. If they can negotiate all that stuff, then bully for them. The real issue, as everyone knows, isn’t so much the size of public pensions as the fact that they’re almost never fully funded. Politicians, who mostly work on timeframes no further out than the next election, are simply more willing to negotiate generous pensions than they are to negotiate higher salaries that might require tax hikes on their watch. It’s like Wall Street’s IBGYBG: “I’ll be gone, you’ll be gone.” And sure enough, now that the pension bills are coming due, all the politicians who passed the buck—literally—are safely out of office.²

The real answer all along has been simple: negotiate any pension you want, but you have to fully fund it with no wild-ass investment return assumptions. Done properly, an extra $1,000 in pension income would cost about the same as a $1,000 salary increase, so politicians would have no special incentive to prefer one over the other.

It’s a little late for that, of course, and although lots of cities and states would love to take back a chunk of worker pensions, they can’t do it. It’s all specified in a contract, after all, and courts will enforce those contracts. One way or the other, paying out old pensions is probably going to require an average increase in state and local taxes of about 5-10 percent or so. Maybe more, depending on where you live. The sooner everyone owns up to this, the better off we’ll all be.

¹Although in Los Angeles the hot ticket is to work for the Metropolitan Water District. Hoo boy. Nobody shoots at them and they don’t have to fight fires. But they get paid a fortune and their pensions are sky high.

²And collecting a pension, of course.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

When he was selling the new tax law last fall, President Donald Trump insisted it “is going to cost me a fortune.” In fact, any way you count it, he and his cronies will undoubtedly save a bundle. The plan reduces income taxes for top earners, slashes the rate for corporations like his, and includes a generous cut for owners of pass-through companies—of which he has about 500.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin claimed “there will be no absolute tax cut for the upper class.” In fact, the top 5 percent of taxpayers get more than 40 percent of the benefits of this year’s income tax cuts. And the law slashes the corporate tax rate by 40 percent—a gift to the top 1 percent, who pay around a third of all corporate taxes.

Like his father-in-law, Jared Kushner is tied up in dozens of real estate pass-throughs. He stands to save at least $4 million annually. About 70 percent of pass-through income goes to the top 1 percent.

The pass-through cut also helps Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr., Education Secretary Betsy DeVos (who could save at least $2 million), and wealthy members of Congress such as tax-bill waffler Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.).

Housing Secretary Ben Carson offered a prayer at a Cabinet meeting thanking God for the tax bill’s passage. The plan undercuts tax credits for building affordable housing—which could mean more than 200,000 fewer units over the next decade.

The tax cuts will add at least $1 trillion to the federal deficit by 2027. Just before Trump signed them into law, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) started talking up the urgent need for “entitlement reform, which is how you tackle the debt and the deficit.”

WHAT A BRACKET

“Tax reform will protect low-income and middle-income households, not the wealthy and well-connected,” Trump said. Yet his tax plan’s $1.2 trillion in income tax cuts are heavily weighted toward the wealthy. And only the corporate tax cuts are permanent. In 2027, 70 percent of middle-income taxpayers will get a tax hike—but just 8 percent of those making more than $5 million will.

Average tax cuts in 2018 by income percentile

WHO’S ON TOP

Since the 1980s, the richest 1 percent of taxpayers has taken an increasingly outsize share of all income, while many Americans’ incomes have stagnated. Yet the lion’s share of the new tax plan’s benefits go to top earners.

Average real income 1980–2015

Share of benefits from income tax cut in 2018

UNHAPPY RETURNS

BONUS ROUND

The tax plan gives more than $1.3 trillion in cuts to corporations, whose tax rate will drop from 35 to 21 percent. “The most excited group out there are big CEOs about our tax plan,” former White House economic adviser Gary Cohn said in November. Yet a recent survey of 150 CEOs found that most didn’t plan on hiring more people in the first half of 2018. While dozens of companies have announced one-time $1,000 bonuses for employees, Walmart, Comcast, and AT&T laid off hundreds even as they publicized their trickle-down generosity.

In total, S&P 500 companies gave out $3.7 billion in one-time bonuses. (In comparison, Wall Street handed out more than $31 billion in bonuses last year.) The bonuses are eclipsed by more than $200 billion in tax-cut-driven corporate share buybacks, which hit their highest level ever in the first quarter of 2018. Buybacks don’t create jobs or boost wages, but they do benefit shareholders—mostly the richest 10 percent of Americans who own more than 80 percent of all stocks.

How much is $1.3 trillion?

GROSSED OUT

Treasury Secretary Mnuchin declared that the tax cuts would pay for themselves by spurring the economy. (His source? A one-page handout.) Trump has predicted that he will supercharge the GDP growth rate—by as much as “even 6 percent.” Among 38 major economists surveyed, only one thought the tax cuts would substantially boost GDP. (“Aside from the redistribution of wealth, hard to see this changing much,” wrote Nobel Prize winner Richard Thaler.) Even Goldman Sachs, Mnuchin’s former employer, predicts GDP growth will increase by 0.3 points as a result.

THE GREAT TRICKLE-UP

Since the recession officially ended in 2009:

SLASH FICTION

The tax law cuts the corporate rate of 35 percent to 21 percent—the lowest top rate since 1939. Yet even before the latest cut, corporations have footed a smaller share of the total tax bill—while their profits have surged.

Corporate taxes as a share of federal revenue

Corporate profits after tax (in billions of 2016 dollars)

TAX CUT WINNERS

Rich (but not too rich) heirs: Don’t have to pay estate taxes on inheritances under $11.2 million.

Alcohol-makers: Get a two-year reduction in excise taxes. (One expert estimates cheaper booze will cause up to 1,550 additional deaths annually.)

Wall streeters: Trump railed against loopholes that help hedge fund managers and high-finance types, but they’re mostly intact.

Private jet owners: Now officially exempt from an excise tax they long flew under. (Mnuchin, DeVos, and two other Cabinet members have private jets.)

TAX CUT LOSERS

Blue states: To fund the tax cuts, the plan caps deductions of state and local taxes, disproportionately affecting taxpayers in high-tax, heavily Democratic states.

People without private insurance: The Congressional Budget Office predicts that killing the Obamacare mandate will cause up to 13 million people to lose health insurance and that marketplace premiums will jump 10 percent.

Puerto Rico: A new tax on manufacturing will hit the island as it’s trying to rebuild.

Polar bears: To win over Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), a last-minute provision opened part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling.

Chart sources

Average tax cuts… (chart): Tax Policy Center (PDF)

Average real income… (chart): Emmanuel Saez (Excel)

Share of benefits… (chart): Tax Policy Center

Unhappy returns (stats): Pew Research Center, CNN, Gallup

How much is $1.3 trillion? (chart): Joint Committee on Taxation (size of tax cut), Congressional Budget Office (Obamacare subsidies), National Center for Education Statistics (college tuition), NASA (Apollo program), Congressional Budget Office (CHIP), Reuters (border wall)

Corporate taxes… (chart): Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers (PDF)

Corporate profits after tax (chart): Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis



Since the recession officially ended… (stats): Emmanuel Saez (Excel), Economic Policy Institute

Art sources

Sad Obama face:

Credit: Jacquelyn Martin/AP

Mnuchin Currency:

Credit: Jacquelyn Martin/AP

Trump- looking-left-3:

Credit: Cheriss May/NurPhoto/ZUMA

Trump-looking-left-4

Credit: Cheriss May/NurPhoto/ZUMA

Trump- looking-right-2

Credit: Cheriss May/NurPhoto/ZUMA

Trump- looking-right-3

Credit: Cheriss May/NurPhoto/ZUMA

Trump- looking-right-4

Credit: Cheriss May/NurPhoto/ZUMA

(The other three Trump faces):

Credit: Shutterstock

Winners-Girl on horse:

Credit: alacatr/Getty

Winners-Liquor bottles:

Credit: traveler1116/Getty

Winners-Jet:

Credit: yoh4nn/Getty

Losers-Polar Bear:

Credit: UrmasPhotoCom/Getty

Losers-Puerto Rico Flag:

Credit: NatanaelGinting/Getty