Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

The Stewart Detention Center in rural Georgia has been called “the black hole of America’s immigration system” for overusing solitary confinement, cutting corners on mental health care, and deporting asylum seekers at extraordinary rates. Now it can add one more alleged human rights violation to the list: According to a complaint filed in federal court Tuesday, the private-prison company that operates the facility forced detainees to virtually run their own jail for little pay—using threats and depriving them of basic toiletries to do so.

The case is the latest in a series of class-action lawsuits that have targeted the labor practices of billion-dollar prison corporations—CoreCivic, in Stewart’s case—claiming that they rely on “voluntary work programs” that pay as little as $1 per day to maintain profit margins in immigration detention facilities across the country.

Detainees were effectively forced to clean bathrooms, prepare meals, strip and wax floors, perform clerical work, and wash laundry for cents on the hour.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) incarcerates nearly 2,000 detainees at Stewart each night, and many remain there for months while they fight immigration court cases. The lawsuit alleges that detainees were effectively forced to clean bathrooms, prepare meals, strip and wax floors, perform clerical work, and wash laundry—”work that directly contributes to institutional operations”—for cents on the hour. The lawsuit lays out CoreCivic’s payment scheme for so-called “voluntary” detainee workers: between $1 and $4 a day for most people, while those who worked more than eight hours a day or seven days a week could make up to $8 per day.

Voluntary work programs are authorized by the federal government and are a common practice at immigration detention centers, but the new lawsuit contends that Stewart’s program is not truly voluntary. It alleges that CoreCivic officers threatened to reassign detainees to crowded, dirty housing areas if they refused to work, and even put one detainee in solitary confinement for “threatening a work stoppage after he had not been paid.” The suit also alleges that Stewart detainees sometimes aren’t provided items like toilet paper, soap, toothpaste, and lotion and instead must buy them from CoreCivic’s commissary—often using payment earned in the work program.

“All work programs at our ICE detention facilities are completely voluntary and operated in full compliance with ICE standards,” CoreCivic spokesman Jonathan Burns said in a statement. He declined to comment on the pending lawsuit.

The complaint filed Tuesday is the work of Andrew Free, a Nashville-based immigration attorney who has turned a spotlight on the cash flow and labor practices of the country’s most powerful private prison companies, as well as team of lawyers including some from the Southern Poverty Law Center and progressive activist group Project South.

Free filed his first forced-labor lawsuit in 2014, when detained immigrants at the Denver Contract Detention Facility in Aurora, Colorado, sued the GEO Group over both unpaid labor and the $1-per-day “volunteer work program.” At Aurora, it was written into the detainee handbook that people could be punished with solitary confinement if they refused to work on mandatory housekeeping crews, while those who opted into Aurora’s voluntary work program made just $1 for up to eight hours of work. Free, along with lawyers from a handful of firms, argued that GEO had violated the Trafficking Victims Protection Act, a modern anti-slavery law, and “unjustly enriched” the private prison company—the same claims now being leveled against CoreCivic over the work program at Stewart.

“Without this nearly free labor, CoreCivic’s windfall from immigrant detention would be substantially decreased.”

In February 2017, the Aurora lawsuit became the most successful detainee labor case so far when a judge, and later a federal appeals court, allowed it to proceed as a class action with more than 50,000 members. Since then, a cascade of lawsuits modeled on the Aurora strategy has targeted many of the country’s largest immigrant detention centers, while their for-profit operators have uniformly disputed the claims. Washington state’s attorney general sued GEO last fall for allegedly paying detainees either $1 per day or with “chicken, potato chips, soda, and/or candy” in exchange for work at the 1,575-bed Northwest Detention Center. In Texas, a now-released detainee named Martha Gonzalez filed a class-action lawsuit against CoreCivic over multiple facilities she called “forced labor camps,” including the Laredo Detention Center and the female-only T. Don Hutto Residential Center. Two California locations are also under fire: GEO-run Adelanto, a notorious 1,940-bed facility in the Mojave Desert, and CoreCivic’s Otay Mesa, which holds around 1,000 men south of San Diego. (Free is representing the Adelanto detainees; he’s also filed separate forced-labor cases at Northwest and Otay Mesa.)

The lawsuits aren’t coy about their goal to undermine the for-profit model of immigration detention. “Without this nearly free labor, CoreCivic’s windfall from immigrant detention would be substantially decreased,” the Stewart complaint alleges, arguing that CoreCivic, which makes nearly a quarter of its revenue from ICE, used the voluntary work program to avoid minimum wages, benefits, payroll taxes, as well as the potential costs of unionization and employee whistleblowers. Those hypothetical savings are substantial. As I reported last year, during a single month in 2012, the voluntary work program at Aurora saved GEO a minimum of $125,000 in wages, while its use of unpaid, mandatory housekeeping crews allowed it to hire just one janitor.

Federal authorities are starting to take notice of the issue. In December, the US Commission on Civil Rights demanded that Congress and the Department of Homeland Security investigate labor practices at ICE detention facilities in response to the allegations raised in the lawsuits. Eighteen Republican congressmen sent a letter to top officials at ICE and the Justice and Labor departments last month, arguing that paying detainees more than $1 per day for work would provide them an “unnecessary windfall” and urging the federal agencies to intervene in the lawsuits and clarify that detainees can’t be considered “employees.”

Meanwhile, detainees at Stewart and beyond are left working long hours in order to pay for necessities. Among them is Shoaib Ahmed, a Bangladeshi plaintiff in the lawsuit, who allegedly worked in the detention center’s kitchen for $4 per day and ultimately stopped fighting his asylum case in order to escape harsh conditions at Stewart. To detain Ahmed, ICE paid CoreCivic $62.03 per day.

“CoreCivic is exploiting the labor of detained immigrants to enrich itself,” said Azadeh Shahshahani, legal director for Project South. “It must be stopped.”

This post has been updated.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Texas Democratic Senate candidate Beto O’Rourke has more cash on hand than Republican Sen. Ted Cruz, an army of small-dollar donors, and a penchant for drawing big crowds for everything from 5 a.m. jogs to small-town meet-and-greets. But in a state where Democrats haven’t won a statewide election since 1996, does the El Paso congressman actually have a shot at knocking off Cruz?

A new poll from Quinnipiac suggests it’s not as far-fetched as it once seemed. The Connecticut-based pollster has O’Rourke just three points back, and within the margin of error at 47–44:

Beto O’Rourke is within the margin of error of Ted Cruz in the Texas senate race. Cruz 47

O’Rourke 44 MOE +/-3.6%@QuinnipiacPoll pic.twitter.com/D1tZZu26Nm — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 18, 2018

It’s one poll, and it’s still early. (A earlier survey from PPP had Cruz up by eight percent.) But something strange is happening in Texas this year, and O’Rourke shows no signs of going away quietly.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Puerto Rico’s power grid collapsed again on Wednesday, according to multiple reports.

The grid has been unstable since Hurricane Maria devastated the island in September. In the town where the storm made landfall, just 35 percent of residents had power when Mother Jones reporter AJ Vicens visited last month.

BREAKING: Island-wide blackout hits Puerto Rico, which suffering unstable power grid following hurricane. — The Associated Press (@AP) April 18, 2018

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz tweeted about the collapse on Wednesday morning, calling it a return to the day Maria first struck Puerto Rico.

The entire electrical system in Puerto Rico collapses AGAIN! Back to September 20th. @DavidBegnaud @leylasantiago @maddow @stephencolbertr — Carmen Yulín Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) April 18, 2018

Officials say it could take 24 to 36 hours to restore power to the island, home to more than three million American citizens.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Andrew Cuomo, New York’s Democratic governor, announced on Wednesday that he plans to restore voting rights to ex-felons on parole through an executive order. The move could enfranchise tens of thousands of New Yorkers.

“In this state, when you’re released from prison and you’re on parole, you still don’t have the right to vote,” Cuomo said before a meeting of Al Sharpton’s National Action Network. “Now how can that be? You did your time. You paid your debt. You’re released, but you still don’t have a right to vote.”

According to the state’s own figures, roughly 36,000 New Yorkers can’t vote because they’re on parole. Almost half, or 48 percent of those disenfranchised, are African Americans. Nationwide, more than 6 million Americans can’t vote because of felon disenfranchisement laws. Florida is considering a ballot initiative in 2018 to restore voting rights to 1.5 million ex-felons.

Roughly 36,000 New Yorkers can’t vote because they’re on parole.

Other governors have tried and failed to restore voting rights to ex-felons through executive orders. Former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe issued a similar executive order in 2016 but was blocked by the state’s Supreme Court. Instead, he restored voting rights to 168,000 ex-felons on a case-by-case basis.

Under Cuomo’s administration, New York has done little to reform its restrictive voting laws. Unlike many Democratic-leaning states, New York has no early voting, Election Day registration, or automatic voter registration. New York’s Legislature recently stripped funds to establish early voting from its last budget.

Actress and activist Cynthia Nixon is mounting a progressive challenge to Cuomo, seeking New York’s Democratic gubernatorial nomination. She’s spoken out against Cuomo’s record on early voting.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Former FBI Director James Comey says President Donald Trump can’t quit him.

“I’ve been gone for a year. I’m like the breakup he can’t get over,” Comey told Stephen Colbert on The Late Show Tuesday night. “He wakes up in the morning—I’m out there living my best life—he wakes up in the morning and tweets at me.”

“He’s tweeted at me probably 50 times,” Comey said. The appearance was one in a series by Comey as he promotes his book, A Higher Loyalty, which addresses Comey’s relationship with Trump before Trump fired the FBI director last May.

Trump has responded to Comey’s book with a slew of attacks. On Wednesday, the president seemed to reverse his prior claim that he fired Comey because of the FBI’s investigation of Trump’s ties to Russia.

In an angry series of tweets on Sunday, Trump suggested Comey should be jailed for what Trump says are false claims that Comey made in testimony before Congress about their interactions. Trump has not provided evidence to support his claim that Comey lied. Trump also suggested Comey should be imprisoned for using an associate to share with the New York Times details of a memo Comey wrote about his interactions with Trump.

Comey said his initial reaction to such threats was to shrug. But he said the country should not dismiss Trump’s rhetoric.“It’s not okay,” Comey said. “There’s a danger we are now numb to it and the norm has been destroyed.”

“The president of the United States is calling for the imprisonment of a private citizen, as he’s done for a whole lot of people who criticize him,” Comey said on Good Morning America Tuesday. “That is not acceptable in this country.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

President Donald Trump said Wednesday morning that he did not fire then-FBI Director James Comey because of the bureau’s investigation into his campaign’s ties to Russia, contradicting a claim he famously made last year in a nationally televised interview.

Slippery James Comey, the worst FBI Director in history, was not fired because of the phony Russia investigation where, by the way, there was NO COLLUSION (except by the Dems)! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Here’s what Trump told NBC’s Lester Holt last May: “When I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, ‘You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. It’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should have won.'”

Trump’s comments to Holt came as White House aides were asserting that Comey’s firing was not related to the Russia investigation but was initiated by top Justice Department officials over Comey’s handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation. Things seem to have come full circle.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

So this here is a tweet where the President of the United States is retweeting a person who is suggesting that a police sketch commissioned by a porn star the president slept with depicting a person who intimidated her into not going public about that relationship is in fact the porn star’s ex-boyfriend.

A sketch years later about a nonexistent man. A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)! https://t.co/9Is7mHBFda — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

What a time to be alive.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

This story was originally co-published by ProPublica and the New York Times Magazine.

It was the start of the 2017 Fall Family Weekend at Liberty University, the school founded by Jerry Falwell Sr. 47 years ago in Lynchburg, Virginia, and the lines were especially long to get into the basketball arena for the mandatory thrice-weekly student convocation. There was a festive feel in the air—as usual, a live band kicked things off with some Christian rock.

Penny Nance, a newly named Liberty trustee who is the head of the socially conservative group Concerned Women for America, took the stage to say that with Donald Trump in the White House, the country was much closer to overturning Roe v. Wade and putting “true limits on the abortionist’s hand.” Tim Lee, a Texas preacher and evangelist who lost his legs in the Vietnam War, gave a sermon bemoaning “homosexuals and pornographers,” declaring that one problem with “pulpits today is that they’ve got a lot of girlie men in them.” A young man in front of me in a Nautica T-shirt clapped and shouted, “That’s right!”

Liberty is spread out on more than 7,000 acres overlooking Lynchburg, a former railroad-and-tobacco town on the James River below the Blue Ridge Mountains. The student body on campus is 15,500 strong, and the university employs more than 7,500 people locally. Throughout the university grounds, there is evidence of a billion-dollar capital expansion: mountains of dirt and clusters of construction equipment marking the site of the new business school; the $40 million football stadium upgrade, to accommodate Liberty’s move into the highest level of N.C.A.A. competition; and the Freedom Tower, which at 275 feet will be the tallest structure in Lynchburg, capped by a replica of the Liberty Bell.

Jerry Falwell Jr., who has led the university since 2007, lacks the charisma and high profile of his father, who helped lead the rise of the religious right within the Republican Party. Yet what the soft-spoken Falwell, 55, lacks in personal aura, he has more than made up for in institutional ambition. As Liberty has expanded over the past two decades, it has become a powerful force in the conservative movement. The Liberty campus is now a requisite stop for Republican candidates for president—with George W. Bush, John McCain and Mitt Romney all making the pilgrimage—and many of Liberty graduates end up working in Republican congressional offices and conservative think tanks.

Liberty has also played a significant role in the rise of Donald Trump. Falwell was an early supporter of the reality-TV-star candidate, staying loyal through the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape and giving Trump a crucial imprimatur with white evangelical voters, who widely supported him at the polls. “The evangelicals were so great to me,” Trump said in an interview last year. The first commencement speech he gave as president, last spring, was at Liberty. And in August, Falwell stood by Trump following his much criticized remarks on the violent rally by white supremacists in Charlottesville, declaring on “Fox & Friends” that “President Donald Trump does not have a racist bone in his body.”

Such steadfast allyship has prompted ridicule even from some fellow evangelical Republicans. But it makes more sense in light of an overlooked aspect of Liberty: its extraordinary success as a moneymaking venture. Like Trump, Falwell recognized the money to be made in selling success—in this case, through the booming and lightly regulated realm of online higher education. Falwell’s university has achieved the scale and stature it has because he identified a market opportunity and exploited it.

“It was understood that on the online side, they were making a killing.”

The real driver of growth at Liberty, it turns out, is not the students who attend classes in Lynchburg but the far greater number of students who are paying for credentials and classes that are delivered remotely, as many as 95,000 in a given year. By 2015, Liberty had quietly become the second-largest provider of online education in the United States, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education, its student population surpassed only by that of University of Phoenix, as it tapped into the same hunger for self-advancement that Trump had with his own pricey Trump University seminars. Yet there was a crucial distinction: Trump’s university was a for-profit venture. (This month, a judge finalized a $25 million settlement for fraud claims against the defunct operation.) Liberty, in contrast, is classified as a nonprofit, which means it faces less regulatory scrutiny even as it enjoys greater access to various federal handouts.

By 2017, Liberty students were receiving more than $772 million in total aid from the Department of Education—nearly $100 million of it in the form of Pell grants and the rest in federal student loans. Among universities nationwide, it ranked sixth in federal aid. Liberty students also received Department of Veterans Affairs benefits, some $42 million in 2016, the most recent year for which figures are available. Although some of that money went to textbooks and nontuition expenses, a vast majority of Liberty’s total revenue that year, which was just above $1 billion, came from taxpayer-funded sources.

And it was no secret which part of the university was generating most of that revenue, said Chris Gaumer, a Liberty graduate and former professor of English there. “When I was there, at faculty meetings the commentary was that online was funding the school, while they were trying to just break even on the residential side,” he said. “It was understood that on the online side, they were making a killing.”

Jerry Falwell Sr. was raised in Lynchburg by a Christian mother and a nonbelieving father, whose knack for business gained him a small empire of restaurants, bus lines, nightclubs and gas stations and eventually carried him into bootlegging. Falwell cast this dual inheritance in the terms of a clash between God and the Enemy, but it was hard not to see his career as a successful fusing of his parents’ influences, salesmanship wrapped in Christian cloth.

He founded Thomas Road Baptist Church in the former offices of a bottling company in 1956 and soon began broadcasting recordings of his sermons on regional radio and television. In 1971, the same year his “Old Time Gospel Hour” went national, he founded Lynchburg Baptist College, subsidizing it with revenues from the show. “I believe there are thousands of young students who will catch the vision and who will carry what God is doing in Lynchburg to cities all over the continent and around the world,” he declared at the time, according to his 1996 autobiography. At first the college was scattered in rented spaces around town—a vacant high school, a Ramada Inn—but by 1977 it had been renamed Liberty Baptist College and moved up to an initial 2,000-acre swath of land on the mountain.

By 1984, nearly 400 local broadcasters around the nation were carrying “The Old Time Gospel Hour.” The toll-free number flashing on the screen reportedly helped bring in more than $72 million per year in donations. Some $10 million of those funds flowed to the college, which at that point numbered about 4,500 students. Another of Falwell’s enterprises pulled in about $12 million a year—the Moral Majority, an attempt to build a cross-denominational political coalition against the common foes of abortion rights and, as he later put it, “moral permissiveness, family breakdown and general capitulation to evil and to foreign policies such as Marxism-Leninism.”

“I am certain that we will become a world-class university training champions for Christ in every important field of study.”

Liberty University, as it has been named since 1985, grew steadily, drawing families attracted by the “Liberty Way,” which forbade premarital sex, drinking, smoking and cussing. In 1987, it secured tax-exempt status, which Falwell described in his autobiography as an existential necessity: “If a tax exemption could not be granted us,” he wrote, “it would have been impossible to carry out the dream of a 50,000-student Christian university in Lynchburg.”

But another element of the business model—evangelical broadcasting’s aura of rectitude—was about to take a hit. That March, Jim Bakker resigned as head of the televangelist PTL ministry amid revelations of a sexual encounter with a former church secretary, Jessica Hahn, who received a payoff to keep quiet about it; Bakker later served just under five years in prison on a federal fraud conviction related to PTL’s fund-raising. In 1988, the televangelist Jimmy Swaggart declared, “I have sinned,” following reports of his consorting with a prostitute in New Orleans; three years later, the police pulled him over with another prostitute in Southern California.

No such scandals attached to Falwell, who succeeded Bakker as host of “The PTL Club.” But the bubble had burst. Amid what Falwell later referred to as the “credibility crunch” caused by the televangelist scandals, the college’s finances deteriorated. Within a few years, annual contributions dropped by $25 million; the college’s debt swelled to more than $100 million.

In 1996, the accrediting body overseeing Liberty presented a list of more than 100 “recommendations” for staying accredited, including a demand that it reduce its debt. Falwell went on a 40-day liquids-only fast, praying for deliverance. “I am certain that we will become a world-class university training champions for Christ in every important field of study,” Falwell vowed in his autobiography. “And I am asking God to give me more time to guide and fund that dream.”

One educational novelty that Falwell dabbled in, starting in the mid-70s, was an early form of distance learning. Liberty would mail lecture videotapes and course packets to paying customers around the country—at first just certificate courses in Bible studies, and by the mid-80s, accredited courses in other subjects as well. By the time of Liberty’s financial embattlement, other education innovators had taken the idea much further—none more so than a man named John Sperling.

Sperling was an unlikely capitalist entrepreneur. The son of a failed farmer in the Missouri Ozarks, he joined the Merchant Marine, embraced socialism and ended up receiving a Ph.D. in history from the University of Cambridge. He got a job teaching at San Jose State University, where he took over the faculty union and led a big strike in 1968. His humble origins and early socialist leanings had given him a jaundiced view of elite schools, and his experience teaching a course to police officers and teachers as part of a federally funded effort to reduce juvenile delinquency furthered his belief that traditional colleges were leaving out a whole swath of Americans eager for higher education. He decided to start a university of his own—not a nonprofit but a for-profit, and not in California, where he had clashed with skeptical accreditors, but in the laxer regulatory climate of Arizona.

In 1976, Sperling rented space in a boilermakers’ union hall in Phoenix and started offering weekly classes there to eight students—all adults who’d had some college education and were looking to complete their degrees. A decade later, University of Phoenix had 6,000 students. But things really took off three years later, in 1989, when Sperling started offering MBAs online through Prodigy, the early electronic communications service. Sperling took the university’s parent company public in 1994; by 2000, enrollment had reached 100,000.

By the early 2000s, for-profit colleges were booming: Access to the internet was spreading, and the Bush administration was employing a notably light regulatory touch, even as the programs were devouring an ever-greater share of federal student aid. Among the adopters of Sperling’s model was Falwell, who in 2004 began expanding the family’s primitive distance-learning programs into what would become known as Liberty University Online.

In his autobiography, Falwell praised Jerry Jr.’s business instincts, crediting him with saving Liberty from ruin through his management of its debt. “God sent him to me just in time,” he wrote. “He is more responsible, humanly speaking, for the miraculous financial survival of this ministry than any other single person.” When Falwell died in 2007 at age 73, his younger son, Jonathan, took over the pulpit at Thomas Road Baptist, and Jerry Jr. took over the university—an indication of where the heart of the ministry now was.

As the Great Recession hit, laid-off Americans turned to online education to seek a new economic foothold. After years of trying to save Liberty by cutting costs, Falwell Jr. said, he adopted his father’s vision of saving it through increasing revenues. In a recent telephone interview, Falwell described the surge in online enrollment as a kind of revelation. “It took us about 20 years to perfect” the distance-learning model, he said, “but when we did, that was about when everyone started getting high-speed internet in their homes, and we were the only nonprofit poised to serve that huge adult market of people who had not finished college or needed a master’s degree to get a promotion.”

Liberty had another advantage over online competitors, he said: its status as a religious-based institution, “that long history of Liberty being a leader among Christian universities,” the “faith-based mission” that “makes us so unique and puts us in a class by ourselves.”

The River Ridge Mall spreads out on the flat ground below Liberty’s campus, among motels and fast-food restaurants. Like much commercial real estate in Lynchburg, it is majority-owned by Liberty University. In 2013, the mall lost one of its anchor tenants, Sears, which occupied a 112,000-square-foot space behind gray, nearly windowless walls. The retailer was replaced by Liberty University Online. When it first arrived inside the mall, the L.U.O. operation numbered 675 employees; it grew so large that in 2015 L.U.O. began moving its operation into a former Nationwide Insurance building several miles away.

At the front lines are the “admissions representatives,” some 300 phone recruiters working two shifts from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., deploying call lists that Liberty gets from websites where people register and search for information about online higher education, like BestCollegesOnline.com. There is such a race to get to customers before University of Phoenix and other rivals that the prospective students sometimes marvel at how little time has elapsed—just a handful of minutes—between their providing their information on a website and the call coming from Liberty. Liberty’s tax filings show that in 2016, the university paid Google $16.8 million for “admissions leads generation.” In other words, advertising Liberty to those searching online for degree options.

“It’s a call center,” said Ron Kennedy, the executive vice president for online enrollment management.

The recruiters work under intense pressure, according to several former L.U.O. employees I spoke with. They get no more than 45 seconds between calls, and sometimes managers override even that short break. There are no formal quotas—a federal regulation that went into effect in 2011 forbids them. But as one former employee put it, the “highly motivated goal” is for each recruiter to sign up eight new students a day. Multiplied across 300 cubicles, that is 2,400 per day. Of those, only a small fraction end up paying and starting courses, but that is still an extraordinary haul for any kind of education business.

Every day, according to the former employee, managers send out a report showing the previous day’s tallies. Recruiters who signed up four or fewer new students get their names in red, visible for all to see, and are sometimes subject to a disciplinary conversation. Monthly tallies are also scored as green, yellow or red. Top performers are in the running for a small raise from the base salary, which is about $30,000. “It was that carrot and stick,” the former employee told me.

A separate division of about 60 people focuses on courting members of the military, who have access to even greater federal tuition assistance, and then advising them on campus. A former employee in that division said that given the smaller crew, the work there was if anything even more intense than in the main branch: More than 30,000 L.U.O. students are from the military or military families.

Two recruiters told me they were instructed to quote L.U.O.’s cost on a per-credit basis, rather than per-course, which makes it sound more affordable. Undergraduate courses for part-time students are $455 per credit, or $1,365 for a typical course; master’s courses are typically about $600 per credit. They are instructed not to press prospective applicants too hard on their academic qualifications. Applicants have to submit past transcripts, but any grade point average above 0.5—equivalent to a D-minus—would suffice, said the former employee in the nonmilitary division. Recruiters, he told me, “would say, ‘Congratulations, you’ve been accepted.’ They’d make it seem competitive.”

The two recruiters also said they were told not to mention Liberty’s Christian orientation until people agree to apply, when this fact is made clear in the user agreement they sign online. It also becomes clear at the moment that the recruiters sign up students for their first classes, typically an orientation class and three required Bible studies classes. Students often can’t transfer credits for these courses to other colleges, which deters many from dropping out: Leaving L.U.O. without signing up for more courses would mean wasting the money spent on the first four.

Falwell and other top Liberty officials pushed back on some of these points in my interview with them, insisting, for instance, that the minimum G.P.A. for applicants is 2.0 and that recruiters are assessed according to “the same H.R. evaluation form that’s standard across the university.” But Ron Kennedy, the executive vice president for online enrollment management, acknowledged that the recruiters working under pressure to meet their targets might say otherwise. “It’s a call center,” he said.

In 2010, undercover investigators from the Government Accountability Office scrutinized 15 for-profit colleges, finding that every one of them had misled applicants and that four had encouraged them to lie on their federal student-aid forms. The Obama administration seized on the findings as it began a yearslong clampdown on for-profit education, which by 2013 was gobbling up a fifth of all federal student aid, more than $25 billion, despite enrolling only 10 percent of students—and also producing about a third of all federal student loan defaults.

The university now touts itself on its website as “the largest private nonprofit university in the nation.”

Liberty, too, was hugely reliant on federal money, in the form of Pell grants, Department of Veterans Affairs benefits and federally subsidized loans. By 2010, it had more than 50,000 students enrolled and was pulling in more than $420 million annually. But because Liberty was technically not for-profit, it was spared many of the administration’s new regulations, including its requirement that a certain threshold of graduates be able to attain “gainful employment,” which was designed to hit for-profit colleges much harder. It was also spared from the pre-existing rule that for-profit colleges could get no more than 90 percent of their revenue from federal sources.

If anything, Liberty benefited from the crackdown. The Obama administration’s actions helped put out of business large for-profit chains like Corinthian and ITT Technical Institute, clearing formidable competition from the field. Though there were other nonprofit institutions with online offerings—Arizona State, Southern New Hampshire and Western Governors, as well as premium players like Stanford and Duke—none were operating at Liberty’s scale. The university now touts itself on its website as “the largest private nonprofit university in the nation.” In a sense, said Ben Miller, who served as a senior policy adviser in Obama’s Department of Education, the crackdown on for-profits offered Liberty a “marketing advantage.”

Falwell was candid about the benefits of the nonprofit status. “It insulated us from the attack on the for-profits,” he told me. And it put him on the same footing with other, more established universities. “There’s no way that an Obama federal government that probably doesn’t care much for schools like Liberty can treat us different than Harvard or Yale or Indiana Wesleyan or the University of Maryland.”

Liberty’s ability to distance itself from for-profit colleges was especially notable given that, by several key metrics, it resembled them more closely than the private nonprofits it was grouped with. The rate of Liberty graduates who default on their loans within three years of graduating is 9.9 percent, several points higher than the average for nonprofit colleges, though still below that for for-profit colleges. Most striking, though, is how little the university spends on actual instruction. It does not report separate figures for spending on the online school and the traditional college. But according to its most recent figures, from 2016, the university reports spending only $2,609 on instruction per full-time equivalent student across both categories. That is a fraction of what traditional private universities spend (Notre Dame’s equivalent figure is $27,391) but also well behind even University of Phoenix, which spends more than $4,000 per student in many states. It is also behind other hybrid online-traditional nonprofit religious colleges like Ohio Christian University, which spends about $4,500. In 2013, according to an audited financial statement I obtained, Liberty received $749 million in tuition and fees but spent only $260 million on instruction, academic support and student services.

By 2016, Liberty’s net assets had crossed the $1.6 billion mark, up more than tenfold from a decade earlier. Thanks to its low spending on instruction, its net income was an astonishing $215 million on nearly $1 billion in revenue, according to its tax filing—making it one of the most lucrative nonprofits in the country, based simply on the difference between its operating revenue and expenses, in a league with some of the largest nonprofit hospital systems.

Falwell, whose Liberty salary is nearly $1 million, does not apologize for those margins. Liberty, he said, is simply being shrewd about keeping costs down, while plowing revenue back into the university. He noted proudly that Liberty’s net assets are now $2.5 billion, up from just $150 million in 2007, when he took over. He said he was surprised more universities weren’t following Liberty’s example of increasing online enrollment by keeping instructional spending and tuition low. And he freely acknowledged that the online revenues were going to buttress the residential campus. From Falwell’s perspective, there was nothing wrong with the university’s benefiting so much from the online program. “As long as we’re keeping the quality up, we don’t think it’s a disservice to anyone,” he said. “All that is, is ensuring the future of the university.”

“You use Google when you take your quiz and don’t have to work as hard. It’s pretty obvious.”

Students at Liberty often quote a favorite line of Falwell Sr.’s: “If it’s Christian, it ought to be better.” Even those who have misgivings about the university’s conservative culture are quick to defend the education they’ve received on campus. Yet despite its ambitions to become the “evangelical Notre Dame” that Falwell envisioned, Liberty is still ranked well behind that university and other religious-based institutions like Brigham Young and Pepperdine; U.S. News and World Report clumps Liberty in the lowest quartile of institutions in its “national universities” category. Some of its programs have strong reputations, among them nursing, engineering and flight school. But the college is limited in its ability to compete for premier faculty, not only because its politics are out of step with the greater academic community, but also because none of its programs, with the exception of its law school, offer tenure.

In his autobiography, Falwell made virtually no distinction between these students on the Lynchburg campus and those receiving their instruction remotely. All of them, in his telling, were being prepared for the same goal, to be “Champions for Christ,” as the Liberty motto had it. But many students on campus, at least, are openly dismissive of the online experience. They take some classes online, for the convenience of not having to drag themselves to class—and, they readily admit, for the ease of not having to study much. “People know it’s kind of a joke and don’t learn that much from it,” Dustin Wahl, a senior from South Dakota, told me. “You use Google when you take your quiz and don’t have to work as hard. It’s pretty obvious.” (Liberty says using Google during quizzes or exams is cheating.)

Campus students are especially scornful of the online discussion boards that are in theory meant to replicate the back and forth of a classroom, but that in reality tend to be a rote exercise, with students making only their requisite one post and two comments per week, generating no substantive discussion. “It’s very minimal engagement,” said Alexander Forbes, a senior from California. Recently, a satirical campus newspaper, The Flaming Bugle, ran an Onion-style article with the headline “Cat Playing on Keyboard Inadvertently Earns ‘A’ for Discussion Board Post.”

“The motivation behind the growth seems to be almost entirely economic, because it’s not as if the education is getting any better.”

Chris Gaumer taught English courses both on campus and online at Liberty after getting his bachelor’s degree on campus in 2006. The difference between the two forms of teaching was startling, he told me. As an online instructor, he said, he was not expected to engage in the delivery of any actual educational content. That was all prepared separately by L.U.O.’s team of course designers and editors, who assemble curriculums and videotaped lectures by other Liberty professors. This leaves little for the instructor to do in the courses, which typically run eight weeks. “As professor, you show up and your job is to handle emails and grade,” Gaumer said. This helps explain why the instructors—the roughly 2,400 adjuncts scattered around the country, plus the Liberty professors who agree to teach online courses on the side—are willing to take on the task for what’s long been the going rate for the job: $2,100 per course. (Falwell Jr. said it will soon go up to $2,700.)

Until recently, the course designers and editors, a team of about 30 people, worked out of the old Thomas Road Baptist Church—the congregation moved out of the former bottling plant years earlier—in a concrete room that got so cold in winter that they sometimes kept scarves and hats on. For editors, starting pay is now around $11 per hour. As L.U.O. boomed in size, they became so overwhelmed by the challenge of shaping hundreds of courses that L.U.O. decided in 2015 to focus designers and editors on the hundred or so highest-enrollment courses per term, leaving the maintenance of the remaining hundreds of courses up to the instructors themselves. One former editor recalled having a professor send a syllabus along with, essentially, an apology for throwing something together at the last minute.

Gaumer, who now works at Randolph College in Lynchburg, said the steep drop-off in quality from the traditional college to the online courses was both openly acknowledged among Liberty faculty and not fully reckoned with. The reason was plain, he said: Everyone knew that L.U.O. was subsidizing the physical university. “The motivation behind the growth seems to be almost entirely economic, because it’s not as if the education is getting any better,” he said.

Falwell acknowledged that Liberty’s faculty initially resisted the rise of the online program, fearing the degradation of academic standards. “The big victory was finding a way to tame the faculty,” he said. But he disputed that there was any great difference in quality. For one thing, he said, the university made sure that all of its online instructors “adhere to the fundamentals of the Christian faith, our doctrinal statement.” Physical distance was a challenge, he said, but online instructors overcame it by making an extra effort to reach out. “They spend a lot more time taking a personal interest in the students,” he said.

“As to exam question, I have no clue how the final is run.” He said he’d get back to her. He ended his note, “Do remember that God is in control and he works all things for our good.”

One of the 65,000 students who enrolled with L.U.O. in 2013 was Megan Hart, a woman from New Jersey with unflaggingly high spirits. Hart, who is in her 40s, started her working life at the glass company where her father worked, too, until he was laid off. From there, Hart made her way into education, teaching communications at the local community college and the local prison. Adjunct courses at the college paid just $525 per credit, netting her only about $5,000 per semester, so she got a low-level administrative job there, too.

Her first marriage, to the father of her daughter, ended in divorce. In January 2012, her second husband suddenly vanished. Hart and her daughter, then 9 years old, lost their home shortly afterward, and she filed for bankruptcy. She and her daughter moved into her parents’ basement and got by with donations from her local Assemblies of God church, where she was active. In 2013, she signed up to take three courses at L.U.O. that would provide her with a certificate in communications, allowing her to become a full-time instructor at the community college, which would reimburse her L.U.O. tuition.

Hart, who had a master’s in communications and leadership through Pat Robertson’s Regent University, chose L.U.O. because of its affordability and Christian cachet. But in her years of teaching and taking courses, she said, she had never seen anything as flimsy as what L.U.O. passed off in its supposedly graduate-level courses. She had little interaction with the instructor, and the questions for the midterm and final exams were so arbitrary that it seemed to Hart as if they had been randomly generated by a computer program. She spent the open-book exams wildly flipping back and forth through the textbook and course materials trying to find the relevant passages. It was, she wrote to L.U.O. officials later, like “looking for Waldo.”

When Hart emailed the instructor for her third course, which had a closed-book exam, she confirmed Hart’s suspicions: “The exam questions are random.” Hart got good grades in the first two courses but was increasingly convinced she was paying for a meaningless experience. She sent an email outlining her concerns to the instructor and an L.U.O. academic mentor, adding that she might quit the third course. “We will certainly take your input very seriously,” the mentor responded. “May the Lord bless you richly in your studies and future endeavors.”When she wrote the instructor for the second class to ask about the test, he responded: “As to exam question, I have no clue how the final is run.” He said he’d get back to her. He ended his note, “Do remember that God is in control and he works all things for our good.”

Finally, Hart told the officials that she was withdrawing from the third course, even though she had been informed that she would still have to pay 25 percent of the cost. “My spirit has been so sick over what I have experienced,” she wrote. In late 2013, she filed a complaint with a little-known government agency called the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, which oversees the state’s colleges.

Between 2009 and summer 2017, L.U.O. students filed 49 complaints with the council, more than for any other institution in the state. For some, the problem was administrative bungling—L.U.O. registered them for the wrong class, or required a class it turned out they didn’t need, and so on. For some, it was endless technical or logistical troubles that kept them from being able to submit their assignments or get textbooks. For others, it was disputes about tuition and financial aid that left them feeling as if L.U.O. was demanding more money than was fair, and withholding their transcripts until they paid up.

Several complainants said they were particularly taken aback by their L.U.O. experiences because of Liberty’s religious underpinnings. “I just expected that Liberty University being a Christian university,” they’d be more helpful, wrote a complainant who went to prison and then become homeless after a stint enrolled in L.U.O. He had been seeking to have his transcript released despite his still having a balance at L.U.O., so that he could resume his education elsewhere; Liberty responded by recommending homeless shelters. “Liberty’s motto is they are a Christian school that is training champions for Christ and they are the light of the world,” another student wrote six years ago. “That motto needs to be revised.”

The anodyne responses the students received from L.U.O. were frequently glossed with Christian bromides. To a student whose financial aid was suspended in 2015 after the student failed a course because the textbook didn’t arrive in time, an instructor sent “quiz tips that may help” that included “Eat a healthy meal before taking your quiz” and “Pray before beginning each quiz!” Other L.U.O. responses included language errors so extreme that they bordered on confusing: One administrator wrote in 2014 about a complainant’s having submitted work that “appeared to have been copied from an unsighted source,” while a professor responded to a student in 2012 that “no other acceptions will be made.”

“What’s killing me is that I went into this program to try to change my situation,” she told me, “and I’m worse off than I was at the beginning.”

Other students were left simply to flounder, contrary to Falwell’s claims of close attention from distant instructors. Lydia Terry-Dominelli, who lives in a suburb of Albany, New York, signed up with Liberty in 2013, when it looked as if she and her husband were headed for divorce and she was worrying about how she could support herself and her 9-year-old daughter. She decided to get her teacher’s certification and chose Liberty partly because she was an observant Anglican. “I was ready for something that had some kind of value system,” she told me.

In 2015, Terry-Dominelli failed a graduate-level education course when, she said, one of the assignments she submitted vanished from Blackboard, the online system used by Liberty. After twice failing a writing course and puzzling over what she was doing wrong, she asked the course instructor for an explanation. He wrote back to suggest that she might do better if she found a “new work space” like the local library. After she assured him that her apartment sufficed and the conversation continued, he wrote: “I wonder if you can’t find a great prayer group through L.U.O.?”

Terry-Dominelli struggled further with confusing assignments in another graduate-level education course. She was starting to feel helpless over the lack of guidance. “I have prayed very hard, and what I keep being told is I am in the wrong place,” she wrote to the education instructor in late October of 2015.

“Bless your heart. I am so sorry,” the instructor responded. “I will join you in prayer for you to have wisdom and discernment.”

In early 2016, Terry-Dominelli was unable to access online the spring semester courses she had registered for. She took it as a final sign and left Liberty, just a few courses short of the master’s degree she had borrowed more than $20,000 to pay for. In August 2016, having failed to establish a decent income, she moved back in with her husband. Lacking certification, she took a part-time job as an aide at a local elementary school. Unable to afford the loans she’d taken out, she filed for help under the Department of Education’s Borrower Defense program, which is intended for students who have incurred student debt after being misled by higher education programs. (Her application is still pending.)

She also filed a complaint with the Virginia agency: “I feel that I was being pushed out of the program and I need to know why,” she had written to one of her professors. The agency declined to take action, finding no clear violations by Liberty. “What’s killing me is that I went into this program to try to change my situation,” she told me, “and I’m worse off than I was at the beginning.”

The Trump-Falwell bond has if anything grown even stronger in recent months. In October, Falwell Jr. told Breitbart News that Trump could “be the greatest president since Abraham Lincoln” and urged an evangelical army to rise up against the “fake Republicans” standing in his way. In December, he joined Trump in promoting Roy Moore’s Senate candidacy, quoting the song “Sweet Home Alabama” in a tweet on the eve of Election Day: “AL voters are too smart to let the media & Estab Repubs & Dems tell them how to vote. I hope the spirit of Lynyrd Skynyrd is alive/well in AL. ‘A southern man don’t need them around anyhow & Watergate does not bother me, does your conscience bother you, tell me true?’” In late February, he joined in on Trump’s mau-mauing of Jeff Sessions, calling the attorney general a “coward” in a tweet for his handling of the Russia investigation.

But on campus, Falwell has proved a more divisive leader than his father. In May 2016, conflict over his pro-Trump stance prompted the resignation of the chairman of the university board of trustees’ executive committee, Mark DeMoss, whose father was a major donor to the university. DeMoss previously told The Washington Post that “the bullying tactics of personal insult have no defense—and certainly not for anyone who claims to be a follower of Christ.” It also prompted students on campus, including Wahl and Forbes, to gather hundreds of signatures in opposition to Trump following the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape. After Falwell’s support for Trump following Charlottesville, several Liberty graduates mailed back their degrees in protest. One protester was Laura Honnol, a banking officer in Lubbock, Texas, who attended from 2003 to 2007. “There’s been a huge climate shift from Falwell Senior to Falwell Junior,” she told me. “You felt like you disagreed with Senior, but he had good intentions and just didn’t do it right sometimes. But Junior came along, and it’s become more of a profit machine and a numbers machine.”

The Trump connection is not without risk for Falwell. Some people who worked for L.U.O. in late 2016 and early 2017 blamed it for a dip in applications at the time and said the decline led to an April 2017 leadership overhaul and the departure of many employees. Falwell told me that Liberty has deliberately brought online enrollment down to around 85,000, explaining that “we wanted to make sure we kept the student quality at a certain standard.” And he said that his alliance with Trump has only helped the university: “For every student we lost because of political concerns, we picked up two or three inquiries who support us because of that political stand.”

A relationship with Trump could benefit Falwell Jr. and Liberty in other ways too. One of the top orders of business for Trump’s education secretary, Betsy DeVos, has been to roll back Obama-era regulations on online-degree providers. She named a former official from for-profit DeVry University to lead the D.O.E. unit that polices fraud in higher education. Claims for student debt relief under the Borrower Defense program are being considered at a far slower rate under DeVos, who is delaying by two years an Obama rule that would make it easier to file debt relief claims. And DeVos is expected shortly to roll back several key regulations geared toward online providers: ones giving states regulatory powers over distance-learning programs, establishing clear standards for a credit hour and requiring “regular and substantive” interactions between online instructors and students. Falwell told me that Liberty officials have had a major hand in some of DeVos’s actions: “A lot of what we sent them is actually what got implemented,” he said.

After the convocation on the first weekend in November, I met with Dustin Wahl in Liberty’s student center, overlooking the campus quad. He said that the unbridled success of the online program couldn’t help putting him in mind of the profit-seeking tradition within American Christianity, which is closely aligned with evangelical Christianity’s prosperity gospel—the notion that financial success, far from distracting us from the higher values, is an affirmation of godliness. Wahl told me he’d frequently heard people justify the school’s new wealth in these terms. “A lot of people just talk about it generally, how God has blessed us,” he said.

Falwell rejects such prosperity-gospel talk. “I’m not going to tell you that we’ve done better because we’re better people,” he told me. “What I will say is that we’ve always operated from a business perspective. We’ve treated it like a business.” And that’s what first drew him to Trump, he said: the kinship of one businessman to another. “I thought to myself, if there’s one thing this country needs, it’s exactly the methods we employed at Liberty to save the school and make it prosper, and that’s just basic business principles.”

As I sat with Wahl, the spoils of that prosperity were visible all around us: not just gleaming new buildings like the $50 million library with its robotic book-retrieval system, but also, up the mountain, a $7 million “Snowflex Centre,” with a polymer surface for year-round skiing—the only one of its kind at any university in the country. Elsewhere, the university is completing a $3 million shooting range. But, Wahl said, once you knew about the thousands of people far from Lynchburg who funded this splendor, it was hard to take your mind off them, and off the faith with which they signed up for L.U.O. “You get a phone call,” he said, “and it’s God telling you, ‘I’ll give you an education.’ “

When we spoke before my visit, Wahl raved about the campus: “It’s beautiful,” he said. Then he added: “And it’s funded by the online program that’s sold to people who can’t really afford college.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

On a Saturday in early April, 200 people gathered at the public library in Sterling, Virginia, cramming into a meeting room that might have comfortably fit about half that number. As attendees made their way to their seats—or, for many, their standing spots—they were greeted by volunteers from a group called Gays Against Guns, who had dressed up in drag as Rep. Barbara Comstock, the area’s Republican member of Congress. They handed out fact sheets lambasting the congresswoman’s gun-friendly voting record as they mockingly asked passersby to reelect her. They shouted, “Smile and say ‘NRA’!” whenever people stopped to take their picture.

The event’s organizers would have preferred to have the real Comstock, too. After the nationwide March for Our Lives protests, Comstock, like every other member of Congress, had been asked by activists to host a Town Hall for Our Lives to discuss gun violence with her constituents. But, like every other GOP lawmaker, Comstock—who has an A-rating from the National Rifle Association and is one of the country’s top beneficiaries of NRA campaign funding—was a no-show. Instead, all six of of the Democrats vying to run against her were there. They quickly turned the event into an ad-hoc candidate forum on gun control that illustrated just how central the issue will be to the 2018 campaign.

The Parkland Effect isn’t just causing causing headaches for Comstock. It’s also fueling competition in the Democratic primary.

The race in Virginia’s 10th congressional district—a mix of rural areas and affluent DC suburbs—has drawn national attention as one of the most competitive contests in the country. The district is home to exactly the sort of highly educated voters who rebelled against Donald Trump in 2016 and who, experts say, could help make gun control a defining issue this time around. Comstock, a reliable supporter of Trump’s agenda, is widely seen as vulnerable in a district that chose both Hillary Clinton and Democratic Gov. Ralph Northam by double digits. In a state where most voters say they support stricter firearms laws, such as banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, Comstock’s pro-gun stance presents an appealing target for Democrats who support even the most modest gun control measures.

But the Parkland Effect isn’t just causing causing headaches for the gun-friendly Comstock. It’s also fueling an unexpected competition in the Democratic primary, with candidates battling to position themselves as the strongest supporter of gun regulations.

The new dynamics have proven to be especially complicated for Jennifer Wexton, a Democratic state senator from Leesburg who is the presumed frontrunner in the race to take on Comstock. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and EMILY’s List, which raises money for pro-choice women Democrats, recruited Wexton into the race, and last month she received an endorsement from Northam, who ran on a pro-gun-control platform and embraced his F-rating from the NRA.

On the campaign trail, Wexton has proudly touted her own NRA F-rating. But when Dan Helmer, an Army veteran and first-time office-seeker, rose to give his opening statement at the Town Hall for Our Lives, he took a swipe at Wexton’s record on this issue. Wexton, he reminded the audience, had voted in favor of a controversial 2016 state law that recognizes the validity of concealed-carry permits issued in other states. Wexton’s other Democratic opponents have also hammered her on the matter. At a candidate forum on April 10, former Obama administration adviser Lindsey Davis Stover called Wexton’s vote “reckless and a use of bad judgment,” according to the Washington Post.

Wexton certainly isn’t a champion of gun rights. Unlike Conor Lamb—the pro-gun Democrat who recently won a special election in a Pennsylvania congressional district Donald Trump carried by 20 points—she supports a federal ban on assault weapons. She’s been certified as a “Gun Sense Candidate” by Moms Demand Action, the influential grassroots gun safety group. She has voted in favor of establishing universal background checks and banning bump stocks. And her concealed-carry reciprocity vote—the one being criticized by Helmer and Stover—was actually part of a bipartisan deal that also instituted voluntary background checks at gun shows and disarmed domestic abusers. Though gun control advocates objected to the compromise, Wexton was one of many Democrats who supported it.

But as the only elected official running in the Democratic primary, some of Wexton’s votes have left her vulnerable to criticism from the left. In addition to supporting concealed-carry reciprocity in 2016, Wexton has voted for 10 other bills that eased some concealed-carry permit restrictions, most of which former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) signed into law. She also voted to allow domestic abuse victims carry concealed weapons before receiving a permit and to allow guns in an unlocked car glove boxes, though McAuliffe ended up vetoing those measures.

In response to the criticisms, Wexton has reminded voters about the necessities of political compromise—an argument that at least some activists seem to find compelling. “What happened between Dan Helmer and Jennifer Wexton did not sway me at all,” said Patty Kuntz, a volunteer with the district’s Indivisible chapter who moderated the April 10 Democratic forum. “She worked to get a very important bill passed.”

Grabbing onto the gun issue is a relatively new move for Virginia Democrats, says Kyle Kondik, the director of communications at the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics. “In general, the gun control issue has become more salient,” he says. “If you’re looking for a way to distinguish yourself against a more prominent opponent, turning to the left on guns is a place to go. We’ve seen that in other parts of the country, and we’re seeing it in this Virginia race, too.” Indeed, a similar dynamic has played out in the Democratic contest for an open House seat in New Jersey, where frontrunner Jeff Van Drew, a Democratic state senator with a favorable NRA rating, has avoided weighing in on upcoming gun legislation as his competitors attack his record on the issue.

Beyond the criticisms of Wexton, Democrats in the race have emphasized their own commitment to gun control. Helmer, Stover, and Alison Friedman, an anti-human-trafficking expert who worked for the State Department, have all touted their own “Gun Sense Candidate” designations from Moms Demand Action. Stover pinned hers to her campaign’s Twitter feed, and she reminded Town Hall for Our Lives attendees that she’s the only candidate who has also been endorsed by the Pride Fund to End Gun Violence, an LGBTQ political organization founded after the 2016 shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida. And while all the candidates have taken great pains to explain to voters that their proposals won’t undermine the Second Amendment right to bear arms, they each support the bulk of the Parkland survivors’ gun control agenda, including universal background checks and a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.

For her part, Comstock is working hard to avoid the issue. Unlike a number of other GOP lawmakers, who politely declined the Town Hall for Our Lives invitation, her office didn’t reply at all. In the wake of the Parkland massacre, Comstock simply offered condolences to the families and voiced support for increased funding for law enforcement officers who work in schools. Her campaign website affirms her commitment to the Second Amendment says nothing about stricter gun laws. Her campaign did not respond to a request for comment.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Roughly a year after Donald Trump’s upset White House victory, Shannon O’Neil, a Latin America expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote a column warning that Russia may not be done meddling in North America’s elections.

“If Russia truly wants to damage the U.S. and weaken the western world order, Mexico’s elections next year offer a more rewarding and more vulnerable target,” O’Neil warned in a November 2017 column titled “Don’t Let Mexico’s Elections Become Putin’s Next Target.”

A month later, Trump’s then National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster seemingly confirmed O’Neil’s warnings. In a December 2017 speech, McMaster reeled off a list of places where the Russian government has been accused of electoral meddling—Catalonia, England, and France—before drawing attention to our southern neighbor.

“You see initial signs of it in the Mexican presidential campaign already,” McMaster said.

“When it comes from Uncle Sam, any statement on this isn’t trusted.”

Yet today, two weeks into the official campaign, there’s scant evidence of Russian interference according to a variety of experts on Mexican politics, cybersecurity, and international security, both inside and outside of the country. The Mexican government has itself denied such claims, and, for what it’s worth, so has the Russian government. A spokesperson for the National Security Council declined to elaborate on McMaster’s comments or provide details about any information or intelligence behind them.

“A lot of the messaging around this is ‘Watch this space and see what may develop,'” he says, “versus really a concrete case that it’s happening.”Jorge Buendia, a pollster in Mexico City who runs the Buendia Laredo polling firm, tells me that in the month’s since McMaster’s warning, he hasn’t seen or heard of anything that would suggest Russian interference. Dan Erikson, a Latin America expert who worked in the Obama State Department and White House says he hasn’t seen anything either.

“Here, the company who is trying to modify the electoral attitudes of the people is Facebook and Cambridge Analytica, not the Russians,” says Raúl Benitez Manaut, a professor of international security at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). “Facebook came from California, not from Moscow.”

As noted by Verificado, a coalition of organizations working to identify false news in real time in the Mexican election, “Russian interference is—for the moment—just a possibility, not a fact.”

That’s not to say the conditions aren’t ripe in Mexico for a 2016-style foreign intervention, especially by a country seeking to complicate American foreign policy. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a populist candidate whose positions on economic and foreign policy might cause stress in Washington, is leading in the polls. The current ruling party’s candidate, José Antonio Meade, is trying to distance himself from the party’s long history of corruption and has slipped into third place. Ricardo Anaya, the candidate for a coalition of left and right parties, currently polls second.

Mexico was ruled by one party for most of the twentieth century, and allegations of ballot box fraud are common. López Obrador, known commonly as “AMLO,” has voiced such complaints himself, especially after his narrow loss in 2006’s presidential election. In the last presidential election in 2012, the ruling party faced accusations it employed a legion of Twitter trolls to push its message.

A Washington Post piece argued that López Obrador was being boosted by Russia through RT.

López Obrador’s political rivals, including those aligned with the PRI, have long worked to paint him as a leftist populist in the mold of Venezuela’s late Hugo Chavez and as a danger to Mexican democracy and stability. Rumors about Russia have begun to meld with such past attacks.

In Mexico, clips of McMaster’s December comments went viral, according to Maxim Trudolyubov, a veteran journalist based at the Kennan Institute who tracks Russian influence. Mexican social media erupted with memes linking AMLO to Russians or Soviets. The candidate responded by laughing off the accusations, joking in a January tweet that he should be called “Andrés Manuelovich,” and posting a video where he looks at the Atlantic Ocean and says he’s waiting for a Russian submarine to bring “gold from Moscow.”

A trio of US senators—Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), and Tim Kaine, (D-Va.)—cited McMaster’s December comments along with unnamed “recent news articles” in a letter they sent then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson ahead of his February trip to Mexico urging him to “raise the importance of strong, independent electoral systems.” The senators’ offices declined or did not respond to requests to disclose what information motivated their letter.

Jose Luis Valdés Ugalde, a UNAM professor of political science and international affairs, notes that Mexicans are accustomed to US interventions in Central American and in their country. He says that members of the Mexican media and others have reached out about potential Russian involvement and “asked me in private and in public whether this is possible.” He says that many Mexicans seem to have taken McMaster’s accusations about Russian involvement with “a sense of humor” because “when it comes from Uncle Sam, any statement on this isn’t trusted.”

One of the reasons that warnings about Russian interference in Mexico have arisen, even if they are unsubstantiated, is that the race—featuring an anti-establishment candidate with a chance to win who reflects domestic political fissures and seeks to upset conventional foreign policy­—fits a pattern familiar to those who have observed Russian meddling operations in the US in 2016, and in France and the Netherlands in 2017.

As the campaign officially began on April 1, López Obrador held a healthy polling lead. If he were to win the July 1 elections, some say he would complicate the relationship between Mexico and the US. He’s been critical of NAFTA, just as Trump has been, and has presented himself as standing up for his people and country against a man many Mexicans see as another American bully president. López Obrador has also talked about reworking landmark 2013 energy reforms that opened up the nation’s oil markets to foreign companies.

The presence in Mexico of Cambridge Analytica also echoes the United States’ 2016 presidential election. The political data firm claims to have been instrumental in Trump’s upset victory and is partly owned by hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, one of Trump’s biggest boosters. After the Wall Street Journal reported in October that its CEO had approached WikiLeaks with an offer to “help [organize] the Hillary Clinton-related emails the website was releasing,” the Daily Beast reported the firm was being scrutinized by at least one congressional investigation into possible collusion between Trump associates and Russia’s 2016 influence operation. Its CEO left the company in April after its sales operations were the target of a hidden camera investigation.

Last fall, BuzzFeed reported that people claiming to work for Cambridge were recruiting potential staffers for a variety of Mexican state and national campaigns. A more recent story by El Financiero, a financial news outlet, reported that it was unclear what the company was doing in Mexico, but that it had not properly registered itself with the Mexican government to participate in the elections, as required of any contractor working with or on behalf of political campaigns. As of March 12, the company still hadn’t filed any official paperwork. Cambridge Analytica issued a statement to El Financiero denying it was operating in Mexico.

“True or false, this is going to effect the image of López Obrador.”

In a Washington Post piece published earlier this year, columnist Frida Ghitis argued that López Obrador, whom she described as “a leftist nationalist,” was being boosted by Russia through RT. Ghitis noted that the channel had “started giving vast amounts of time to AMLO’s main English-language spokesman, John Ackerman,” and pointed out that the candidate has said that Ackerman’s wife, Irma Eréndira Sandoval, would join his cabinet if he were to win the presidency.

Ackerman quickly denied being a spokesman for López Obrador, and attacked Ghitis’s column and the notion of Russian intervention in the election as “fabricated, fake news” and “pure fantasy.” Ackerman told Mother Jones that the attacks on him and his wife are part of a broader disinformation campaign coordinated by the current ruling party to delegitimize AMLO. No matter who may benefit from pointing out the connection, Ackerman’s links to RT and to Obrador’s inner circle (via his wife), seem to be the only pieces of public evidence fueling any allegations about Russian support for AMLO.

Another column published in the Washingon Post in January argued that López Obrador’s attempts to dismiss the allegations of Russian interference with jokes are not enough.Mike Carpenter, a former foreign policy adviser to Vice President Joe Biden and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense and national security council expert on Russia, has closely monitored Russian activity in European elections. He thinks Ackerman’s presence on RT indicates that Russia is engaged in an influence campaign in Mexico. “It’s pretty clear to me that that’s what they’re doing,” Carpenter says.

“If only it were a laughing matter,” wrote León Krauze, a Los Angeles-based Mexican journalist. “López Obrador needs to get serious and sort out a potential conflict of interest within his team before shrugging off any suspicion of Russian influence in his campaign and, crucially, his now likely future government,” he wrote, referring to Ackerman and his wife.

Valdés Ugalde, the political science professor, says rumors that AMLO is connected to Russia ultimately benefit the PRI, the party working hard to derail the leftist candidate.

“Either true or false, this is going to effect the image of López Obrador,” he says. “The rumor is already here, and it’s really difficult now to escape from it.”

Image credit: Druzhinin Alexei/TASS/ZUMA; Michael Snyder/AP; Getty ImagesLooking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

Before you toss that bruised apple or let your leftovers spoil in the fridge, you might want to digest this: New research finds that Americans waste nearly a pound of food per person every day. That’s roughly equal to 30 percent of the average American’s daily calories. And throwing our food into the trash wastes the land, labor, and resources that went into producing it.

Interestingly, new evidence suggests healthy eaters are creating the most food waste. A study published in the journal PLOS ONE on Wednesday found that people who eat higher quality diets—incorporating foods such as fruits and vegetables—also tend to throw more food away. The authors, who looked at both food discarded at home and when people eat out, say its the first study to explore connections between diet quality, food waste, and environment impacts.

“Food waste is an issue for everyone,” Lisa Jahns, a coauthor on the paper, wrote in an email. “We all want the system to work well and to work for everyone’s benefit including the environment’s. Consumers sometimes don’t directly connect the dots about what happens with food waste because the consumer only see the immediate waste, not the larger costs that happen out of their sight.”

To understand what Americans consume, the researchers collected data on food intake and diet quality from the 2015 Healthy Eating Index, the US Department of Agriculture’s What We Eat in America database, and available food waste data. The data only includes self-reported food waste for individuals, not the amount of unused food that restaurants discard. Between 2007-2014, US consumers wasted nearly 150,000 tons of food per day, the study found.

Notably, of 22 food groups studied, the researchers found that much of what people threw away was foods that are generally considered to be key parts of healthy diets, rather than junk food. Fruits, vegetables, and mixed fruit and vegetable dishes (a salad or fruit cocktail, for example) accounted for more than a third of all food waste. Dairy followed at 17 percent, and meat and mixed meat dishes accounted for 14 percent of discarded food.

These uneaten foods annually used 4.2 trillion gallons of irrigation water, nearly 780 million pounds of pesticides, and 30 million acres of cropland. Fruits and vegetables used a greater proportion of those wasted resources, but they also required less land.

Jahns, a research nutritionist at the USDA’s Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research Center, cautions that the study found associations between high quality diets and food waste, not a cause and effect. “A healthy diet isn’t necessarily bad for the environment if consumers are sensitive to factors such as perishability when they shop and cook,” she says.

One limitation of the study is that the data on what people ate was self-reported, and people often underestimate how much food they eat and waste. But overall, the food-waste study helps fill gaps in knowledge, the authors wrote. “Food waste is a critical component of environmental sustainability that, until now, has not been rigorously analyzed alongside diet quality,” they concluded. “The current results suggest that simultaneous efforts to improve diet quality and reduce food waste may be critical.”

“Understanding food waste can help us better understand food consumption, and how we are utilizing the resources that we have,” says Drew Hanks, assistant professor of consumer sciences at Ohio State University. He was initially surprised to see healthy diets linked to more food waste, though after reading the paper, Hanks speculates that people eating high quality diets with more perishable foods might not be using up all the food before it spoils. The next step, he says, is to “go deeper into those questions of ‘what’s driving that waste?’”

“Consumers have to balance many things when they make food choices,” says Meredith Niles, an assistant professor with the University of Vermont Food Systems Program and a coauthor of the new paper. “There’s a lot of constraints on time, and other factors.” While thinking about improving nutrition, researchers simultaneously need to think about food waste, says Niles.

“It really makes me look at my own dietary habits,” Jahns says, “and to be more conscientious of what’s down in the crisper at the bottom of the fridge.”Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

I am waiting with bated breath for one of our Monarch butterfly cocoons to begin hatching. I have high hopes of catching it in a time-lapse video, which I will post here if I manage to get it. In the meantime, here’s a checkered white butterfly, very common here in Southern California. It’s slightly shaky because I took it through my window while I was writing a blog post.Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

The Washington Post reports on a group of doctors who were testing lower dosages of an expensive blood cancer drug called Imbruvica to see if it was effective at lower doses. Then the companies that make Imbruvica hit back:

The researchers at the Value in Cancer Care Consortium, a nonprofit focused on cutting treatment costs for some of the most expensive drugs, set out to test whether the lower dose was just as effective — and could save patients money. Then they learned of a new pricing strategy by Janssen and Pharmacyclics, the companies that sell Imbruvica through a partnership. Within the next three months, the companies will stop making the original 140-milligram capsule, a spokeswoman confirmed. They will instead offer tablets in four strengths — each of which has the same flat price of about $400, or triple the original cost of the pill. Just as scientific momentum was building to test the effectiveness of lower doses, the new pricing scheme ensures dose reductions won’t save patients money or erode companies’ revenue from selling the drug. In fact, patients who had been doing well on a low dose of the drug would now pay more for their treatment. Those who stay on the dose equivalent to three pills a day won’t see a change in price. “That got us kind of p—ed off,” said Mark J. Ratain, an oncologist at the University of Chicago Medicine who wrote about the issue in the Cancer Letter, a publication read by oncologists. “We were just in the early stages of planning [a clinical trial] and getting it organized, and thinking about sample size and funding, and we caught wind of what the company was doing.”

I can’t believe I’m defending a pharmaceutical company, but what did these oncologists expect? Everyone knows that the price of drugs like Imbruvica doesn’t depend on the cost of actually manufacturing the stuff. Whether it costs a penny a pill or $100 a pill is irrelevant. These drugs are priced to recover their R&D costs based on the number of patients who are likely to use them. If the number of pills required was any kind of factor at all, they’d manufacture them in 10-milligram sizes and make people buy 14 or 28 of them.

You can argue about whether drug pricing is too high, but there’s really no argument that the price of a cancer drug should decrease if it turns out you can use less of it. That’s strictly a clinical judgment. The pharmaceutical company still has to recover its development costs, and that doesn’t change regardless of how big a dose is typically required.¹

¹Actually, the new pricing model for Imbruvica may be fairer than the old one. Should a 300-pound person pay more than a 150-pound person just because their body requires a bigger dose? Should people with higher cancer loads pay more than those with lower cancer loads? That’s not at all clear, is it?I got this email from a friend a few days ago and thought I’d share it:

I go to conferences which often have Canadian participants. Once I was speaking with a Canadian, who turned out to be extremely fiscally conservative. Thus, I steered clear of politics but we stumbled on healthcare because he mentioned that his spouse had suffered from two major cancer incidents. I mentioned that this must have been a financial disaster for him. He responded — very nonchalantly — basically along the lines of oh no that was mostly handled by our health care service. His out-of-pocket was fairly low under his supplemental insurance. Both times. Wife is doing well in remission. I asked — because I had heard it — whether treatment was delayed because of the limited number of doctors, etc. I got a weird bemused look in return and he just said no, there was no issue with it. That was really it. He didn’t praise or condemn the system. It was just a positive fact of his existence in Canada.

Then he complained at length about taxes, too much government intervention in all aspects of life, stifled innovation, etc. This guy was wealthy, successful in business, travelled, had houses, etc. And apparently still had a living spouse to share them with without risk or fear of bankruptcy. He reminded me of the many firebreathing Medicare recipients in the U.S. who despise the government, complain about bankrupting the nation, high taxes, welfare louts, but are highly defensive of Medicare — with no self-awareness.

It makes me kind of want to say to conservatives here that, it’s OK, you can totally be for national healthcare and still be a dick about it and everything else. It won’t turn you into a liberal. I’ve seen it!Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.

I’ve come this far, so I guess I might as well finish up:

Much of this is due to the Republican tax bill, of course, which has showered Wall Street with billions and billions of dollars. And why do we think that lower tax rates on big banks are going to improve their ability to lubricate the American economy? That’s a very good question, isn’t it?