Paris (France) (AFP) – Boasting a green, punk hairdo and the unusual ability to breathe through its backside, an Australian turtle has become famous overnight — but not only for its eccentricity.

Unfortunately, just as many of us are discovering the Mary River Turtle’s tantalising traits, it has become the latest creature to join the “EDGE of Existence” list of endangered species compiled by the Zoological Society of London (ZSL).

A native of Queensland, Australia, the turtle was one of 100 reptiles added to the catalogue this week.

It lives only in the Mary River from which it took its name.

The inventory has no shortage of weird and wonderful creatures — a limbless lizard, the world’s largest sea turtle, a blind snake, and a chameleon named after Tarzan.

But the Mary River Turtle might just be the strangest of them all.

“The turtle is highly distinctive,” states a ZSL description of the species known to scientists as Elusor macrurus.

It can breathe underwater through specialised glands in butt organs known as cloaca — orifices through which the turtle excretes urine and waste, and lays eggs.

“This turtle is able to spend so much time underwater — up to three days — without coming up for air due to its strange ability to breathe through its bum,” Rikki Gumbs of the Imperial College London, who helped compile the EDGE reptile list, told AFP.

“They have specialised organs in their cloaca which process oxygen from the surrounding water.”

But perhaps the computer screen-sized turtle’s most distinguishing feature is the bright green, spiky mohawks sprouting on the heads of some.

This is not hair, but algae.

“The Mary River Turtle spends so much time submerged underwater that some individuals become covered in algae — and can end up with some pretty impressive bright green hairstyles!” said Gumbs.

– Popular pet –

According to Australia’s department of the environment, the Mary River Turtle’s rapid decline was sparked by its popularity as a house pet in the 1970s and 80s, known then as the “Penny Turtle”.

The creature was only recognised and listed as a distinct species in 1994.

“The Mary River Turtle takes an exceptionally long time to reach sexual maturity, with individuals not breeding before the age of 25,” said the ZSL.

Destruction of the creatures’ natural habitat through the building of dams, as well as the collection of its eggs for the pet trade, piled on the survival pressure.

“Reptiles often receive the short end of the stick in conservation terms, compared with the likes of birds and mammals,” added Gumbs.

“Just as with tigers, rhinos and elephants, it is vital we do our utmost to save these unique and too-often overlooked animals. Many EDGE reptiles are the sole survivors of ancient lineages.”

The EDGE reptile list also includes the Madagascan blindsnake — a pink, wormlike creature that spends its life burrowing through forest soil– the freshwater “pig-nosed” turtle which uses its distinctive appendage as a snorkel, and the leatherback turtle which can weigh over 900 kilogrammes (1,980 pounds).Paris (France) (AFP) – Hepatitis C is easily cured. Yet, about 400,000 people die of the liver disease every year as only a smattering get the medicine they need.

On Friday, the World Health Organization (WHO) urged governments to attack the problem with more urgency, and more money.

Only about three million people from an estimated 71 million Hepatitis C virus (HCV) carriers, received the treatment they needed, the UN’s health organ said at an International Liver Congress in Paris.

“We very much encourage leaders in countries and politicians, policymakers, to… include Hepatitis C treatment into their broader health portfolio and really also find the domestic resources that are needed to take this forward,” said Gottfried Hirnschall, head of the WHO’s global hepatitis programme.

The price of a cure ranges from about $200 (162 euros) to several thousand dollars per person — excluding diagnostic tests and healthcare salaries and infrastructure.

But “by really frontloading and treating people, and treating them as quickly as possible… you save costs later,” Hirnschall told AFP.

“You save costs that you have if somebody progresses to liver disease or other diseases that require hospitalisation, in some instances very costly liver transplants, (or) tertiary care.”

There is no vaccine for Hepatitis C, and curing it is the best way to prevent virus spread.

HCV is most commonly passed on through infected blood — either by soiled needles used to inject legal or illegal drugs, or blood transfusions.

Only about one in five people even know they are infected. Many go on to develop cancer or cirrhosis of the liver.

– ‘Incredible opportunity’ –

A new category of drug called direct-acting antivirals (DAAs), described by Hirnschall as “revolutionary”, can cure all six major HCV strains, with a success rate of more than 90 percent.

It comes as a once-daily pill taken for eight to 12 weeks.

If all infected people could get it, the treatment would slash liver cancer deaths by 80 percent, says the WHO.

Some countries, such as Egypt, Pakistan, China, and Brazil, have “really started to increase access” to HCV medicines, said Hirnschall — some relying on special licencing agreements that allows for the production of cheaper, generic versions .

As a result, the majority of infected people live in low- to middle-income countries where prices today are but a fraction of the $84,000 initially charged in the United States for a three-month course.

In many rich countries, prices remain high, said Hirnschall.

The WHO is reviewing its guidelines on HCV treatment, he added, and will propose that every person older than 12 must have access to DAA.

Governments right now have “an incredible opportunity,” said Hirnschall, “with medicines becoming available that are simple, that are cheap, that can now be delivered not only through specialist hepatologists but also through the primary care system.

“There’s no reason to not scale this up, to not take this forward.”

The WHO will release an estimate of the global price tag in June.

Two years ago, health ministers agreed to eliminate viral hepatitis as a public health threat by 2030 — meaning to reduce new infections by 90 percent and deaths by 65 percent.

On Thursday, the liver conference heard that only six European countries — the Netherlands, Iceland, Georgia, France, Spain, Switzerland — were on track to meet the goal.

Research published last year showed the number of Hepatitis C infections in the United States had nearly tripled in five years, partly due to a rise in needle-sharing fuelled by the opioid epidemic.Norristown (United States) (AFP) – The Canadian massage therapist whom Bill Cosby allegedly drugged and sexually assaulted 14 years ago told the disgraced entertainer’s American retrial Friday that she “could not fight him off.”

The now frail and isolated 80-year-old could spend the rest of his life behind bars if convicted of aggravated indecent assault against Andrea Constand when she was a Temple University employee in January 2004.

Cosby’s first trial in Norristown, a Philadelphia suburb, ended in a hung jury in June, with a sequestered panel hopelessly deadlocked after six days of testimony and 52 hours of deliberations.

The case has trashed the legacy of the actor once adored by millions as “America’s Dad” for his role as lovable father and obstetrician Cliff Huxtable on the hit 1984-92 television series “The Cosby Show.”

Wearing a white blazer and coral top, the former basketball player sat erect in the witness box, calmly responding to questions from the prosecution but became more nervous under cross-examination from the defense.

Cosby’s lawyer has branded 45-year-old Constand a “con artist” who falsely accused the star to bag a $3.38 million civil settlement in 2006 in a bid to escape debt.

Prosecutors in Montgomery County reopened the case in 2015, arguing new evidence had come to light, while at the same time an avalanche of women came forward publicly to accuse the star of decades of assault.

But the three counts against Constand is the only criminal case to stick, as most of the alleged abuse happened too long ago to prosecute.

Constand knew Cosby while she was director of operations of women’s basketball at Temple, where the actor was on the board of trustees, saying she considered him a mentor.

– ‘Wanted it to stop’ –

On the night of the alleged assault, she said she went to Cosby’s Philadelphia mansion to discuss her impending resignation.

The actor offered her three blue pills to “help take the edge off” which she took believing they were a natural remedy, she said.

“I trusted him,” Constand said. But she allegedly developed double vision, started slurring her words and lost consciousness. When she came too, she said Cosby was behind her on the couch.

“My vagina was being penetrated quite forcefully,” she said.

“I felt my breasts being touched and he took my hand and placed my hand on his penis and masturbated himself with my hand.

“I wanted it to stop… I was limp and I could not fight him off,” she said. “I was really humiliated. I was in shock.”

Cosby, dressed in a dark suit, tie and white shirt, looked variously in Constand’s direction and down at the table as she spoke.

Constand followed five previous women who also alleged they were drugged and assaulted by Cosby, a man they looked up to as a mentor and who often befriended their families to win trust.

Judge Steven O’Neill’s decision to allow them to testify, compared to just one first time around, presents one of the toughest challenges to the defense.

– ‘Absurd’ –

Under sustained cross-examination, defense lawyer Tom Mesereau exposed inconsistencies between what she told police, said today and in testimony given under oath for the civil suit in 2006.

“It was just my mistake,” she replied when asked why she said first that the assault took place in March, the night they dined at a Chinese restaurant, rather than January, the night she hadn’t eaten.

Mesereau attempted to paint her as naive at best or deceptive at worst for claiming she never thought Cosby found her attractive given passes he had made, and gifts of perfume and cashmere sweaters.

Cosby claims that he gave the Canadian an over-the-counter antihistamine to relieve stress and that relations were consensual.

Constand visited Cosby’s home six times, as well as drove to Connecticut to see him at a hotel and twice met him in New York, never once seeing his wife and seemingly never questioning her whereabouts.

Testimony was halted until Monday after the defense presented 100 pages of emails, which they claim tie Constand to a pyramid scheme, and which the judge said she needed time to read.

“It rings a bell but I don’t know what it is,” Constand said.

She called any idea of a romantic relationship “absurd.”

Cosby, she said, was “just a little bit younger than my grandfather. He was a married man and I absolutely never showed an interest… I wasn’t threatened and I didn’t judge him.”LONDON (AP) — Manchester City recovered from a troubled period to put one hand on the English Premier League title with a 3-1 win at Tottenham on Saturday.

Over the last week, City was dumped out of the Champions League by Liverpool and missed the chance to seal top spot by losing to Manchester United.

But Pep Guardiola’s side was back in fine form to see off fourth-place Tottenham. First-half goals from Gabriel Jesus and Ilkay Gundogan and a Raheem Sterling effort after the break did the damage.

City will clinch a third Premier League crown since 2012 if United fails to beat West Bromwich Albion on Sunday or loses to Bournemouth on Wednesday.

Regardless of United’s results, City will be crowned champions by beating Swansea next Sunday.

Tottenham was in the game when Christian Eriksen scored to reduce the deficit to 2-1. But an impressive 14-game unbeaten run in the league — going back to the reverse fixture at City in December — is over.

There was no sign of City’s recent troubles as the visitors immediately found their groove and could have led with only three minutes on the clock.

David Silva foraged down the right and fed Sterling, whose pinpoint cross was sent crashing into the post by a first-time Leroy Sane effort.

The dominant start was rewarded when City took the lead in the 22nd in a manner not out of the usual Guardiola playbook.

A long ball from Kyle Walker saw Gabriel Jesus outpace Davinson Sanchez to race in on goal and finish coolly.

City’s celebrations were barely over by the time they were 2-0 up just three minutes later.

Sterling broke clear this time and, when goalkeeper Hugo Lloris charged out and took out the winger with a rash tackle, referee Jonathan Moss pointed to the spot and Gundogan converted the penalty.

City had done enough to be out of sight but Tottenham got a lifeline just before halftime when Eriksen netted for a third game in a row.

Harry Kane fed him on the edge of the area and there was a large amount of fortune about the finish as his original effort rebounded off goalkeeper Ederson back onto the Dane and into the corner.

Given City’s capitulation against United last week, Tottenham’s goal changed the dynamic of the game and the hosts were camped in City’s half for the opening 20 minutes after the resumption.

But, for all their possession, the hosts could not muster any chances and it was City that had a golden opportunity to put the game to bed in the 64th.

Gabriel Jesus again left Sanchez for dead but this time dragged his shot from the edge of the area horribly wide.

After Sterling missed another fine chance, he finally got on the score sheet in the 72nd. He struck from close range after Gabriel Jesus’ shot was parried.

___

More AP Premier League coverage: www.apnews.com/tag/PremierLeague