Washington (United States) (AFP) – The US Supreme Court on Monday rejected an appeal by the former Democratic governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich, who gained notoriety by trying to sell the US Senate seat vacated by Barack Obama in 2008.

Blagojevich, 61, is serving a 14-year sentence after being convicted in 2011 of corruption charges related to the attempt to sell the Obama senate seat “to the highest bidder,” as the prosecutor put it.

It was the second time that the Supreme Court has declined to take up an appeal by Blagojevich, effectively confirming a sentence that puts him behind bars until’s 2024.

Obama resigned his US Senate seat representing Illinois after his November 2008 victory in the US presidential elections.

As state governor, Blagojevich had the authority to appoint a replacement to fill the seat until the next elections but a jury found he corruptly sought to trade the appointment for personal gain.

He was arrested a few weeks after the November vote and was then impeached and removed from office by the Illinois state legislature in January 2009.U.S. stocks were broadly higher in midday trading Monday, adding to the market’s gains last week. Technology companies, industrial firms and health care stocks accounted for much of the rally. Investors were weighing the latest company earnings and deal news. Oil prices were pulling back after surging last week ahead of the U.S.-led missile attack on Syria’s chemical weapons program.

KEEPING SCORE: The S&P 500 index rose 18 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,675 as of 12:37 p.m. Eastern Time. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 194 points, or 0.8 percent, to 24,554. The Nasdaq added 43 points, or 0.6 percent, to 7,149. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks picked up 10 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,560.

THE QUOTE: “What we have going on is a little bit of a relief rally,” said Erik Davidson, chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. “The whole Syria situation could have gone a lot worse.”

EYE ON EARNINGS: It’s report card time for corporate America the next few weeks. Wall Street is forecasting the strongest growth in seven years for S&P 500 companies, and the hope has been that healthy profit reports will steady the market following a rough couple of months.

ICAHN’S BET: Carl Icahn’s company has struck a roughly $1.85 billion deal that would fuse the gambling and hotel operations of Tropicana Entertainment to Eldorado Resorts Inc. Tropicana vaulted 27 percent to $69.85. Eldorado jumped 17.6 percent to $42.

WAY TO DELIVER: Domino’s rose 1.4 percent to $233.43 after the pizza chain said that it will now deliver to the great outdoors, which has been bringing pizzas to doorsteps for more than half a century, will now deliver to beaches, parks and other outdoor spots.

KEEP ON TRUCKIN: Investors welcomed J.B. Hunt Transport Services’ latest quarterly results. The transportation company said shipping volumes grew in the first quarter and rates increased. Its shares climbed 6.5 percent to $120.12.

C-SUITE SHAKEUP: Shares in WPP, the world’s largest ad agency, fell 5.6 percent to $79.76 after its CEO, Martin Sorrell, resigned over an investigation into personal misconduct. Analysts say his departure could leave the company he founded three decades ago rudderless, but could also see parts sold off for higher value.

ENERGY: Oil prices fell back from spikes last week on fears over an escalation of strife in the Middle East. Benchmark U.S. crude declined 94 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $66.45 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, slid 93 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $71.65 per barrel.

BOND YIELDS: Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.83 percent from 2.83 percent late Friday.

CURRENCIES: The dollar fell to 107.18 yen from 107.41 yen on Friday. The euro strengthened to $1.2375 from $1.2334.

OVERSEAS: In Europe, Germany’s DAX slid 0.4 percent, while the CAC 40 in France was essentially flat. The FTSE 100 in Britain dropped 0.9 percent. Earlier in Asia, Japan’s Nikkei 225 index rose 0.3 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng dropped 1.6 percent. South Korea’s Kospi edged 0.1 percent higher. Australia’s S&P ASX 200 picked up 0.2 percent.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The Latest on arrest of black men at a Philadelphia Starbucks (all times local):

11:45 a.m.

Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson says the company is reviewing the arrest of two black men in a Philadelphia store last week and expects to train store managers on “unconscious bias.”

“We’re looking at all aspects to ensure that this never happens again,” Johnson said Monday.

Asked if the incident was a case of racism, he responded: “Starbucks was built around the concept of a third place where we create a warm and welcoming environment for all customers. What I do know is that did not happen in this instance. And that is what we’re focused on.”

Johnson said he hopes to meet the two men in the next couple of days. He says he’s like to have a dialogue with them and listen with “compassion and empathy” about what they went through.

___

10:05 a.m.

The CEO of Starbucks is in Philadelphia, hoping to meet with the two black men were arrested after employees of one of his stores called 911 to say the men were trespassing.

Kevin Johnson tells ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Monday he will meet with the mayor, police and hopefully the men who were arrested Thursday and later released. A call seeking comment from the men’s lawyer wasn’t immediately returned Monday.

Johnson’s comments came as about two dozen protesters took over the Starbucks location where the arrests happened.

The demonstrators stood by the counter chanting slogans like “Starbucks coffee is anti-black.”

Officials have said police officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything, and they refused to leave.

___

7:40 a.m.

About two dozen chanting protesters have entered a Philadelphia Starbucks where two black men were arrested after store employees called 911 to say they were trespassing.

The protesters moved to the front counter shortly after 7 a.m. Monday and chanted “Starbucks coffee is anti-black.”

Over the weekend, demonstrators called for the firing of the employee who contacted police, who arrested the men on Thursday.

Officials have said police officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything and they refused to leave.

Police haven’t released the names of the men who were arrested and later released after the district attorney’s office said there was lack of evidence that a crime had been committed.

Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson has called the arrests a “reprehensible outcome.”

___

6:50 a.m.

Protests are planned at a Philadelphia Starbucks where two black men were arrested after store employees called 911 to say they were trespassing.

Organizers have called for protests to begin at 7 a.m. Monday outside the downtown Starbucks. Over the weekend, protesters called for the firing of the employee who contacted police, who arrested the men on Thursday.

Police Commissioner Richard Ross has said officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything. He said they then refused to leave.

Police haven’t released the names of the men who were arrested. A spokesman for the district attorney’s office said the two were released “because of lack of evidence” that a crime had been committed.

Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson has called the arrests a “reprehensible outcome” and said he wants to personally apologize to the men.Washington (United States) (AFP) – The White House on Monday said it was weighing fresh Russia sanctions for Moscow’s role supporting Syria’s chemical weapons program, but officials cautioned that no decision has yet been taken.

“We are considering additional sanctions on Russia and a decision will be made in the near future,” said press secretary Sarah Sanders.

That message appeared to tap the breaks on imminent punitive economic measures. “We are evaluating but nothing to announce right now,” she said.

On Sunday, US ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said new sanctions would be announced on Monday by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin.

Haley said the measures would target companies that supplied Damascus with equipment and other material related to chemical weapons, which killed more than 40 people in Douma on April 7 and prompted US-led airstrikes.

“With the political and diplomatic actions that we’re taking now, we wanted their friends Iran and Russia to know that we meant business and that they were going to be feeling the pain from this as well,” she said.

With an announcement seemingly imminent, officials at the Departments of State and Treasury referred queries back to the White House, while others indicated a Monday announcement was now unlikely.

It is not clear what has caused the apparent delay, but sanctions decisions are usually weeks if not months in the making.

The United States and European allies had discussed a sanctions package in the build up to last week’s strikes against targets in Syria, with the American measures said to be further along in the planning process than Europe — where consensus among member states is needed.

Adding to the complication is the lack of a Secretary of State after Rex Tillerson’s departure, as well as President Donald Trump’s desire to improve relations with Russia.

A Washington Post report suggested Trump had been furious with aides over the recent decision to expel 60 Russian diplomats, believing each European country — rather than Europe as a whole — would match that figure.

The White House said that despite events in Syria and the poisoning of a spy on British soil, Trump still wanted to sit down with Putin.

“The president has been clear that he’s going to be tough on Russia, but at the same time he’d still like to have a good relationship with them,” Sanders said.

​”The president would still like to sit down with him, he feels like it’s better for the world if they have a good relationship.”

“But that’s going to depend on the actions of Russia. We’ve been very clear in our actions what we expect and we hope they’ll have a change in their behavior.”Washington (United States) (AFP) – The US Environmental Protection Agency broke the law when it spent thousands of dollars building a soundproof booth for its embattled director who was appointed by President Donald Trump, government investigators said Monday.

The nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) determined the agency was wrong when it spent more than $40,000 on the project without first consulting Congress, a decision that heaps pressure on EPA administrator Scott Pruitt, who is already in hot water over mounting ethics questions.

“EPA used its appropriations in a manner specifically prohibited by law,” GAO General Counsel Thomas Armstrong wrote in a letter to lawmakers.

Section 710 of a 2017 government appropriations act prohibits spending more than $5,000 to furnish, redecorate or make improvements to an office of a presidential appointee without prior notification to Congress.

“We conclude that EPA violated Section 710 when it obligated $43,238.68 for the installation of a soundproof privacy booth without providing advance notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate,” the letter said.

Pruitt has been under fire for his lavish spending on first-class travel and his large security detail, for a discount he received on a condominium rental linked to a lobbying firm, and for allegedly sharply boosting salaries of close aides at the EPA.

With concern over the scandals growing, Trump recently reaffirmed support of his cabinet member, calling him a “good man” who has done a “great job” helming the EPA.

Several lawmakers have called for Pruitt to resign or be fired, including three Republicans. And environmentalists say he seems intent on weakening the agency he heads.

In a joint statement, congresswoman Betty McCollum and Senator Tom Udall, both Democrats, said, “Today’s GAO report is the latest proof of the rampant corruption and misconduct” at the EPA under Pruitt.LONDON (AP) — Britain’s Court of Appeal ruled Monday against the parents of a terminally ill toddler who sought permission to take him to Italy for medical treatment that lower U.K. courts blocked in favor of suspending life support.

The parents of 23-month-old Alfie Evans have been engaged in a protracted legal fight with Alder Hey Children’s Hospital over his care. They asked the Court of Appeal to overturn earlier rulings that blocked further medical treatment for their son.

Instead, justices upheld a lower court’s conclusion that flying Alfie to a hospital in Rome would be wrong and pointless.

Some protesters gathered outside the hospital in Liverpool wept at the news of the appeals court’s decision. Some chanted “Save Alfie Evans!”

Alfie is in a “semi-vegetative state” as the result of a degenerative neurological condition that doctors have been unable to definitively identify. Lower courts have ordered the boy’s life support to be withdrawn.

Pope Francis prayed Sunday for Alfie and others who are suffering from serious infirmities. The pope’s comments marked the second case in less than a year in which he expressed his views on the treatment of a terminally ill British child.

Last July, Francis spoke out on behalf of Charlie Gard, who died from a rare genetic disease after his parents waged a protracted court fight to obtain treatment for him outside of Britain.

In appealing the lower court rulings, Alfie’s parents, Tom Evans, 21, and Kate James, 20, argued their son had shown improvement in recent weeks. But doctors said his brain was eroded and his condition was irreversible.WASHINGTON (AP) — In his scathing appraisal of the man who fired him as FBI chief, James Comey cited “some evidence of obstruction of justice” in President Donald Trump’s actions and speculated that Russians might have dirt on the president. Trump struck back, branding Comey a criminal.

Their war of words escalated Monday after Comey, in an ABC interview broadcast the night before, labelled Trump “morally unfit” for office.

Trump tweeted that Comey drafted an exoneration of Hillary Clinton long before he talked to her as part of an investigation into her email practices. He labelled Comey “disgruntled” and accused him and allies of having “committed many crimes.” For his part, Comey has said that nine or 10 months into the Clinton probe, he had a “clear picture” where it was going and it’s common to draft statements before an investigation is complete.

Comey’s remarks, coupled with the release of his forthcoming book, offer his version of events surrounding his firing and the investigations into Russian election meddling and Clinton’s email practices. Several of the episodes he describes in detail, including a private conversation about former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn, are central to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and his recollections are presumably valuable for prosecutors examining whether the president’s actions constitute obstruction of justice.

The ex-FBI director, who until his firing in May led an investigation into possible ties between Russia and the Trump campaign, acknowledged that it was “stunning” to think that Russia could have damaging information about a U.S. president. But he said that in Trump’s case, he could not discount the possibility that the president had been compromised.

“These are more words I never thought I’d utter about a president of the United States, but it’s possible,” Comey told ABC News’ chief anchor George Stephanopoulos. He also acknowledged he had no proof that Russia has dirt on Trump: “I think it’s possible. I don’t know.”

He also answered “possibly” when asked if the president was attempting to obstruct justice when he cleared the Oval Office of other officials in February 2017 before encouraging him to close the investigation into Flynn, who by that point was suspected of lying to the FBI about his Russian contacts. The retired general pleaded guilty in December and is now cooperating with Mueller’s investigation.

Comey also said he believed Trump treated women like “pieces of meat.”

“A person who sees moral equivalence in Charlottesville, who talks about and treats women like they’re pieces of meat, who lies constantly about matters big and small and insists the American people believe it — that person’s not fit to be president of the United States, on moral grounds,” Comey said.

Trump on Sunday rejected Comey’s assertion that Trump had sought his loyalty at a January 2017 dinner, saying “I hardly even knew this guy. Just another of his many lies.” He also suggested Comey should be imprisoned, tweeting, “how come he gave up Classified Information (jail), why did he lie to Congress (jail).” There is no indication Comey is under investigation for doing either.

The president began assailing Comey even before the interview came out.

He seized on an excerpt shown Saturday in which Comey said his belief that Clinton would beat Trump in the 2016 presidential election was probably a factor in his decision to disclose the investigation into her emails. Comey, Trump tweeted, “was making decisions based on the fact that he thought she was going to win, and he wanted a job. Slimeball!”

That argument was startling given that Comey’s handling of the email investigation, including his disclosure shortly before the election that the FBI had reopened its probe, enraged Democrats. After Clinton’s loss, many Democrats blamed Comey, and Clinton herself has said it hurt her election prospects.

Comey again defended his actions, telling ABC that he made what he thought was the best decision at the time. Comey said he did not remember “consciously thinking” about the election results as he decided to disclose that the FBI had reopened its investigation into candidate Clinton’s email use. But, he acknowledged, “I was operating in a world where Hillary Clinton was going to beat Donald Trump, and so I’m sure that it was a factor.”

“I don’t remember spelling it out,” he added, “but it had to have been that she’s going to be elected president and if I hide this from the American people, she’ll be illegitimate the moment she’s elected, the moment this comes out.”

Trump fired Comey in May 2017, setting off a scramble at the Justice Department that led to the appointment of Mueller as special counsel overseeing the Russia investigation. Mueller’s probe has expanded to include whether Trump obstructed justice by firing Comey. So far, 19 people — including Flynn and Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort —have been charged in the investigation. Flynn and two of the president’s campaign aides, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos, have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with Mueller.

Asked whether he believed Trump ought to be impeached, Comey replied, “I hope not because I think impeaching and removing Donald Trump from office would let the American people off the hook and have something happen indirectly that I believe they’re duty bound to do directly. People in this country need to stand up and go to the voting booth and vote their values.”

He added: “But you cannot have, as president of the United States, someone who does not reflect the values that I believe Republicans treasure and Democrats treasure and independents treasure. That is the core of this country. That’s our foundation. And so impeachment, in a way, would short circuit that.”BEIRUT (AP) — Independent investigators were prevented by Syrian and Russian authorities Monday from reaching the scene of an alleged chemical attack near the Syrian capital, an official said, days after the U.S., France and Britain bombarded sites they said were linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program.

The lack of access to the town of Douma by inspectors from the watchdog group, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, has left questions about the April 7 attack unanswered.

OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu said Syrian and Russian officials cited “pending security issues” in keeping its inspectors from reaching Douma.

“The team has not yet deployed to Douma,” two days after arriving in Syria, Uzumcu told an executive council of the OPCW in The Hague.

Syrian authorities were offering 22 people to interview as witnesses instead, he said, adding that he hoped “all necessary arrangements will be made … to allow the team to deploy to Douma as soon as possible.”

The U.S. and France say they have evidence that poison gas was used in Douma, east of Damascus, killing dozens of people, and that President Bashar Assad’s military was behind it, but they have made none of that evidence public. Syria and its ally Russia deny any such attack took place.

Deputy Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov blamed the Western airstrikes carried out early Saturday for holding up a mission by the OPCW team to Douma. He told reporters in Moscow that the inspectors could not go to the site because they need permission from the U.N. Department for Safety and Security.

But a U.N. spokesman said the clearances have been given to the OPCW team.

“The United Nations has provided the necessary clearances for the OPCW team to go about its work in Douma. We have not denied the team any request for it to go to Douma,” said U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric.

Both Russia and the Syrian government have welcomed the OPCW visit. The team arrived in Syria shortly before the airstrikes and met with Syrian officials. Government forces and Russian troops have been deployed in Douma, which is now controlled by the Syrian government.

Syrian opposition and activists have criticized the Russia deployment in the town, saying that evidence of chemical weapons’ use might no longer be found.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov denied that Russia interfered with any evidence.

“I can guarantee that Russia has not tampered with the site,” Lavrov told the BBC in an interview Monday.

Syria’s Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad has said his country is “fully ready” to cooperate with the OPCW mission. He said government officials met with the delegation, which has been in Damascus for three days, a number of times to discuss cooperation.

Syria has in the past accused the West of politically manipulating the OPCW mission.

At least 40 people are believed to have died in the attack on Douma, which until Saturday was the last rebel-held town near Damascus.

The OPCW team dispatched to Syria to investigate does not have a mandate to assign blame.

Russia vetoed last year the extension of the mandate of another joint U.N.-OPCW joint body in charge of determining who was behind other chemical attacks in Syria. The joint body was created in 2015 and found the Syrian government responsible for using sarin gas last year in Khan Shaykhoun, a rebel-held area in northern Syria.

Meanwhile, NATO’s secretary general said the U.S.-led airstrikes will reduce the Syrian government’s capabilities of carrying out new chemical attacks.

Jens Stoltenberg said the strikes were a “clear message” to Assad, Russia and Iran that the use of chemical weapons is not acceptable and that the allies would not stand idle. He spoke in an interview with Turkey’s NTV television on Monday.

In Damascus, hundreds of Syrians gathered Monday in Omayyad Square in Damascus, rallying in support of their armed forces, which they said had succeeded in confronting the airstrikes by the West.

State TV broadcast the rally live from the central square, where protesters waved Syrian flags in a demonstration that was dubbed a “salute to the achievements of the Arab Syrian Army.” They also set off fireworks and unleashed celebratory gunfire.

Shouts of “Allah, Syria, and only Bashar,” a reference to Assad, rang out.

The strikes have ratcheted up international tension, as the U.S. and Russia exchanged threats of retaliation.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said a decision on new economic sanctions against Russia will be made “in the near future.” U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley had said a decision was coming Monday for sanctions against Russia for enabling the Assad government to continue using chemical weapons, but the White House did not commit to that timetable.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said the military strikes violated the U.N. Charter and that if they continue, “it will inevitably entail chaos in international relations,” according to a Kremlin statement on Sunday.

Douma was the last rebel holdout in the eastern Ghouta enclave, which was the target of a government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds and displaced tens of thousands of people.

Syrian media, Russian and Syrian officials have sought to play down the impact of the airstrikes, saying the Syrian air defenses intercepted most of the missiles. The Pentagon says no missiles were engaged.

Also Monday, British Prime Minister Theresa May was to face angry lawmakers for authorizing the strikes without a vote in Parliament. Her office said she planned to tell them the strikes were “in Britain’s national interest” and were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks.

___

Vasilyeva reported from Moscow. Associated Press writer Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations and Raf Casert in Luxembourg contributed.NEW YORK (AP) — Raphael Golb’s conviction wasn’t quite like any other: using online aliases to discredit his father’s adversary in a scholarly debate over the Dead Sea Scrolls.

The 9-year-old case got a New York law thrown out and finally ended Monday with no jail time for Golb, who persuaded a judge to revisit a two-month jail sentence imposed earlier in the case.

Appeals had put the jail term on hold and narrowed the counts in his criminal impersonation and forgery conviction in a curious case of ancient religious texts, digital misdeeds, academic rivalries and filial loyalty.

“Obviously, I’m relieved not to be going to jail,” Golb said, adding that he remains concerned by having been prosecuted for online activity he said was meant as satire. “The judge today did the right thing, but the whole thing should have been thrown out nine years ago.”

Prosecutors said jail was a fair punishment for a man who posed online as a prominent professor to send academically damning emails about the scholar himself.

“The (jail) sentence should stand,” Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Elizabeth Roper said.

The case began when colleagues and students of New York University Judaic studies scholar Lawrence Schiffman got emails in which he seemed to suggest he’d plagiarized the work of another Jewish history expert, Norman Golb of the University of Chicago.

The two were on different sides of an obscure but heated dispute over which ancient Jews wrote the more than 2,000-year-old scrolls, which include the earliest known version of portions of the Hebrew Bible.

But the emails weren’t actually from Schiffman, who later said he spent weeks refuting the claims.

By 2009, authorities said they’d figured out who was behind the messages: Raphael Golb, a literature scholar and now-disbarred lawyer who is Norman Golb’s son. Charging Raphael Golb with identity theft and other crimes, prosecutors said he’d created an elaborate electronic campaign involving blog posts and 70 phony email accounts to tarnish his father’s detractors.

Raphael Golb initially argued the writings weren’t a crime but parody and academic whistle-blowing meant to counter scholarly scorn directed at his father and expose “unethical conduct” in his field.

Or, as Golb put it in 2010 testimony: “I used methods of satire, irony, parody and any other form of verbal rhetoric that became the type of language used by philosophers during the Enlightenment to expose the irrational arguments of their opponents.”

Indeed, the trial was so full of erudite references that it sometimes felt more like an academic conference, touching on the French Enlightenment writer Voltaire, the early 1900s Portuguese poet Fernando Pessoa, the Roman thinker Pliny the Elder, and more.

But it also was, particularly at the time, a relatively rare internet impersonation prosecution that didn’t involve financial crimes.

Golb was convicted in 2010. He was sentenced then to six months in jail, a term that would be reduced as his appeals cut a twist-filled path through state and federal courts and the state Legislature.

In one turn, the case prompted New York state’s highest court in 2014 to strike down an often-used aggravated harassment law that made it a misdemeanor to communicate with someone “in a manner likely to cause annoyance or alarm” and with the intent to do so. Police and prosecutors saw it as an important tool for pursuing domestic violence and other cases, but Golb and his lawyer called it an unconstitutional intrusion on free-speech rights.

The state Court of Appeals concluded the law was “unconstitutionally vague and overbroad.” The state Legislature later passed a revised version.

The Court of Appeals also dismissed some of the counts in Golb’s conviction, including the only felony — identity theft — which had led to his disbarment. He was resentenced to two months in jail.

Federal courts subsequently cut some more counts, leaving a total of 10 — and rejecting Golb’s argument that state law goes too far by making it a crime to impersonate someone to harm their reputation.

Golb’s lawyer, Ron Kuby, said that law is “a very, very dangerous weapon in the hands of district attorneys’ offices.”NEW YORK (AP) — The Latest on efforts by President Donald Trump and his personal lawyer to stop criminal prosecutors from reviewing materials seized in raids before they have a chance to review them for potential breach of attorney-client privilege. (all times local):

10:40 a.m.

Lawyers for President Donald Trump’s personal attorney say investigators “took everything” during raids last week on his residence and office.

The lawyers wrote in a court filing Monday that the raids a week ago to gather evidence from attorney Michael Cohen were “completely unprecedented.”

They said investigators seized more than a dozen electronic devices and other items including documents and data unrelated to the probable cause upon which the search warrants were based.

The letter demanded Trump and Cohen’s lawyers be allowed to decide which items seized are protected by attorney-client privilege before criminal prosecutors see them.

The submission in Manhattan federal court came prior to a hearing scheduled for the afternoon. Prosecutors say Cohen is being investigated for an undisclosed crime related to his personal business dealings.

___

8:14 a.m.

President Donald Trump’s personal attorney is set to appear in federal court to argue over evidence found during a recent FBI raid, and porn star Stormy Daniels’ lawyer says she’ll be there.

Michael Cohen is under criminal investigation for personal business dealings and was ordered to appear in federal court Monday in New York to help answer questions about his law practice. He has denied wrongdoing.

A lawyer for Trump filed papers late Sunday asking a federal judge to block prosecutors from studying material seized in the raid until Cohen and the president have a chance to review them and argue which are subject to attorney-client privilege.

The raid sought information including on a $130,000 payment made to Daniels, who alleges she had sex with a married Trump in 2006. Her lawyer says she’ll be in the courtroom Monday.Lima (Peru) (AFP) – US Vice President Mike Pence held brief bilateral talks with the leaders of Mexico and Canada on Saturday about the state of play in their NAFTA renegotiations, saying he was “encouraged” by recent progress towards a deal.

The discussions on the sidelines of the Summit of the Americas in Peru came as US officials said they believed they were narrowing differences over a revised North American Free Trade Agreement, 24 years after its inception.

But US relations with Mexico had soured in recent weeks as US President Donald Trump has sought to link the trade talks to Mexican efforts to stop migrants illegally crossing the border into the US, and ordered National Guard troops to the border.

Reporters travelling with Pence said the vice president first saw Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and then met with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto half an hour later.

Pence’s demeanor with Trudeau was notably warmer than with Pena Nieto.

“We are neighbors, we are cherished friends,” Pence said after shaking hands with the Canadian leader.

“We think we’re close” on a new NAFTA arrangement, Pence said.

“We are encouraged with the progress of our negotiations, and we are hopeful that we can conclude a successful renegotiation.”

– ‘Very productive’ –

Trudeau echoed Pence’s assessment, telling reporters he believed “good progress” was being made on NAFTA.

“There is a definite positive momentum,” he said, adding there was “potential progress” on issues related to the auto sector.

“We will continue to work hard at the negotiating table, we will continue to negotiate in good faith and hope to reach a win-win-win renegotiation of NAFTA.”

With Pena Nieto, meanwhile, Pence said: “I look forward to a discussion not only on NAFTA but on a broad range of issues.”

The Mexican leader emphasized the need to talk about “the bilateral relationship we want to have of cooperation and mutual respect.”

Neither man responded when reporters asked questions about the wall Trump wants to build along the US-Mexico border, or if Pena Nieto still rejected Trump’s demand that Mexico pay for the barrier.

Later, Pence told reporters that the meetings were “very productive.”

He confirmed that he and Pena Nieto did not discuss the contentious issue of Trump’s border wall.

“I think President Pena Nieto understands that he and President Trump have a difference of opinion on that,” he said.

Instead, the pair talked about a recent migrant “caravan” march that left from Central America and was heading to the US before dissipating in Mexico after Trump became agitated over it, and “a great deal about NAFTA,” Pence said.

“I’ll leave this summit very hopeful that we are very close to a renegotiated better deal for the American people” that is “mutually beneficial” for Mexico and Canada, he said.

“It’s not done yet. There are still issues that need to be resolved. But we believe there is a real possibility that we could arrive within the next several weeks at a renegotiated NAFTA.”

Mexico has already said it hopes to get agreement on the revised NAFTA deal next month — but Pena Nieto told reporters there is “absolutely no date” set to sign a new treaty.

The Mexican president has ordered his government to carry out a sweeping review of its cooperation with the United States amid rising tensions.

However, he said in Lima that during his meeting with Pence, he noted a “very positive, receptive and above all understanding attitude” to Mexico’s position.

Pence was accompanied by several US officials to Peru, including Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and senior advisor tasked with handling various international foreign policy issues.

Kushner also took part in the bilateral talks with Trudeau and Pena Nieto, Pence aides said.HOUSTON (AP) — Former first lady Barbara Bush, who was reported in “failing health” over the weekend, is in “great spirits” and the family is grateful for “everybody’s prayers and thoughts,” her granddaughter said Monday.

Bush family spokesman Jim McGrath said in a news release Sunday that “Mrs. Bush, now age 92, has decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care” at home in Houston following consultations with her doctors and family.

McGrath did not elaborate on the nature of Bush’s health problems. She has been treated for decades for Graves’ disease, which is a thyroid condition, had heart surgery in 2009 for a severe narrowing of her main heart valve and was hospitalized a year before that for surgery on a perforated ulcer. Media reports say she has also suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and has used an oxygen tank in recent years.

Jenna Bush Hager, an anchor on NBC’s “Today” show, told the program Monday morning that Bush is resting comfortably with family.

“She’s a fighter. She’s an enforcer,” Hager said, using the family’s nickname for her grandmother. “We’re grateful for her, for everybody’s prayers and thoughts, and just know the world is better because she is in it.”

“We are grateful for her. She’s the best grandma anybody could have ever had … or have,” she said.

Bush is one of only two first ladies who was also the mother of a president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams, the nation’s second president, and mother of John Quincy Adams, the sixth president.

Bush married George H.W. Bush on Jan. 6, 1945. They had six children and have been married longer than any presidential couple in American history.

Eight years after she and her husband left the White House, Mrs. Bush stood with her husband as their son George W. was sworn in as the 43rd president.

Hager said the former president “still says, ‘I love you Barbie’ every night,” describing their grandparents’ close relationship as “remarkable.”

McGrath said Bush was concerned more for her family than herself.

“It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others,” he said.

President Donald Trump’s press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said in a statement Sunday evening that “the President’s and first lady’s prayers are with all of the Bush family during this time.”

Bush is known for her white hair and her triple-strand fake pearl necklace.

Her brown hair began to gray in the 1950s, while her 3-year-old daughter Pauline, known to her family as Robin, underwent treatment for leukemia and eventually died in October 1953. She later said dyed hair didn’t look good on her and credited the color to the public’s perception of her as “everybody’s grandmother.”

Her pearls sparked a national fashion trend when she wore them to her husband’s inauguration in 1989. The pearls became synonymous with Bush, who later said she selected them to hide the wrinkles in her neck. The candid admission only bolstered her common sense and down-to-earth public image.

Her 93-year-old husband, the nation’s 41st president who served from 1989 to 1993, also has had health issues in recent years. In April 2017, he was hospitalized in Houston for two weeks for a mild case of pneumonia and chronic bronchitis. He was hospitalized months earlier, also for pneumonia. He has a form of Parkinson’s disease and uses a motorized scooter or a wheelchair for mobility.

Before being president, he served as a congressman, CIA director and Ronald Reagan’s vice president.

Barbara Pierce Bush was born June 8, 1925, in Rye, New York. Her father was the publisher of McCall’s and Redbook magazines. She and George H.W. Bush married when she was 19 and while he was a young naval aviator. After World War II, the Bushes moved to Texas where he went into the oil business.

Along with her memoirs, she’s the author of “C. Fred’s Story” and “Millie’s Book,” based on the lives of her dogs. Proceeds from the books benefited adult and family literacy programs. The Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy began during her White House years with the goal of improving the lives of disadvantaged Americans by boosting literacy among parents and their children. The foundation partners with local programs and had awarded more than $40 million as of 2014 to create or expand more than 1,500 literacy programs nationwide.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The CEO of Starbucks arrived in Philadelphia hoping to meet with two black men who were arrested when the coffee chain’s employees called 911 and said they were trespassing. Meanwhile, protesters took over the shop Monday.

“I would like to have a dialogue with them to make sure we have the opportunity to really understand the situation and they can join me in finding constructive way to solve this issue,” Starbucks’ CEO Kevin Johnson on ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Monday. He called their arrest “reprehensible.”

A call seeking comment from the men’s lawyer about any possible meeting wasn’t immediately returned.

About two dozen chanting protesters took over the Starbucks location Monday to protest the arrests.

“We don’t want this Starbucks to make any money today. That’s our goal,” said Abdul-Aliy Muhammad, one of the protest’s organizers and co-founder of the Black and Brown Workers Collective.

Just before 7:30 a.m., the protesters moved inside and stood in front of the counter, some holding banners reading “End Stop and Frisk,” chanting slogans like, “A whole lot of racism, a whole lot of crap, Starbucks coffee is anti-black.”

Starbucks regional vice president Camille Hymes attempted to talk to the protesters, but was shouted down.

Over the weekend, demonstrators called for the firing of the employee who contacted police, who arrested the men on Thursday.

Officials have said police officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything and they refused to leave.

Police haven’t released the names of the men who were arrested and later released after the district attorney’s office said there was lack of evidence that a crime had been committed.

Over the weekend Johnson issued a statement saying the company is investigating its practices, working on training and will reach out to outside experts to make any needed changes that would help prevent such an occurrence from happening again.

“Creating an environment that is both safe and welcoming for everyone is paramount for every store,” he said in the statement. “Regretfully, our practices and training led to a bad outcome — the basis for the call to the Philadelphia police department was wrong. Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did.”NEW YORK (AP) — The porn actress Stormy Daniels is expected to attend a court hearing in New York Monday where a U.S. judge will hear more arguments about President Donald Trump’s extraordinary request that he be allowed to review records seized from his lawyer’s office as part of a criminal investigation before they are examined by prosecutors.

Trump was still steaming Sunday about FBI raids targeting his personal attorney, Michael Cohen, who prosecutors said is being investigated for an undisclosed crime related to his personal business dealings.

The raid carried out last Monday at Cohen’s apartment, hotel room, office and safety deposit box sought bank records, records on Cohen’s dealing in the taxi industry, Cohen’s communications with the Trump campaign and information on payments made in 2016 to former Playboy model Karen McDougal and to Daniels, whose birth name is Stephanie Clifford, people familiar with the investigation told The Associated Press. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the confidential details of the investigation.

Both women say they had affairs with Trump.

One of Trump’s lawyers, Joanna Hendon, filed papers late Sunday asking a federal judge to block prosecutors from studying material seized in the raid until Cohen and the president have both had a chance to review those materials and argue which are subject to attorney-client privilege.

“Fairness and justice — as well as the appearance of fairness and justice — require that, before they are turned over to the Investigative Team, the seized materials relating to the President must be reviewed by the only person who is truly motivated to ensure that the privilege is properly invoked and applied: the privilege-holder himself, the President,” Hendon wrote.

She and Cohen’s lawyers are due in court Monday afternoon. Daniels’ lawyer says she’ll be there, too, as will Cohen, who has been ordered to appear in court to help answer questions about his law practice. He has denied wrongdoing.

On Friday, lawyers for Cohen appeared in federal court in New York asking that they, not the Department of Justice, be given a first crack at reviewing the seized evidence to see if it was relevant to the investigation or could be forwarded to criminal investigators without jeopardizing attorney-client privilege.

Prosecutors want a different system, in which a special team of Justice Department lawyers not directly involved in the probe would review the material and determine what was off-limits to investigators because of attorney-client privilege.

Hendon proposed yet another level of protections, in which Cohen’s lawyers, after finishing their initial review, then be required to “identify to the president all seized materials that relate to him in any way and provide a copy of those materials to him and his counsel.”

Trump, or his lawyers, would then get to say what he believed to be off-limits to investigators.

Trump said Sunday that all lawyers are now “deflated and concerned” by the FBI raid on Cohen.

“Attorney Client privilege is now a thing of the past,” he tweeted. “I have many (too many!) lawyers and they are probably wondering when their offices, and even homes, are going to be raided with everything, including their phones and computers, taken. All lawyers are deflated and concerned!”BERLIN (AP) — Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party says the rights of Germany’s parliament must be preserved as the eurozone rescue fund is converted into a “European Monetary Fund,” and that the EU’s Executive Commission shouldn’t have sole control of the new body.

Germany and France aim to agree on proposals for European Union changes by June. French President Emmanuel Macron has pushed for deep reforms of the 19-nation eurozone, which uses the shared euro currency.

Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, general secretary of Merkel’s conservative Christian Democratic Union, said Monday her party is not conducting a “discussion meant to block anything” in June. But she says “our aim is for the results … to be in European and German interests.”

Merkel has cautiously welcomed Macron’s proposals but made clear Germany’s reluctance to share financial liability remains.ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — Turkey warned Greece on Monday to refrain from “provocations” after a Greek flag was hoisted on a disputed, uninhabited islet in the Aegean Sea off the Turkish coast.

Prime Minister Binali Yildirim told reporters that the Turkish coast guards had removed the flag from the island off the coast of the Aegean resort of Didim.

Yildirim said the incident was similar to one in 1996 when the two NATO allies went to war over uninhabited islets — known as Imia in Greek and Kardak in Turkish — which both Turkey and Greece claim.

“Our advice to Greece would be to stay away from provocations and agitations,” Yildirim said adding that Turkey was “determined to give the necessary response” to such acts.

Despite two decades of efforts to improve relations, Greece and Turkey have seen a spike in tensions in recent weeks over disputed Aegean boundaries as well as over oil-and-gas drilling rights off the divided island of Cyprus.

Asked about the incident during a joint news conference with visiting the NATO chief, Turkish Foreign Minister Cavusoglu accused Greece’s defense minister — the outspoken leader of Greece’s nationalist party — of raising tensions in the Aegean Sea.

“His brattiness shouldn’t reach a level where it’ll damage relations between the two countries,” Cavusoglu said.

In Athens, Greek government spokesman Dimitris Tzannakopoulos said the government had no knowledge of the incident and described the remarks by Yildirim as “provocative and reprehensible.”

“I think Mr. Yildirim should be more careful,” Tzannakopoulos said. “We call on Turkey to return to a path of respect for international law … They should take an initiative to de-escalate the tension.”YEREVAN, Armenia (AP) — Police used tear gas and stun grenades as they clashed Monday with anti-government protesters in Armenia, leaving several people wounded, after thousands of opposition supporters began to march toward parliament in Yerevan.

Several thousand people blocked traffic Monday morning in the capital of this former Soviet nation, camping out on the streets to protest a change of government that they see as a fig leaf by the ex-president to stay in power.

Serzh Sargsyan, who served as Armenia’s president from 2008 until earlier this year when he stepped down because of term limits, is set to be approved as prime minister on Tuesday. He will operate under a new political system that sees the president’s powers weakened and the prime minister taking a dominant role.

Armenia’s opposition views the move as Sargsyan’s attempt to stay in power indefinitely and has vowed to keep protesting around the clock.

About 10,000 people started marching toward parliament early Monday afternoon and were blocked by police using tear gas and stun grenades.

An Associated Press reporter saw several people wounded, with at least four being taken away by ambulances, including protest leader Nikol Pashinian.LONDON (AP) — A simmering dispute over Britain’s treatment of people who came to the country as children decades ago has erupted just as the country prepares to host leaders from the 53-nation Commonwealth.

Britain had wanted to use this week’s summit in London of the alliance of the U.K. and its former colonies to help Britain bolster trade and diplomatic ties around the world after it leaves the European Union next year. But trade topics are being overshadowed by anger over what some in the Commonwealth see as the U.K.’s shabby treatment of residents of Caribbean origin.

British Prime Minister Theresa May’s office said Monday that she would meet with her Caribbean counterparts in London for the Commonwealth summit to discuss the situation of long-term U.K. residents who say they have been threatened with deportation to their countries of birth.

Members of the “Windrush generation” — named for the ship Empire Windrush, which brought the first big group of post-war Caribbean immigrants to Britain in 1948 — came from what were then British colonies or newly independent states and had an automatic right to settle in the U.K.

But some from that generation, now aging and long-times residents in Britain, say they have been denied medical treatment or threatened with deportation because they can’t produce papers to prove it.

The British government has taken an increasingly tough line on immigration, which has increased dramatically over the last 10 or 15 years, largely as result of people moving to the U.K. from other EU countries. A desire to control immigration was a major factor for many who voted in 2016 for Britain to leave the bloc.

Critics say the British government has, by design or accident, taken a hostile attitude to the thousands of people who have made Britain their home.

Barbados High Commissioner Guy Hewitt told the BBC on Monday that he felt Britain was telling people from the Caribbean “you are no longer welcome.”

Some 140 U.K. lawmakers have signed a letter urging the government to find an “immediate and effective” response to concerns from Commonwealth-born residents over their immigration status.

International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt said Monday the government must “do a better job” to put people’s minds at ease.

“People should not be concerned about this — they have the right to stay and we should be reassuring them of that,” Mordaunt told the BBC.

The Commonwealth links 2.4 billion people on five continents, in countries from vast India and wealthy Australia to small island states like Tonga and Vanuatu. It espouses good governance, economic growth and human rights, but is seen by some as a vestige of the British empire with an uncertain mission in the 21st century.

Queen Elizabeth II, who will formally open the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting at Buckingham Palace on Thursday, has done much to unite the group. She has visited nearly every Commonwealth nation, often multiple times, over her 66-year reign.

The 91-year-old has given up long-distance travel, so this is likely to be the last Commonwealth summit she presides over.

Heir to the throne Prince Charles will not automatically succeed her as head of the Commonwealth, which says the choice of its next leader will be a decision for the group.LONDON (AP) — British Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face restive lawmakers on Monday to justify her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

The UK debate comes as the European Union’s foreign ministers joined together to say they understood the need for the airstrikes and called for a new push for a political solution to the war in Syria.

Royal Air Force jets joined American and French warplanes and ships in hitting targets in Syria early Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack by the Syrian government in the town of Douma.

Parliament, which returned Monday after a spring break, was not consulted about the action. The British government is not legally bound to seek lawmakers’ approval for military strikes, although it is customary to do so.

May’s office said Monday that she plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

“We cannot allow the use of chemical weapons to become normalized, either within Syria, on the streets of the U.K., or elsewhere,” May plans to say, according to excerpts of her speech — linking the chemical attack in Syria with the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter last month with a military-grade nerve agent in the English city of Salisbury.

Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said Monday that the airstrikes against Syria, which targeted three chemical weapons sites, had been “calibrated and proportionate.”

He said the action was “not an attempt to change the tide of the war in Syria or to have regime change.”

In an unusual move, the British government says it will seek an emergency House of Commons debate on the airstrikes so legislators can have their say. That after-the-fact debate— which may not include a vote — is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.

Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the main opposition Labour Party, said Britain should introduce a War Powers Act to ban military action without Parliament’s approval. Corbyn said Sunday that he was not convinced the military intervention had been legal under international law.

“It looked awfully to me as though the prime minister was more interested in following Donald Trump’s lead than anything else,” Corbyn said.

In Luxembourg, the EU foreign ministers joined in calling for a political breakthrough involving regional players to put Syria on track to a peaceful solution of the conflict.

The 28 ministers said the EU “understands” the need for the coordinated U.S, French and British airstrikes against Syrian regime targets last weekend following the suspected April 7 chemical attack in Douma. They insisted it was executed with “the sole objective to prevent further use of chemical weapons and chemical substances as weapons by the Syrian regime to kill its own people.”

French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said he welcomed the unanimous backing of the military strike against Syria.

EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the EU wants to use a major meeting on Syria in Brussels next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following the airstrikes.

“There is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process,” Mogherini said.

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

“We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward,” Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said.

___

Casert reported from Luxembourg.BEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on developments following the U.S.-led airstrikes on Syria (all times local):

4:15 p.m.

Members of a communist student organization have attempted to pull down a statue of U.S. President Harry Truman during an anti-war protest in central Athens.

Police detained two protesters during clashes Monday and fired tear gas at youths who attached ropes to the 3.5-meter (12-foot) bronze statue and were preparing to saw through the base of the structure.

The Greek Communist Party has organized successive anti-U.S. protests following the airstrikes in Syria over the weekend.

First unveiled near the American Embassy in 1963, the statue has been repeatedly targeted in protests and was twice bombed by far-left militant groups in the mid-1980s. It has been pulled down twice and vandalized on several occasions.

___

4 p.m.

Syrian state TV is airing interviews with nearly a dozen doctors and medics who say they found no trace of poisonous gas in the town of Douma, where opposition activists and first responders say a chemical attack by government forces killed more than 40 people.

The suspected attack on April 7 prompted the U.S., Britain and France to launch a wave of missile strikes a week later targeting what they said was the Syrian government’s chemical weapons program. Syria’s government has denied ever using such weapons.

U.S. and French officials say they have evidence the government carried out a chemical attack, but have not made it public.

The program ran late Sunday and was posted on the Facebook page of Al-Ikhbariya TV. The individuals interviewed say they were in Douma on April 7, when the alleged attack took place.

One medic says he heard someone scream “chemical!” but saw no patients with symptoms. Others said dust seeps into underground shelters, causing choking and other symptoms associated with chemical attacks.

The Syrian government took control of Douma after the alleged chemical attack and the surrender of rebel forces. It has since deployed its security forces in the town.

___

3:55 p.m.

Turkey’s foreign minister has rejected a claim by France’s president that the weekend’s airstrikes on Syria have driven a wedge between Turkey and Russia.

Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday that Turkey was cooperating with Russia and Iran to try and reduce the conflict in Syria despite long-standing disagreement with them over their support to Syrian President Bashar Assad.

He says that Turkey’s “ties with Russia are not weak enough to be driven apart by the French president. We have strong ties with Russia” and added that the “relations with Russia aren’t an alternative to our relations with NATO, or with France or the United States.”

Cavusoglu was speaking during a joint news conference with NATO’s Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.

Turkey has backed the Saturday airstrikes in Syria by the United States, France and Britain.

___

2:55 p.m.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has defended the weekend’s airstrikes in Syria, saying the international community had to uphold the international ban on the use of chemical weapons.

Stoltenberg spoke at a joint news conference with Turkey’s foreign minister on Monday, after airstrikes by the United States, France and Britain that hit Syria.

He says Russia had “again and again” prevented an independent investigation by the U.N. and that this left “NATO allies no other alternative than to act the way they acted.”

He says the Western alliance “cannot be silent where chemical weapons are used” and that “there was more than enough reason to act and not to act would be to erode the ban on chemical weapons.”

The NATO chief is in Turkey for talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other officials.

___

2:35 p.m.

A senior Russian diplomat says the mission from the international chemical weapons watchdog cannot access the site of an alleged chemical attack near Damascus without an appropriate U.N. permit.

Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov was responding to questions on Monday on whether the team from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons has been blocked from going into Douma, the town where the attack allegedly happened.

Ryabkov says the mission wasn’t allowed in because it hadn’t secured the approval of the U.N. Department for Safety and Security.

His remarks indicate what could be an attempt to bog down the OPCW team. Both Russia and the Syrian government have welcomed the OPCW visit.

At least 40 people are believed to have died in the attack on Douma, until the weekend the last rebel-held town outside the Syrian capital. The OPCW has dispatched a fact-finding mission to Syria to investigate.

___

2:15 p.m.

French President Emmanuel Macron has clarified comments that he “convinced” President Donald Trump to maintain U.S. military presence in Syria, a remark that had prompted a rebuttal from the White House.

Macron maintained on Monday that he “never said” either the United States or France would stay engaged long term in Syria in a military sense — hours after saying in a live Sunday interview that he had managed to change Trump’s mind on withdrawing troops.

Macron said both French and U.S. positions were in line and the main aim in Syria was the “war against ISIS,” referring to the Islamic State group.

However, Macron said that by joining forces with France and the UK for last Saturday’s air strikes, the U.S. “fully realized that our responsibility went above and beyond the war against ISIS and that it was a humanitarian responsibility as well on the ground.”

___

2:05 p.m.

Germany’s government is rejecting suggestions it didn’t live up to its responsibilities by not taking part in airstrikes against Syria.

Mass-circulation daily Bild on Monday ran a full-page article under the headline: “Why does Germany shirk the dirty work?”

Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government didn’t participate in the airstrikes but applauded them.

Merkel spokesman Steffen Seibert said Germany hadn’t been asked to make a military contribution. He said the country, which is seeking a U.N. Security Council seat for 2019-20, is “active internationally in many ways” and pointed to its participating in “difficult military deployments” in Mali and Afghanistan.

Seibert said: “it is nothing special for Germany to support a deployment by its allies and friends but not participate militarily.”

Military deployments are unpopular in Germany and require parliamentary approval.

___

1:55 p.m.

The European Union said it “understands” the need for the coordinated U.S, French and British airstrikes against Syrian military targets over the weekend following the suspected April 7 chemical attack in Douma, a town just outside Damascus.

The 28 EU foreign ministers said in a joint statement that the strike was executed with “the sole objective to prevent further use of chemical weapons and chemical substances as weapons by the Syrian regime to kill its own people.”

The 28 said the current situation should now be used to turn to political negotiations and insisted that “there can be no military solution to the Syrian conflict.”

___

1: 40 p.m.

Russia insists it is committed to let the U.N.-backed chemical weapons watchdog do its work in Syria to investigate the suspected chemical attack earlier this month in Douma, a town just east of Damascus.

Russia’s Embassy in the Netherlands, where the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is based, said in a statement that it “confirms its commitment to ensure” the security of the OPCW’s mission, which is working in Syria.

It also said Russia guarantees it won’t “interfere in its work.”

Western nations have criticized Russia for defending President Bashar Assad and denying a chemical attack by his forces took place.

___

1:10 p.m.

A Syrian government official says his country is “fully ready” to cooperate with the fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons that’s in Syria to investigate the alleged chemical attack that triggered U.S.-led airstrikes.

Faisal Mekdad, Syria’s deputy foreign minister, said on Monday that government officials have met with the delegation, which has been in Damascus for three days, a number of times to discuss cooperation.

The OPCW arrived in Syria a day before the joint punitive airstrikes from the United States, Britain and France a week after the alleged chemical attack in Douma, where activists say more than 40 people were killed.

The OPCW mission has yet to visit Douma, where government and Russian police deployed soon after the rebels in the town surrendered following the chemical attack.

___

1 p.m.

A key group of world and regional powers is meeting at the urgent request of Russia to discuss the long-troubled cease-fire in Syria in the wake of airstrikes by the West on Syria.

Russia requested the meeting of the International Syria Support Group’s cease-fire task force after the airstrikes in Syria over the weekend by the United States, France and Britain. Moscow, a key ally of Syrian President Bashar Assad, has sharply criticized the strikes.

Britain, France and the United States say they took the military action following alleged use of chemical weapons by Assad’s forces on a rebel-held area northeast of Damascus.

The task force is hosted by the U.N. Syria envoy’s Geneva office and is co-chaired by Russia and the United States. Participants of the task force rarely speak to the media.

___

12:50 p.m.

NATO’s secretary general says the weekend’s U.S.-led strikes will reduce the Syrian government’s capabilities of carrying out new chemical attacks.

Jens Stoltenberg also says the strikes by the United States, France and Britain were a “clear message” to Syrian President Bashar Assad, to Russia and Iran that the use of chemical weapons is not acceptable and that the allies would not stand by and watch.

Stoltenberg spoke in an interview with Turkey’s NTV television on Monday. The TV broadcast his comments with Turkish translations.

The NATO chief is Turkey for talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other officials.

___

10:40 a.m.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogherini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”

___

10:20 a.m.

Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.BEIRUT (AP) — A senior Russian diplomat said on Monday that the mission from the international chemical weapons watchdog cannot access the site of an alleged chemical attack near the Syrian capital without an appropriate U.N. permit.

Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov’s remarks could indicate a possible attempt to bog down the team from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, though both Russia and the Syrian government have welcomed the OPCW visit in the wake of the West’s airstrikes in Syria over the weekend.

Ryabkov told reporters in Moscow that what is hampering a speedy resolution of the mission’s visit to the Syrian town of Douma, affected by the alleged chemical attack, was “the consequences of the illegal, unlawful military action,” a reference to the punitive airstrikes.

A team from the OPCW arrived in Syria shortly before the airstrikes early Saturday. It has met with Syrian officials but has not visited the town at the center of the controversy. Government forces and Russian troops have deployed in Douma, which has now fallen under the control of the Syrian government.

“It is the lack of approval by the U.N. Department for Safety and Security for OPCW experts to visit the site in Douma that is the problem,” Ryabkov told reporters, adding that he checked just a short while ago what was delaying their visit.

Russia said it is not curtailing the mission’s visit, and appears instead to be blaming the international organization for the delay. But Syrian opposition and activists have criticized the Russia deployment in the town, saying that evidence of chemical weapons’ use might no longer be found. Russia and Syria deny the attack took place.

The Kremlin quickly denied reports that Russia was not allowing the OPCW mission in, without elaborating.

“As far as I understand what is hampering a speedy resolution of this problem is the consequences of the illegal, unlawful military action that Great Britain and other countries conducted on Saturday,” said Ryabkov.

The OPCW is holding an emergency meeting on Monday in The Hague to discuss the suspected chemical attack in Douma.

Syria’s Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad said earlier that his country is “fully ready” to cooperate with the fact-finding mission. He said government officials have met with the delegation, which has been in Damascus for three days, a number of times to discuss cooperation.

Syria has in the past accused the West of politically manipulating the OPCW mission.

At least 40 people are believed to have died in the attack on Douma, until the weekend the last rebel-held town outside the Syrian capital. The OPCW fact-finding team dispatched to Syria to investigate does not have a mandate to assign blame.

Russia vetoed last year the extension of the mandate of another joint U.N.-OPCW joint body in charge of determining who was behind chemical other weapons attacks in Syria. The joint body was created in 2015 and found the Syrian government responsible for a sarin gas attack on Khan Shaykhoun, a rebel-held area in northern Syria last year.

Meanwhile, NATO’s secretary general said the weekend’s U.S.-led strikes will reduce the Syrian government’s capabilities of carrying out new chemical attacks.

Jens Stoltenberg said the strikes were a “clear message” to Syrian President Bashar Assad, to Russia and Iran that the use of chemical weapons is not acceptable and that the allies would not stand by and watch. Stoltenberg spoke in an interview with Turkey’s NTV television on Monday.

In Damascus, hundreds of Syrians gathered on Monday in a landmark square Damascus, rallying in support of their armed forces, which they say succeeded in confronting the airstrikes by the West.

State TV broadcast the rally live from the central Omayyad Square. Protesters waved Syrian flags at the demonstration, dubbed a “salute to the achievements of the Arab Syrian Army,” set off fireworks and unleashed celebratory gunfire.

Shouts of “Allah, Syria, and only Bashar,” a reference to Assad, rang out.

The strikes have ratcheted up international tension, as the United States and Russia exchanged threats of retaliation. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley has indicated new economic sanctions will be announced Monday against Russia for enabling Assad’s government to continue using chemical weapons.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said the military strikes violated the U.N. Charter and that if they continue, “it will inevitably entail chaos in international relations,” according to a Kremlin statement on Sunday.

Douma was the last rebel holdout in the eastern Ghouta enclave, which was the target of a government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds and displaced tens of thousands of people.

Syrian media, Russian and Syrian officials have sought to downplay the impact of the joint airstrikes, saying the Syrian air defenses have intercepted most of the missiles. The Pentagon says no missiles were engaged.

Also Monday, British Prime Minister Theresa May was to face angry lawmakers for authorizing the strikes without a vote in Parliament. Her office said she planned to tell them the strikes were “in Britain’s national interest” and were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks.

___

Vasilyeva reported from Moscow.NEW YORK (AP) — Bank of America’s profits rose to a record $6.9 billion last quarter thanks in part to the new tax law and higher interest rates.

The consumer banking giant earned $6.92 billion, or 62 cents per share, up from $5.34 billion, or 45 cents a share, from the same period a year ago. Analysts had been expecting a per-share profit of 59 cents, according to FactSet.

Like its competitors JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, Bank of America reported a sharp drop in its tax bill Monday, which helped boost profits. While the bank’s pretax income rose by roughly $1 billion, the amount it paid in taxes fell by roughly $500 million in the quarter. The Charlotte, North Carolina, bank estimates that the tax law cut its effective tax rate by 9 percentage points.

This first-quarter earnings season will give investors and the public their first good look into how President Donald Trump’s tax law is impacting corporate America. Banks are among the first to report results at the beginning of each quarter.

Higher interest rates benefited the bank as well. The Federal Reserve has steadily raised interest rates, allowing banks to charge customers more to borrow. In Bank of America’s consumer banking division, its largest business by revenue and profit, net interest income rose 13 percent from a year earlier. The bank also grew loans and deposits in the quarter.

While higher interest rates should translate into better interest rates for savers, most of the benefits have gone to the banks, not account holders. Bank of America paid just an average of 0.30 percent on its interest-earning deposits last quarter, up from 0.09 percent a year earlier.

Total revenue for Bank of America in the quarter was $23.13 billion, up from $22.25 billion in the same period a year earlier.Global stock markets were stable and the price of oil fell Monday as investors seemed convinced that U.S.-led air strikes on Syria would not escalate but remained cautious about tensions with Russia.

KEEPING SCORE: Germany’s DAX was flat at 12,440, while the CAC 40 in France was down 0.1 percent at 5,309. The FTSE 100 in Britain dropped 0.4 percent to 7,230. Futures for the S&P 500 and Dow Jones industrial average climbed 0.6 percent, pointing to early gains on Wall Street.

ASIA’S DAY: Japan’s Nikkei 225 index rose 0.3 percent to 21,835.53, but Hong Kong’s Hang Seng dropped 1.6 percent to 30,315.59 and the Shanghai Composite index sank 1.5 percent to 3,110.65. South Korea’s Kospi edged 0.1 percent higher to 2,457.49 and Australia’s S&P ASX 200 picked up 0.2 percent to 5,841.30. Shares fell in Taiwan and Singapore and rose in Indonesia.

MIDDLE EAST: The leaders of Russia, Iran and the Hezbollah group in Lebanon said Sunday that Western airstrikes on their ally Syria, targeting its chemical weapons program, have complicated prospects for a political settlement to the country’s seven-year conflict. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his use of the phrase “Mission Accomplished” to describe the U.S.-led missile attack, while his aides stressed continuing U.S. troop involvement and plans for new economic sanctions against Russia for enabling the government of Bashar Assad.

ANALYST VIEWPOINT: “The markets are taking the surgical strike at the heart of Syria’s chemical weapon program in stride as traders had priced in this outcome with a high degree of probability,” Stephen Innes of OANDA said in a commentary. He added: “With trade war and now Syria fatigue likely to set in, however, it’s best not to get too comfortable at this point as market risk sentiment swings will remain large this week.”

ENERGY: Oil prices fell back from spikes last week on fears over an escalation of strife in the Middle East, with U.S. benchmark crude falling 72 cents to $66.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, fell 81 cents to $71.77 per barrel.

CHINA TRADE: The Trump administration on Friday targeted China and five other countries including allies Japan and South Korea for special monitoring for what the administration says are practices that are worsening America’s trade deficit. But the impact on financial markets in Asia was limited as it comes at a time of even harsher threats of U.S. penalty tariffs on China and other nations. The U.S. government is also expected to announce new sanctions against Russia over its involvement in Syria.

CHINA ECONOMY: Chinese shares declined ahead of the release of economic growth data that are expected to show the economy overshooting the official target to sustain a 6.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter of the year. Good news could lead regulators to tighten monetary policy, hurting share prices. Tuesday’s report of monthly figures for March, the first since the lunar new year holidays, will provide fresh insights into conditions across the world’s No. 2 economy.

WPP: Shares in WPP, the world’s largest ad agency, fell as much as 5.6 percent on Monday after its CEO, Martin Sorrell, resigned over an investigation into personal misconduct. Analysts say his departure could leave the company he founded three decades ago rudderless, but could also see parts sold off for higher value.

CURRENCY: The dollar was trading at 107.23 yen, down from 107.36 yen late Friday. The euro edged higher, to $1.2364 from $1.2333.ALIAGA (Turkey) (AFP) – An American pastor will go on trial in Turkey on Monday on terror-related charges after spending the last one-and-a-half years behind bars, in a case that has raised friction between Ankara and Washington.

Andrew Brunson, who ran a church in the western city of Izmir, was detained by Turkish authorities in October 2016 and then remanded in custody.

Turkish prosecutors have charged him with engaging in activities on behalf of the group led by Muslim preacher Fethullah Gulen, who Ankara says is behind the failed 2016 coup, and the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK).

Both are banned by Turkey as terror groups. Brunson is also accused of espionage for political or military purposes.

If convicted, he faces two separate terms of 15 years and 20 years in prison, his lawyer Cem Halavurt told AFP.

However the charges appear lighter than those outlined in the original indictment published on March 13, in which Brunson was accused of being a member of Gulen’s group and risked life imprisonment if convicted.

The latest indictment explicitly states he is not charged with being a member of Gulen’s group or the PKK.

Monday’s hearing will begin at 0600 GMT at the court and prison complex in the Aegean port town of Aliaga north of Izmir, the region’s main city.

“Our first priority is to defend Brunson’s right to freedom and win his release,” Halavurt told AFP.

“We will then see how the dossier will proceed.”

– ‘Give us the pastor’-

The Brunson case has further raised the temperature of heated relations between NATO allies Turkey and the United States, with US President Donald Trump raising the issue in talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Relations are already tense over American backing for a Kurdish militia in Syria despised by Ankara and the jailing of two employees at American missions in Turkey.

Gulen, who lives in self-exile in the US state of Pennsylvania, firmly denies any role in the failed coup and says his Hizmet (Service) movement promotes a peaceful form of Islam.

Turkey has sent a spate of documents to back up its repeated request for Gulen’s extradition from the United States, which has so far shown no sign of interest in expelling the preacher.

In September last year, Erdogan suggested that Turkey could free Brunson if Washington handed over Gulen, raising the idea of a swap deal.

“They say ‘give us the pastor’. You have a preacher (Gulen) there. Give him to us, and we will try (Brunson) and give him back,” Erdogan said then. The idea was brushed off by the United States.

But Washington has been working intensely to secure the release of Brunson, one of several American nationals caught up in the crackdown after the failed coup.

The US authorities in November and February quietly dropped all charges against 11 bodyguards of Erdogan accused of attacking protesters during the Turkish strongman’s visit to Washington last year.

Two supporters of Erdogan jailed in the same case are due to be freed in the next weeks after a plea deal.

Yet Washington has always rejected the notion of any kind of bargaining over Brunson.

– ‘Pray for Andrew’ –

Turkish media reported that a number of US senators have applied to the Turkish justice ministry to attend the first hearing.

A senior US official, speaking to AFP on condition of anonymity, said Washington takes its obligation to assist US citizens arrested abroad “seriously.”

“We are following this case closely, and since his arrest, we have visited Mr. Brunson regularly,” the official said.

“We hope that the judicial system in Turkey will resolve Mr. Brunson’s case in a timely and fair manner,” the source added.

Evangelical pastor Brunson was initially detained along with his wife Norine although she was released in December 2016.

“Please pray that… the cord around Andrew would be loosened/untied,” Norine wrote on a Facebook page devoted to her husband’s case ahead of the trial.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — About two dozen chanting protesters have entered a Philadelphia Starbucks where two black men were arrested after store employees called 911 to say they were trespassing.

The protesters moved to the front counter shortly after 7 a.m. Monday and chanted “Starbucks coffee is anti-black” and “We are gonna shut you down.”

Over the weekend, demonstrators called for the firing of the employee who contacted police, who arrested the men on Thursday.

Officials have said police officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything and they refused to leave.

Police haven’t released the names of the men who were arrested and later released after the district attorney’s office said there was lack of evidence that a crime had been committed.

On Monday’s “Good Morning America,” on ABC, Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson reiterated that the arrests were “reprehensible” and said he hoped to meet with the men to discuss “a constructive solution.”PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Protests are planned at a Philadelphia Starbucks where two black men were arrested after store employees called 911 to say they were trespassing.

Organizers have called for protests to begin at 7 a.m. Monday outside the downtown Starbucks. Over the weekend, protesters called for the firing of the employee who contacted police, who arrested the men on Thursday.

Police Commissioner Richard Ross has said officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything. He said they then refused to leave.

Police haven’t released the names of the men who were arrested. A spokesman for the district attorney’s office said the two were released “because of lack of evidence” that a crime had been committed.

Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson has called the arrests a “reprehensible outcome” and said he wants to personally apologize to the men.BEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on developments following the U.S.-led airstrikes on Syria (all times local):

2:15 p.m.

French President Emmanuel Macron has clarified comments that he “convinced” President Donald Trump to maintain U.S. military presence in Syria, a remark that had prompted a rebuttal from the White House.

Macron maintained on Monday that he “never said” either the United States or France would stay engaged long term in Syria in a military sense — hours after saying in a live Sunday interview that he had managed to change Trump’s mind on withdrawing troops.

Macron said both French and U.S. positions were in line and the main aim in Syria was the “war against ISIS,” referring to the Islamic State group.

However, Macron said that by joining forces with France and the UK for last Saturday’s air strikes, the U.S. “fully realized that our responsibility went above and beyond the war against ISIS and that it was a humanitarian responsibility as well on the ground.”

___

2:05 p.m.

Germany’s government is rejecting suggestions it didn’t live up to its responsibilities by not taking part in airstrikes against Syria.

Mass-circulation daily Bild on Monday ran a full-page article under the headline: “Why does Germany shirk the dirty work?”

Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government didn’t participate in the airstrikes but applauded them.

Merkel spokesman Steffen Seibert said Germany hadn’t been asked to make a military contribution. He said the country, which is seeking a U.N. Security Council seat for 2019-20, is “active internationally in many ways” and pointed to its participating in “difficult military deployments” in Mali and Afghanistan.

Seibert said: “it is nothing special for Germany to support a deployment by its allies and friends but not participate militarily.”

Military deployments are unpopular in Germany and require parliamentary approval.

___

1:55 p.m.

The European Union said it “understands” the need for the coordinated U.S, French and British airstrikes against Syrian military targets over the weekend following the suspected April 7 chemical attack in Douma, a town just outside Damascus.

The 28 EU foreign ministers said in a joint statement that the strike was executed with “the sole objective to prevent further use of chemical weapons and chemical substances as weapons by the Syrian regime to kill its own people.”

The 28 said the current situation should now be used to turn to political negotiations and insisted that “there can be no military solution to the Syrian conflict.”

___

1: 40 p.m.

Russia insists it is committed to let the U.N.-backed chemical weapons watchdog do its work in Syria to investigate the suspected chemical attack earlier this month in Douma, a town just east of Damascus.

Russia’s Embassy in the Netherlands, where the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is based, said in a statement that it “confirms its commitment to ensure” the security of the OPCW’s mission, which is working in Syria.

It also said Russia guarantees it won’t “interfere in its work.”

Western nations have criticized Russia for defending President Bashar Assad and denying a chemical attack by his forces took place.

___

1:10 p.m.

A Syrian government official says his country is “fully ready” to cooperate with the fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons that’s in Syria to investigate the alleged chemical attack that triggered U.S.-led airstrikes.

Faisal Mekdad, Syria’s deputy foreign minister, said on Monday that government officials have met with the delegation, which has been in Damascus for three days, a number of times to discuss cooperation.

The OPCW arrived in Syria a day before the joint punitive airstrikes from the United States, Britain and France a week after the alleged chemical attack in Douma, where activists say more than 40 people were killed.

The OPCW mission has yet to visit Douma, where government and Russian police deployed soon after the rebels in the town surrendered following the chemical attack.

___

1 p.m.

A key group of world and regional powers is meeting at the urgent request of Russia to discuss the long-troubled cease-fire in Syria in the wake of airstrikes by the West on Syria.

Russia requested the meeting of the International Syria Support Group’s cease-fire task force after the airstrikes in Syria over the weekend by the United States, France and Britain. Moscow, a key ally of Syrian President Bashar Assad, has sharply criticized the strikes.

Britain, France and the United States say they took the military action following alleged use of chemical weapons by Assad’s forces on a rebel-held area northeast of Damascus.

The task force is hosted by the U.N. Syria envoy’s Geneva office and is co-chaired by Russia and the United States. Participants of the task force rarely speak to the media.

___

12:50 p.m.

NATO’s secretary general says the weekend’s U.S.-led strikes will reduce the Syrian government’s capabilities of carrying out new chemical attacks.

Jens Stoltenberg also says the strikes by the United States, France and Britain were a “clear message” to Syrian President Bashar Assad, to Russia and Iran that the use of chemical weapons is not acceptable and that the allies would not stand by and watch.

Stoltenberg spoke in an interview with Turkey’s NTV television on Monday. The TV broadcast his comments with Turkish translations.

The NATO chief is Turkey for talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other officials.

___

10:40 a.m.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogerhini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”

___

10:20 a.m.

Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.BEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on developments following the U.S.-led airstrikes on Syria (all times local):

1:10 p.m.

A Syrian government official says his country is “fully ready” to cooperate with the fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons that’s in Syria to investigate the alleged chemical attack that triggered U.S.-led airstrikes.

Faisal Mekdad, Syria’s deputy foreign minister, said on Monday that government officials have met with the delegation, which has been in Damascus for three days, a number of times to discuss cooperation.

The OPCW arrived in Syria a day before the joint punitive airstrikes from the United States, Britain and France a week after the alleged chemical attack in Douma, where activists say more than 40 people were killed.

The OPCW mission has yet to visit Douma, where government and Russian police deployed soon after the rebels in the town surrendered following the chemical attack.

___

1 p.m.

A key group of world and regional powers is meeting at the urgent request of Russia to discuss the long-troubled cease-fire in Syria in the wake of airstrikes by the West on Syria.

Russia requested the meeting of the International Syria Support Group’s cease-fire task force after the airstrikes in Syria over the weekend by the United States, France and Britain. Moscow, a key ally of Syrian President Bashar Assad, has sharply criticized the strikes.

Britain, France and the United States say they took the military action following alleged use of chemical weapons by Assad’s forces on a rebel-held area northeast of Damascus.

The task force is hosted by the U.N. Syria envoy’s Geneva office and is co-chaired by Russia and the United States. Participants of the task force rarely speak to the media.

___

12:50 p.m.

NATO’s secretary general says the weekend’s U.S.-led strikes will reduce the Syrian government’s capabilities of carrying out new chemical attacks.

Jens Stoltenberg also says the strikes by the United States, France and Britain were a “clear message” to Syrian President Bashar Assad, to Russia and Iran that the use of chemical weapons is not acceptable and that the allies would not stand by and watch.

Stoltenberg spoke in an interview with Turkey’s NTV television on Monday. The TV broadcast his comments with Turkish translations.

The NATO chief is Turkey for talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other officials.

___

10:40 a.m.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogerhini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”

___

10:20 a.m.

Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.Global shares were mixed in Asia on Monday, with Chinese benchmarks leading declines in Asia. The air strikes on Syria appeared to be having scant impact on trading, and oil prices fell back. Eyes were on Chinese GDP data due on Tuesday.

KEEPING SCORE: The FTSE 100 in Britain dropped 0.4 percent to 7,236.05 while Germany’s DAX added 0.2 percent to 12,464.26. The CAC 40 in France was flat at 5,316.11. The future for the S&P 500 climbed 0.6 percent while the future for the Dow Jones industrial average was also up 0.6 percent, pointing to early gains on Wall Street.

ASIA’S DAY: Japan’s Nikkei 225 index gained 0.3 percent to 21,835.53, but Hong Kong’s Hang Seng dropped 1.6 percent to 30,315.59 and the Shanghai Composite index sank 1.5 percent to 3,110.65. South Korea’s Kospi edged 0.1 percent higher to 2,457.49 and Australia’s S&P ASX 200 picked up 0.2 percent to 5,841.30. Shares fell in Taiwan and Singapore and rose in Indonesia.

MIDDLE EAST: The leaders of Russia, Iran and the Hezbollah group in Lebanon said Sunday that Western airstrikes on their ally Syria, targeting its chemical weapons program, have complicated prospects for a political settlement to the country’s seven-year conflict. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his use of the phrase “Mission Accomplished” to describe the U.S.-led missile attack, while his aides stressed continuing U.S. troop involvement and plans for new economic sanctions against Russia for enabling the government of Bashar Assad.

ANALYST VIEWPOINT: “The markets are taking the surgical strike at the heart of Syria’s chemical weapon program in stride as traders had priced in this outcome with a high degree of probability,” Stephen Innes of OANDA said in a commentary. He added, “With trade war and now Syria fatigue likely to set in, however, it’s best not to get too comfortable at this point as market risk sentiment swings will remain large this week.”

CHINA TRADE: The Trump administration on Friday targeted China and five other countries including allies Japan and South Korea for special monitoring for what the administration says are practices that are worsening America’s trade deficit. But the impact on financial markets in Asia was limited as it comes at a time of even harsher threats of U.S. penalty tariffs on China and other nations.

CHINA ECONOMY: Chinese shares declined ahead of the release of economic growth data that are expected to show the economy overshooting the official target to sustain a 6.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter of the year. Good news could lead regulators to tighten monetary policy, hurting share prices. Tuesday’s report of monthly figures for March, the first since the lunar new year holidays, will provide fresh insights into conditions across the world’s No. 2 economy.

ENERGY: Oil prices fell back from spikes last week on fears over an escalation of strife in the Middle East, with U.S. benchmark crude falling 91 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $66.48 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It gained 32 cents on Friday to $67.39. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, fell $1.02, or 1.4 percent, to $71.56 per barrel.

CURRENCY: The dollar was trading at 107.21 yen, down from 107.36 yen late Friday. The euro edged higher, to $1.2366 from $1.2333.WASHINGTON (AP) — Sales Tax: $0.

Online shoppers have gotten used to seeing that line on checkout screens before they click “purchase.” But a case before the Supreme Court could change that.

At issue is a rule stemming from two, decades-old Supreme Court cases: If a business is shipping to a state where it doesn’t have an office, warehouse or other physical presence, it doesn’t have to collect the state’s sales tax.

That means large retailers such as Apple, Macy’s, Target and Walmart, which have brick-and-mortar stores nationwide, generally collect sales tax from customers who buy from them online. But other online sellers, from 1-800 Contacts to home goods site Wayfair, can often sidestep charging the tax.

More than 40 states are asking the Supreme Court to reconsider that rule in a case being argued Tuesday. They say they’re losing out on “billions of dollars in tax revenue each year, requiring cuts to critical government programs” and that their losses compound as online shopping grows. But small businesses that sell online say the complexity and expense of collecting taxes nationwide could drive them out of business.

Large retailers want all businesses to “be playing by the same set of rules,” said Deborah White, the president of the litigation arm of the Retail Industry Leaders Association, which represents more than 70 of America’s largest retailers.

For years, the issue of whether out-of-state sellers should collect sales tax had to do mostly with one company: Amazon.com. The online giant is said to account for more than 40 percent of U.S. online retail sales. But as Amazon has grown, dotting the country with warehouses, it has had to charge sales tax in more and more places.

President Donald Trump has slammed the company, accusing it of paying “little or no taxes” to state and local governments. But since 2017, Amazon has been collecting sales tax in every state that charges it. Third-party sellers that use Amazon to sell products make their own tax collection decisions, however.

The case now before the Supreme Court could affect those third-party Amazon sellers and many other sellers that don’t collect taxes in all states — sellers such as jewelry website Blue Nile, pet products site Chewy.com, clothing retailer L.L. Bean, electronics retailer Newegg and internet retailer Overstock.com. Sellers on eBay and Etsy, which provide platforms for smaller sellers, also don’t collect sales tax nationwide.

States generally require consumers who weren’t charged sales tax on a purchase to pay it themselves, often through self-reporting on their income tax returns. But states have found that only about 1 percent to 2 percent actually pay.

States would capture more of that tax if out-of-state sellers had to collect it, and states say software has made sales tax collection simple.

Out-of-state sellers disagree, calling it costly and extraordinarily complex, with tax rates and rules that vary not only by state but also by city and county. For example, in Illinois, Snickers are taxed at a higher rate than Twix because foods containing flour don’t count as candy. Sellers say free or inexpensive software isn’t accurate, more sophisticated software is expensive and that collecting tax nationwide would also subject them to potentially costly audits.

“For small businesses on tight margins, these costs are going to be fatal in many cases,” said Andy Pincus, who filed a brief on behalf of eBay and small businesses that use its platform.

The case now before the Supreme Court involves South Dakota, which has no income tax and relies heavily on sales tax for revenue. South Dakota’s governor has said the state loses out on an estimated $50 million a year in sales tax that doesn’t get collected by out-of-state sellers.

In 2016 the state passed a law requiring those sellers to collect taxes on sales into the state, a law challenging the Supreme Court precedents. The state, conceding it could win only if the Supreme Court reverses course, has lost in lower courts.

South Dakota says the high court’s previous decisions don’t reflect today’s world. The court first adopted its physical presence rule on sales tax collection in a 1967 case dealing with a catalog retailer. At the time, the court was concerned in part about the burden collecting sales tax would place on the catalog company. The court reaffirmed that ruling in 1992.

It’s unclear how the justices might align on the question this time. But three justices — Neil Gorsuch, Clarence Thomas and Anthony Kennedy — have suggested a willingness to rethink those decisions. Kennedy has written that the 1992 case was “questionable even when decided” and “now harms states to a degree far greater than could have been anticipated earlier.”

“Although online businesses may not have a physical presence in some states, the Web has, in many ways, brought the average American closer to most major retailers,” he wrote in suggesting the days of inconsistent sales tax collection may be numbered. “A connection to a shopper’s favorite store is a click away regardless of how close or far the nearest storefront.”

___

Follow Jessica Gresko on Twitter at http://twitter.com/jessicagreskoBEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on developments following the U.S.-led airstrikes on Syria (all times local):

12:50 p.m.

NATO’s secretary general says the weekend’s U.S.-led strikes will reduce the Syrian government’s capabilities of carrying out new chemical attacks.

Jens Stoltenberg also says the strikes by the United States, France and Britain were a “clear message” to Syrian President Bashar Assad, to Russia and Iran that the use of chemical weapons is not acceptable and that the allies would not stand by and watch.

Stoltenberg spoke in an interview with Turkey’s NTV television on Monday. The TV broadcast his comments with Turkish translations.

The NATO chief is Turkey for talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other officials.

___

10:40 a.m.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogerhini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”

___

10:20 a.m.

Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.BEIRUT (AP) — Hundreds of Syrians gathered on Monday in a landmark square in Syria’s capital, Damascus, rallying in support of their armed forces, which they say succeeded in confronting the unprecedented joint airstrikes by the West over the weekend.

State TV broadcast the rally live from the central Omayyad Square. Protesters waved Syrian flags at the demonstration, dubbed a “salute to the achievements of the Arab Syrian Army,” set off fireworks and unleashed celebratory gunfire.

Shouts of “Allah, Syria, and only Bashar,” a reference to Syrian President Bashar Assad, rang out.

The joint airstrikes by the United States, Britain and France bombed sites that the three countries said were linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program. The airstrikes were triggered by an alleged chemical attack in the town of Douma, just outside of Damascus.

Syrian activists said more than 40 people were killed, but Syria and Russia deny the attack. Russia accused Britain of staging the attack.

Saturday’s airstrikes came shortly after a fact-finding mission from the Organization of the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived in Syria to investigate the attack. The mission is still expected to make it to Douma, where government security agencies and Russian military police have deployed after the town fell under government control, raising complaints from the Syrian opposition that evidence of chemical weapons’ use might no longer be found.

The OPCW is holding an emergency meeting Monday in the Hague to discuss the suspected chemical attack in Douma.

The strikes have ratcheted up international tension, as the U.S. and Russia exchanged threats of retaliation. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley has indicated new economic sanctions will be announced Monday against Russia for enabling Assad’s government to continue using chemical weapons.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said the military strikes violated the U.N. Charter and that if they continue, “it will inevitably entail chaos in international relations,” according to a Kremlin statement on Sunday.

The Syrian government regained full control of Douma on Saturday, following a surrender deal with the rebels who had controlled the town just east of Damascus. It also followed the purported use of chemical weapons there on April 7.

Douma was the last rebel holdout in the eastern Ghouta enclave, which was the target of a government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds and displaced tens of thousands of people.

Syrian media, Russian and Syrian officials have sought to downplay the impact of the joint airstrikes, saying the Syrian air defenses have intercepted most of the missiles. The Pentagon says no missiles were engaged.

British Prime Minister Theresa May was to face restive lawmakers Monday for authorizing the strikes without a vote in Parliament. Her office said she planned to tell them the strikes were “in Britain’s national interest” and were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks.TOKYO (AP) — China and Japan took another step toward mending their troubled relations Monday, resuming high-level economic talks for the first time in nearly eight years.

Foreign Minister Wang Yi led the Chinese delegation, becoming the first foreign minister to visit Japan for bilateral talks since 2009.

Asia’s two largest economies have been trying to improve strained ties and now have further reason to cooperate in the face of President Donald Trump’s moves to impose tariffs on imports from their countries and his demands that they open their markets more to American exports.

Wang, meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, noted the threats of rising unilateralism and trade protectionism.

Abe heads to the United States on Tuesday to meet with Trump to discuss both trade and Trump’s plans for a summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

Japan’s leader said that he is seeking China’s cooperation in efforts to get North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons development in a full and irreversible way.

Earlier Monday, Japan and China held what was billed as the fourth Japan-China High-Level Economic Dialogue, the first such meeting since August 2010.

Wang met with his Japanese counterpart, Taro Kono, for nearly four hours on Sunday, Japan’s Foreign Ministry said. The two ministers agreed on the importance of arranging respective visits by Abe to China and Chinese President Xi Jinping to Japan.BEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on developments following the U.S.-led airstrikes on Syria (all times local):

10:40 a.m.

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogerhini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”

___

10:20 a.m.

Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) — Hundreds of Syrians have gathered in a landmark square in the capital of Damascus in support of their armed forces, which they say succeeded in confronting the unprecedented joint airstrikes by the West over the weekend.

Monday’s rally in in Omayyad Square is being broadcast live on Syrian state media.

The protesters are waving Syrian flags at the demonstration, dubbed a “salute to the achievements of the Arab Syrian Army.” They set off fireworks and unleashed celebratory gunfire.

Shouts of “Allah, Syria, and only Bashar,” a reference to Syrian President Bashar Assad rang out.

Syrian media, Russian and Syrian officials have sought to downplay the impact of the joint airstrikes, saying the Syrian air defenses have intercepted most of the missiles. The Pentagon says no missiles were engaged.Shares were mixed in Asia on Monday, with Chinese benchmarks leading decliners. The air strikes on Syria appeared to be having scant impact on trading, and oil prices fell back. Eyes were on Chinese GDP data due on Tuesday.

KEEPING SCORE: Japan’s Nikkei 225 index gained 0.3 percent to 21,835.53, but Hong Kong’s Hang Seng dropped 2 percent to 30,201.64 and the Shanghai Composite index sank 1.5 percent to 3,110.65. South Korea’s Kospi edged 0.1 percent higher to 2,457.49 and Australia’s S&P ASX 200 picked up 0.2 percent to 5,841.30. Shares fell in Taiwan and Singapore and rose in Indonesia.

MIDDLE EAST: The leaders of Russia, Iran and the Hezbollah group in Lebanon said Sunday that Western airstrikes on their ally Syria, targeting its chemical weapons program, have complicated prospects for a political settlement to the country’s seven-year conflict. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his use of the phrase “Mission Accomplished” to describe the U.S.-led missile attack, while his aides stressed continuing U.S. troop involvement and plans for new economic sanctions against Russia for enabling the government of Bashar Assad.

ANALYST VIEWPOINT: “The markets are taking the surgical strike at the heart of Syria’s chemical weapon program in stride as traders had priced in this outcome with a high degree of probability,” Stephen Innes of OANDA said in a commentary. He added, “With trade war and now Syria fatigue likely to set in, however, it’s best not to get too comfortable at this point as market risk sentiment swings will remain large this week.”

CHINA TRADE: The Trump administration on Friday targeted China and five other countries including allies Japan and South Korea for special monitoring for what the administration says are practices that are worsening America’s trade deficit. But the impact on financial markets in Asia was limited as it comes at a time of even harsher threats of U.S. penalty tariffs on China and other nations.

CHINA ECONOMY: Chinese shares declined ahead of the release of economic growth data that are expected to show the economy overshooting the official target to sustain a 6.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter of the year. Good news could lead regulators to tighten monetary policy, hurting share prices. Tuesday’s report of monthly figures for March, the first since the lunar new year holidays, will provide fresh insights into conditions across the world’s No. 2 economy.

WALL STREET: On Friday, bank stocks buckled despite reports of higher profits for some. The S&P 500 fell 0.3 percent to 2,656.30, paring the index’s gain for the week to 2 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.5 percent to 24,360.14, and the Nasdaq composite lost 0.5 percent to 7,106.65. As a group, financial stocks in the S&P 500 fell 1.6 percent, more than double the loss for any of the other 10 sectors that make up the index.

ENERGY: Oil prices fell back from spikes last week on fears over an escalation of strife in the Middle East, with U.S. benchmark crude falling 99 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $66.41 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It gained 32 cents on Friday to $67.39. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, fell $1.14, or 1.6 percent, to $71.45 per barrel.

CURRENCY: The dollar was trading at 107.27 yen, down from 107.36 yen late Friday. The euro edged higher to $1.2337 from $1.2333.ISLAMABAD (AP) — An independent Pakistani watchdog criticized the country’s human rights record over the past year in a new report released Monday, saying the nation has failed to make progress.

The damning report card issued by the Human Rights Commission says people continue to disappear in Pakistan, sometimes because they criticize the country’s powerful military and other times because they advocate better relations with neighboring India.

The controversial blasphemy law continues to be misused, especially against dissidents, with cases in which mere accusations that someone committed blasphemy lead to deadly mob violence, it said.

While deaths directly linked to acts of terrorism declined in 2017, the report said attacks against the country’s minorities were on the rise.

This year’s 296-page report was dedicated to one of the commission’s founders, Asma Jahangir, whose death in February generated worldwide outpouring of grief and accolades for the 66-year-old activist who was fierce in her commitment to human rights.

“We have lost a human rights giant,” U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres said following Jahangir’s death. “She was a tireless advocate for inalienable rights of all people and for equality – whether in her capacity as a Pakistani lawyer in the domestic justice system, as a global civil society activist, or as a Special Rapporteur. . . Asma will not be forgotten.”

Monday’s report also took aim at religious bigotry in Pakistan and the government’s refusal to push back against religious zealots, fearing a backlash.

“The people’s right to socio-economic activities is curtailed by intolerance and extremism and authorities are lenient for fear of political backlash,” said the report.

It added that religious conservative organizations continued to resist laws aimed at curbing violence against women, laws giving greater rights to women and removing legal restrictions on social exchanges between sexes, which remain segregated in many parts of Pakistani society.

Still, there was legal progress in other areas, it noted, describing as a “landmark development” a new law in the country’s largest province, Punjab, which accepts marriage licenses within the Sikh community at the local level, giving the unions protection under the law.

But religious minorities in Pakistan continued to be a target of extremists, it said, citing attacks on Shiites, Christians falsely accuse of blasphemy and also on Ahmedis, a sect reviled by mainstream Muslims as heretics. Ahmedis are not allowed under Pakistan’s constitution to call themselves Muslims.

“In a year when freedom of thought, conscience and religion continued to be stifled, incitement to hatred and bigotry increased, and tolerance receded even further,” said the report.

On Sunday in Quetta, the capital of southwestern Baluchistan province, gunmen attacked Christian worshippers as they left Sunday services, killing two. Five other worshippers were wounded, two seriously.

Last year was a troubling year for activists, journalists and bloggers who challenged Pakistan’s military. Several were detained, including five bloggers who subsequently fled the country after their release. From exile, some of them said their captors were agents of Pakistan’s intelligence agency, ISI. The agency routinely refuses to comment on accusations it is behind the disappearances.

In December, Raza Mehmood Khan, an activist who worked with schoolchildren on both sides of the border to foster better relations was picked up by several men believed to be from the ISI after leaving a meeting that criticized religious extremism.

Last year, a government-mandated commission on enforced disappearances received 868 new cases, more than in two previous years. The commission located 555 of the disappeared but the remaining 313 are still missing.

“Journalists and bloggers continue to sustain threats, attacks and abductions and blasphemy law serves to coerce people into silence,” the report said.TOKYO (AP) — China and Japan resumed high-level economic talks Monday after a hiatus of nearly eight years in a sign of improving ties in their often-frosty relationship.

Led by their foreign ministers, the two sides met in Tokyo for what was billed as the fourth Japan-China High-Level Economic Dialogue, and the first one since August 2010.

Asia’s two largest economies have reason to cooperate in the face of President Donald Trump’s moves to impose tariffs on imports from their countries and his demands that they open their markets more to American exports.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is heading to the United States this week to meet Trump to discuss both trade and Trump’s plans for a summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s visit to Japan is the first by a Chinese foreign minister for bilateral talks since 2009.

He met with his Japanese counterpart Taro Kono for nearly four hours on Sunday, the Japanese Foreign Ministry said. The two ministers agreed on the importance of arranging respective visits by Abe to China and Chinese President Xi Jinping to Japan.DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) — Bangladesh on Monday rejected a claim by Myanmar that the Buddhist-majority nation had repatriated the first five among some 700,000 Rohingya Muslim refugees who fled to the neighboring country to escape military-led violence against the minority group.

A Myanmar government statement said Saturday that five members of a family had returned to western Rakhine state from the border area. It said the family was staying temporarily with relatives in Maungdaw town, the administrative center close to the border.

The statement said authorities determined whether they had lived in Myanmar and provided them with a national verification card. The card is a form of ID, but does not mean citizenship — something Rohingya have been denied in Myanmar, where they’ve faced persecution for decades.

The statement did not say whether any more repatriations were being planned. Bangladesh has given Myanmar a list of more than 8,000 refugees to begin the repatriations, but there have been delays due to a complicated verification process.

On Monday, Bangladesh’s home minister, Asaduzzaman Khan, said Myanmar’s claim that the family had been “repatriated” was false, noting that the family had never reached Bangladeshi territory.

Khan said Myanmar’s move was “nothing but a farce.”

“I hope Myanmar will take all the Rohingya families back within the shortest possible time,” he said.

Bangladesh’s refugee, relief and repatriation commissioner, Abul Kalam, said the Rohingya family involved had never crossed the border.

“By no definition can this be called repatriation. No repatriation has taken place,” he said by phone from Cox’s Bazar. “Bangladesh is no way part of it.”

Cox’s Bazar is a district in Bangladesh where camps have been set up to shelter the Rohingya.

Asif Munier, an independent refugee expert who had handled the Rohingya crisis in Bangladesh for years as part of the United Nations, said Myanmar’s claim was a public relations stunt.

“They are doing it again and again,” he said. “Bangladesh’s government and the international community must ask Myanmar for an explanation for this move. While there is a bilateral process going on and international agencies are involved, such a move by Myanmar is again very unfortunate and unexpected.”

Myanmar’s security forces have been accused of rape, killing, torture and the burning of the homes of Rohingya villagers after insurgents attacked about 30 police outposts on Aug. 25. The United Nations and the United States have described the army crackdown as “ethnic cleansing.”

About 700,000 Rohingya Muslims flooded into neighboring Bangladesh to escape the violence.

Bangladesh and Myanmar agreed in December to begin repatriating them in January, but there were concerns among aid workers and Rohingya that they would be forced to return and face unsafe conditions in Myanmar.

On Friday, the U.N. refugee agency and Bangladesh finalized a memorandum of understanding that said the repatriation process must be “safe, voluntary and dignified … in line with international standards.”

UNHCR said it “considers that conditions in Myanmar are not yet conducive for returns to be safe, dignified, and sustainable. The responsibility for creating such conditions remains with the Myanmar authorities, and these must go beyond the preparation of physical infrastructure to facilitate logistical arrangements.”

Rohingya Muslims have long been treated as outsiders in Myanmar, even though their families have lived in the country for generations. Nearly all have been denied citizenship since 1982, effectively rendering them stateless. They are denied freedom of movement and other basic rights.WASHINGTON (AP) — Deep within President Donald Trump’s plan to combat opioid abuse, overshadowed by his call for the death penalty for some drug traffickers, is a push to expand the use of medication to treat addiction.

It’s a rare instance in which Trump isn’t trying roll back Obama administration policies, and where fractious Republicans and Democrats in Congress have come together.

Trump declared last month that “we’re making medically assisted treatment more available and affordable,” even as Congress was working to approve $1 billion for a new treatment grant program for opioids as part of the massive spending bill to keep the government running.

Not to offer such treatment for opioid addiction is like “trying to treat an infection without antibiotics,” new Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar told the National Governors Association earlier this year.

Experts have long argued that medication-assisted treatment should be the standard of care for people addicted to heroin and other opioid drugs. But acceptance lags. Cost is a barrier, as are government regulations. Some of the treatment drugs are opioids themselves and there’s no consensus on how long patients should remain in treatment.

In its final year, the Obama administration pushed through Congress $1 billion for opioid crisis grants to states. Of that, $500 million was to be released last year and the other $500 million this year. States had to show that their opioid programs are based on clinical evidence, so medication-assisted treatment got a big boost.

The 2018 spending bill provides another $1 billion.

“The government is talking about treatment and medication-assisted treatment in a way that the government has never done before,” said Tom Hill, vice president of addiction and recovery at the National Council for Behavioral Health, which advocates for mental health and addiction treatment.

Overdose deaths from heroin, synthetics like fentanyl, and prescription painkillers, reached 42,000 in 2016, according to the latest statistics.

“This is being addressed as the illness that it is,” said Elinore McCance-Katz, assistant secretary of HHS for mental health and substance abuse. “Most definitely the government is acknowledging the disease of addiction as it pertains to opioids — and other substances as well — but opioids of course are an emergency.”

Grants are awarded to states based on a variety of factors, including overdose deaths and the number of people who can’t find treatment.

Vermont has been hard hit by the addiction epidemic and is one of the states that have gotten federal money for medication-assisted treatment. Its central goal is to improve access, according to a report on grant recipients released by the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.

In Massachusetts, the plan is aimed in part on pregnant women and new mothers. Indiana wants to focus on rural residents.

A study looking at New England by the nonprofit Institute for Clinical and Economic Review found that every dollar invested in medication treatment would return about $1.80 in savings, when factoring in society’s costs from lost productivity and crime.

One Vermont physician, Dr. Deborah Richter, says medications have helped her patients, especially when combined with counseling.

“People got back to what they were before the addiction seized them,” she said.

As a doctor, “it was on a personal level so rewarding to save other mothers’ children.”

Skeptics of the government emphasis on medication-assisted treatment say it’s not a cure-all.

Jonathan Goyer, manager of the Anchor recovery program in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, said he sees many patients who don’t want to take medication, because they want to be free of drugs altogether.

“We should be increasing medication-assisted treatment,” said Goyer. “But we should also be increasing everything else.”

At the Neil Kennedy Recovery Centers in Youngstown, Ohio, outpatient director Pam Ramsey said her program emphasizes medication as an aid, not as the sole treatment.

“It really is an assist to the treatment,” said Ramsey. Along with medication, treatment incorporates a version of the traditional 12-step approach to quitting, counseling sessions, group meetings, and follow-up. “Our goal is still abstinence.”

Home remodeling contractor Rob Judy said he’s wrestled with heroin addiction for more than 20 years. Medication alone did not keep him drug free, nor did a faith-based program.

Finally Judy signed up for comprehensive treatment at Neil Kennedy.

The medication puts out “the fire of active addiction, of having to wake up and use,” said Judy. But he says that needs to be followed with counseling, peer support and follow-up care.

“I believe that addiction is based on and driven by loss, and at the core of it is pain,” said Judy. “If you don’t address those issues, sooner or later you’re going to relapse.”House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) told reporters in San Francisco on Sunday that President Donald Trump had behaved as if he were “above the law” in ordering precision strikes on Friday targeting Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons infrastructure.

Trump ordered the strikes after a reported chemical weapons attack by the Syrian regime against civilians in the town of Douma on April 7. U.S. intelligence confirmed the attack, officials said.

Pelosi has long been one of the foremost opponents of military action against the Assad regime. In 2007, shortly after becoming Speaker of the House, she traveled to Syria to meet with Assad personally. The trip took place at a time when the George W. Bush administration was frustrated about Syria’s efforts to help terrorists enter Iraq.

Pelosi and several of her fellow Democrats traveled to Syria in a protest against any potential military action against Assad, and to highlight diplomacy as an alternative. Other prominent Democrats who traveled to meet with Assad included former President Jimmy Carter and former Democratic presidential nominee — and later Secretary of State — Sen. John Kerry (D-MA).

As Secretary of State, Kerry would broker an agreement with Russia that supposedly guaranteed the removal and destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons. That agreement, seen at the time as an alternative to military action, was quickly violated by the Syrian regime.

According to the San Francisco Chronicle, Pelosi said that Trump was abusing a 2001 congressional authorization of the use of military force against terrorists to target Syria. She said that Trump could not act against Syria without specific approval from Congress.

“We must have that debate, Congress must act, and the president cannot feel that he has free rein in that regard. … What was the mission, and what did he accomplish? The point is, we want to know what happened there.”

Pelosi also reportedly mocked Trump’s intelligence: “He doesn’t know. It’s not unusual for him to talk about things he doesn’t even know about — and this is the commander in chief.”

The day before, anti-war activists from the far-left group Code Pink had targeted Pelosi’s house in a protest against the Syria strike. Pelosi’s criticism of the president Sunday was significantly tougher than her criticism on Friday, when she criticized Trump for what she called the lack of a “coherent strategy.”

Pelosi is currently favored to become the next Speaker of the House, according to polls that show the Democrats winning the lower chamber in the 2018 midterm elections.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.In an interview that aired Sunday night, former FBI Director James Comey sat down with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos and offered an ominous assessment of the country under President Donald Trump’s leadership.

Stephanopoulos brought up Comey’s remarks that right now is a “dangerous” time in America.

“I think it is [dangerous],” Comey told Stephanopoulos. “And I chose those words carefully. I was worried when I chose the word “dangerous” first. I thought, is that an overstatement? And I don’t think it is.”

He expounded, “I worry that the norms at the center of this country — we can fight as Americans about guns, or taxes or immigration, and we always have, but what we have in common is a set of norms — most importantly, the truth. And if we lose that, if we lose tethering of our leaders to that truth, what are we?”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentIn the desperate hope that countless photos and videos of former Vice President Joe Biden’s “handsi-ness” with women and children can be wished away, the far-left Politico published a lengthy piece Monday dismissing the problem.

The overall piece is a typical overlong, Politico blah-blah-blah about how Biden is the frontrunner to challenge Trump in 2020 and that his real problem is not his “handsi-ness,” but that he is not far enough to the left. Politico’s primary concern is that Biden is “too cozy with Wall Street” and a “septuagenarian white male.”

Politico then offers Biden some advice on how to overcome the Wall Street problem. But this is the most interesting paragraph…

Trump would also provide cover for another often-discussed Biden drawback: the overly familiar mannerisms that seem terribly out of place in the #MeToo era. Next to Trump’s “Access Hollywood” tapes and the litany of sexual misconduct charges levied against the president, Biden’s hands-iness barely registers.

Yeah, no.

To begin with, while it is sometimes difficult to remember after reading its content, Politico poses as a neutral news outlet. Therefore, Politico wrist-flicking the “The Adventures of Creepy Joe Biden: Serial Young Girl-Toucher” is yet another laughable act of bias.

If anything close to Biden-esque photos were available for Politico take down some obscure Republican running for local dogcatcher, the anti-Trump outlet would gleefully do so. As would the rest of the corporate media. It would be the biggest story in the world. Biden, however, gets a shrug.

Secondly, and most importantly, if the media believe they can use Trump to protect Biden from his disturbing behavior, for a number of reasons, they are sorely mistaken.

No matter how much the media try to spin it, the Access Hollywood audio is Trump talking about women who “let” him grab them. It is disgusting locker room talk, for sure, but it is also within the realm of consent. The media continue to lie about this, but Trump used the word “let” and the public knows it.

Additionally, there is no actual evidence Trump did anything wrong with anyone. The allegations against him from various women are just that — allegations. There is no proof they are telling the truth.

On the other hand, there is a ton of photographic evidence showing Biden getting physically creepy with women and children. The hay Trump himself or a super PAC can make out of this would be devastating. The difference between a photo and he said/she is all the difference. Just ask Gary Hart and Al Franken.

Finally, even if I am wrong about all of the above, there is the issue of children. No one has ever alleged that Trump acted inappropriately with children, and that is (and should be) a big red line in the minds of all decent people. The fact that video and photographic evidence of Biden making young girls feel uncomfortable is everywhere would dog him throughout any presidential campaign, most especially in the era of #MeToo.

Moreover, Democrats and their media allies cannot defend Biden’s behavior without looking ridiculous, especially after their Roy Moore witch hunt, which was based on sketchy 40-year-old evidence and hearsay. For example, Politico’s jihad against Moore was 24/7, and just look at how buffoonish it looks pretending Biden did nothing wrong.

As they did while he was vice president, in order to protect Biden, the establishment media is hiding and downplaying the devastating evidence of Biden’s “serial young girl-touching problem.” In a presidential campaign, and in this glorious era of alternate media and political advertising where the corrupt media can no longer bottleneck information, that will not be the case.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.A gay man and attorney who worked on high-profile LGBT cases, including a challenge the Boy Scouts ban on homosexual members, set himself on fire on Saturday at a public park in New York City to protest fossil fuels and climate change, according to a suicide note.

The charred remains of David Buckel were found by a jogger in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park.

The Daily Mail reported:

David Buckel, 60, was found in the park at 6.30 a.m. on Saturday before hundreds descended on it to enjoy the warm spring weather. He left a note in a bag for police which read: ‘My name is David Buckel and I just killed myself by fire as a protest suicide. “I apologize to you for the mess,” the note said.

“He was protesting over climate change, his note read, and the dramatic method was intended as a metaphor for how fossil fuels are destroying the planet,” the Mail reported.

“My early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing to ourselves,” the New York Daily News reported his suicide note said.

A lifetime of service may best be preserved by giving a life. … Honorable purpose in life invites honorable purchase in death. ‘This is not new, as many have chose [sic] to give a life based on the view that no other action can most meaningfully address the harm they see. Here is a hope that giving a life might bring some attention to the need for expanded actions, and help others give a voice to our home, and Earth is heard.

Buckel worked on cases for Lamda Legal, one of the largest LGBT advocacy and legal groups in the nation.

The news of David Buckel’s death is heartbreaking. This is a tremendous loss for our Lambda Legal family, but also for the entire movement for social justice. https://t.co/SL9XZ2cYTR — Lambda Legal (@LambdaLegal) April 14, 2018

“Friends said that after he left the organization, Mr. Buckel became involved in environmental causes, which he alluded to in his note as the reason he decided to end his life by self-immolation with fossil fuels,” the New York Times reported.

“Pollution ravages our planet, oozing inhabitability via air, soil, water, and weather,” Buckel wrote in the email sent to the Times. “Most humans on the planet now breathe air made unhealthy by fossil fuels, and many die early deaths as a result — my early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing to ourselves.”

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterParis (France) (AFP) – President Emmanuel Macron asserted Sunday that Paris had convinced Donald Trump to stay engaged in Syria “for the long-term”, adding that French air strikes did not amount to a declaration of war against the regime of Bashar al-Assad.

A day after France joined the United States and Britain in launching unprecedented strikes against regime targets, Macron insisted the intervention was legitimate and urged international powers to now push for a diplomatic solution to the brutal seven-year war.

“We have not declared war on the regime of Bashar al-Assad,” the 40-year-old centrist said at the start of a combative TV interview, stretching nearly three hours, to mark almost a year in office.

But Macron again argued his first major military intervention as president was necessary to send a signal that the use of chemical weapons against civilians would not go unpunished.

Saturday’s strikes targeted three alleged chemical weapons facilities in response to what the West says was a gas attack on the town of Douma that killed dozens of people.

“We have full international legitimacy in intervening in this case,” Macron said.

He said the US, France and Britain targeted “extremely precise sites of chemical weapons use” in an operation that went off “perfectly”.

And he further argued the operation was legitimate despite not being sanctioned by the UN, retorting that under a 2013 UN resolution Syria was supposed to destroy its chemical weapons arsenal.

As for his allies, Macron suggested France played a pivotal role in changing Trump’s mind on the need to stay involved in the conflict.

“Ten days ago, President Trump was saying the United States of America had a duty to disengage from Syria,” Macron said.

“I assure you, we have convinced him that it is necessary to stay for the long-term,” he told veteran journalists Jean-Jacques Bourdin and Edwy Plenel, charged with the two-hour grilling on BFMTV.

And in a reference to Trump’s raging on Twitter at Russia over the possibility of strikes, Macron added: “The second thing is that we have also convinced him that he must limit his strikes to chemical weapons, at a time when there was a media furore via tweet, as I’m sure you noticed.”

– Cold words for Orban –

Despite soaring tensions with Russia, Macron stressed the need to “talk to everyone” in pursuing a Syrian settlement, saying his plans to visit Moscow in May remain unchanged.

Like Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May he has faced a domestic backlash for striking Syria without consulting parliament, but he defended the move as well within his constitutional powers.

“This mandate is given democratically to the president by the people in the presidential election,” he said.

Macron also took the opportunity to hit out at newly re-elected Hungarian Prime Minister Victor Orban, whose views on Europe could hardly clash more with his own vision of closer integration.

“I share none of his values, but there he is,” Macron said, expressing worry at the rise of what he called “illiberal democracies” in Europe.

– Bold interview gamble –

Macron’s decision to volunteer for a marathon live TV grilling by two combative veteran journalists was seen as a bold move ahead of the May 7 anniversary of his election victory, which swept away the traditional left and right.

His approval ratings have fluctuated over a year in which he has pursued major reforms, which he insists are his mandate despite staunch opposition from some sectors of society.

Macron acknowledged the anger that his reforms, including a loosening of France’s famously rigid labour laws and a shake-up of heavily-indebted rail operator SNCF, were causing frictions.

“I hear all this anger,” he said, notably in reference to rail workers who have launched three months of rolling strikes.

He said he had promised on the day of his election to “reconcile the country”, but said this “couldn’t be done overnight”.

He reserved little sympathy, however, for the students blocking several university faculties across the country in protest at plans to make admissions more selective.

He dismissed the protesters as “a minority” in most cases, repeating accusations that “professional” trouble-makers were joining the blockades.WASHINGTON, DC – Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) announced on Friday that he will vote against CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s nomination to become secretary of state because of Pompeo’s beliefs on marriage and sexuality — beliefs consistent with Pompeo’s Christian faith. Conservative leaders are now denouncing Booker’s vote as a violation of the Constitution’s Religious Test Clause.

Booker sharply questioned Pompeo on Thursday during the nominee’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, referring to words Pompeo spoke at a church in his district when the current director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was still serving in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Pompeo has also supported efforts to defend marriage as the union between one man and one woman. Those beliefs are consistent with mainstream Christian beliefs.

Booker announced on Facebook late Friday that he will vote against Pompeo, saying that the former congressman’s religious beliefs on these issues make him unfit to serve in federal office representing the United States. “I believe you can’t lead the people if you don’t love the people,” Booker wrote. The senator then quotes Bible verses that he thinks Pompeo is not living up to, including references to loving his neighbor.

Article VI of the U.S. Constitution provides, “No religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office of public Trust under the United States.”

Conservative and Christian leaders are appalled at Booker’s announcement, saying the Constitution forbids Booker’s voting against Pompeo because of the nominee’s religious beliefs.

“Demanding a loyalty oath to Sen. Booker’s determination of which beliefs are acceptable isn’t what this country is about; indeed, it’s what we fought for independence from,” Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council (FRC), tells Breitbart News. “We should celebrate that we are a nation that not only allows but encourages every American to hold and express their beliefs – including their religious beliefs – without fear of retribution by the government.”

Perkins, whose FRC has launched a petition protesting Booker’s violation of the Religious Test Clause that has 25,000 signatures at the time this article was filed, adds that this principle “is the essence of America and the Constitution.”

“Religious bigotry and discrimination is unacceptable in this country, much less from someone who takes an oath to our Constitution and who is supposed to serve the people of this country,” agrees Kelly Shackelford, president of First Liberty Institute, in an exclusive comment to Breitbart News.

“Sen. Cory Booker questioned Secretary of State-nominee Mike Pompeo for comments he made at his church, comments which reflected long-standing church doctrine regarding homosexual conduct and the biblical definition of marriage,” said Prof. John Eastman, chairman of the National Organization for Marriage (NOM). “And now Sen. Booker asserts that he will oppose Pompeo for those views.”

“This is essentially imposing a religious test on officers of the United States, something explicitly forbidden by Article VI of the Constitution,” added Eastman, whose NOM has likewise launched a petition.

“The American people put President Trump in the White House in part because they refuse to be discriminated against for their long-held, mainstream beliefs,” Trump Transition Team leader Ken Blackwell offers to Breitbart News. “Whether on abortion, marriage, the Bible, the Second Amendment, or other issues, tens of millions of Americans who are wonderful people have been vilified for their beliefs by left-wing elites, and the American people chose a president who will stand up for them.”

Pompeo’s nomination is still pending in the Senate, with committee approval expected shortly but no final floor vote yet scheduled.

Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.During an interview with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos, former FBI Director James Comey’s wife, Patrice, confessed that she supported Hillary Clinton and was “devastated” when Donald Trump won.

“I wanted a woman president really badly, and I supported Hillary Clinton,” Patrice Failor Comey told Stephanopoulos. “A lot of my friends worked for her. And I was devastated when she lost.”

James Comey admitted that his wife and girls all took part in the Women’s March in response to Donald Trump’s election.

“My wife and girls marched in the Women’s March, the day after President Trump’s inauguration,” he said. “At least my four daughters — probably all five of my kids, wanted Hillary Clinton to be the first woman president. I know my amazing spouse did.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentIn the desperate hope that countless photos and videos of former Vice President Joe Biden’s “handsi-ness” with women and children can be wished away, the far-left Politico published a lengthy piece Monday dismissing the problem.

The overall piece is a typical overlong, Politico blah-blah-blah about how Biden is the frontrunner to challenge Trump in 2020 and that his real problem is not his “handsi-ness,” but that he is not far enough to the left. Politico’s primary concern is that Biden is “too cozy with Wall Street” and a “septuagenarian white male.”

Politico then offers Biden some advice on how to overcome the Wall Street problem. But this is the most interesting paragraph…

Trump would also provide cover for another often-discussed Biden drawback: the overly familiar mannerisms that seem terribly out of place in the #MeToo era. Next to Trump’s “Access Hollywood” tapes and the litany of sexual misconduct charges levied against the president, Biden’s hands-iness barely registers.

Yeah, no.

To begin with, while it is sometimes difficult to remember after reading its content, Politico poses as a neutral news outlet. Therefore, Politico wrist-flicking the “The Adventures of Creepy Joe Biden: Serial Young Girl-Toucher” is yet another laughable act of bias.

If anything close to Biden-esque photos were available for Politico take down some obscure Republican running for local dogcatcher, the anti-Trump outlet would gleefully do so. As would the rest of the corporate media. It would be the biggest story in the world. Biden, however, gets a shrug.

Secondly, and most importantly, if the media believe they can use Trump to protect Biden from his disturbing behavior, for a number of reasons, they are sorely mistaken.

No matter how much the media try to spin it, the Access Hollywood audio is Trump talking about women who “let” him grab them. It is disgusting locker room talk, for sure, but it is also within the realm of consent. The media continue to lie about this, but Trump used the word “let” and the public knows it.

Additionally, there is no actual evidence Trump did anything wrong with anyone. The allegations against him from various women are just that — allegations. There is no proof they are telling the truth.

On the other hand, there is a ton of photographic evidence showing Biden getting physically creepy with women and children. The hay Trump himself or a super PAC can make out of this would be devastating. The difference between a photo and he said/she is all the difference. Just ask Gary Hart and Al Franken.

Finally, even if I am wrong about all of the above, there is the issue of children. No one has ever alleged that Trump acted inappropriately with children, and that is (and should be) a big red line in the minds of all decent people. The fact that video and photographic evidence of Biden making young girls feel uncomfortable is everywhere would dog him throughout any presidential campaign, most especially in the era of #MeToo.

Moreover, Democrats and their media allies cannot defend Biden’s behavior without looking ridiculous, especially after their Roy Moore witch hunt, which was based on sketchy 40-year-old evidence and hearsay. For example, Politico’s jihad against Moore was 24/7, and just look at how buffoonish it looks pretending Biden did nothing wrong.

As they did while he was vice president, in order to protect Biden, the establishment media is hiding and downplaying the devastating evidence of Biden’s “serial young girl-touching problem.” In a presidential campaign, and in this glorious era of alternate media and political advertising where the corrupt media can no longer bottleneck information, that will not be the case.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.. @AlanDersh on the ACLU: “It is a partisan, hard-left, political organization that no longer cares about the civil liberties of all Americans. It is agenda-driven, money-driven and anti-Trump.” pic.twitter.com/m6ZckPvjMS

Monday on Fox News Channel’s “Fox & Friends,” Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz criticized the American Civil Liberties Union for the double standard it seemed to be applying to President Donald Trump, a Republican regarding his legal situation and an apparent violation of attorney-client privilege.

According to Dershowitz, the ACLU would take a different tack if Hillary Clinton were president and faced the same circumstances.

“If this were Hillary Clinton, they would be raising money left and right defending Hillary Clinton’s rights,” he said. “But now they’re raising money left and left attacking Trump and by putting the attack on Trump over defending our civil liberties. Why do you think I’m here all the time? Why do you think I’m speaking up in favor of a man I voted against? Because the ACLU is dead in the water.”

“Who has ever heard of the ACLU coming in, not only justifying but applauding a raid on a lawyer’s office, which may very well have taken material that was [protected by attorney-client privilege.]”

This gesture by the ACLU revealed to Dershowitz where the organization stands regarding its politics.

“It is a partisan, hard-left, political organization, which no longer cares about the civil liberties of all Americans,” he added. “It is agenda-driven, money-driven and anti-Trump.”

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor. @AlanDersh on the ACLU: “It is a partisan, hard-left, political organization that no longer cares about the civil liberties of all Americans. It is agenda-driven, money-driven and anti-Trump.” pic.twitter.com/m6ZckPvjMS

Monday on Fox News Channel’s “Fox & Friends,” Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz criticized the American Civil Liberties Union for the double standard it seemed to be applying to President Donald Trump, a Republican regarding his legal situation and an apparent violation of attorney-client privilege.

According to Dershowitz, the ACLU would take a different tack if Hillary Clinton were president and faced the same circumstances.

“If this were Hillary Clinton, they would be raising money left and right defending Hillary Clinton’s rights,” he said. “But now they’re raising money left and left attacking Trump and by putting the attack on Trump over defending our civil liberties. Why do you think I’m here all the time? Why do you think I’m speaking up in favor of a man I voted against? Because the ACLU is dead in the water.”

“Who has ever heard of the ACLU coming in, not only justifying but applauding a raid on a lawyer’s office, which may very well have taken material that was [protected by attorney-client privilege.]”

This gesture by the ACLU revealed to Dershowitz where the organization stands regarding its politics.

“It is a partisan, hard-left, political organization, which no longer cares about the civil liberties of all Americans,” he added. “It is agenda-driven, money-driven and anti-Trump.”

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poorFormer FBI Director James Comey stated it “wasn’t necessary” to inform President Donald Trump that the infamous dossier had been paid by Trump’s primary political opponents, namely Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee (DNC).

In an exclusive interview with ABC News’ chief anchor George Stephanopoulos ahead of the release of his memoir on Tuesday, Comey described numerous conversation he had with Trump about the contents of the dossier.

Yet, Comey repeatedly failed to tell Trump that the dossier was produced by the controversial Fusion GPS political opposition research outfit and funded by the DNC and Clinton’s campaign.

Comey first briefed Trump about the dossier claims at a pre-inauguration intelligence briefing at Trump tower. Stephanopoulos asked Comey whether he informed Trump about the dossier’s political origins and whether Trump had a “right” to know.

Here is a transcript of that portion of the interview:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did you tell him that the Steele Dossier had been financed by his political opponents? JAMES COMEY: No. I didn’t– I didn’t think I used the term “Steele Dossier,” I just talked about additional material. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did he– but did he have a right to know that? JAMES COMEY: That it’d been financed by his political opponents? I don’t know the answer to that. I– it wasn’t necessary for my goal, which was to alert him that we had this information. Again, I was clear on whether it’s true or not, it’s important that you know, both because of the counterintelligence reason and so you know that this maybe going to hit the media.

Earlier in the interview, Comey admits that he knew about the dossier’s questionable funding when he was first told about the document’s charges the summer before the election:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: A– and at the time, did you know it had been financed at the beginning from President Trump’s– by President Trump’s political opponents? JAMES COMEY: Yes, I– I was told at some point that it was– the effort had originally been financed by a Republican source to develop– material– opposition research on Donald Trump. Then after the Republican nominating process ended, the effort was taken up and funded by a Democratic aligned group trying to get opposition research on Trump. I never knew which– who the groups were, but I knew it started with Republicans paying for it and then Democrats were paying for it.

Comey describes numerous other talks with Trump about the dossier contents, including a Jan. 11 phone call; a one-on-one White House dinner on Jan. 27; and two subsequent phone calls from Trump.

At the dinner, Comey pushed back against Trump’s suggestion of probing the claim inside the dossier that he had Russian prostitutes perform a “golden shower” romp in the presidential suite at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Moscow in 2013. This while Comey was aware – but still kept to himself – that the document was funded by Trump’s main political opponents.

Comey relates in his book that Trump brought up the topic of the dossier: “He may want me to investigate it to prove that it didn’t happen. And then he says something that distracted me because he said, you know, ‘If there’s even a 1 percent chance my wife thinks that’s true, that’s terrible.’”

“‘And I remember thinking, ‘How could your wife think there’s a 1 percent chance you were with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow?’ I’m a flawed human being, but there is literally zero chance that my wife would think that was true. So, what kind of marriage to what kind of man does your wife think [that] there’s only a 99 percent chance you didn’t do that?”

Comey quoted Trump ask saying, “I may order you to investigate that.”

Comey, however, writes that he urged the president to approach the possibility of an investigation with caution.

“I said, ‘Sir, that’s up to you. But you’d want to be careful about that, because it might create a narrative that we’re investigating you personally, and second, it’s very difficult to prove something didn’t happen,’” Comey said.

Comey had still other chances to inform Trump about the highly questionable origins of the dossier.

In March, Comey writes that Trump called him up to complain that the Russia investigation was a “cloud” impeding his ability to govern, drawing attention again to the golden showers allegation.

“For about the fourth time, he argued that the golden showers thing wasn’t true, asking yet again, ‘Can you imagine me, hookers?’ ” Comey writes of the call. “In an apparent play for my sympathy, he added that he has a beautiful wife and the whole thing has been very painful for her. He asked what we could do to ‘lift the cloud.’ ”

A Washington Post characterization of Comey’s memoir reported:

Comey recalls telling the president the FBI was investigating it as quickly as possible, and that he had told Congress that Trump was not personally under investigation, to which the president repeatedly told him, “We need to get that fact out.” Two weeks later, on April 11, Trump called Comey again to check on his request to “get out” that he is not under investigation, Comey writes. “He seemed irritated with me,” Comey recalls. “I have been very loyal to you, very loyal. We had that thing, you know,” Trump told him, according to the book, apparently referring to the loyalty dinner.

Besides knowledge of the dossier’s financing, a four-page House Intelligence Committee memo alleging abuse of surveillance authority documented that after dossier author Christopher Steele was terminated as an FBI source a “source validation report conducted by an independent unit within FBI assessed Steele’s reporting as only minimally corroborated.”

Still, Comey saw fit not only to officially brief Trump on the matter, but also to cite the questionable document inside a FISA court application on October 21, 2016 to conduct surveillance on Carter Page, who briefly served as a volunteer campaign foreign policy adviser. Comey signed three more FISA applications also citing the dossier.

The GOP memo documents how the FISA applications did not mention the financing from Clinton’s campaign or the DNC, and the documents also left out the role of Fusion GPS in producing the dossier.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

Written with additional research from Joshua Klein.Former FBI Director James Comey stated it “wasn’t necessary” to inform President Donald Trump that the infamous dossier had been paid by Trump’s primary political opponents, namely Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee (DNC).

In an exclusive interview with ABC News’ chief anchor George Stephanopoulos ahead of the release of his memoir on Tuesday, Comey described numerous conversation he had with Trump about the contents of the dossier.

Yet, Comey repeatedly failed to tell Trump that the dossier was produced by the controversial Fusion GPS political opposition research outfit and funded by the DNC and Clinton’s campaign.

Comey first briefed Trump about the dossier claims at a pre-inauguration intelligence briefing at Trump tower. Stephanopoulos asked Comey whether he informed Trump about the dossier’s political origins and whether Trump had a “right” to know.

Here is a transcript of that portion of the interview:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did you tell him that the Steele Dossier had been financed by his political opponents? JAMES COMEY: No. I didn’t– I didn’t think I used the term “Steele Dossier,” I just talked about additional material. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did he– but did he have a right to know that? JAMES COMEY: That it’d been financed by his political opponents? I don’t know the answer to that. I– it wasn’t necessary for my goal, which was to alert him that we had this information. Again, I was clear on whether it’s true or not, it’s important that you know, both because of the counterintelligence reason and so you know that this maybe going to hit the media.

Earlier in the interview, Comey admits that he knew about the dossier’s questionable funding when he was first told about the document’s charges the summer before the election:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: A– and at the time, did you know it had been financed at the beginning from President Trump’s– by President Trump’s political opponents? JAMES COMEY: Yes, I– I was told at some point that it was– the effort had originally been financed by a Republican source to develop– material– opposition research on Donald Trump. Then after the Republican nominating process ended, the effort was taken up and funded by a Democratic aligned group trying to get opposition research on Trump. I never knew which– who the groups were, but I knew it started with Republicans paying for it and then Democrats were paying for it.

Comey describes numerous other talks with Trump about the dossier contents, including a Jan. 11 phone call; a one-on-one White House dinner on Jan. 27; and two subsequent phone calls from Trump.

At the dinner, Comey pushed back against Trump’s suggestion of probing the claim inside the dossier that he had Russian prostitutes perform a “golden shower” romp in the presidential suite at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Moscow in 2013. This while Comey was aware – but still kept to himself – that the document was funded by Trump’s main political opponents.

Comey relates in his book that Trump brought up the topic of the dossier: “He may want me to investigate it to prove that it didn’t happen. And then he says something that distracted me because he said, you know, ‘If there’s even a 1 percent chance my wife thinks that’s true, that’s terrible.’”

“‘And I remember thinking, ‘How could your wife think there’s a 1 percent chance you were with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow?’ I’m a flawed human being, but there is literally zero chance that my wife would think that was true. So, what kind of marriage to what kind of man does your wife think [that] there’s only a 99 percent chance you didn’t do that?”

Comey quoted Trump ask saying, “I may order you to investigate that.”

Comey, however, writes that he urged the president to approach the possibility of an investigation with caution.

“I said, ‘Sir, that’s up to you. But you’d want to be careful about that, because it might create a narrative that we’re investigating you personally, and second, it’s very difficult to prove something didn’t happen,’” Comey said.

Comey had still other chances to inform Trump about the highly questionable origins of the dossier.

In March, Comey writes that Trump called him up to complain that the Russia investigation was a “cloud” impeding his ability to govern, drawing attention again to the golden showers allegation.

“For about the fourth time, he argued that the golden showers thing wasn’t true, asking yet again, ‘Can you imagine me, hookers?’ ” Comey writes of the call. “In an apparent play for my sympathy, he added that he has a beautiful wife and the whole thing has been very painful for her. He asked what we could do to ‘lift the cloud.’ ”

A Washington Post characterization of Comey’s memoir reported:

Comey recalls telling the president the FBI was investigating it as quickly as possible, and that he had told Congress that Trump was not personally under investigation, to which the president repeatedly told him, “We need to get that fact out.” Two weeks later, on April 11, Trump called Comey again to check on his request to “get out” that he is not under investigation, Comey writes. “He seemed irritated with me,” Comey recalls. “I have been very loyal to you, very loyal. We had that thing, you know,” Trump told him, according to the book, apparently referring to the loyalty dinner.

Besides knowledge of the dossier’s financing, a four-page House Intelligence Committee memo alleging abuse of surveillance authority documented that after dossier author Christopher Steele was terminated as an FBI source a “source validation report conducted by an independent unit within FBI assessed Steele’s reporting as only minimally corroborated.”

Still, Comey saw fit not only to officially brief Trump on the matter, but also to cite the questionable document inside a FISA court application on October 21, 2016 to conduct surveillance on Carter Page, who briefly served as a volunteer campaign foreign policy adviser. Comey signed three more FISA applications also citing the dossier.

The GOP memo documents how the FISA applications did not mention the financing from Clinton’s campaign or the DNC, and the documents also left out the role of Fusion GPS in producing the dossier.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

Written with additional research from Joshua Klein.Former FBI Director James Comey stated in an interview that he has “struggled” his whole life with his “ego and– and a sense that I– I have to be careful not to fall in love with my own view of things.”

Comey addressed his self-described ego-centric tendencies in an exclusive interview with ABC News’ chief anchor George Stephanopoulos ahead of the release of his memoir on Tuesday.

Asked about this negative traits, Comey conceded that “my rap on myself is that– is that ego focus. That I– since I was a kid, I’ve had a sense of confidence. That I know I’m good at certain things. And there’s a danger that that will bleed over into pride, into not being open minded to the fact that I could be wrong and other people could have a better view of it.”

During the interview, Comey further stated he originally thought he would never write a book because authoring a memoir “always felt like an exercise in ego.”

“And one of the things I’ve struggled with my whole life is my ego and– and a sense that I– I have to be careful not to fall in love with my own view of things,” he added. “And so that battle with ego and my sense that memoirs are an exercise in ego convinced me I was never going to write a book.”

Comey claims he wrote the book out of a sense of duty to the U.S.

Stephanopoulos asked the former FBI chief whether his ego got the best of him when he infamously violated FBI tradition and bypassed the Justice Department to unilaterally make public pronouncements about Hillary Clinton’s email case. Comey did this at a news conference on July 5, 2016 at which he criticized Clinton’s private email server as “extremely careless” before finally stating that “no charges are appropriate in this case.”

“Your critics say this is where your ego got the best of you. This was your original sin?” Stephanopoulos asked.

Comey replied:

Yeah, I hear that. And, look, there’s always a risk that I’m blind to how I’m acting. I don’t think so. I knew this would be terrible for me personally. So if it was about ego, why would I step out in front of the organization and get shot a thousand times? I actually thought, as bad as this’ll be for me personally, this is my obligation, to protect the F.B.I. and the Justice Department. Given all that had gone on, the attorney general of the United States could not credibly announce this result. And if she did, it would do corrosive damage to the institutions of justice.

Despite describing struggles with his ego, Comey recounted how he originally relented when Attorney General Loretta Lynch convinced the former FBI director to use the word “matter” instead of “investigation” during public comments about the Clinton probe. This despite the Justice Department knowing the FBI probe was not only an official investigation but a criminal investigation.

Here is a transcript of the exchange where Comey recalls the matter, and admits he should have pushed back against Lynch’s request:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: She– but– she agreed. But you write that she didn’t want to call it an investigation? JAMES COMEY: That’s right. She agreed Loretta Lynch I had a great relationship with and still have a lot of respect for. And she said, “I agree. But call it a matter.” And I said, “Why would I do that?” And she said, “Just call it a matter.” And I didn’t know exactly why she was doing that, but I decided in that moment that the whole world would miss the distinction between investigation and matter. And so I dropped it at that point. At my press event, I said– used the term matter, and I was right, the press missed it and said we’d confirmed an investigation. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did– did you think she was doing that to protect Hillary Clinton? JAMES COMEY: I didn’t know. It worried me. It gave me an uncomfortable feeling because the Clinton campaign, since the matter had come in, the investigation had started in July, had been trying to come up with other words to describe it. They had used “Review” I think, “Security referral,” things like that. And it did worry me that the attorney general’s direction was tracking that effort to avoid using the word “investigation.” And so, to be honest, it gave me a bad feeling. And maybe I should’ve pushed harder in the moment. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Yeah, did you push her on it? JAMES COMEY: I didn’t because I’ve known Loretta for a long time. We worked a case together in the early 1990s. And she’s a very smart person. And if she’d had a reason that I couldn’t see in Justice Department policy or something, she’da given it to me. But her answer, “Just do it,” told me this is an order from the attorney general. So it’s not improper, it’s a little bit off axis from the actual facts. But people are going to miss the distinction. And so I’m not going to fight this new attorney general. This is not going to be our first battle. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: You think you should have? JAMES COMEY: Yeah, I probably should have. Given that I respect Loretta, I probably should’ve pushed harder in the moment.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

Written with additional research by Joshua Klein.Former FBI Director James Comey stated in an interview that he has “struggled” his whole life with his “ego and– and a sense that I– I have to be careful not to fall in love with my own view of things.”

Comey addressed his self-described ego-centric tendencies in an exclusive interview with ABC News’ chief anchor George Stephanopoulos ahead of the release of his memoir on Tuesday.

Asked about this negative traits, Comey conceded that “my rap on myself is that– is that ego focus. That I– since I was a kid, I’ve had a sense of confidence. That I know I’m good at certain things. And there’s a danger that that will bleed over into pride, into not being open minded to the fact that I could be wrong and other people could have a better view of it.”

During the interview, Comey further stated he originally thought he would never write a book because authoring a memoir “always felt like an exercise in ego.”

“And one of the things I’ve struggled with my whole life is my ego and– and a sense that I– I have to be careful not to fall in love with my own view of things,” he added. “And so that battle with ego and my sense that memoirs are an exercise in ego convinced me I was never going to write a book.”

Comey claims he wrote the book out of a sense of duty to the U.S.

Stephanopoulos asked the former FBI chief whether his ego got the best of him when he infamously violated FBI tradition and bypassed the Justice Department to unilaterally make public pronouncements about Hillary Clinton’s email case. Comey did this at a news conference on July 5, 2016 at which he criticized Clinton’s private email server as “extremely careless” before finally stating that “no charges are appropriate in this case.”

“Your critics say this is where your ego got the best of you. This was your original sin?” Stephanopoulos asked.

Comey replied:

Yeah, I hear that. And, look, there’s always a risk that I’m blind to how I’m acting. I don’t think so. I knew this would be terrible for me personally. So if it was about ego, why would I step out in front of the organization and get shot a thousand times? I actually thought, as bad as this’ll be for me personally, this is my obligation, to protect the F.B.I. and the Justice Department. Given all that had gone on, the attorney general of the United States could not credibly announce this result. And if she did, it would do corrosive damage to the institutions of justice.

Despite describing struggles with his ego, Comey recounted how he originally relented when Attorney General Loretta Lynch convinced the former FBI director to use the word “matter” instead of “investigation” during public comments about the Clinton probe. This despite the Justice Department knowing the FBI probe was not only an official investigation but a criminal investigation.

Here is a transcript of the exchange where Comey recalls the matter, and admits he should have pushed back against Lynch’s request:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: She– but– she agreed. But you write that she didn’t want to call it an investigation? JAMES COMEY: That’s right. She agreed Loretta Lynch I had a great relationship with and still have a lot of respect for. And she said, “I agree. But call it a matter.” And I said, “Why would I do that?” And she said, “Just call it a matter.” And I didn’t know exactly why she was doing that, but I decided in that moment that the whole world would miss the distinction between investigation and matter. And so I dropped it at that point. At my press event, I said– used the term matter, and I was right, the press missed it and said we’d confirmed an investigation. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did– did you think she was doing that to protect Hillary Clinton? JAMES COMEY: I didn’t know. It worried me. It gave me an uncomfortable feeling because the Clinton campaign, since the matter had come in, the investigation had started in July, had been trying to come up with other words to describe it. They had used “Review” I think, “Security referral,” things like that. And it did worry me that the attorney general’s direction was tracking that effort to avoid using the word “investigation.” And so, to be honest, it gave me a bad feeling. And maybe I should’ve pushed harder in the moment. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Yeah, did you push her on it? JAMES COMEY: I didn’t because I’ve known Loretta for a long time. We worked a case together in the early 1990s. And she’s a very smart person. And if she’d had a reason that I couldn’t see in Justice Department policy or something, she’da given it to me. But her answer, “Just do it,” told me this is an order from the attorney general. So it’s not improper, it’s a little bit off axis from the actual facts. But people are going to miss the distinction. And so I’m not going to fight this new attorney general. This is not going to be our first battle. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: You think you should have? JAMES COMEY: Yeah, I probably should have. Given that I respect Loretta, I probably should’ve pushed harder in the moment.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

Written with additional research by Joshua Klein.The West Virginia Republican Senate primary between pro-Trump conservative firebrand, Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, and establishment favorite Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV) heated up last week, when Jenkins launched a series of factually incorrect attacks against Morrisey’s wife related to her professional career.

The winner of the May 8 Republican primary will face Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV), who has low approval ratings with his constitutents, according to the most recent Morning Consult Poll, is considered one of the most vulnerable of the ten Democratic senators running for re-election in 2018 in a state President Trump won in 2016.

“Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, who is up for re-election in a state where 58 percent of voters approved of President Donald Trump during the first quarter, now finds himself 1 point underwater — 43 percent approve, 44 percent disapprove — after a net slide of 17 points from fourth quarter, the biggest decline of any senator during that period,” the April Morning Consult poll reported.

The Cook Political Report currently rates the West Virginia Senate election as a “Toss-Up.”

Jenkins is a moderate Republican at best, with only a 56 percent Heritage Action Scorecard rating in the current session of the 115th Congress, well below the 68 percent average for all Republican members of the House of Representatives.

In contrast, Morrisey has been the most prominent and aggressively conservative state attorney general in the country, leading the way in a number of regulation-reducing lawsuits that have succeeded in turning back the overreaching federal government’s actions through statutorily unsupportable administrative actions.

At an April 3 debate, “Jenkins said the ‘Morrisey family lobbying firm’ profits off of Planned Parenthood in representing its interests before Congress,” the Charleston Gazette-Mail reported.

“My wife didn’t make one penny from that group,” Morrisey shot back, according to the Gazette-Mail.

Denise Morrisey, Patrick Morrisey’s wife, is employed by Capitol Counsel, a lobbying firm based in Washington, D.C. Patrick Morrisey has no relationship with the firm. Ms. Morrisey has a 15 percent ownership interest in the firm, but other partners hold the controlling 85 percent interest. The claim by Jenkins that Capitol Counsel is the “Morrisey family lobbying firm,” therefore, is factually incorrect.

“On April 4, U.S. Representative Evan Jenkins’ campaign said West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey misled voters during an April 3 candidate forum in the Eastern Panhandle by “claiming his family’s D.C. lobbying firm, Capitol Counsel, does not financially benefit from Planned Parenthood lobbying,” the West Virginia Record reported:

“Denise Henry Morrisey (Morrisey’s wife) holds the second-largest ownership stake in Capitol Counsel, a high-powered lobbying shop that has represented Planned Parenthood’s opposition to federal legislation designed to defund the organization and prohibit taxpayer-funded abortions, federal records show,” Jenkins’ campaign says. “As a managing partner at Capitol Counsel, Denise Henry Morrisey holds a 15 percent stake in the lobbying firm, according to U.S. Justice Department records, and her LinkedIn biography lists her as the firm’s “owner.” Jenkins’ campaign also says Morrisey’s state financial disclose statement lists Capitol Counsel’s lobbying activities as contributing to more than 20 percent of Morrisey’s gross income. And that from 2015 to 2017, Planned Parenthood paid Capitol Counsel $640,000 to lobby for pro-abortion rights according to OpenSecrets.org. “It’s no surprise that Morrisey is trying to hide the truth on how he funds his lifestyle from West Virginians, especially when he’s padding his pockets with Planned Parenthood money,” Jenkins’ campaign says.

The Morrisey campaign punched back hard against Jenkins’ attack on the candidate’s wife.

“Jenkins is lobbing a false attack at Patrick Morrisey’s wife, Denise . . . The truth is, Denise Morrisey has never lobbied on behalf of Planned Parenthood, and a public statement from her firm declares that she has never received compensation from Planned Parenthood,” the Morrisey campaign told the Record.

On Monday, “a group of women from across West Virginia sent a letter to Congressman Evan Jenkins and Don Blankenship, condemning their repeated attacks on Attorney General Patrick Morrisey’s wife in the Republican primary for the U.S. Senate,” according to a statement released by the Morrisey campaign.

“As women who have worked hard to build our own careers, we are extremely disappointed by your recent attacks on Patrick Morrisey’s wife – who is not currently and has never been a candidate for office,” 100 West Virginia women wrote in a letter sent to Rep. Jenkins:

To be sure, Mr. Morrisey’s positions and time in public office are fair game, but Mrs. Morrisey’s career and her political opinions should be off the table. Of course, we would expect the same basic courtesy from Mr. Morrisey vis a vis your family. It would be just as ludicrous and offensive for Mr. Morrisey to research your family members’ background, jobs, or political positions and lob attacks at them. The Republican Party is often accused of being unfriendly towards women, and it is exactly attacks like these that push women away from our party. As strong and independent women ourselves, we want to be judged by our own records, not by our husbands’. As mothers, we encourage our daughters and other young girls to pursue careers they are passionate about. We teach them that hard work and commitment will be rewarded, that they will be judged on their own merits. Don’t you agree?

“The most recent polling in the West Virginia Senate primary shows state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey in first place,” the Washington Examiner reported last month:

The survey conducted by Osage Research, commissioned by Morrisey and first obtained by the Washington Examiner, has the attorney general in first place with 24 percent of the vote, followed closely by coal baron Don Blankenship with 22 percent, and Rep. Evan Jenkins in third with 17 percent. . . Pollsters surveyed 500 likely Republican primary voters earlier this week, generating a result with a +/- 4.38% margin of error less than two months before election day. Interestingly, support for Morrisey and Blankenship comes throughout the state while Jenkins support is pocketed in his home district

As for the general election, Morrisey appears to be better positioned to energize voters who supported President Trump to vote to remove Manchin than Jenkins is.The West Virginia Republican Senate primary between pro-Trump conservative firebrand, Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, and establishment favorite Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV) heated up last week, when Jenkins launched a series of factually incorrect attacks against Morrisey’s wife related to her professional career.

The winner of the May 8 Republican primary will face Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV), who has low approval ratings with his constitutents, according to the most recent Morning Consult Poll, is considered one of the most vulnerable of the ten Democratic senators running for re-election in 2018 in a state President Trump won in 2016.

“Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia, who is up for re-election in a state where 58 percent of voters approved of President Donald Trump during the first quarter, now finds himself 1 point underwater — 43 percent approve, 44 percent disapprove — after a net slide of 17 points from fourth quarter, the biggest decline of any senator during that period,” the April Morning Consult poll reported.

The Cook Political Report currently rates the West Virginia Senate election as a “Toss-Up.”

Jenkins is a moderate Republican at best, with only a 56 percent Heritage Action Scorecard rating in the current session of the 115th Congress, well below the 68 percent average for all Republican members of the House of Representatives.

In contrast, Morrisey has been the most prominent and aggressively conservative state attorney general in the country, leading the way in a number of regulation-reducing lawsuits that have succeeded in turning back the overreaching federal government’s actions through statutorily unsupportable administrative actions.

At an April 3 debate, “Jenkins said the ‘Morrisey family lobbying firm’ profits off of Planned Parenthood in representing its interests before Congress,” the Charleston Gazette-Mail reported.

“My wife didn’t make one penny from that group,” Morrisey shot back, according to the Gazette-Mail.

Denise Morrisey, Patrick Morrisey’s wife, is employed by Capitol Counsel, a lobbying firm based in Washington, D.C. Patrick Morrisey has no relationship with the firm. Ms. Morrisey has a 15 percent ownership interest in the firm, but other partners hold the controlling 85 percent interest. The claim by Jenkins that Capitol Counsel is the “Morrisey family lobbying firm,” therefore, is factually incorrect.

“On April 4, U.S. Representative Evan Jenkins’ campaign said West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey misled voters during an April 3 candidate forum in the Eastern Panhandle by “claiming his family’s D.C. lobbying firm, Capitol Counsel, does not financially benefit from Planned Parenthood lobbying,” the West Virginia Record reported:

“Denise Henry Morrisey (Morrisey’s wife) holds the second-largest ownership stake in Capitol Counsel, a high-powered lobbying shop that has represented Planned Parenthood’s opposition to federal legislation designed to defund the organization and prohibit taxpayer-funded abortions, federal records show,” Jenkins’ campaign says. “As a managing partner at Capitol Counsel, Denise Henry Morrisey holds a 15 percent stake in the lobbying firm, according to U.S. Justice Department records, and her LinkedIn biography lists her as the firm’s “owner.” Jenkins’ campaign also says Morrisey’s state financial disclose statement lists Capitol Counsel’s lobbying activities as contributing to more than 20 percent of Morrisey’s gross income. And that from 2015 to 2017, Planned Parenthood paid Capitol Counsel $640,000 to lobby for pro-abortion rights according to OpenSecrets.org. “It’s no surprise that Morrisey is trying to hide the truth on how he funds his lifestyle from West Virginians, especially when he’s padding his pockets with Planned Parenthood money,” Jenkins’ campaign says.

The Morrisey campaign punched back hard against Jenkins’ attack on the candidate’s wife.

“Jenkins is lobbing a false attack at Patrick Morrisey’s wife, Denise . . . The truth is, Denise Morrisey has never lobbied on behalf of Planned Parenthood, and a public statement from her firm declares that she has never received compensation from Planned Parenthood,” the Morrisey campaign told the Record.

On Monday, “a group of women from across West Virginia sent a letter to Congressman Evan Jenkins and Don Blankenship, condemning their repeated attacks on Attorney General Patrick Morrisey’s wife in the Republican primary for the U.S. Senate,” according to a statement released by the Morrisey campaign.

“As women who have worked hard to build our own careers, we are extremely disappointed by your recent attacks on Patrick Morrisey’s wife – who is not currently and has never been a candidate for office,” 100 West Virginia women wrote in a letter sent to Rep. Jenkins:

To be sure, Mr. Morrisey’s positions and time in public office are fair game, but Mrs. Morrisey’s career and her political opinions should be off the table. Of course, we would expect the same basic courtesy from Mr. Morrisey vis a vis your family. It would be just as ludicrous and offensive for Mr. Morrisey to research your family members’ background, jobs, or political positions and lob attacks at them. The Republican Party is often accused of being unfriendly towards women, and it is exactly attacks like these that push women away from our party. As strong and independent women ourselves, we want to be judged by our own records, not by our husbands’. As mothers, we encourage our daughters and other young girls to pursue careers they are passionate about. We teach them that hard work and commitment will be rewarded, that they will be judged on their own merits. Don’t you agree?

“The most recent polling in the West Virginia Senate primary shows state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey in first place,” the Washington Examiner reported last month:

The survey conducted by Osage Research, commissioned by Morrisey and first obtained by the Washington Examiner, has the attorney general in first place with 24 percent of the vote, followed closely by coal baron Don Blankenship with 22 percent, and Rep. Evan Jenkins in third with 17 percent. . . Pollsters surveyed 500 likely Republican primary voters earlier this week, generating a result with a +/- 4.38% margin of error less than two months before election day. Interestingly, support for Morrisey and Blankenship comes throughout the state while Jenkins support is pocketed in his home district

As for the general election, Morrisey appears to be better positioned to energize voters who supported President Trump to vote to remove Manchin than Jenkins is.Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) has endorsed West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey in the May 8 Republican primary for the Party’s nomination to challenge Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) in the November general election.

“Patrick Morrisey has a proven conservative record of fighting for conservative values,” Rand said in a statement the Morrisey campaign released Monday.

Paul added:

As Attorney General, Patrick has stood up for West Virginia taxpayers, defended the state from President Obama’s overzealous regulations, and expanded gun rights. With so many politicians in Washington stuck in the swamp, we could use a senator with Patrick’s principled integrity in the U.S. Senate. I look forward to working with Patrick next year in defense of our shared conservative principles.

Morrisey expressed his appreciation for Paul’s endorsement.

“It is an honor to receive Sen. Paul’s endorsement in this race,” Morrisey said in the statement, continuing:

I’ve long admired Sen. Paul’s commitment to fiscal responsibility, less government, and constitutional principles. Sen. Paul has been a leader in fighting for a balanced budget and eliminating President Obama’s draconian regulations – issues very near and dear to West Virginians’ hearts. I look forward to working with him on these important efforts and many others.

Morrisey faces establishment favorite Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV) and coal magnate Don Blankenship in the May 8 primary.

The most recent poll shows Morrisey in the lead.

The winner of the May 8 Republican primary will face Manchin in the midterm election. Manchin is one of ten Democratic senators running for re-election in a state President Donald Trump won in 2016.

According to a recent Morning Consult poll, Manchin is one of the most vulnerable Democrat senators on the 2018 ballot.Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) has endorsed West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey in the May 8 Republican primary for the Party’s nomination to challenge Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) in the November general election.

“Patrick Morrisey has a proven conservative record of fighting for conservative values,” Rand said in a statement the Morrisey campaign released Monday.

Paul added:

As Attorney General, Patrick has stood up for West Virginia taxpayers, defended the state from President Obama’s overzealous regulations, and expanded gun rights. With so many politicians in Washington stuck in the swamp, we could use a senator with Patrick’s principled integrity in the U.S. Senate. I look forward to working with Patrick next year in defense of our shared conservative principles.

Morrisey expressed his appreciation for Paul’s endorsement.

“It is an honor to receive Sen. Paul’s endorsement in this race,” Morrisey said in the statement, continuing:

I’ve long admired Sen. Paul’s commitment to fiscal responsibility, less government, and constitutional principles. Sen. Paul has been a leader in fighting for a balanced budget and eliminating President Obama’s draconian regulations – issues very near and dear to West Virginians’ hearts. I look forward to working with him on these important efforts and many others.

Morrisey faces establishment favorite Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV) and coal magnate Don Blankenship in the May 8 primary.

The most recent poll shows Morrisey in the lead.

The winner of the May 8 Republican primary will face Manchin in the midterm election. Manchin is one of ten Democratic senators running for re-election in a state President Donald Trump won in 2016.

According to a recent Morning Consult poll, Manchin is one of the most vulnerable Democrat senators on the 2018 ballot.The NRA is holding a membership drive with the goal of 100,000 new members over the next 100 days.

Fox News reports that NRA media relations manager Jason J. Brown said, “The NRA’s strength is in our dedicated and politically savvy members. Over the next 100 days we hope to welcome 100,000 new freedom-loving Americans to our ranks. The threat to our Second Amendment has never been greater.”

The drive comes after left-leaning activists, students for gun control, and media outlets in lockstep with both spent weeks flooding the airwaves with calls for more gun control following the school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

Many of the gun control activists blamed the NRA for the February 14 massacre and actually birthed a campaign to vote out politicians who take money from the NRA. One of the more explicit examples of this was the treatment of Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) during CNN’s Parkland gun control town hall. The NRA and Rubio were both denigrated during the event, as celebrities responded to the shooting by criticizing the NRA.

The celebrity activism included Judd Apatow, who called President Trump a “coward” for not cutting ties with the NRA, Mia Farrow’s tweeting of names of senators and House members who received donations from the NRA, and Chelsea Handler’s tying Republicans and the NRA together, accusing both of having “blood on [their] hands.”

February Donations to the NRA PAC tripled amid the criticism and gun control campaigns.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.The NRA is holding a membership drive with the goal of 100,000 new members over the next 100 days.

Fox News reports that NRA media relations manager Jason J. Brown said, “The NRA’s strength is in our dedicated and politically savvy members. Over the next 100 days we hope to welcome 100,000 new freedom-loving Americans to our ranks. The threat to our Second Amendment has never been greater.”

The drive comes after left-leaning activists, students for gun control, and media outlets in lockstep with both spent weeks flooding the airwaves with calls for more gun control following the school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

Many of the gun control activists blamed the NRA for the February 14 massacre and actually birthed a campaign to vote out politicians who take money from the NRA. One of the more explicit examples of this was the treatment of Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) during CNN’s Parkland gun control town hall. The NRA and Rubio were both denigrated during the event, as celebrities responded to the shooting by criticizing the NRA.

The celebrity activism included Judd Apatow, who called President Trump a “coward” for not cutting ties with the NRA, Mia Farrow’s tweeting of names of senators and House members who received donations from the NRA, and Chelsea Handler’s tying Republicans and the NRA together, accusing both of having “blood on [their] hands.”

February Donations to the NRA PAC tripled amid the criticism and gun control campaigns.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) is urging Democrats to vote, asserting that “women are dying” because the left is losing elections.

The Democratic National Committee vice chairman made the remarks Friday at a progressive training session in Washington, DC, saying the party needs to win elections to save women’s health.

“Women are dying because we are losing elections,” Ellison said. “We don’t have the right to lose a damn election. We have to win. We have to win.”

Ellison said that maternal mortality is rising in red states such as Texas and Missouri, attempting to link Republican electoral wins to the rising maternal mortality rate in the U.S.

“Did you know that in Missouri and Texas… maternal mortality has risen?” Ellison said before making the “women are dying” remark.

But Ellison’s claim does not tell the whole story about the high maternal mortality rates in those states.

In Missouri, which has one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the U.S., most of the women die from cardiac issues and blood clots, the Kansas City Star reported.

Due to the high rate of women in the state who smoke or are obese, many of these women increase their risk of developing diabetes or heart problems.

In Texas, most women die from receiving inadequate clinical care. According to the United Health Foundation’s 2016 report on the health of women and children, only 30.8 percent of women reported that they received their flu shots.

Evidence also indicates that the rising mortality rate out of Texas is the result of flawed data, according to an article in Popular Science.

Ellison made these claims about maternal mortality rates a month after he urged Democrats to support single-payer health care.Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) is urging Democrats to vote, asserting that “women are dying” because the left is losing elections.

The Democratic National Committee vice chairman made the remarks Friday at a progressive training session in Washington, DC, saying the party needs to win elections to save women’s health.

“Women are dying because we are losing elections,” Ellison said. “We don’t have the right to lose a damn election. We have to win. We have to win.”

Ellison said that maternal mortality is rising in red states such as Texas and Missouri, attempting to link Republican electoral wins to the rising maternal mortality rate in the U.S.

“Did you know that in Missouri and Texas… maternal mortality has risen?” Ellison said before making the “women are dying” remark.

But Ellison’s claim does not tell the whole story about the high maternal mortality rates in those states.

In Missouri, which has one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the U.S., most of the women die from cardiac issues and blood clots, the Kansas City Star reported.

Due to the high rate of women in the state who smoke or are obese, many of these women increase their risk of developing diabetes or heart problems.

In Texas, most women die from receiving inadequate clinical care. According to the United Health Foundation’s 2016 report on the health of women and children, only 30.8 percent of women reported that they received their flu shots.

Evidence also indicates that the rising mortality rate out of Texas is the result of flawed data, according to an article in Popular Science.

Ellison made these claims about maternal mortality rates a month after he urged Democrats to support single-payer health care.Monday on ESPN’s “First Take,” host Stephen A. Smith argued that activist quarterback Colin Kaepernick is more comparable to President Donald Trump than Jackie Robinson.

Kaepernick tweeted a graphic Sunday with a quote by Robinson about how he cannot stand or sing the National Anthem.

Smith said to anybody mentioning Kaepernick in the same sentence as Robinson, “Pump them damn brakes.”

“He is not comparable to the great Jackie Robinson,” he argued. “Jackie Robinson was the man that was responsible for integrating the sport of Major League Baseball. Jackie Robinson was coming up in a time when we were devoid of civil rights, where we couldn’t use the same restaurants or the same bathrooms or we couldn’t patronize the same businesses or the water fountains or anything like that. Jackie Robinson grew up at a time with such alarming hostility that it sparked the Civil Rights movement, for crying out loud, in certain respects, and there is no question about that.”

Instead, Smith likened the activist quarterback to the president, who tried to become an owner in the league, but failed because he sued the league many years before and was ultimately ostracized.

“Donald Trump was the former owner for the USFL, who tried to sue the NFL for $1.7 billion,” Smith explained. “He won the case, but won a grand total of one dollar. It assisted in ruining the USFL — certainly ruined his chances of ultimately getting what he really wanted which is to own an NFL team because then in 2014, years later when he wanted to own the Buffalo Bills, they still didn’t want him to be a part of their clique. So here you have a white billionaire who wants to become a part of the league and couldn’t get in. Colin Kaepernick can’t get back in.”

He continued, “I understand that the two things really don’t have much to do with one another, but I’m saying the irony is that Donald Trump before he ever decided to run for president wanted to be an owner for the National Football League and they would not let him in, and as a result, it sparked him to run for the presidency of the United States of America, which he ultimately succeeded in doing so, by the way, and it was spearheaded by the fact they wouldn’t let him in the league. So, anybody who affects their bottom line is somebody they would ostracize, and Colin Kaepernick is the latest example of that.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentMonday on ESPN’s “First Take,” host Stephen A. Smith argued that activist quarterback Colin Kaepernick is more comparable to President Donald Trump than Jackie Robinson.

Kaepernick tweeted a graphic Sunday with a quote by Robinson about how he cannot stand or sing the National Anthem.

Smith said to anybody mentioning Kaepernick in the same sentence as Robinson, “Pump them damn brakes.”

“He is not comparable to the great Jackie Robinson,” he argued. “Jackie Robinson was the man that was responsible for integrating the sport of Major League Baseball. Jackie Robinson was coming up in a time when we were devoid of civil rights, where we couldn’t use the same restaurants or the same bathrooms or we couldn’t patronize the same businesses or the water fountains or anything like that. Jackie Robinson grew up at a time with such alarming hostility that it sparked the Civil Rights movement, for crying out loud, in certain respects, and there is no question about that.”

Instead, Smith likened the activist quarterback to the president, who tried to become an owner in the league, but failed because he sued the league many years before and was ultimately ostracized.

“Donald Trump was the former owner for the USFL, who tried to sue the NFL for $1.7 billion,” Smith explained. “He won the case, but won a grand total of one dollar. It assisted in ruining the USFL — certainly ruined his chances of ultimately getting what he really wanted which is to own an NFL team because then in 2014, years later when he wanted to own the Buffalo Bills, they still didn’t want him to be a part of their clique. So here you have a white billionaire who wants to become a part of the league and couldn’t get in. Colin Kaepernick can’t get back in.”

He continued, “I understand that the two things really don’t have much to do with one another, but I’m saying the irony is that Donald Trump before he ever decided to run for president wanted to be an owner for the National Football League and they would not let him in, and as a result, it sparked him to run for the presidency of the United States of America, which he ultimately succeeded in doing so, by the way, and it was spearheaded by the fact they wouldn’t let him in the league. So, anybody who affects their bottom line is somebody they would ostracize, and Colin Kaepernick is the latest example of that.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentSeattle Seahawks insiders are insisting that former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick is not out of the running for job, despite the team’s recent signing of backup quarterback Austin Davis.

Kaepernick most recently made news after the Seahawks canceled a meeting with the former San Francisco 49er because he would not pledge to end his anti-American protests during the playing of the national anthem.

The controversy over the cancellation was deepened the very next day when the team signed former Redskins quarterback Stephen Morris.

But now, according to Mike Garafolo of NFL Network, insiders are saying that the Seahawks have not completely ruled out signing Kaepernick at a later date. Garafolo says that he has been told that Kaepernick’s status is “in a holding pattern but not done” in the Seahawks offices.

The Seahawks are re-signing QB Austin Davis, source says. He spent last season as Russell Wilson’s backup. Davis will get the veteran minimum deal. I’m told this won’t end the team’s talks with Colin Kaepernick. Still in a holding pattern but not done. — Mike Garafolo (@MikeGarafolo) April 16, 2018

Many sports writers have pointed to the Seahawks’ action as proof that Kaepernick has been blackballed over his invention of the national anthem protest. Kaepernick has been sitting on the sidelines and left unsigned since he turned free agent at the end of the 2016 season.

Kaepernick is also still pursuing a grievance case against the NFL claiming that league owners have “colluded” to keep him from playing since the end of the 2016 season. Kaepernick claims he is being prevented from pursuing his career because of his exercise of free speech.

The former QB’s grievance is ongoing with a list of coaches, owners, and other NFL officials having already been deposed in the case.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Seattle Seahawks insiders are insisting that former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick is not out of the running for job, despite the team’s recent signing of backup quarterback Austin Davis.

Kaepernick most recently made news after the Seahawks canceled a meeting with the former San Francisco 49er because he would not pledge to end his anti-American protests during the playing of the national anthem.

The controversy over the cancellation was deepened the very next day when the team signed former Redskins quarterback Stephen Morris.

But now, according to Mike Garafolo of NFL Network, insiders are saying that the Seahawks have not completely ruled out signing Kaepernick at a later date. Garafolo says that he has been told that Kaepernick’s status is “in a holding pattern but not done” in the Seahawks offices.

The Seahawks are re-signing QB Austin Davis, source says. He spent last season as Russell Wilson’s backup. Davis will get the veteran minimum deal. I’m told this won’t end the team’s talks with Colin Kaepernick. Still in a holding pattern but not done. — Mike Garafolo (@MikeGarafolo) April 16, 2018

Many sports writers have pointed to the Seahawks’ action as proof that Kaepernick has been blackballed over his invention of the national anthem protest. Kaepernick has been sitting on the sidelines and left unsigned since he turned free agent at the end of the 2016 season.

Kaepernick is also still pursuing a grievance case against the NFL claiming that league owners have “colluded” to keep him from playing since the end of the 2016 season. Kaepernick claims he is being prevented from pursuing his career because of his exercise of free speech.

The former QB’s grievance is ongoing with a list of coaches, owners, and other NFL officials having already been deposed in the case.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.The Chinese state-run newspaper Global Times condemned the Western strikes on Syrian regime assets in Damascus in a column on Sunday, declaring the strikes the behavior of “rogues” and positing that U.S. President Donald Trump has “no clue” what his Syria policy is.

The Chinese Communist Party condemned the strikes against dictator Bashar al-Assad in separate, and much more tempered, statements during the weekend. While China has not played an active role in the Syrian civil war, it remains allied to Assad’s most active patrons, Russia and Iran.

The Global Times claimed in the column, “Reckless Strike on Syria a Shameless Act,” that “many people are confused” by President Trump’s Syria strategy, which has, so far, been limited to responding to the use of chemical weapons to send a message that Washington will enforce international legal norms on chemical weapons. Prior to the strike on Friday, Trump had mused in public of a total withdrawal of American assets from Syria “very soon.”

“Perhaps even Trump and his team have no clue what they want to do in Syria,” the Times article argues. “They may want to showcase the might of the U.S. and the West, send a warning to their potential opponents and boost the unity of the West. Washington may feel that it is no big deal to beat Syria up.”

The result of the Trump airstrikes, the column concludes, is that “the U.S., UK, and France behaved like rogues.” The strikes, it continues, were unnecessary to enforce international law because Assad had “no need at all” to use the weapons. What’s more, the strikes damage talks between the Koreas, the Chinese outlet argues, without elaborating on how. North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un, Assad’s close ally, is scheduled to meet President Trump in person at a meeting on a to-be-determined date in May or early June.

The Global Times grants the Western coalition one compliment: it did succeed, the column notes, in having “embarrassed Moscow” by attacking Damascus without drawing retribution. Yet “the strike avoided the region where Russian troops are stationed and the U.S. issued a signal to stop the strike immediately afterward.”

The Chinese Foreign Ministry, which speaks for the Chinese regime more officially, categorically condemned the airstrikes on Syria because they occurred without the permission of the U.N. Security Council, which China sites as a permanent member – allowing it to veto any action it does not like.

“We oppose the use of force in international relations and call for respect for other countries’ sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Saturday. “Any unilateral military action bypassing the [United Nations] Security Council runs contrary to the purpose and principles of the UN Charter and violates the principles of international law.”

The regime’s Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) touted China’s opposition to the strikes, as well as vocal support from allied governments like Bolivia and Cuba.

Experts speaking to the Global Times for a news article on the Syrian developments challenged the veracity of “questionable” evidence the Western powers involved used to conduct the strike. “Just like in 2013, ‘chemical attacks’ always happened when the Syrian government made gains in the war,” former Chinese Ambassador to Iran Hua Liming told the outlet, calling the chemical weapons charge an “excuse to intervene” in the war.

President Donald Trump addressed the nation Friday, confirming targeted attacks on scientific research and storage facilities in Damascus.

“The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread and use of chemical weapons,” he said. “Establishing this deterrent is a vital interest of the United States.”

Pentagon chief Gen. Jim Mattis called the attack a “one-time shot” as long as Assad does not attempt to use chemical weapons again. However, concerns surfaced Sunday night from France, where President Emmanuel Macron insisted he had convinced Trump to stay in Syria long term. Macron did not specify what role the United States would take in that war – one in which more than ten warring actors are competing for territorial supremacy within Syria’s borders – or what interest the United States had in a long-term operation there.

Syria declared independence from France in 1946.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.The Chinese state-run newspaper Global Times condemned the Western strikes on Syrian regime assets in Damascus in a column on Sunday, declaring the strikes the behavior of “rogues” and positing that U.S. President Donald Trump has “no clue” what his Syria policy is.

The Chinese Communist Party condemned the strikes against dictator Bashar al-Assad in separate, and much more tempered, statements during the weekend. While China has not played an active role in the Syrian civil war, it remains allied to Assad’s most active patrons, Russia and Iran.

The Global Times claimed in the column, “Reckless Strike on Syria a Shameless Act,” that “many people are confused” by President Trump’s Syria strategy, which has, so far, been limited to responding to the use of chemical weapons to send a message that Washington will enforce international legal norms on chemical weapons. Prior to the strike on Friday, Trump had mused in public of a total withdrawal of American assets from Syria “very soon.”

“Perhaps even Trump and his team have no clue what they want to do in Syria,” the Times article argues. “They may want to showcase the might of the U.S. and the West, send a warning to their potential opponents and boost the unity of the West. Washington may feel that it is no big deal to beat Syria up.”

The result of the Trump airstrikes, the column concludes, is that “the U.S., UK, and France behaved like rogues.” The strikes, it continues, were unnecessary to enforce international law because Assad had “no need at all” to use the weapons. What’s more, the strikes damage talks between the Koreas, the Chinese outlet argues, without elaborating on how. North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un, Assad’s close ally, is scheduled to meet President Trump in person at a meeting on a to-be-determined date in May or early June.

The Global Times grants the Western coalition one compliment: it did succeed, the column notes, in having “embarrassed Moscow” by attacking Damascus without drawing retribution. Yet “the strike avoided the region where Russian troops are stationed and the U.S. issued a signal to stop the strike immediately afterward.”

The Chinese Foreign Ministry, which speaks for the Chinese regime more officially, categorically condemned the airstrikes on Syria because they occurred without the permission of the U.N. Security Council, which China sites as a permanent member – allowing it to veto any action it does not like.

“We oppose the use of force in international relations and call for respect for other countries’ sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Saturday. “Any unilateral military action bypassing the [United Nations] Security Council runs contrary to the purpose and principles of the UN Charter and violates the principles of international law.”

The regime’s Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) touted China’s opposition to the strikes, as well as vocal support from allied governments like Bolivia and Cuba.

Experts speaking to the Global Times for a news article on the Syrian developments challenged the veracity of “questionable” evidence the Western powers involved used to conduct the strike. “Just like in 2013, ‘chemical attacks’ always happened when the Syrian government made gains in the war,” former Chinese Ambassador to Iran Hua Liming told the outlet, calling the chemical weapons charge an “excuse to intervene” in the war.

President Donald Trump addressed the nation Friday, confirming targeted attacks on scientific research and storage facilities in Damascus.

“The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread and use of chemical weapons,” he said. “Establishing this deterrent is a vital interest of the United States.”

Pentagon chief Gen. Jim Mattis called the attack a “one-time shot” as long as Assad does not attempt to use chemical weapons again. However, concerns surfaced Sunday night from France, where President Emmanuel Macron insisted he had convinced Trump to stay in Syria long term. Macron did not specify what role the United States would take in that war – one in which more than ten warring actors are competing for territorial supremacy within Syria’s borders – or what interest the United States had in a long-term operation there.

Syria declared independence from France in 1946.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.A young father and a woman were stabbed in London within 30 minutes last night, as the number murdered in the capital this year hits 59.

The killings come as News Yorkers living in London said they fear the “crazy” violent crime wave overtaking the city. “It’s like home but without the breakdancing,” one said.

The Metropolitan force launched the first murder probe after Raul Nicolaie, 26, was stabbed at his flat in Colindale, north London. He was rushed to hospital but died from the injuries.

A woman, 34, was arrested at the scene and was taken to a north London police station. She and the dead man were known to each other.

Just half an hour after later, a woman in her 30s was found with fatal knife wounds at a house in Brixton at around 6.30pm on Sunday. She was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

A man in his 20s was arrested on suspicion of the killing and he remains in custody at a south London police station. It is thought the victim and the man arrested were known to each other.

So far this year, London’s murder rate has been higher than that of New York for the first time since the 19th century, despite the UK having punitive gun-control laws. The two cities have a similar population size.

Now, New Yorkers living in the UK capital have now told of their worry about London’s violent crime wave.

Adam Janeway, a 28-year-old MA student living in Islington, told the Evening Standard: “I don’t know what you’ve got going on here, man – it’s crazy.

“You got people throwing acid in other people’s faces, kids riding around on moped’s stealing cell phones.

“I’m not the type to get political myself but I don’t really understand how your Government can continue cutting back on the police budget and not think this kind of thing is gonna happen.”

Raniah Day, 39, a substitute drama teacher who moved to Haringey, north London, four years ago, said she was “worried” for those growing up on the capital’s streets.

She told the Standard: “I feel deeply sad when I hear that the murder rate is so high in London or in NYC.

“I feel scared for the young men and women who are living in areas and communities where they are drawn into, or have to navigate, gangs, territories, or peer group violence.”A young father and a woman were stabbed in London within 30 minutes last night, as the number murdered in the capital this year hits 59.

The killings come as News Yorkers living in London said they fear the “crazy” violent crime wave overtaking the city. “It’s like home but without the breakdancing,” one said.

The Metropolitan force launched the first murder probe after Raul Nicolaie, 26, was stabbed at his flat in Colindale, north London. He was rushed to hospital but died from the injuries.

A woman, 34, was arrested at the scene and was taken to a north London police station. She and the dead man were known to each other.

Just half an hour after later, a woman in her 30s was found with fatal knife wounds at a house in Brixton at around 6.30pm on Sunday. She was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

A man in his 20s was arrested on suspicion of the killing and he remains in custody at a south London police station. It is thought the victim and the man arrested were known to each other.

So far this year, London’s murder rate has been higher than that of New York for the first time since the 19th century, despite the UK having punitive gun-control laws. The two cities have a similar population size.

Now, New Yorkers living in the UK capital have now told of their worry about London’s violent crime wave.

Adam Janeway, a 28-year-old MA student living in Islington, told the Evening Standard: “I don’t know what you’ve got going on here, man – it’s crazy.

“You got people throwing acid in other people’s faces, kids riding around on moped’s stealing cell phones.

“I’m not the type to get political myself but I don’t really understand how your Government can continue cutting back on the police budget and not think this kind of thing is gonna happen.”

Raniah Day, 39, a substitute drama teacher who moved to Haringey, north London, four years ago, said she was “worried” for those growing up on the capital’s streets.

She told the Standard: “I feel deeply sad when I hear that the murder rate is so high in London or in NYC.

“I feel scared for the young men and women who are living in areas and communities where they are drawn into, or have to navigate, gangs, territories, or peer group violence.”Attendees at President Donald Trump’s roundtable event on tax cuts appeared to like what they heard after the president visited Hialeah, Florida.

Some in the group shouted “four more years!” as the president concluded his event.

Audience members at Trump event with Hispanic business leaders chant "Four more years!!" pic.twitter.com/YHFrVnNxz1 — Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) April 16, 2018

A group of Hispanic business leaders spoke at the event, praising the president’s latest tax cuts for helping them boost their businesses, create jobs, and offer more benefits to employees.

Trump was joined by leaders of gas stations, a transportation company, a dentistry, a restaurant chain, a craft brewing company, and a community bank.

Hispanic Republicans Sen. Marco Rubio and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart also attended the event.

“I want to thank Senator Rubio. He’s been a great friend,” Trump said as the crowd applauded.

Trump touted the benefits of the recent round of tax cuts and highlighted positive economic news such as the lowest ever unemployment numbers for Hispanics and African-Americans and women.

“That means if you’re a woman and Hispanic or a woman and African-American, you’re really doing well, right?” he asked.Female college athletes are forced to withstand a campaign of pressure to terminate pregnancies in order to stay in top condition, according to a piece in the Washington Examiner.

One U.S. Olympic gold medalist, Sanya Richards-Ross, recently admitted to Sports Illustrated that she was pressured to have an abortion just ahead of the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, China. Richards-Ross claimed that she didn’t know any female athletes who hadn’t had an abortion to keep them in competition, according to the Washington Examiner.

“I literally don’t know another female track and field athlete who hasn’t had an abortion,” Richards-Ross said.

The Examiner says that female athletes are left ignorant of their reproductive rights, as abortion is exclusively pushed as the sole solution to their “problem.” Indeed, Examiner author Kristan Hawkins claims that this situation may be a breach of federal law:

The question is this: Why are the schools, coaches, staff, and professors in these students’ lives doing almost nothing to ensure that they are apprised of their rights under Title IX? Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 explicitly prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities at schools that receive federal taxpayer funding. In other words, it is against the law for a student to lose her scholarship or be kicked off her sports team for being pregnant.

Hawkins goes on to point out that many women suffer terribly in college because of the mental anguish over the pressure placed on them to terminate their pregnancies.

“Through the Pregnant on Campus Initiative, Students for Life America staff and student leaders have responded to dozens of complaints from pregnant students who were told to drop out of school, were dropped from or failed out of classes, and even lost financial aid. In many cases, SFLA staff has had to explain to the students what the Title IX violation was so that they could then advocate for themselves because Title IX coordinators were not providing them the correct information, or were directly complicit in the action,” Hawkins writes.

Hawkins also notes that Planned Parenthood is likely violating Title IX rules, too, because the organization does not inform students of all their options under the law.

Ultimately, Hawkins says pregnant women are mistreated in colleges across the country.

“No woman should be forced to choose between her pre-born child and her athletic and educational future,” Hawkins concludes. “The law says they don’t have to pit one against the other. It’s time for those in charge of athletic programming to stop forcing a choice for abortion.”

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Beirut (Lebanon) (AFP) – Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people from across the Arab world, including a Lebanese rock star, released a video on Monday to tell their peers they are “not alone”.

Lebanese singer Hamed Sinno, who is openly gay, is one of several people from Morocco to Iraq to recount their struggle with their identity in the video made by two human rights groups.

“I felt like a freak of nature… People would make fun of me, hit me,” says the lead singer of Mashrou’ Leila, an alternative rock band that is hugely popular across the region.

Same-sex acts between consenting adults in private are treated as a criminal offence in most of the Arabic-speaking world.

Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people in the region struggle to be accepted by its overwhelmingly traditional societies.

“Most people don’t even what the word ‘gay’ means. They say ‘sodomite’ or ‘abnormal’ and your job is to rationally explain,” says Yousif from Bahrain in the footage.

The video’s protagonists give encouraging words, while some recount their journey towards being accepted by their family.

“I went from thinking about suicide to my parents knowing and accepting me,” says Omar from Iraq, as he sits with his back to the camera.

“You’re not alone. We are with you,” he says.

New York-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) and the Beirut-based Arab Foundation for Freedoms and Equality (AFE) made the video to give human faces to a taboo issue, AFE director Georges Azzi said.

“People are afraid of things they don’t know, so now we are putting faces on people of the LGBT community,” he said.

HRW researcher Neela Ghoshal said the video aimed to make struggling members of the community “feel empowered, bold and ready take on the challenges”.

The video was published online in tandem with a HRW report that highlighted a “sea of change” in LGBT activism across the region since 2001.

That year, Egypt arrested 52 men from the Queen Boat nightclub in Cairo.

“In 2001, there was no LGBT rights movement to speak of in most Arabic-speaking states,” the report said.

But “in 2017, there are dozens of LGBT organisations operating throughout the region”, it said, however warning “such organising is still in its infancy”.Luxembourg (Luxembourg) (AFP) – EU foreign ministers on Monday discussed how they could persuade the US not to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal, but stopped short of imposing new sanctions on Tehran.

Britain, France and Germany used a meeting of the EU’s 28 foreign ministers to try to build support for expanding sanctions against Iran to punish it for its role in the conflict in Syria.

They hope that by doing so they will persuade US President Donald Trump not to follow through on his threat to abandon the landmark 2015 deal to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions.

Danish Foreign Minister Anders Samuelson said there was “a very broad majority” in favour of expanding sanctions, as the clock ticks down to a May 12 deadline imposed by Trump to “fix” the agreement.

Simon Coveney, the Irish foreign minister, said there was a need to “send a strong signal to Iran that we’re concerned in relation to some of their activity particularly in Syria”.

“But also to send a message to Washington that we share their concerns in some of those areas,” Coveney said after the talks in Luxembourg.

Targets for new sanctions could include both Iranians and also non-Iranian militias in Syria, an EU diplomat said.

But any decision on sanctions would have to have unanimous support from all 28 EU states and so far several, including Italy and Sweden, are not convinced.

“There is no consensus at the moment on the fact that these measures would be useful in this moment or appropriate in this moment,” EU diplomatic chief Federica Mogherini told reporters.

“I don’t exclude that this will happen in the future but it’s not the case today.”

German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said the question of expanding sanctions would “remain on the agenda” in the coming weeks.

Another EU diplomat said the aim of Monday’s talks was to build political support for new sanctions and the effort would continue in the coming weeks.

The EU is desperate to preserve the Iran nuclear deal, seeing it as the best way to stop Tehran getting the bomb.

French President Emmanuel Macron and Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel will both visit Washington on separate official visits before May 12, in part to lobby Trump on the issue.

Trump has long derided the deal as a capitulation to Tehran and has declared it no longer is in US interests to maintain the sanctions relief his predecessor Barack Obama granted Iran in return for controls on its nuclear programme.April 16 (UPI) — Historic snowfall in Minnesota is the western edge of a weather disturbance forecasters say will produce snow, rain and ice across the northern United States.

Snow tapered off late Sunday in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, bringing 2 to 5 inches on top of 12 to 16 inches that fell Friday and Saturday.

Although it’s April, the storm is regarded as one of the heaviest snowfalls in the cities’ histories. Meteorologists said it is moving westward, with Wisconsin expected to see 5 to 9 more inches of snow Monday.

Green Bay, Wis., received 23 inches of snow over the weekend, a record for April.

Forecasters say as the system moves eastward, a rainy cold front of low pressure is moving north up the Appalachian Mountains and soaking the Ohio Valley, Pennsylvania and New York state. Snow and rain are expected in New England throughout Monday.

Upstate New York, including Buffalo, received a coating of up to an inch of ice and nearly an inch of sleet, which counts as snow in snowfall totals.

The northward-moving rainstorm is expected to bring nearly two inches before it leaves the area on Tuesday.

In North Carolina, heavy rain and winds caused power outages for 31,000 customers. Two tornadoes were reported, and one person was reported killed. A flash flood warning is in effect on Monday in the Washington, D.C., area, where Interstate highways are closed because of flooding. A Radisson hotel in Rockville, Md., evacuated hundreds of guests after two feet of water flooded a basement electrical room.

A flash flood warning was also issued in Philadelphia. The heavy rain Sunday and Monday led to a flood advisory on the Delaware River, flight cancellations and several motor vehicle accidents

The Northeast is not the only part of the country with weather issues. A flash flood following heavy rainfall on Hawaii’s Kauai island stranded 40 people at a Red Cross shelter in an elementary school surrounded by rising water.

Food was delivered to those stranded after an evacuation effort was cancelled because of the rain, officials said.

_informq.push([’embed’]);April 16 (UPI) — A Florida sheriff’s office shared video of an alligator spotted browsing the available rooms at a local motel.

The Highlands County Sheriff’s Office posted a video to Facebook showing the gator wandering past room doors Sunday afternoon at the Quality Inn in Sebring.

We aren’t sure if this little guy got locked out of his room at the Quality Inn in Sebring this afternoon or what,” the post said. “Maybe he was just looking for the tiki bar to get a margarita, but he didn’t look like he was old enough to drink and didn’t appear to have any ID in his alligator skin wallet.”

The sheriff’s office said the alligator was “cornered by a licensed trapper and taken away.”SEOUL, April 15 (UPI) — Days away from North and South Korea’s first summit in more than a decade, officials are finalizing arrangements this week.

Yonhap reported Sunday that an additional working-level meeting will be held Wednesday at the Tongilgak, a North Korean building at the Panmunjom truce village on the inter-Korean border.

After the protocol, security, media coverage and other technical details of the summit are finalized during the talks, a high-level meeting is expected between South Korea’s Unification Minister Cho Myoung-gyon and Ri Son-gwon, chairman of the North’s agency for inter-Korean affairs.

Seoul has announced, “Peace, a New Beginning,” will be the slogan for the inter-Korean talks.

Presidential spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom told reporters Sunday that the slogan indicates the start of world peace through the first inter-Korean meeting in 11 years, followed by the first-ever summit between the United States and North Korea.

The South’s organizing committee for the cross-border talks will also launch a web page to post updates in real time, in efforts to initiate public communication and transparency, News 1 reported.

The website will be accessible starting Tuesday at www.koreasummit.kr.April 16 (UPI) — Authorities in Texas shared a photo of a car pulled over with a less-than-convincing cardboard doppelganger in the place of a front license plate.

Constable Wayne Thompson of the Fort Bend County Constable’s Office, District 3, posted a photo to Facebook of a small car with a piece of cardboard in the place of the front license plate.

The cardboard plate had license plate numbers and letters printed on it with black marker.

“Well, I gave them an ‘A’ for effort, but an ‘F’ on legal,” Thompson wrote. “Did you know that TEXAS law requires a front and rear license plate? Real ones.”April 16 (UPI) — Texas Rangers veteran pitcher Bartolo Colon nearly pitched a perfect game against the World Series champion Houston Astros.

But he lost his bid at perfection in the eighth inning of the Rangers’ 3-1 win Sunday at Minute Maid Park in Houston.

The 44-year-old right-hander — affectionately known as “Big Sexy” — went seven innings without giving up a hit or a walk, while striking out seven. He retired 21 consecutive hitters on 83 pitches.

Colon began the eighth inning by walking All-Star shortstop Carlos Correa. Josh Reddick followed the walk by hitting a line drive to right field for a double, breaking up the no-hitter.

Yuli Gurriel piled on by hitting a sacrifice fly to center field, scoring Correa and preventing a shutout. Colon retired Marwin Gonzalez in the next at-bat, but was pulled from the game and replaced by Alex Claudio.

Gurriel’s RBI tied the game at 1-1, taking Colon off the hook for a win.

Robinson Chrinos’s 10th-inning double scored two runs, giving the Rangers the go-ahead runs. Right-handed reliever Keone Kela earned the victory on the hill for Texas, allowing a hit and a walk, while throwing a strikeout in one inning of work.

“Yeah, when I pitched seven innings … I started thinking about it,” Colon told reporters. “But I know that [Jose] Altuve and those guys can hit. Yeah, the sinker and the fastball; it was pretty much exactly what I wanted. It means a lot, not just for me, but for the team, because we won.”

Justin Verlander also pitched a gem on Sunday, allowing just one hit and one run, while striking out 11 and allowing one walk in eight innings.

The Rangers won the series 2-1. Houston starts a four-game series against the Seattle Mariners at 10:10 p.m. Monday at Safeco Field in Seattle. Texas begins a three-game series against the Tampa Bay Rays at 7:10 p.m. Monday at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Fla.April 16 (UPI) — A U.S. pastor began trial in Turkey Monday on charges he aided in the military coup attempt nearly two years ago.

Andrew Brunson, of Black Mountain, N.C., has spent 23 years living in Turkey with his wife, daughter and two sons. He was arrested in October 2016 while running the Resurrection Church in the western city of Izmir.

The 50-year-old Evangelical pastor is accused of helping the group led by Fethullah Gulen — an exiled Muslim preacher living in the United States, who Turkish officials say orchestrated the failed July 2016 coup.

Jacqueline Furnari, Brunson’s daughter, told NBC News her father has been pulled into a “political game between Turkey and the U.S.”

Furnari said she isn’t sure why her father was arrested.

“He’s done nothing wrong, he’s a peaceful loving man, he’s a pastor,” she said. “These charges are absolutely absurd.”

Brunson is also accused of having ties to the Kurdistan Workers Party — a militant group that both Turkey and the United States consider a terrorist organization — and revealing state secrets.

The indictment says the charges are based on evidence obtained from Brunson’s phone, as well as information from witnesses.

The United States has repeatedly demanded Brunson’s release. Former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson met with Brunson’s wife during a trip to Turkey to visit President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Erdogan has said he will release Brunson if U.S. officials extradite Gulen to Turkey.

More than 50,000 people were arrested following the failed coup, 100,000 state employees were fired and multiple Turkish newspapers and TV stations ceased operating.

If convicted, Brunson could face as many as 35 years in a Turkish prison.April 16 (UPI) — NASA and SpaceX engineers are prepping for Monday’s scheduled launch of the space agency’s next-generation planet-hunter.

With NASA’s Kepler probe low on fuel and soon to drop out of space, TESS, short for Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, will soon take on the roll of primary planet-hunter.

The spacecraft is scheduled to blast-off from Space Launch Complex 40 at Florida’s Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Liftoff is set for 6:32 p.m. ET.

NASA expects favorable weather conditions.

The probe will be carried into space by SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket.

“Our planet-hunting @NASA_TESS spacecraft will fly in a unique orbit that’ll allow it to study nearly the entire sky over 2 years,” NASA wrote on Twitter. “This special orbit is key in potentially finding thousands of new planets outside our solar system.”

While the Kepler spacecraft focused on small fields of view for long periods of time, TESS will take a wider, more comprehensive view.

“TESS is designed to image almost all of the night sky — using four wide-angle cameras,” Natalia Guerrero, an MIT scientist and researcher on the TESS mission, told UPI last week.

But unlike Kepler, TESS is designed to survey the sky, not carry out in-depth investigations. Scientists will rely on other telescopes, both ground and space-based, to observe transiting objects in greater detail. Through follow-up investigations, astronomers will be able to estimate an exoplanet’s mass and the composition of its atmosphere, as well as its habitability.

After separating from the second stage, the rocket’s first stage will descend and attempt to land upright on a robotic ship in the Atlantic. SpaceX will also try to recover the nose cone that protects the payload during liftoff. The nose cone will release a parachute after separation, and SpaceX will retrieve it from the ocean.

Monday’s launch will be broadcast live on NASA TV. Coverage will run from 6 to 8 p.m. ET. NASA TV will also broadcast a mission preview and two news conferences in the run up to this evening’s launch.SEOUL, April 15 (UPI) — North Korean media appears to be attempting to raise the profile of Ri Sol Ju, the wife of regime leader Kim Jong Un.

The state-run Korean Central News Agency reported that Ri, without her husband, had attended a performance of Giselle, staged by the visiting National Ballet of China.

The event was held at the Mansudae Theatre in Pyongyang on Saturday, as part of the North’s April Spring Friendship Art Festival, which marks the birth of regime founder Kim Il Sung.

For the first time, Ri was referred to as the “revered first lady Ri Sol Ju,” instead of “comrade Ri Sol Ju,” Yonhap reported.

The report also spotlighted her activities, although she was accompanied by high-ranking regime officials, including Choe Ryong-hae, Ri Su-yong and Kim Yong-chol, as well as her sister-in-law Kim Yo Jong.

They were referred to as “comrades,” in the article.

Ri reportedly greeted the Chinese performers to congratulate them on their performance as well as Beijing official Song Tao, who led the delegation.

Observers say the North have been attempting to convey the image of a “normal, legitimate state” to the international community, by presenting Kim Jong Un and his wife as the regime’s “first couple.”

Last month, Ri accompanied her husband on his sudden trip to China, where she gained significant media attention for her appearance and fashion.

Japanese media also reported that Ri had referred to Kim Jong Un as “my husband” in a meal with South Korean envoys, earlier in March, which was considered a rare move, given the rigid formality surrounding Kim’s title in North Korea.

A former singer at a prominent orchestra in the North, Ri is presumed to be 28 years old and have three children with the North Korean leader. KCNA first introduced her as Kim’s wife in July 2012, but media coverage on her has been limited.April 16 (UPI) — Seven people died and at least 17 were hurt after clashes at a maximum security prison in South Carolina, following clashes that began Sunday and lasted into Monday, authorities said.

The South Carolina Department of Corrections said the fights broke out in three housing units. Three altercations occurred Sunday evening and lasted for nearly eight hours.

At least six emergency agencies responded to what was termed a “mass casualty incident.”

The maximum-security facility houses 1,600 inmates in Bishopville, S.C., about 55 miles from Columbia, and holds South Carolina’s most violent and longest-serving offenders.

Several violent incidents have occurred at the prison in recent years. An inmate died there last summer during another fight.

Authorities are trying to determine the cause of Sunday’s clashes.April 16 (UPI) — An award for drilling in Norwegian waters from one of the nation’s biggest companies shows the sector is closely knit, a contractor said Monday.

Odfjell Drilling said it signed a conditional letter of intent with Norwegian major Statoil for an 18-month drilling contract using its Deepsea Altantic rig.

“The contract is another important milestone for Odfjell Drilling in maintaining a close relationship with one of our key clients on the Norwegian Continental Shelf,” CEO Simen Lieungh said in a statement.

Earlier this year, the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate gave Statoil consent to move the Deepsea Atlantic drilling rig to a section of the North Sea to tap into a prospect awarded to the company in 1985. The well is considered a wildcat, an area not known previously to contain hydrocarbons, and it’s the nineteenth well to be drilled in this particular area.

Statoil started using the company’s Deepsea Bergen drill ship in February.

Odfjell has worked alongside Statoil on its mega Johan Sverdrup oil field. The multi-billion dollar investment could be producing as much as 660,000 barrels of oil per day by 2022. After unveiling nearly $3 billion in contracts for the project, Statoil said Johan Sverdrup would continue to spin value into the Norwegian energy sector.

The Deepsea Atlantic rig is among the largest in the world. Drilling could begin during the first quarter of 2019.April 16 (UPI) — Former first lady Barbara Bush has been in “great spirits” since she declined medical treatment over the weekend amid failing health, granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager said Monday.

Bush Hager, an NBC News correspondent, said on Today Monday she and sister Barbara had spoken spoke with their grandmother late Sunday.

“Barbara and I talked to her last night,” she said. “She’s in great spirits, and she’s a fighter.

“She’s an enforcer. She reminded me not to believe everything you read, so we’re grateful for her, for everybody’s prayers and thoughts, and just know the world is better because she’s in it.”

Bush, 92, is the wife of George H.W. Bush, the 41st and oldest living former U.S. president. She’s the mother of George W. Bush, the 43rd president.

The elder Bushes entered a Houston hospital around the same time, and Barbara was diagnosed with viral bronchitis — while the 93-year-old former president was treated for bacterial pneumonia.

“She’s with my grandpa,” Bush Hager said Monday. “The man she’s loved for over 73 years, but I think the fact that they’re together and that he still says, ‘I love you Barbie’ every night is pretty remarkable.”

The former first lady has been in and out of the hospital several times in the past year for congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She is now at her Houston home, CNN reported.

Barbara Bush chose to decline more medical treatment and “focus on comfort care,” family spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement Sunday.

“She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving.”

var _informq = _informq || []; _informq.push([’embed’]);April 16 (UPI) — Avengers: Infinity War will feature Fargo alum Carrie Coon.

The 37-year-old actress confirmed Monday on Twitter that she will portray the villain Proxima Midnight in the forthcoming Marvel film.

“It’s true! My voice and a dazzle of gifted animators have teamed up to play Proxima Midnight,” Coon wrote.

“To be fair, my face is in there somewhere. #MoCapWhilePregnant #AvengersInfinityWar,” she jokingly added.

Avengers: Infinity War directors Anthony and Joe Russo had shared the news in an interview with Radio Times.

“Carrie Coon is Proxima Midnight,” Joe said. “You may know her from Season 3 of Fargo or The Leftovers.”

In the Marvel comics, Proxima Midnight is a member of the Black Order, a team of aliens who work for the titan Thanos. Josh Brolin will portray Thanos in the new movie.

Avengers: Infinity War opens in theaters April 27. The movie co-stars Brolin, Robert Downey, Jr., Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson and Benedict Cumberbatch.

Coon played Gloria Bungle in Fargo Season 3 and Nora Durst on The Leftovers. She will star in the films Kin with James Franco and Dennis Quaid and Widows with Viola Davis and Elizabeth Debicki.CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) — NASA’s newest planet-hunting spacecraft is poised for a Monday evening launch from Cape Canaveral, Florida.

The Tess satellite will scan almost the entire sky, staring at the brightest, closest stars in an effort to find any planets that might be encircling them. These mysterious worlds beyond our solar system, called exoplanets, could harbor life.

Scientists expect Tess to discover thousands of rocky and icy planets and gas giants, maybe even water worlds and places defying imagination — possibly even a twin Earth. Bigger and more powerful observatories of the future will scrutinize these prime candidates for potential signs of life.

A SpaceX rocket is scheduled to blast off with Tess at 6:32 p.m. The name Tess is short for Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s former speechwriter has claimed he used to declare, “domination!” and “companies over countries” during company meetings.

Kate Losse, who worked as Zuckerberg’s speechwriter and blog writer between 2009 and 2011, claimed in an article for Vox that the Facebook CEO would “raise his fist with a slight smile and say, ‘Domination!’ as a way of closing out our weekly Friday all-hands meeting.”

“The idea of ‘domination’ seemed as much a half-serious, half-joking fantasy as a hard-set mission,” declared Losse, who added that eventually, “the idea of domination started to become plausible.”

“My worry began to deepen when, around this time, Zuckerberg began using the language of states to talk about Facebook’s burgeoning power,” Losse proclaimed.

According to the former speechwriter, Zuckerberg started to use slogans such as, “Companies over countries,” and would tell employees, “If you want to change the world, the best thing to do is to build a company.”

During a hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee of the House of Representatives last week, Zuckerberg was praised by Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY), who expressed, “I sincerely know in my heart that you do believe in keeping all ideas equal.”

46 out of the 55 members on the committee previously received donations from Facebook.The Soros-funded British Future “think tank” has publishing a new report claiming the former Member of Parliament for Wolverhampton South West and for South Down in Northern Ireland was “wrong” in his infamous “Rivers of Blood” speech because the British public do not object to interracial marriage.

The report entitled Many Rivers Crossed uses intermarriage and polling on the matter as its key cudgel against Powell, stating from the outset:

Half a century on, Enoch Powell’s arguments belong to the history books. 80% of us are comfortable with someone of a different race becoming their neighbour, their son or daughter-in-law

or their Prime Minister. The ‘Rivers of Blood’ anniversary may be overshadowed by a country preparing to hang out the bunting for the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, Britain’s first mixed-race princess. It seems fitting that the stories of social change, reflected in the many marriages and friendships across ethnic lines that we heard about throughout the West Midlands, should reach the top of society too. Three-quarters (75%) of Britons would be comfortable if their child or grandchild married or had a serious relationship with someone from a different race or ethnicity to their own. 70% would look similarly positively on a marriage or relationship to someone of a different faith. Ethnic minority Britons feel the same, with 82% comfortable with mixed-race relationships and 68% happy for their child or grandchild to marry or have a serious relationship with someone of another faith.

The entire premise of the organisation’s report and polling is predicated on the flawed and inherently, obviously contradictory notion that Powell opposed race-mixing and intermarriage. In fact, this was what Powell wanted to happen, coupled with lower numbers of immigration, to encourage integration.

British Future’s report in fact proves the adage repeated during the 1960s, ’70s, and ’80s… Enoch was right.

It also proves that British Future are either willing to openly lie about Powell’s legacy, or have not researched it at all.

Powell was clear on such matters, as he said in his article for the Daily Telegraph in 1967:

Long before the coloured population reaches 5 per cent of the total, a proportion will have filtered into the general population, mingled with it in occupation, residence, habits and intermarriage. On the other hand, the rest, numerically perhaps much the greater part, will be in larger or smaller colonies, in certain areas and cities, more separated than now in habits, occupation and way of life.

Here, just 14 months before the infamous Birmingham speech, Powell speaks positively of mixing (or “mingling” as he calls it) in work, communities, habits, and indeed marriage. His problem, as is quite clear, and which he made agonisingly clear over decades, is the sheer numbers by which people were coming to Britain.

Furthermore, in an interview for Enoch at 100 (2012) his widow (now deceased) Pamela Powell recalled: “I heard him say that one day perhaps – and it will be a long time after we are dead and gone – there will be a lot of intermarriage which would help to reduce the risks [of segregation]. He thought that might happen.”

Finally, he was asked several times as to whether or not he would accept his daughter marrying a black man, to which he responded that “he would be far less worried about the future of the country if there were intermarriage”, and, from a separate interview in 1969 said: “I have made a resolution. I shall not endeavour to influence my daughters’ choice of husbands”.

The Mirror newspaper headline on the matter read: “Powell: My Girls Can Wed Who They Like”.

The report is the latest unchallenged lie about the life and beliefs of Enoch Powell, who was the youngest brigadier in the British Army, one of the youngest professors in history (25), and who often repeated: “I have set and always will set my face like flint against making any difference between one citizen of this country and another on the grounds of his origin.”

Raheem Kassam is the editor in chief of Breitbart LondonDamascus (Syria) (AFP) – Thousands of Syrians gathered Monday in Damascus in defiance of Western strikes on the country and to celebrate the regime reconquering a former rebel bastion outside the capital.

The United States, France and Britain early Saturday targeted what they said were chemical weapon sites after an alleged toxic attack on Eastern Ghouta on April 7.

Later Saturday, President Bashar al-Assad’s army announced it had retaken the whole of the region east of Damascus from rebels after an almost two-month military assault.

On Monday, Syrians gathered in the capital’s largest square — Umayyad Square — ahead of the anniversary of the departure of French troops from the country in 1946.

A day before the public holiday, schools took part in the demonstration at which some participants held up Syria’s national flag and portraits of Assad.

“God, Syria and Bashar — nothing more,” protesters chanted.

The square was closed off to traffic, and decorated with images of Assad in military uniform and sunglasses, as well as of his father and predecessor Hafez.

US President Donald Trump triumphantly declared “Mission Accomplished!” after Saturday’s strikes on purported chemical weapons sites that were largely vacated.

“We’re here to celebrate the victory of the Syrian army in Eastern Ghouta and to send a message to Trump and his allies that they failed,” Assad supporter Naila Badr said, her hair wrapped in a white headscarf.

The missile strikes launched by the three countries “only show their impotence, while the army wiped out the terrorism they were funding”, said the young woman.

The regime and its supporters describe all rebels, including those recently defeated in Eastern Ghouta, as “terrorists”.

“Yes, yes, yes — a million times yes to Bashar al-Assad,” said Radina Awad, another participant who wore sunglasses.

“We want to live in peace. All these states should leave us alone,” she said.

The last rebels were bussed out of Eastern Ghouta after the alleged chemical attack on their final holdout of Douma, which rescuers and medics said killed more than 40 people.

Damascus and its ally Moscow say the allegations of a chemical attack are “fabrications”.

Syria’s civil war has killed more than 350,000 people since it started in 2011 with the brutal repression of anti-government protests.Berlin (Germany) (AFP) – Eintracht Frankfurt midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng says his departure from Schalke felt “like a punch in the face” with the clubs to clash in Wednesday’s German Cup semi-final.

Boateng, 31, still carries bad memories after being released by Schalke in December 2015, six months after he was suspended over a “lack of mutual trust”, as the club put it.

Boateng did not see eye-to-eye with Schalke’s then-coach Roberto Di Matteo.

Now he has the chance to avenge his departure with a win at Gelsenkirchen in Wednesday’s semi.

“It’s the place I have thought the most about – it was like a punch in the face,” he told sport1.de.

“It showed me the reality that everything is wonderful when it runs smoothly. And if not, you will be dropped.

“That was the (low) point for me.

“And I can be proud today that I came out of there and could turn all that power, sadness, energy and aggressiveness into something positive.”

He said it had opened his eyes to how fast things can go in the football business world.

“Sometimes it’s just better to split up, because then you can make a fresh start.”

Boateng wants to beat his ex-club to put Frankfurt in their second German Cup final in as many years.

Bayern Munich face Bayer Leverkusen away in Tuesday’s other last four clash.

“Schalke has shown this year that the team plays at a very high level,” said Boateng.

“Even if it’s not always pretty, they know how to bring home, or keep, the points.

“That’s what makes them outstanding.

“I hope we learned our lesson that a 2-0 lead is not enough,” he added.

Schalke, under current coach Domenico Tedesco, came from two-goals down to claim a 2-2 draw in Frankfurt in the league last December.

Boateng has been a driving force in Frankfurt’s midfield this season after quitting Spanish side Las Palmas last August for family reasons.

After Schalke sacked him, Boateng rebuilt his career at AC Milan before a season at Las Palmas.

He has rediscovered his best form this season under Frankfurt’s head coach Niko Kovac, a former team-mate at Hertha Berlin.

Frankfurt crashed to a 4-1 league defeat at Leverkusen on Saturday, the day after it emerged Kovac will coach Bayern next season.

“At the end of the day, we know that’s football — it can happen,” Boateng said after defeat dropped Frankfurt to seventh — outside the European places for next season.

“We did a great job up to now and we want to finish the season the way we started it.

“We want to reach our targets and we’ll see what’s going to happen with the rest.”New York (AFP) – Desiree Linden became the first American woman since 1985 to win the Boston Marathon while Japan’s Yuki Kawauchi captured his fourth men’s marathon victory of the year on Monday.

Both champions endured the coldest start in 30 years as well as gusting winds and steady rain in taking landmark triumphs in the 122nd edition of the famed 26.2-mile (42.1km) showdown over city streets.

Kawauchi overtook defending champion Geoffrey Kirui of Kenya over the final two kilometers in heavy rain to win in 2hrs 10min 46sec with runner-up Kirui 19 seconds back and American Shadrack Biwott third in 2:12:19.

“This is the greatest day of my life,” a tearful Kawauchi said through a translator. “This is Boston. This is the greatest race in the world.”

Kawauchi won his fifth consecutive marathon after last year’s Hofu Marathon in Japan, a New Year’s Day marathon at Marshfield, Massachusetts, Japan’s Kitakyushu Marathon and Taiwan’s Wanjinshi Marathon.

Linden overtook Ethiopia’s Mamitu Daska and Kenya’s Gladys Chesir at Heartbreak Hill after the 20-mile mark and kept the lead from there to win in 2:39:54. American Sarah Sellers was a distant second in 2:44:04 with Canada’s Krista Duchene third, another 16 seconds adrift.

No US woman had won the Boston crown since Lisa Larsen Weidenbach 33 years ago, but Linden did it after making six of her 16 marathon starts in beloved Boston.

“I love this city, this race, this course. It’s storybook. I’m thrilled to be here and to get it done,” Linden said.

“This is a race the entire city cares about. Even on a day like today when it’s pretty miserable, the people show up and embrace the race.”

Linden lost by only two seconds in 2011 and was fourth in 2015 and 2017.

– Good deed rewarded –

Linden said she felt early on as if she would not be able to finish the race, but slowed early to help compatriot Shalane Flanagan recover after a toilet stop and found herself boosted by working to help the reigning New York Marathon champion, who placed seventh.

“At mile 2-3-4 I didn’t even feel like I could make it to the finish line,” Linden said. “Helping her helped me and I got my legs back from there.”

The race marked five years since the Boston Marathon bombing tragedy in which two explosions near the finish line killed three people and wounded more than 260.

Elite competitors began in rain coverings and at a slow pace in the coldest start since 1988 at 38 degrees (3.3 Celsius) with rain often blowing into runners’ faces.

Weather conditions were so bad the Boston Red Sox, who usually play a Major League Baseball home game on race day, postponed their Fenway Park contest for the first time since 1984.

Kirui, who set the halfway pace at 1:05:59, failed in his bid to become the first back-to-back Boston men’s winner since compatriot Robert Kipkoech Cheruiyot in 2006-2008.

Kirui removed his gloves after 85 minutes then pulled away from the lead pack over a 400-meter span only to falter just ahead of the finish.

Daska surged from the halfway mark but Linden and Chesir, in only her second marathon, maintained pursuit.

Linden, 34, surged past them both just after the 21-mile mark and pulled away for the win.April 16 (UPI) — Harry Potter stars Tom Felton and Emma Watson had a mini reunion Monday.

Felton, 30, who played Draco Malfoy in the film series, posted a photo on Instagram with Watson and Matthew Lewis. Watson and Lewis portrayed Hermione Granger and Neville Longbottom, respectively.

The black and white picture shows Felton, Watson and Lewis smiling as they strike a pose for the camera. The post received over 817,700 likes from excited fans.

“School mates #hogwartsalumni,” Felton captioned the snapshot.

Felton, Watson and Lewis co-starred in all eight of the Harry Potter movies. Watson said in an interview with Seventeen in January that she had a crush on Felton during filming.

“For the first two movies, I had a huge crush on Tom Felton. He was my first crush,” the actress shared. “He totally knows. We talked about it — we still laugh about it. We are really good friends now, and that’s cool.”

Felton and Lewis previously reunited with Jason Isaacs, who played Lucius Malfoy, at the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Orlando in January 2017.

“To all the Potter fans who remind us to fight for the light,” Isaacs wrote on Instagram at the time.

The Harry Potter movies are based on the J.K Rowling book series of the same name. Felton has since portrayed Julian Albert on The CW series The Flash, and will star in the upcoming film Whaling.April 16 (UPI) — The Minnesota Vikings have signed linebacker Eric Kendricks to a contract extension.

Minnesota announced the signing on Monday. The deal is for five years and $50 million, according to ESPN and the NFL Network. Kendricks will receive $25 million guaranteed under the terms of the new pact.

Kendricks, 26, had 136 total tackles, six passes defensed, a sack, an interception and a touchdown in 16 starts last season for the Vikings. The linebacker also tallied a career-high 13 takedowns on Oct. 29 against the Cleveland Browns.

Kendricks was a second round pick in the 2015 NFL Draft. The UCLA product has 367 combined tackles, 16 passes defensed, 7.5 sacks, two interceptions, two touchdowns, a forced fumble and a fumble recovery in 45 career appearances. He has 41 career starts for the Vikings. Kendricks had 105 tackles during his rookie campaign and had 126 takedowns in 2016.

The fourth-year linebacker led the Vikings in total tackles in each of his first three NFL seasons.

Kendricks is the younger brother of Philadelphia Eagles linebacker Mychal Kendricks.April 16 (UPI) — The U.S. Supreme Court declined Monday to hear an appeal of imprisoned former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich.

Blagojevich, who’s in the seventh year of his 14-year sentence, has his case listed under the caption “Certiorari denied,” meaning the high court would not consider the case.

The decision marks the former governor’s final legal avenue in the court system to shorten his prison sentence. Blagojevich’s only other option would be for President Donald Trump to take action.

“The president knows Rod, he was on his show,” Patti Blagojevich, Illinois’ former first lady, told NBC5 last week.

“He said nice things to him when he was on the show, he’s spoken favorably about Rod subsequent to that. So I think that, of any of our recent presidents we probably have the best shot with President Trump because he does have that relationship with Rod.”

Blagojevich was convicted on 18-counts of corruption — including attempting to sell the U.S. Senate seat vacated by former Illinois Sen. Barack Obama when he ran for president. He was recorded on federal wiretaps trying to arrange a six-figure job in return for the Senate appointment.

The Supreme Court rejected Blagojevich’s appeal without comment.

The former governor’s lawyer, Leonard Goodman, said it was “easy to put politicians to jail in the Midwest” but “so difficult” to do so on the East Coast.

“If we’re going to require elected officials who aren’t independently wealthy to go out and raise funds, tell them what the line is so that they can follow the rules,” Goodman said.

Supporters of Blagojevich say his case could have been used to clear up sometimes conflicting campaign finance laws.

“Very murky standards,” Goodman said. “Federal judges have pronounced themselves confused by these standards and asked the Supreme Court to step in and clarify.”NEW YORK (AP) — Homebuilder confidence slid for the fourth consecutive month with steadily rising mortgage rates and sky-high home prices putting ownership out of reach for more and more Americans.

The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment index for April, released Monday, fell one point to 69. Any reading above 50 indicates more builders see sales conditions as good rather than poor, but it’s the most extended decline since the run-up to the housing bust.

The index has been above 60 since September 2016 and it hit a record high in December. April’s reading is the lowest since November.

Builders’ view of current sales conditions fell two points to 75, the outlook for sales over the next six months fell one point, to 77. A measure of buyer traffic held steady at 51.

The National Association of Homebuilders cited higher building material costs and a lack of land to build on as key reasons for the nick in confidence readings. The group said winter weather slowed building in some areas.

Also being shaken are investors, which have been selling off holdings in the nation’s largest homebuilders.

D.R. Horton Inc., Lennar Corp., PulteGroup Inc., Toll Brothers Inc., Beazer Homes USA Inc. and Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. have all fallen 11 percent or more since the start of the year. The S&P 500 is positive for the year even after a number of major sell-offs.

The average rate on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages edged up to 4.42 percent, mortgage buyer Freddie Mac reported Thursday. Rates have ticked steadily higher ahead of the traditional spring home buying season which is just now beginning to ramp up.

While the National Association of Realtors reported a 3.1 percent jump in pending sales for February, that followed a 5 percent tumble in January and the index is still down 4.1 percent compared with last year.

Sales of new homes fell for the third straight month in February, according to the Commerce Department. Sales of existing homes rose in February following two months of decline

The U.S. releases April data on new and existing home sales next week.ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) — Carl Icahn’s company struck an approximately $1.85 billion deal Monday that would fuse the gambling and hotel operations of Tropicana Entertainment to Eldorado Resorts Inc.

The agreement includes the sale of Tropicana Entertainment Inc.’s real estate to Gaming and Leisure Properties Inc. It doesn’t include Tropicana’s Aruba assets, which will be disposed of as a condition to closing.

Icahn Enterprises initially bought a stake in Tropicana in 2008. The Las Vegas company currently owns and runs eight casinos and resorts.

Eldorado Resorts is acquiring the operating assets of seven casinos in six states, including two in Nevada — the Tropicana Laughlin Hotel and Casino and the MontBleu Casino Resort & Spa in South Lake Tahoe — as well as casinos in Indiana (Tropicana Evansville); Louisiana (Belle of Baton Rouge Casino & Hotel); Mississippi (Trop Casino Greenville); Missouri (Lumière Place); and New Jersey (Tropicana Casino and Resort, Atlantic City).

These properties include approximately 7,900 slot machines, 265 table games and 5,400 hotel rooms plus dining, retail and entertainment amenities. Upon completion of all pending transactions, Eldorado’s property portfolio will feature about 26,800 slot machines and VLTs, more than 800 table games and over 12,500 hotel rooms.

“The acquisition of seven Tropicana Entertainment properties will allow Eldorado to enter two new gaming jurisdictions and deliver additional financial and geographic diversity to our operating base,” said company chairman and CEO Gary Carano.

Icahn said that when he acquired an interest in Tropicana in 2008, it was bankrupt yet undervalued. “By hiring a great CEO in Tony Rodio and a great management team, and by reinvesting every single penny of profits back into the company, we turned Tropicana into a great casino company.”

The deal is targeted to close during the second half of the year.

Eldorado said the Tropicana properties are in excellent shape, and does not anticipate needing to invest significant money into them. It said the Aruba property was not included in the sale because Eldorado does not believe it would be worth acquiring.

The company said it enters the Atlantic City market realizing it is about to expand with the re-opening of two shuttered casinos that will increase the amount of properties to nine, but feels it can operate the Tropicana Atlantic City profitably. That casino recently became the No. 2 casino in Atlantic City in terms of gambling revenue, trailing only the Borgata.

Eldorado also announced Monday it is buying the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin, Illinois from MGM Resorts International for $327.5 million in cash.

In Atlantic City, Icahn still owns the shuttered former Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino, which shut down in 2014.

___

Follow Wayne Parry at http://twitter.com/WayneParryACDuring an undercover investigation, an author documented Amazon warehouse employees peeing into bottles due to their fears of being sanctioned for taking toilet breaks.

“For those of us who worked on the top floor, the closest toilets were down four flights of stairs,” claimed author James Bloodworth. “People just peed in bottles because they lived in fear of being ­disciplined over ‘idle time’ and ­losing their jobs just because they needed the loo.”

Bloodworth’s claims were corroborated by responses to a survey of Amazon workers.

“[Targets] have increased dramatically. I do not drink water because I do not have time to go to the toilet,” declared one response.

Another employee claimed, “The target grows every year. I do not have two more legs yet to make the 100% to pick, where you actually need to run and go to the toilet just during the break,” while other employees even admitted to not drinking water throughout their work shift for fear of having to use the toilet.

Last year, another undercover investigation revealed that Amazon warehouse employees were worked to exhaustion, causing employees to pass out at work.

“Their toilet breaks are timed, and the (reportedly disgusting and ill-maintained) toilets are over a quarter mile away within the vast complex,” reported the Mirror’s Alan Selby in November. “Inactivity at the station is timed, even for those breaks, so employees are often forced to keep themselves from even going to the bathroom, lest it take too long.”

Amazon was recently granted patents for employee wristbands, which would “pinpoint the location of warehouse employees and track their hand movements in real time,” while also telling employees where to go.

Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington, or like his page at Facebook.A surveillance company founded by a former Israeli intelligence officer has been using Facebook, YouTube and other social networks to build a massive facial recognition database — and is just one of many companies doing so.

As Facebook comes under scrutiny over privacy practices following the company’s latest user data scandal, further focus has been put on how other companies use Facebook’s data for their own gain. Forbes discovered that one such company is Terrogence, a surveillance company founded by former Israeli intelligence officer Shai Arbel, has been building a massive facial recognition database using photos and videos scraped from Facebook, YouTube and other social media networks.

The database being compiled by Terrogence makes up most of the information used by facial recognition service Face-Int, which is owned by Israeli vendor Verint. Both Verint and Terrogence have provided surveillance and spy technology to U.S. government bodies such as the NSA and the U.S. Navy as well as many other intelligence agencies. The information in the facial recognition database was “harvested from such online sources as YouTube, Facebook and open and closed forums all over the globe,” according to the Terrogence website. The faces in the database were scraped from as many as 35,000 videos and photos of terrorist training camps, terror attacks, and motivational videos. The Terrogence marketing page hasn’t been updated since 2013, implying that far more than 35,000 faces have been documented as the program has been operating for the past five years.

The LinkedIn profile of a former staffer at Terrogence described the employee’s role at the company, stating that the employee “conducted public perception management operations on behalf of foreign and domestic governmental clients,” and used “open source intelligence practices and social media engineering methods to investigate political and social groups.” This has brought into question how private companies are taking advantage of the public information posted to Facebook. CEO Mark Zuckerberg insisted during his hearing before Congress that “On Facebook, you have control over your information… the information we collect you can choose to have us not collect,’ but how can users prevent other companies from collecting their data?

Jay Stanley, a senior policy analyst at the ACLU, commented on the issue saying:

It raises the stakes of face recognition – it intensifies the potential negative consequences. When you contemplate face recognition that’s everywhere, we have to think about what that’s going to mean for us. If private companies are scraping photos and combining them with personal info in order to make judgements about people – are you a terrorist, or how likely are you to be a shoplifter or anything in between – then it exposes everyone to the risk of being misidentified, or correctly identified and being misjudged.

Jennifer Lynch, senior staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, warned that if this facial recognition database had been shared with the U.S. government, it could pose a significant threat to free speech.

Applying face recognition accurately to video is extremely challenging, and we know that face recognition performs poorly with people of color and especially with women and those with darker skin tones. Combining these two known problems with face recognition, there is a high chance this technology would regularly misidentify people as terrorists or criminals. This could impact the travel and civil rights of tens of thousands of law-abiding travelers who would then have to prove they are not the terrorist or criminal the system has identified them to be.

Forbes states that Facebook commented on the issue clarifying that Terrogence use of Facebook would violate their user privacy policy.

A spokesperson for Facebook, which employs its own facial recognition tech to help identify users’ visages in photos across the platform, said it appeared Terrogence’s product would violate its policies, including one that prohibits the use of data grabbed from the social network to provide tools for surveillance. Facebook also doesn’t allow accessing or collecting information via automated methods, such as harvesting bots or scrapers. The spokesperson noted that it hadn’t found any Facebook apps operated by the company.

So the question remains, even if Facebook faces stricter privacy regulation and is forced to crack down on third-party developers on their website, what can be done about outside firms using social media networks as a treasure trove of public user data?

Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart News covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on Twitter @LucasNolan_ or email him at lnolan@breitbart.comLONDON (AP) — British Prime Minister Theresa May told restive lawmakers on Monday that military airstrikes against Syria were right both legally and morally, and accused Syria and its ally Russia of attempting to cover-up evidence of a deadly chemical weapons attack.

May faced down her domestic critics as European Union foreign ministers united to say they understood the need for the airstrikes and called for a new push for a political solution to the war in Syria.

Royal Air Force jets joined American and French warplanes and ships in hitting targets in Syria early Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack by the Syrian government in the town of Douma.

The British government is not legally bound to seek lawmakers’ approval for military strikes, although it is customary to do so.

May told lawmakers in the House of Commons that consulting them would have been impractical, both because Parliament was on a spring break until Monday and because some of the intelligence behind the decision was classified.

“We have always been clear that the government has the right to act quickly in the national interest,” May said, calling the military action “not just morally right but also legally right.”

"We had no choice but to conclude diplomatic action on its own is not going to work"- @theresa_may on Britain's decision to join air strikes in Syriahttps://t.co/8SmopYrXwg pic.twitter.com/y9pUQrf77g — BBC News (UK) (@BBCNews) April 16, 2018

“We cannot allow the use of chemical weapons to become normalized, either within Syria, on the streets of the U.K., or elsewhere,” May said — linking the chemical attack in Syria with the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter last month with a military-grade nerve agent in the English city of Salisbury.

Syria and its backer Russia have both denied that Syrian government forces carried out the Douma gas attack, suggesting it may have been staged to implicate them.

May said the presence of helicopters and the use of barrel bombs pointed the finger of blame squarely at the government of Syrian President Bashar Assad. She accused Syria, aided by Russia, of trying to block an investigation into the gas attack being done by the international chemical weapons watchdog.

“The Syrian regime has reportedly been attempting to conceal the evidence by searching evacuees from Douma to ensure samples are not being smuggled from this area. And a wider operation to conceal the facts of the attack is underway, supported by the Russians,” she said.

Ahmet Uzumcu, director-general of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said Monday that the organization’s team “has not yet deployed to Douma,” two days after arriving in Syria.

He said Syrian and Russian officials who met the OPCW team in Damascus told them “that there were still pending security issues to be worked out before any deployment could take place.”

In an unusual move, the British government said it would seek an emergency House of Commons debate on the airstrikes so legislators could have their say. Yet an after-the-fact debate — which may not include a vote — is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.

Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the main opposition Labour Party, called the airstrikes “legally questionable” and accused May of “following Donald Trump’s lead.” He said Britain should introduce a War Powers Act to ban military action without Parliament’s approval.

May rejected the claim.

“We have not done this because President Trump asked us to do so,” May said. “We have done it because we believe it was the right thing to do — and we are not alone.”

"Let me be absolutely clear, we have acted because it is in our national interests to do so" – @theresa_may on whether Britain took lead from US on Syria air strikeshttps://t.co/8SmopYJyUQ pic.twitter.com/zOOKKDafPF — BBC News (UK) (@BBCNews) April 16, 2018

French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe justified the military action in a speech Monday to the National Assembly, France’s lower house of parliament. The speech was being followed by a debate, but a vote on France’s participation in the Syria airstrikes is not anticipated.

Under the French Constitution, the government must inform the parliament, but a vote is requested only if a military intervention is expected to last more than four months.

In Luxembourg, the foreign ministers of the 28 EU countries called for a political breakthrough involving regional players to put Syria on track to a peaceful solution for its seven-year conflict.

The ministers said the EU “understands” the need for the coordinated U.S, French and British airstrikes following the suspected April 7 chemical attack. They insisted it was executed with “the sole objective to prevent further use of chemical weapons and chemical substances as weapons by the Syrian regime to kill its own people.”

EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said the EU wants to use a major meeting on Syria in Brussels next week to give impetus to U.N. peace efforts following Saturday’s airstrikes.

“There is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process,” Mogherini said.

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.Toronto (Canada) (AFP) – Canada’s greatest figure skater Patrick Chan announced his retirement on Monday with the 27-year-old hailed as “a champion on and off the ice”.

Chan hangs up his skates two months after winning team gold at the Pyeongchang Olympics to add to his double silver at Sochi in 2014.

He claimed the first of a record 10 national titles in 2008 and was crowned world champion on three occasions.

“I have fulfilled my dreams and aspirations in competitive skating and it is now time to move on to new challenges and opportunities,” Chan told Skate Canada.

“I hope to have inspired many young skaters that with hard work, perseverance and dedication anything is possible.”

Canadian skating boss Debra Armstrong commented: “His beautiful lyrical skating matched with his outgoing and positive personality has made him a champion on and off the ice.”

He was described as “one of the best in the world” by Mike Slipchuk, Skate Canada’s high performance director.

“Patrick’s impact on the sport has been instrumental to the continued success of figure skating in Canada,” Slipchuk added.

As well as his Olympic and world titles Chan claimed 15 medals on the ISU Grand Prix circuit and two Grand Prix Final titles.April 16 (UPI) — The Chicago Bears have signed veteran wide receiver Bennie Fowler to a one-year contract.

Chicago announced the signing on Monday. Fowler, 26, had a career-high 350 yards and three touchdowns on 29 receptions in 16 games last season for the Denver Broncos. He started four games.

The 6-foot-1, 212-pound pass catcher won a Super Bowl with the Broncos in 2016. He has 698 yards and five touchdowns on 56 career receptions. Fowler has five starts and has appeared in 45 games during his four-year NFL tenure. He entered the league in 2014 as an undrafted rookie free agent out of Michigan State.

Fowler enters the fold for the Bears after the franchise lost Cam Meredith to the New Orleans Saints, due to not matching the NFC South squad’s offer sheet for the wide receiver. Meredith led the Bears in receiving in 2016, with 888 yards and four touchdowns on 66 receptions. Kendall Wright led the team last season, with 614 yards on 59 receptions in 16 games.

Chicago’s addition of Fowler is just the latest in a series of moves intended to improve its wide receiver group. The Bears signed former Jacksonville Jaguars star Allen Robinson in March to a three-year, $42 million contract. Chicago also signed former Atlanta Falcons wide receiver Taylor Gabriel this offseason to a four-year, $26 million pact.

Bears players and coaches report to voluntary veteran minicamp on Tuesday at Halas Hall in Lake Forest, Ill.LEGGETT, Calif. (AP) — Authorities searching for a family whose SUV plunged into a rain-swollen Northern California river have found the vehicle and the body of a man and a girl inside it.

The Mendocino County Sheriff’s Office said Monday that searchers located the car Sunday and recovered the bodies of 41-year-old Sandeep Thottapilly and 9-year-old Saachi Thottapilly.

The office also said the body of an adult female found in the Eel River on Friday has been identified as 38-year-old Soumya Thottapilly. The couple’s 12-year-old son, Sidhhanty Thottapilly remains missing.

The four members of the Thottapilly family went missing while traveling from Portland, Oregon, to their home in the Los Angeles suburb of Santa Clarita.

They were reported missing April 8 after failing to show up for a visit with relatives in San Jose.COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Inmates armed with homemade knives fought each other for more than seven hours inside a maximum-security prison, leaving seven of them dead, officials said. An inmate who witnessed the riot told The Associated Press that bodies were “literally stacked on top of each other.”

At least 17 prisoners were seriously injured as inmates fought uninterrupted before authorities regained control of Lee Correctional Institution about 3 a.m. Monday, South Carolina prisons spokesman Jeff Taillon said.

Officials didn’t immediately say what sparked the violence at the prison that houses some of the state’s worst and longest-serving offenders. No prison guards were hurt.

The prisoner who saw the riot exchanged messages with AP on the condition of anonymity because he is not allowed to have a cellphone and fears retribution from other inmates.

He also didn’t say what started the riot but said most of the inmates are affiliated with gangs and he saw several attackers taunt a rival gang member who was badly injured.

“I just saw three dead on the sidewalk outside of my unit. One guy is still alive and breathing, but just barely,” the inmate said.

The riot was the latest violence in the South Carolina prisons system, where at least 20 inmates have been killed by fellow prisoners since the start of 2017. At Lee Correctional, an inmate held a guard hostage for 90 minutes in March and another killed a fellow prisoner in February.

The inmate who spoke to AP said that many cell door locks were already broken before the riot and that he and other prisoners roamed around freely. Hours after the violence started, no correctional officers or medical personnel attended to the dead or dying, he said.

“It’s been over two hours, but no COs (corrections officers) have responded to this unit, and no medical personnel have attempted to render any kind of aid,” he wrote. “The COs never even attempted to render aid, nor quell the disturbance. They just sat in the control bubble, called the issue in, then sat on their collective asses.”

South Carolina prison guards are not armed, so as long as employees aren’t threatened, they typically seal off wings when there is an inmate uprising and wait for a special team of state police to arrive to try and stop the rioting.

The inmate told AP that he knew at least two of slain men well. He said he saw an inmate trying to get up before he “started into that ‘death rattle’ people often hear about, but never experience firsthand.”

Most of the slain inmates were stabbed with homemade knives or slashed, while the remainder appeared to have been beaten, Lee County Coroner Larry Logan told AP.

“How else are you going to die in prison? They don’t have guns,” Logan said by phone as he went to a hospital to finish identifying the dead.

The injured inmates required medical attention outside the prison, which is located 40 miles east of Columbia.

The South Carolina Department of Corrections tweeted that the deaths happened in multiple inmate-on-inmate fights in three housing units. It began at around 7:15 p.m. Sunday.

The coroner said when he arrived it was a chaotic scene of fighting everywhere. Logan said the state-run Lee Correctional Institution, like most other South Carolina prisons, is struggling to find enough workers, but he doesn’t believe anything could be done once things got that far out of control.

“If everybody has an uprising, you are always going to be understaffed,” Logan said.

The maximum-security facility in Bishopville houses about 1,500 inmates. Two officers were stabbed there in 2015.

The deaths at Lee are the most in any South Carolina prison in recent years. Four inmates were killed last year by a pair of prisoners at Kirkland Correctional Institution.

The riot was the latest violence in a system where 12 inmates were killed by other prisoners last year and 250 prisoners were assaulted so severely in 2016 and 2017 they had to be treated in outside hospitals, according to public records obtained by The Post and Courier of Charleston.

The 250 inmates taken to the hospital after assaults the past two years were nearly double the rate from the two years before, the newspaper reported.

Gov. Henry McMaster, meanwhile, expressed support for state prisons chief Bryan Stirling.

McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes said the governor has “complete confidence” in Stirling’s ability to lead the state Department of Corrections.

___

Jeffrey Collins contributed to this report.Washington (United States) (AFP) – The White House on Monday said it was weighing fresh Russia sanctions for Moscow’s role supporting Syria’s chemical weapons program, but officials cautioned that no decision has yet been taken.

“We are considering additional sanctions on Russia and a decision will be made in the near future,” said press secretary Sarah Sanders.

That message appeared to tap the breaks on imminent punitive economic measures. “We are evaluating but nothing to announce right now,” she said.

On Sunday, US ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said new sanctions would be announced on Monday by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin.

Haley said the measures would target companies that supplied Damascus with equipment and other material related to chemical weapons, which killed more than 40 people in Douma on April 7 and prompted US-led airstrikes.

“With the political and diplomatic actions that we’re taking now, we wanted their friends Iran and Russia to know that we meant business and that they were going to be feeling the pain from this as well,” she said.

With an announcement seemingly imminent, officials at the Departments of State and Treasury referred queries back to the White House, while others indicated a Monday announcement was now unlikely.

It is not clear what has caused the apparent delay, but sanctions decisions are usually weeks if not months in the making.

The United States and European allies had discussed a sanctions package in the build up to last week’s strikes against targets in Syria, with the American measures said to be further along in the planning process than Europe — where consensus among member states is needed.

Adding to the complication is the lack of a Secretary of State after Rex Tillerson’s departure, as well as President Donald Trump’s desire to improve relations with Russia.

A Washington Post report suggested Trump had been furious with aides over the recent decision to expel 60 Russian diplomats, believing each European country — rather than Europe as a whole — would match that figure.

The White House said that despite events in Syria and the poisoning of a spy on British soil, Trump still wanted to sit down with Putin.

“The president has been clear that he’s going to be tough on Russia, but at the same time he’d still like to have a good relationship with them,” Sanders said.

​”The president would still like to sit down with him, he feels like it’s better for the world if they have a good relationship.”

“But that’s going to depend on the actions of Russia. We’ve been very clear in our actions what we expect and we hope they’ll have a change in their behavior.”In his interview that aired on a Sunday broadcast of ABC’s “20/20” with George Stephanopoulos, former FBI Director James Comey said that when Donald Trump won the election over Hillary Clinton, he questioned if the FBI had a role.

“[Trump] is now going to be the 45th president of the United States,” Stephanopoulos said to Comey. “The most stunning upset in American political history. And what part of you is thinking, I helped elect Donald Trump?”

Comey replied, “A whole lot of me was thinking, ‘Oh, my God. Did we have some role in this? Did we have some impact on the election?'”

“I don’t know the answer,” he added. “And in a way, I care about the answer. And in a way, it doesn’t matter at all. I really wasn’t making decisions based on political fortunes.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentIn his interview that aired on a Sunday broadcast of ABC’s “20/20” with George Stephanopoulos, former FBI Director James Comey said that when Donald Trump won the election over Hillary Clinton, he questioned if the FBI had a role.

“[Trump] is now going to be the 45th president of the United States,” Stephanopoulos said to Comey. “The most stunning upset in American political history. And what part of you is thinking, I helped elect Donald Trump?”

Comey replied, “A whole lot of me was thinking, ‘Oh, my God. Did we have some role in this? Did we have some impact on the election?'”

“I don’t know the answer,” he added. “And in a way, I care about the answer. And in a way, it doesn’t matter at all. I really wasn’t making decisions based on political fortunes.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentBeyoncé headlined the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival on Saturday and delivered a virtuosa performance that has critics raving.

Her set included a comprehensive repertoire of her hits, featuring the reunion of Destiny’s Child and a cameo by her husband, Jay-Z.

But it was Beyoncé’s broad references to African-American culture in general, and her celebration of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in particular, that delighted fans and drew praise from aficionados.

The Los Angeles Times‘ music critic Mikael Wood said Beyoncé’s set “was one of the most impressive things I’ve seen in 20 years of professional show-going.”

He added:

The scale, the reach, the detail — and the feeling — simply put it on a level higher than those on which most other artists operate. … She was accompanied by approximately 100 dancers and musicians, including brass and string players, a drum line and a baton twirler; at several points, Beyoncé disappeared to change costumes and was replaced in the spotlight by a lively step squad. The thoroughness of the presentation, with skits and long dance routines and radical rearrangements of some of Beyoncé’s best-known songs, was staggering — miles beyond what even the most ambitious of Coachella’s other performers are bringing to the desert.

Rolling Stone agreed that Beyoncé’s performance was an historic landmark — and not just because she was the first black woman to headline the festival: “Generations past once looked fondly on Woodstock 1969 as a crucial turning point in American culture; but in 2018, our Woodstock, our Monterey Pop, our Isle of Wight, is definitively Beyoncé’s headlining set at Coachella.”

And the New York Times‘ Jon Caramanica raved:

Let’s just cut to the chase: There’s not likely to be a more meaningful, absorbing, forceful and radical performance by an American musician this year, or any year soon, than Beyoncé’s headlining set at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival Saturday night. It was rich with history, potently political and visually grand. By turns uproarious, rowdy, and lush. A gobsmacking marvel of choreography and musical direction.

Beyoncé was supposed to have performed at the festival last year, but postponed due to pregnancy.

“Beychella” was the #1 trend in the U.S. on Twitter on Saturday evening, as peers and fans reacted to her set:

I just saw the greatest show to ever happen. @beyonce — Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) April 15, 2018

The only thing that has ever made me want to have children is seeing the glory of Beyoncé live. One day I’ll force my grandkids to listen to me rave about this performance. The concept. The vocals. The dancing. The fashion. The culture. Absolute perfection. #beychella pic.twitter.com/xAhuLp5eCf — Eugene Lee Yang (@EugeneLeeYang) April 15, 2018

Beyoncé mixed Me, Myself and I into Sorry while a marching band played Me, Myself in sync to the beat of Sorry… HER MIND IS INCREDIBLE #Beychella pic.twitter.com/g9l25wuoSG — Onyoncé (@onifinau) April 15, 2018

Though Beyoncé’s views have often been controversial, her performance at Coachella seems likely to stand with the great performances in pop history, politics aside.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.Beyoncé headlined the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival on Saturday and delivered a virtuosa performance that has critics raving.

Her set included a comprehensive repertoire of her hits, featuring the reunion of Destiny’s Child and a cameo by her husband, Jay-Z.

But it was Beyoncé’s broad references to African-American culture in general, and her celebration of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in particular, that delighted fans and drew praise from aficionados.

The Los Angeles Times‘ music critic Mikael Wood said Beyoncé’s set “was one of the most impressive things I’ve seen in 20 years of professional show-going.”

He added:

The scale, the reach, the detail — and the feeling — simply put it on a level higher than those on which most other artists operate. … She was accompanied by approximately 100 dancers and musicians, including brass and string players, a drum line and a baton twirler; at several points, Beyoncé disappeared to change costumes and was replaced in the spotlight by a lively step squad. The thoroughness of the presentation, with skits and long dance routines and radical rearrangements of some of Beyoncé’s best-known songs, was staggering — miles beyond what even the most ambitious of Coachella’s other performers are bringing to the desert.

Rolling Stone agreed that Beyoncé’s performance was an historic landmark — and not just because she was the first black woman to headline the festival: “Generations past once looked fondly on Woodstock 1969 as a crucial turning point in American culture; but in 2018, our Woodstock, our Monterey Pop, our Isle of Wight, is definitively Beyoncé’s headlining set at Coachella.”

And the New York Times‘ Jon Caramanica raved:

Let’s just cut to the chase: There’s not likely to be a more meaningful, absorbing, forceful and radical performance by an American musician this year, or any year soon, than Beyoncé’s headlining set at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival Saturday night. It was rich with history, potently political and visually grand. By turns uproarious, rowdy, and lush. A gobsmacking marvel of choreography and musical direction.

Beyoncé was supposed to have performed at the festival last year, but postponed due to pregnancy.

“Beychella” was the #1 trend in the U.S. on Twitter on Saturday evening, as peers and fans reacted to her set:

I just saw the greatest show to ever happen. @beyonce — Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) April 15, 2018

The only thing that has ever made me want to have children is seeing the glory of Beyoncé live. One day I’ll force my grandkids to listen to me rave about this performance. The concept. The vocals. The dancing. The fashion. The culture. Absolute perfection. #beychella pic.twitter.com/xAhuLp5eCf — Eugene Lee Yang (@EugeneLeeYang) April 15, 2018

Beyoncé mixed Me, Myself and I into Sorry while a marching band played Me, Myself in sync to the beat of Sorry… HER MIND IS INCREDIBLE #Beychella pic.twitter.com/g9l25wuoSG — Onyoncé (@onifinau) April 15, 2018

Though Beyoncé’s views have often been controversial, her performance at Coachella seems likely to stand with the great performances in pop history, politics aside.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.Wealthy Jews are trying to take over the world and they are using the power of celebrity and fame in Hollywood to achieve their nefarious end, a Saudi scholar has claimed.

Sheikh Sa’ad ibn Abdullah Al-Humayd, a professor of Hadith Studies at King Saud University in Riyadh, made his accusation while being interviewed on Saudi television.

He blamed Jews for implementing the contents of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion by harnessing Hollywood to “target us” and preoccupy the masses with arts, sports and theater via celebrities with Hollywood fixations.

While stressing that there is no proof of the authenticity of the notorious anti-Semitic forgery, Sheikh Sa’ad ibn Abdullah Al-Humayd, said this didn’t matter since to his mind the discredited book matches “reality.”

“Some people question the authenticity The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, and indeed, we have some questions about this book,” he said in an interview with the Saudi Wesal TV channel. The interview, which aired on March 21, was translated by the Middle East Media Research Institute.

“It’s not clear how the news about so secret an organization can spread everywhere, especially since these people hold such power, as we all know,” added the sheikh. “However, if we look at reality, we see that what appears in this book is implemented.”

The Protocols of the Meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion is an antisemitic, entirely fabricated text purporting to describe a Jewish plan for global domination. The forgery was first published in Russia in 1903, translated into multiple languages, and disseminated internationally in the early part of the 20th century.

It has been in publication ever since.

According to the claims made by some of its publishers, the Protocols are the minutes of a late 19th-century meeting where Jewish leaders discussed their goal of global Jewish hegemony by subverting the morals of Gentiles, and by controlling the press and the world’s economies by subterfuge.

“Is it, in fact, possible that these Jews wrote this book, and intentionally spread the news about it, in order to weaken the resolve of the people?” asked the scholar. “Is it possible that they had studied the psychological effect that might be caused by reading such a book, and reached the conclusion that this psychological effect would serve them well? It’s possible. Only Allah knows. At any rate, we do not have proof for the authenticity of The Protocols, except for what exists in reality.”

“If we consider Hollywood, for example, and look at the films it produces, and at the feverish competition meant to preoccupy the people with the arts, with sports, with theater, and with films, and to aggrandize those insignificant people, such as actors, male and female dancers, sportsmen and sportswomen… This includes bringing women into games which they cannot perform, but into which they have been cast. It includes the arts, in all its diverse forms. They drown the people in such an atmosphere,” Al-Humayd continued.

The claim that the world is controlled by Jews is not new, nor does it ever go away.

Just last month, Trayon White Sr. (D-Ward 8), a local Washington, DC lawmaker, blamed Jews for “controlling the climate” in a video published on his Facebook page.

In it, Mr. White warns everyone about the Jews and their ability to control the climate as a means to create natural disasters that in turn allow them to own the cities.

“Man, it just started snowing out of nowhere this morning, man. Y’all better pay attention to this climate control, man, this climate manipulation,” White warns. “And D.C. keep talking about, ‘We a resilient city.’ And that’s a model based off the Rothschilds controlling the climate to create natural disasters they can pay for to own the cities, man. Be careful.”

As Breitbart news reported, Mr.White has since apologized.Wealthy Jews are trying to take over the world and they are using the power of celebrity and fame in Hollywood to achieve their nefarious end, a Saudi scholar has claimed.

Sheikh Sa’ad ibn Abdullah Al-Humayd, a professor of Hadith Studies at King Saud University in Riyadh, made his accusation while being interviewed on Saudi television.

He blamed Jews for implementing the contents of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion by harnessing Hollywood to “target us” and preoccupy the masses with arts, sports and theater via celebrities with Hollywood fixations.

While stressing that there is no proof of the authenticity of the notorious anti-Semitic forgery, Sheikh Sa’ad ibn Abdullah Al-Humayd, said this didn’t matter since to his mind the discredited book matches “reality.”

“Some people question the authenticity The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, and indeed, we have some questions about this book,” he said in an interview with the Saudi Wesal TV channel. The interview, which aired on March 21, was translated by the Middle East Media Research Institute.

“It’s not clear how the news about so secret an organization can spread everywhere, especially since these people hold such power, as we all know,” added the sheikh. “However, if we look at reality, we see that what appears in this book is implemented.”

The Protocols of the Meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion is an antisemitic, entirely fabricated text purporting to describe a Jewish plan for global domination. The forgery was first published in Russia in 1903, translated into multiple languages, and disseminated internationally in the early part of the 20th century.

It has been in publication ever since.

According to the claims made by some of its publishers, the Protocols are the minutes of a late 19th-century meeting where Jewish leaders discussed their goal of global Jewish hegemony by subverting the morals of Gentiles, and by controlling the press and the world’s economies by subterfuge.

“Is it, in fact, possible that these Jews wrote this book, and intentionally spread the news about it, in order to weaken the resolve of the people?” asked the scholar. “Is it possible that they had studied the psychological effect that might be caused by reading such a book, and reached the conclusion that this psychological effect would serve them well? It’s possible. Only Allah knows. At any rate, we do not have proof for the authenticity of The Protocols, except for what exists in reality.”

“If we consider Hollywood, for example, and look at the films it produces, and at the feverish competition meant to preoccupy the people with the arts, with sports, with theater, and with films, and to aggrandize those insignificant people, such as actors, male and female dancers, sportsmen and sportswomen… This includes bringing women into games which they cannot perform, but into which they have been cast. It includes the arts, in all its diverse forms. They drown the people in such an atmosphere,” Al-Humayd continued.

The claim that the world is controlled by Jews is not new, nor does it ever go away.

Just last month, Trayon White Sr. (D-Ward 8), a local Washington, DC lawmaker, blamed Jews for “controlling the climate” in a video published on his Facebook page.

In it, Mr. White warns everyone about the Jews and their ability to control the climate as a means to create natural disasters that in turn allow them to own the cities.

“Man, it just started snowing out of nowhere this morning, man. Y’all better pay attention to this climate control, man, this climate manipulation,” White warns. “And D.C. keep talking about, ‘We a resilient city.’ And that’s a model based off the Rothschilds controlling the climate to create natural disasters they can pay for to own the cities, man. Be careful.”

As Breitbart news reported, Mr.White has since apologized.In these trying times, Jackie Mason is the Voice of Reason.

In this week’s exclusive clip for Breitbart News, Jackie digs into the real reason that Special Counsel Robert Mueller just can’t let his investigation into President Trump go.

“The story is supposed to be that Donald Trump was involved with a certain girl, who’s a sexy type of girl, with big boobs and a hot body, and she was supposedly paid off $130,000… what does this got to do with Russia? The story was supposed to be about Russia,” Jackie says.

“So Robert Mueller, who couldn’t find anything about Russian collusion — because that was an invented story that went on for a year and accomplished nothing — he said to himself, ‘Since I can’t accomplish nothing because I’m too stupid to keep investigating the Russia problem, what am I gonna do for a living?'”

“Now he was out of work, so he decided a porn star was the main problem,” Jackie adds.

Jackie posits that it’s Mueller’s own “sex problem” – jealousy of Trump – that is behind the latest twist in the investigation.

“You know what I think? We should figure out why Mueller has such a sex problem,” he says. “That’s the real problem here. His sex problem should be investigated. I know what to do. We should have a Special Counsel investigating Mueller’s sex problem.”

But Jackie says the problems go beyond Mueller; the political establishment is still “sick to their stomachs” that Trump won the presidency, and still can’t handle it more than a year later.

Watch Jackie’s latest above.In these trying times, Jackie Mason is the Voice of Reason.

In this week’s exclusive clip for Breitbart News, Jackie digs into the real reason that Special Counsel Robert Mueller just can’t let his investigation into President Trump go.

“The story is supposed to be that Donald Trump was involved with a certain girl, who’s a sexy type of girl, with big boobs and a hot body, and she was supposedly paid off $130,000… what does this got to do with Russia? The story was supposed to be about Russia,” Jackie says.

“So Robert Mueller, who couldn’t find anything about Russian collusion — because that was an invented story that went on for a year and accomplished nothing — he said to himself, ‘Since I can’t accomplish nothing because I’m too stupid to keep investigating the Russia problem, what am I gonna do for a living?'”

“Now he was out of work, so he decided a porn star was the main problem,” Jackie adds.

Jackie posits that it’s Mueller’s own “sex problem” – jealousy of Trump – that is behind the latest twist in the investigation.

“You know what I think? We should figure out why Mueller has such a sex problem,” he says. “That’s the real problem here. His sex problem should be investigated. I know what to do. We should have a Special Counsel investigating Mueller’s sex problem.”

But Jackie says the problems go beyond Mueller; the political establishment is still “sick to their stomachs” that Trump won the presidency, and still can’t handle it more than a year later.

Watch Jackie’s latest above.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) told reporters in San Francisco on Sunday that President Donald Trump had behaved as if he were “above the law” in ordering precision strikes on Friday targeting Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons infrastructure.

Trump ordered the strikes after a reported chemical weapons attack by the Syrian regime against civilians in the town of Douma on April 7. U.S. intelligence confirmed the attack, officials said.

Pelosi has long been one of the foremost opponents of military action against the Assad regime. In 2007, shortly after becoming Speaker of the House, she traveled to Syria to meet with Assad personally. The trip took place at a time when the George W. Bush administration was frustrated about Syria’s efforts to help terrorists enter Iraq.

Pelosi and several of her fellow Democrats traveled to Syria in a protest against any potential military action against Assad, and to highlight diplomacy as an alternative. Other prominent Democrats who traveled to meet with Assad included former President Jimmy Carter and former Democratic presidential nominee — and later Secretary of State — Sen. John Kerry (D-MA).

As Secretary of State, Kerry would broker an agreement with Russia that supposedly guaranteed the removal and destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons. That agreement, seen at the time as an alternative to military action, was quickly violated by the Syrian regime.

According to the San Francisco Chronicle, Pelosi said that Trump was abusing a 2001 congressional authorization of the use of military force against terrorists to target Syria. She said that Trump could not act against Syria without specific approval from Congress.

“We must have that debate, Congress must act, and the president cannot feel that he has free rein in that regard. … What was the mission, and what did he accomplish? The point is, we want to know what happened there.”

Pelosi also reportedly mocked Trump’s intelligence: “He doesn’t know. It’s not unusual for him to talk about things he doesn’t even know about — and this is the commander in chief.”

The day before, anti-war activists from the far-left group Code Pink had targeted Pelosi’s house in a protest against the Syria strike. Pelosi’s criticism of the president Sunday was significantly tougher than her criticism on Friday, when she criticized Trump for what she called the lack of a “coherent strategy.”

Pelosi is currently favored to become the next Speaker of the House, according to polls that show the Democrats winning the lower chamber in the 2018 midterm elections.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.DAMASCUS, Syria (AFP) — The world’s chemical weapons watchdog is set to convene Monday to discuss the suspected toxic gas assault in Syria that prompted an unprecedented wave of Western strikes, as its inspectors probe the attack near Damascus.

As the on-the-ground investigation gets under way, the fallout from the US-led response continued to reverberate, with French President Emmanuel Macron claiming to have persuaded US President Donald Trump to keep his troops in Syria.

And in London, British Prime Minister Theresa May was to face an emergency parliamentary debate Monday over her country’s part in the operation.

The US-led strikes were the biggest international attack on President Bashar Assad’s regime since the start of Syria’s seven-year war.

They have risked a confrontation with Moscow, the Syrian regime’s top ally, with Russian President Vladimir Putin warning that fresh attacks would spark “chaos,” while Washington vowed economic sanctions against Russia rather than further military action.

US, French and British missiles destroyed sites suspected of hosting chemical weapons development and storage facilities Saturday, in a move lauded by Trump as “perfectly executed” — although the buildings were mostly empty and both Damascus and Syria’s opposition downplayed its impact.

The Western trio swiftly reverted to diplomatic efforts, with leaders facing flak at home over the punitive attack.

But their unified stance appeared to be shaken Sunday when Washington knocked back Macron’s claim that Paris had convinced Trump to stay engaged in Syria “for the long-term.”

White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said the US mission “has not changed” and Trump wanted troops home “as quickly as possible.”

Saturday’s strikes came just hours before a team of experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived in Damascus.

They have been tasked with investigating the site of the alleged April 7 chemical attack in the town of Douma, in the formerly rebel-held enclave of Eastern Ghouta, which Western powers said involved chlorine and sarin, and killed dozens.

The OPCW is set to meet in the Hague on Monday over the attack, although there have been no signs yet that the investigators have traveled to Douma to begin their fieldwork.

The inspectors will face a difficult task, with all key players having preempted their findings, including Western powers, which justified the strikes by claiming they already had proof such weapons were used.

Inspection still useful?

The team will also have to deal with the risk that evidence may have been removed from the site, which lies in an area that has been controlled by Russian military police and Syrian forces over the past week.

“That possibility always has to be taken into account, and investigators will look for evidence that shows whether the incident site has been tampered with,” Ralf Trapp, a consultant and member of a previous OPCW mission to Syria, told AFP.

The OPCW declared that the Syrian government’s chemical weapons stockpile had been removed in 2014, only to confirm later that sarin was used in a 2017 attack in the northern town of Khan Sheikhun.

“We will ensure they can work professionally, objectively, impartially and free of any pressure,” Assistant Foreign Minister Ayman Soussan told AFP.

Just hours after the Western strikes, the Syrian military declared it had fully retaken Eastern Ghouta, in a key victory for the resurgent regime, which had launched a blistering two-month assault on the opposition stronghold.

‘Locked and loaded’

Trump exclaimed “Mission Accomplished” after the pre-dawn strikes that lit up the sky around Damascus in a tweet that drew swift derision from his critics and parallels with president George W. Bush’s notoriously premature Iraq war victory speech on an aircraft carrier 15 years ago.

The Pentagon said no further action was planned but Washington’s envoy to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, warned that the US was “locked and loaded” should another gas attack occur.

Haley later told CBS that sanctions would be announced, likely on Monday, against Russian companies supplying the Syrian regime.

Putin told his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, also an Assad ally, that any new Western strikes in Syria would provoke “chaos in international relations,” a Kremlin statement said.

Assad denounced a “campaign of deceit and lies at the (United Nations) Security Council” after a push by Moscow on Saturday to condemn the strikes fell far short.

Macron insisted in an interview Sunday that France had “not declared war” on Syria, striving to underscore Paris’ justification for the attacks.

Britain’s May will also defend London’s participation in parliament Monday, after opposition parties claimed the attacks were legally dubious and should have been approved by lawmakers.

Western leaders have called for a fresh diplomatic push, aiming to end a conflict that has killed more than 350,000 people and displaced half of Syria’s population.

A Western draft resolution obtained by AFP at a meeting of the UN Security Council Saturday calls for unimpeded deliveries of humanitarian aid and enforcement of a ceasefire, along with demands that Syria engage in UN-led peace talks.

But Russia has blocked countless resolutions against its Syrian ally and the regime has appeared determined to continue its military reconquest of the country.

“For all the sound and fury of these strikes, their net effect is a slap on the wrist of Bashar Assad,” said Nick Heras, an analyst at the Center for a New American Security.DAMASCUS, Syria (AFP) — The world’s chemical weapons watchdog is set to convene Monday to discuss the suspected toxic gas assault in Syria that prompted an unprecedented wave of Western strikes, as its inspectors probe the attack near Damascus.

As the on-the-ground investigation gets under way, the fallout from the US-led response continued to reverberate, with French President Emmanuel Macron claiming to have persuaded US President Donald Trump to keep his troops in Syria.

And in London, British Prime Minister Theresa May was to face an emergency parliamentary debate Monday over her country’s part in the operation.

The US-led strikes were the biggest international attack on President Bashar Assad’s regime since the start of Syria’s seven-year war.

They have risked a confrontation with Moscow, the Syrian regime’s top ally, with Russian President Vladimir Putin warning that fresh attacks would spark “chaos,” while Washington vowed economic sanctions against Russia rather than further military action.

US, French and British missiles destroyed sites suspected of hosting chemical weapons development and storage facilities Saturday, in a move lauded by Trump as “perfectly executed” — although the buildings were mostly empty and both Damascus and Syria’s opposition downplayed its impact.

The Western trio swiftly reverted to diplomatic efforts, with leaders facing flak at home over the punitive attack.

But their unified stance appeared to be shaken Sunday when Washington knocked back Macron’s claim that Paris had convinced Trump to stay engaged in Syria “for the long-term.”

White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said the US mission “has not changed” and Trump wanted troops home “as quickly as possible.”

Saturday’s strikes came just hours before a team of experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived in Damascus.

They have been tasked with investigating the site of the alleged April 7 chemical attack in the town of Douma, in the formerly rebel-held enclave of Eastern Ghouta, which Western powers said involved chlorine and sarin, and killed dozens.

The OPCW is set to meet in the Hague on Monday over the attack, although there have been no signs yet that the investigators have traveled to Douma to begin their fieldwork.

The inspectors will face a difficult task, with all key players having preempted their findings, including Western powers, which justified the strikes by claiming they already had proof such weapons were used.

Inspection still useful?

The team will also have to deal with the risk that evidence may have been removed from the site, which lies in an area that has been controlled by Russian military police and Syrian forces over the past week.

“That possibility always has to be taken into account, and investigators will look for evidence that shows whether the incident site has been tampered with,” Ralf Trapp, a consultant and member of a previous OPCW mission to Syria, told AFP.

The OPCW declared that the Syrian government’s chemical weapons stockpile had been removed in 2014, only to confirm later that sarin was used in a 2017 attack in the northern town of Khan Sheikhun.

“We will ensure they can work professionally, objectively, impartially and free of any pressure,” Assistant Foreign Minister Ayman Soussan told AFP.

Just hours after the Western strikes, the Syrian military declared it had fully retaken Eastern Ghouta, in a key victory for the resurgent regime, which had launched a blistering two-month assault on the opposition stronghold.

‘Locked and loaded’

Trump exclaimed “Mission Accomplished” after the pre-dawn strikes that lit up the sky around Damascus in a tweet that drew swift derision from his critics and parallels with president George W. Bush’s notoriously premature Iraq war victory speech on an aircraft carrier 15 years ago.

The Pentagon said no further action was planned but Washington’s envoy to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, warned that the US was “locked and loaded” should another gas attack occur.

Haley later told CBS that sanctions would be announced, likely on Monday, against Russian companies supplying the Syrian regime.

Putin told his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, also an Assad ally, that any new Western strikes in Syria would provoke “chaos in international relations,” a Kremlin statement said.

Assad denounced a “campaign of deceit and lies at the (United Nations) Security Council” after a push by Moscow on Saturday to condemn the strikes fell far short.

Macron insisted in an interview Sunday that France had “not declared war” on Syria, striving to underscore Paris’ justification for the attacks.

Britain’s May will also defend London’s participation in parliament Monday, after opposition parties claimed the attacks were legally dubious and should have been approved by lawmakers.

Western leaders have called for a fresh diplomatic push, aiming to end a conflict that has killed more than 350,000 people and displaced half of Syria’s population.

A Western draft resolution obtained by AFP at a meeting of the UN Security Council Saturday calls for unimpeded deliveries of humanitarian aid and enforcement of a ceasefire, along with demands that Syria engage in UN-led peace talks.

But Russia has blocked countless resolutions against its Syrian ally and the regime has appeared determined to continue its military reconquest of the country.

“For all the sound and fury of these strikes, their net effect is a slap on the wrist of Bashar Assad,” said Nick Heras, an analyst at the Center for a New American Security.The Jerusalem Post reports: DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia – Saudi Arabia’s King Salman opened a summit of Arab leaders on Sunday by condemning an old foe, Iran, without making any reference to missile strikes by Western powers on Syrian government targets over a suspected gas attack a week ago.

Regional powerhouses Saudi Arabia and Iran have been locked in a decades-long struggle for supremacy that is being waged in proxy wars in several countries, including Yemen and Syria. “We renew our strong condemnation of terrorist acts carried out by Iran in the Arab region, and we reject its blatant interference in the internal affairs of Arab countries,” King Salman said in the eastern Saudi city of Dhahran, without giving specifics. Iran denies the charges.

King Salman made no mention of Saturday’s missile launch by the United States, Britain and France against three alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria. The Syrian government denies using – or possessing – chemical weapons and said the strikes were an act of aggression.

Read more here.The Jerusalem Post reports: DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia – Saudi Arabia’s King Salman opened a summit of Arab leaders on Sunday by condemning an old foe, Iran, without making any reference to missile strikes by Western powers on Syrian government targets over a suspected gas attack a week ago.

Regional powerhouses Saudi Arabia and Iran have been locked in a decades-long struggle for supremacy that is being waged in proxy wars in several countries, including Yemen and Syria. “We renew our strong condemnation of terrorist acts carried out by Iran in the Arab region, and we reject its blatant interference in the internal affairs of Arab countries,” King Salman said in the eastern Saudi city of Dhahran, without giving specifics. Iran denies the charges.

King Salman made no mention of Saturday’s missile launch by the United States, Britain and France against three alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria. The Syrian government denies using – or possessing – chemical weapons and said the strikes were an act of aggression.

Read more here.Some Christians in Syria denounced the recent precision strikes by the United States, Britain, and France against the regime of dictator Bashar al-Assad as “unjust, brutal aggression” that will provide jihadists with the “momentum to continue in their terrorism” in a statement issued Saturday.

In a joint statement published soon after President Trump authorized strikes against Assad’s scientific research centers in Damascus, Catholic and Orthodox patriarchs based in and around Syria declared:

[We] condemn and denounce the brutal aggression that took place this morning against our precious country Syria by the USA, France and the UK, under the allegations that the Syrian government has used chemical weapons. … This brutal aggression destroys the chances for a peaceful political solution and leads to escalation and more complications…This unjust aggression encourages the terrorist organizations and gives them momentum to continue in their terrorism.

The following patriarchs issued the statement: John X of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch and all the East; Ignatius Aphrem II of the Syrian Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch and all the East; and Joseph Absi of the Melkite-Greek Catholic Patriarch of Antioch, Alexandria, and Jerusalem.

They appear to defend dictator Bashar al-Assad against Pentagon assertions that he is the culprit behind the April 7 chemical attack that killed more than 40 people and injured dozens of others in Syria, ultimately triggering the strikes by the United States and its allies on Thursday night.

The patriarchs stated:

The allegations of the USA and other countries that the Syrian army is using chemical weapons and that Syria is a country that owns and uses this kind of weapon, is a claim that is unjustified and unsupported by sufficient and clear evidence.

They called on “all churches in the countries that participated in the aggression, to fulfill their Christian duties, according to the teachings of the Gospel, and condemn this aggression and to call their governments to commit to the protection of international peace.”

Some Christians in Syria depend on protection from the Russian- and Iranian-backed Syrian regime against jihadists in the war-ravaged country, despite Iran’s close ties to the Shiite jihadist organization Hezbollah, which has fought on Assad’s behalf.

The patriarchs noted:

We salute the courage, heroism and sacrifices of the [Assad’s] Syrian Arab Army which courageously protects Syria and provide security for its people. We pray for the souls of the martyrs and the recovery of the wounded. We are confident that the army will not bow before the external or internal terrorist aggressions; they will continue to fight courageously against terrorism until every inch of the Syrian land is cleansed from terrorism. We, likewise, commend the brave stand of countries which are friendly to the Syria and its people.

U.S. government and independent assessments have held the Syrian regime and its allies responsible for the killing of thousands of civilians, something the Christian leaders did not address.

Assad currently controls more territory than any other time since the civil war in Syria began in March 2011, courtesy of military and economic support from Russia and Iran.

Both Russia and Iran have warned of “consequences” in retaliation for the recent strikes against the Assad regime.

Echoing Russian President Vladimir Putin’s regime, the Christian leaders referred to the U.S. strikes as a “brutal aggression is a clear violation of the international laws and the [United Nations] Charter, because it is an unjustified assault on a sovereign country, member of the U.N.”

Some Catholics condemned similar strikes against the Assad regime launched by U.S. President Donald Trump last year.

Not all Christians in Syria are pro-Assad.

A representative for the Syriac Military Council (MFS), a militia that primarily represents Assyrian Christians in Syria’s northeastern al-Hasakah province, told Breitbart News in April 2017 that they stand against “the acts and policies of the Assad regime” and other “backward, extreme and terrorist groups.”Some Christians in Syria denounced the recent precision strikes by the United States, Britain, and France against the regime of dictator Bashar al-Assad as “unjust, brutal aggression” that will provide jihadists with the “momentum to continue in their terrorism” in a statement issued Saturday.

In a joint statement published soon after President Trump authorized strikes against Assad’s scientific research centers in Damascus, Catholic and Orthodox patriarchs based in and around Syria declared:

[We] condemn and denounce the brutal aggression that took place this morning against our precious country Syria by the USA, France and the UK, under the allegations that the Syrian government has used chemical weapons. … This brutal aggression destroys the chances for a peaceful political solution and leads to escalation and more complications…This unjust aggression encourages the terrorist organizations and gives them momentum to continue in their terrorism.

The following patriarchs issued the statement: John X of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch and all the East; Ignatius Aphrem II of the Syrian Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch and all the East; and Joseph Absi of the Melkite-Greek Catholic Patriarch of Antioch, Alexandria, and Jerusalem.

They appear to defend dictator Bashar al-Assad against Pentagon assertions that he is the culprit behind the April 7 chemical attack that killed more than 40 people and injured dozens of others in Syria, ultimately triggering the strikes by the United States and its allies on Thursday night.

The patriarchs stated:

The allegations of the USA and other countries that the Syrian army is using chemical weapons and that Syria is a country that owns and uses this kind of weapon, is a claim that is unjustified and unsupported by sufficient and clear evidence.

They called on “all churches in the countries that participated in the aggression, to fulfill their Christian duties, according to the teachings of the Gospel, and condemn this aggression and to call their governments to commit to the protection of international peace.”

Some Christians in Syria depend on protection from the Russian- and Iranian-backed Syrian regime against jihadists in the war-ravaged country, despite Iran’s close ties to the Shiite jihadist organization Hezbollah, which has fought on Assad’s behalf.

The patriarchs noted:

We salute the courage, heroism and sacrifices of the [Assad’s] Syrian Arab Army which courageously protects Syria and provide security for its people. We pray for the souls of the martyrs and the recovery of the wounded. We are confident that the army will not bow before the external or internal terrorist aggressions; they will continue to fight courageously against terrorism until every inch of the Syrian land is cleansed from terrorism. We, likewise, commend the brave stand of countries which are friendly to the Syria and its people.

U.S. government and independent assessments have held the Syrian regime and its allies responsible for the killing of thousands of civilians, something the Christian leaders did not address.

Assad currently controls more territory than any other time since the civil war in Syria began in March 2011, courtesy of military and economic support from Russia and Iran.

Both Russia and Iran have warned of “consequences” in retaliation for the recent strikes against the Assad regime.

Echoing Russian President Vladimir Putin’s regime, the Christian leaders referred to the U.S. strikes as a “brutal aggression is a clear violation of the international laws and the [United Nations] Charter, because it is an unjustified assault on a sovereign country, member of the U.N.”

Some Catholics condemned similar strikes against the Assad regime launched by U.S. President Donald Trump last year.

Not all Christians in Syria are pro-Assad.

A representative for the Syriac Military Council (MFS), a militia that primarily represents Assyrian Christians in Syria’s northeastern al-Hasakah province, told Breitbart News in April 2017 that they stand against “the acts and policies of the Assad regime” and other “backward, extreme and terrorist groups.”Labour’s shadow home secretary Diane Abbott has illustrated a tweet about Syria with a fake illustration of an Israeli jet bombing the capital of Iran.

The computer generated image, which was taken from an aviation blog and posted in 2012, shows an Israeli F-15 fighter over Tehran, with large explosions being spread in its wake.

Abbott posted the image with the message attacking International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt for her interview on BBC Radio 4 Today Programme.

She wrote: ‘Shocking to hear Tory minister on BBC Radio 4 Today claim that you can’t allow Parliament to vote on war because that would be to “outsource the decision to people who don’t have all the info”.

“Do these people understand what parliamentary democracy is?”

The image has been retweeted nearly 2,000 times and liked 2,500 times on Twitter.

Shocking to hear Tory minister on @BBCr4today claim that you can’t allow Parliament to vote on war because that would be to “outsource the decision to people who don’t have all the info” Do these people understand what parliamentary democracy is? pic.twitter.com/1sMxSJb48G — Diane Abbott (@HackneyAbbott) April 16, 2018

As many people quickly pointed out on Twitter, the image in question illustrated an aviation enthusiast’s blog with this caveat:

The following drawing, exclusively prepared by Al Clark for The Aviationist, shows how an attack by a formation of F-15Is on a nuclear facility located in downtown Tehran might look like. Obviously, it is only a fictional scene…

After being approached by the Daily Telegraph for comment, Ms Abbott tweeted: “Apparently, my use of this pic is ‘important news’.

“Yes, UK goes to war without UN approval or even parliamentary debate. But the most important news is what pics I use in a tweet. Pathetic.”

One Twitter user replied: “It is important when it shows you have absolutely no clue what you’re doing or talking about.”

Tory vice-chair James Cleverly demanded Abbott remove the “outrageous, childish and misleading” tweet as it was a gross misrepresentation of the RAF’s role in the attack. He said:

The picture is outrageous, childish, and misleading, it is totally unacceptable for you to use it. To imply that this was a attack on civilian homes, as the picture does, is a vile misrepresentation and dishonours the RAF personnel involved. Delete the tweet and apologise.

As of Monday afternoon, Abbott had neither deleted the Tweet nor apologised for its use.Labour’s shadow home secretary Diane Abbott has illustrated a tweet about Syria with a fake illustration of an Israeli jet bombing the capital of Iran.

The computer generated image, which was taken from an aviation blog and posted in 2012, shows an Israeli F-15 fighter over Tehran, with large explosions being spread in its wake.

Abbott posted the image with the message attacking International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt for her interview on BBC Radio 4 Today Programme.

She wrote: ‘Shocking to hear Tory minister on BBC Radio 4 Today claim that you can’t allow Parliament to vote on war because that would be to “outsource the decision to people who don’t have all the info”.

“Do these people understand what parliamentary democracy is?”

The image has been retweeted nearly 2,000 times and liked 2,500 times on Twitter.

Shocking to hear Tory minister on @BBCr4today claim that you can’t allow Parliament to vote on war because that would be to “outsource the decision to people who don’t have all the info” Do these people understand what parliamentary democracy is? pic.twitter.com/1sMxSJb48G — Diane Abbott (@HackneyAbbott) April 16, 2018

As many people quickly pointed out on Twitter, the image in question illustrated an aviation enthusiast’s blog with this caveat:

The following drawing, exclusively prepared by Al Clark for The Aviationist, shows how an attack by a formation of F-15Is on a nuclear facility located in downtown Tehran might look like. Obviously, it is only a fictional scene…

After being approached by the Daily Telegraph for comment, Ms Abbott tweeted: “Apparently, my use of this pic is ‘important news’.

“Yes, UK goes to war without UN approval or even parliamentary debate. But the most important news is what pics I use in a tweet. Pathetic.”

One Twitter user replied: “It is important when it shows you have absolutely no clue what you’re doing or talking about.”

Tory vice-chair James Cleverly demanded Abbott remove the “outrageous, childish and misleading” tweet as it was a gross misrepresentation of the RAF’s role in the attack. He said:

The picture is outrageous, childish, and misleading, it is totally unacceptable for you to use it. To imply that this was a attack on civilian homes, as the picture does, is a vile misrepresentation and dishonours the RAF personnel involved. Delete the tweet and apologise.

As of Monday afternoon, Abbott had neither deleted the Tweet nor apologised for its use.City and country governments ignored federal “detainer” requests and released 142 suspected members of MS-13 and other criminal gangs in the eight months up to June 2017, says a report from the Department of Homeland Security to the Senate’s judiciary committee.

The gang release data is the agency’s most up-to-date, according to the agency, which delivered the answers in response to routine oversight questions by committee members.

The data does not cover any releases after June 19, 2017, when city governments escalated their opposition to the legal deportation of illegal migrants in their cities and counties. Currently, the Department of Justice is pressuring cities to cooperate with deportation efforts and is trying to cut federal police grants to cities who release criminals back into Americans’ neighborhoods.

The answers do not describe the crimes committed by gang members that caused their arrests.

The detainer data shows how many arrested and detained illegals were released by city and local governments even after federal officials requested they be held until they could be arrested by DHS officials.

Santa Clara County in California led the pack by releasing 22 of 127 suspect gang members after the DHS asked they be held. Los Angeles released 16 suspected gangsters, Orange County released 12 and Travis County in Texas released 11.

Montgomery County in Maryland led the MS-13 score by releasing five of 15 suspected MS-13 members who were released nationwide from October 2016 to June 2017.

California jurisdictions released 90 of the 142 suspects. Next in line was Washington State, which aided 11 migrants, including 3 MS-13 members.

Several states and local cities are trying to shield criminal migrants from deportation, despite the resulting danger to Americans. The illegals are protected by progressives eager to protect migrants from deportation, but also by politicians eager to support local cheap-labor businesses, such as the food industry. That opposition to federal immigration law has sparked dramatic fights in New York, Washington D.C., Oakland, Calif., and elsewhere.City and country governments ignored federal “detainer” requests and released 142 suspected members of MS-13 and other criminal gangs in the eight months up to June 2017, says a report from the Department of Homeland Security to the Senate’s judiciary committee.

The gang release data is the agency’s most up-to-date, according to the agency, which delivered the answers in response to routine oversight questions by committee members.

The data does not cover any releases after June 19, 2017, when city governments escalated their opposition to the legal deportation of illegal migrants in their cities and counties. Currently, the Department of Justice is pressuring cities to cooperate with deportation efforts and is trying to cut federal police grants to cities who release criminals back into Americans’ neighborhoods.

The answers do not describe the crimes committed by gang members that caused their arrests.

The detainer data shows how many arrested and detained illegals were released by city and local governments even after federal officials requested they be held until they could be arrested by DHS officials.

Santa Clara County in California led the pack by releasing 22 of 127 suspect gang members after the DHS asked they be held. Los Angeles released 16 suspected gangsters, Orange County released 12 and Travis County in Texas released 11.

Montgomery County in Maryland led the MS-13 score by releasing five of 15 suspected MS-13 members who were released nationwide from October 2016 to June 2017.

California jurisdictions released 90 of the 142 suspects. Next in line was Washington State, which aided 11 migrants, including 3 MS-13 members.

Several states and local cities are trying to shield criminal migrants from deportation, despite the resulting danger to Americans. The illegals are protected by progressives eager to protect migrants from deportation, but also by politicians eager to support local cheap-labor businesses, such as the food industry. That opposition to federal immigration law has sparked dramatic fights in New York, Washington D.C., Oakland, Calif., and elsewhere.Lima (Peru) (AFP) – US Vice President Mike Pence held brief bilateral talks with the leaders of Mexico and Canada on Saturday about the state of play in their NAFTA renegotiations, saying he was “encouraged” by recent progress towards a deal.

The discussions on the sidelines of the Summit of the Americas in Peru came as US officials said they believed they were narrowing differences over a revised North American Free Trade Agreement, 24 years after its inception.

But US relations with Mexico had soured in recent weeks as US President Donald Trump has sought to link the trade talks to Mexican efforts to stop migrants illegally crossing the border into the US, and ordered National Guard troops to the border.

Reporters travelling with Pence said the vice president first saw Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and then met with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto half an hour later.

Pence’s demeanor with Trudeau was notably warmer than with Pena Nieto.

“We are neighbors, we are cherished friends,” Pence said after shaking hands with the Canadian leader.

“We think we’re close” on a new NAFTA arrangement, Pence said.

“We are encouraged with the progress of our negotiations, and we are hopeful that we can conclude a successful renegotiation.”

– ‘Very productive’ –

Trudeau echoed Pence’s assessment, telling reporters he believed “good progress” was being made on NAFTA.

“There is a definite positive momentum,” he said, adding there was “potential progress” on issues related to the auto sector.

“We will continue to work hard at the negotiating table, we will continue to negotiate in good faith and hope to reach a win-win-win renegotiation of NAFTA.”

With Pena Nieto, meanwhile, Pence said: “I look forward to a discussion not only on NAFTA but on a broad range of issues.”

The Mexican leader emphasized the need to talk about “the bilateral relationship we want to have of cooperation and mutual respect.”

Neither man responded when reporters asked questions about the wall Trump wants to build along the US-Mexico border, or if Pena Nieto still rejected Trump’s demand that Mexico pay for the barrier.

Later, Pence told reporters that the meetings were “very productive.”

He confirmed that he and Pena Nieto did not discuss the contentious issue of Trump’s border wall.

“I think President Pena Nieto understands that he and President Trump have a difference of opinion on that,” he said.

Instead, the pair talked about a recent migrant “caravan” march that left from Central America and was heading to the US before dissipating in Mexico after Trump became agitated over it, and “a great deal about NAFTA,” Pence said.

“I’ll leave this summit very hopeful that we are very close to a renegotiated better deal for the American people” that is “mutually beneficial” for Mexico and Canada, he said.

“It’s not done yet. There are still issues that need to be resolved. But we believe there is a real possibility that we could arrive within the next several weeks at a renegotiated NAFTA.”

Mexico has already said it hopes to get agreement on the revised NAFTA deal next month — but Pena Nieto told reporters there is “absolutely no date” set to sign a new treaty.

The Mexican president has ordered his government to carry out a sweeping review of its cooperation with the United States amid rising tensions.

However, he said in Lima that during his meeting with Pence, he noted a “very positive, receptive and above all understanding attitude” to Mexico’s position.

Pence was accompanied by several US officials to Peru, including Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and senior advisor tasked with handling various international foreign policy issues.

Kushner also took part in the bilateral talks with Trudeau and Pena Nieto, Pence aides said.Winter Storm Xanto continues to dump snow in the Midwest, Great Lakes, and interior northeast and the conditions will continue into Monday, weather forecasters say.

The Weather Channel reported that more than a foot of snow has piled up in multiple states, with local blizzard conditions in some areas.

The Weather Channel reported:

Winter Storm Xanto (pronounced ZAN-toe) will continue to bring snow, freezing rain and strong winds from the upper Midwest to the Great Lakes and interior Northeast into Monday. Snow and gusty winds were ongoing from the upper Midwest into the northern Great Lakes as of early Sunday morning. Freezing rain was being reported from lower Michigan into New York State.

The channel noted that if the snow in the Twin Cities rises above 13.6 it would be the third heaviest snowstorm there on record.

“The National Weather Service in Minneapolis/St. Paul has called this storm historic for mid-April in their area,” the channel reported.

The National Weather Service website reported on Sunday:

Snow and freezing rain continue over the upper Midwest and Great Lakes region while rain and thunderstorms move through the Ohio and Tennessee valleys and southeast. Winter storm warning and winter weather advisories are in effect for the upper Midwest and the Great Lakes region. Flood and flash flood watches for the central and southern Appalachians. https://twitter.com/NWSWPC/status/985565745823322112

The Weather Channel reported these snowfall totals on Sunday:

•Colorado: 14.5 near Cedaredge, 10 inches near Berthoud Falls

•Iowa: 14 inches in Ringsted; 4.7 inches in Sioux City

•Kansas: 5 inches in Bird City; 3.2 inches near Goodland

•Michigan: 17 inches in Boyne Falls and Elmira

•Minnesota: 19 inches in Canby; 12.9 inches at Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport

•Montana: 25 inches near Bozeman; 14 inches in Grass Range

•Nebraska: 14 inches in Newport; 11 inches near Valentine; 8 inches in Harrison

•North Dakota: 6 inches in Medora; 5 inches in Hettinger

•South Dakota: 20 inches near Okreek and Winner; 15 inches in Huron; 13.7 inches in Sioux Falls

•Utah: 28 inches in the Alta Ski Area at the summit; 10 inches in Brighton

•Wisconsin: 24.1 inches in Tigerton; 11 inches in Green Bay; 8 inches in Eau Claire

•Wyoming: 18 inches near Alta; 12 inches near Jackson

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterWinter Storm Xanto continues to dump snow in the Midwest, Great Lakes, and interior northeast and the conditions will continue into Monday, weather forecasters say.

The Weather Channel reported that more than a foot of snow has piled up in multiple states, with local blizzard conditions in some areas.

The Weather Channel reported:

Winter Storm Xanto (pronounced ZAN-toe) will continue to bring snow, freezing rain and strong winds from the upper Midwest to the Great Lakes and interior Northeast into Monday. Snow and gusty winds were ongoing from the upper Midwest into the northern Great Lakes as of early Sunday morning. Freezing rain was being reported from lower Michigan into New York State.

The channel noted that if the snow in the Twin Cities rises above 13.6 it would be the third heaviest snowstorm there on record.

“The National Weather Service in Minneapolis/St. Paul has called this storm historic for mid-April in their area,” the channel reported.

The National Weather Service website reported on Sunday:

Snow and freezing rain continue over the upper Midwest and Great Lakes region while rain and thunderstorms move through the Ohio and Tennessee valleys and southeast. Winter storm warning and winter weather advisories are in effect for the upper Midwest and the Great Lakes region. Flood and flash flood watches for the central and southern Appalachians. https://twitter.com/NWSWPC/status/985565745823322112

The Weather Channel reported these snowfall totals on Sunday:

•Colorado: 14.5 near Cedaredge, 10 inches near Berthoud Falls

•Iowa: 14 inches in Ringsted; 4.7 inches in Sioux City

•Kansas: 5 inches in Bird City; 3.2 inches near Goodland

•Michigan: 17 inches in Boyne Falls and Elmira

•Minnesota: 19 inches in Canby; 12.9 inches at Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport

•Montana: 25 inches near Bozeman; 14 inches in Grass Range

•Nebraska: 14 inches in Newport; 11 inches near Valentine; 8 inches in Harrison

•North Dakota: 6 inches in Medora; 5 inches in Hettinger

•South Dakota: 20 inches near Okreek and Winner; 15 inches in Huron; 13.7 inches in Sioux Falls

•Utah: 28 inches in the Alta Ski Area at the summit; 10 inches in Brighton

•Wisconsin: 24.1 inches in Tigerton; 11 inches in Green Bay; 8 inches in Eau Claire

•Wyoming: 18 inches near Alta; 12 inches near Jackson

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterBOSTON (AP) — The Latest on the 122nd running of the Boston Marathon (all times local):

10:25 a.m.

To deal with the cold weather, elite runners were each given an extra bib in case they decide to shed layers along the Boston Marathon course.

Official bib numbers mark runners as official entrants and also serve to track them along the course. Top competitors are usually given a bib with their name on it instead of a number so fans can call it out as they cheer. This year, many of the runners kept that one on the inside and pinned their extra —with a number— to an outer layer.

Organizers say they do this from time to time when the weather is bad or likely to change during the race.

___

10:05 a.m.

The men’s Elite field and open field of more than 30,000 runners have started down the course in the Boston Marathon.

There was a light rain falling at the start line in Hopkinton. The temperature was 39 degrees with a 15 mph wind.

Japan’s Yuki Kawauchi led the race with a time of 4:37 for the first mile split. The lead pack followed about 30 yards behind him.

___

9:45 a.m.

The top women are off at the Boston Marathon.

Forty elite competitors have left Hopkinton on their way to Copley Square on Monday. Among them are Olympic medalist Shalane Flanagan and 2011 Boston runner-up Desi Linden. Another top American, Jordan Hasay, dropped out on Sunday with a sore heel. She was third here last year in her marathon debut.

The pack moved carefully over the wet roads and against strong headwinds. Aselefech Mergia went out to an early lead but quickly dropped back in the pack.

___

9:10 a.m.

Bad weather is nothing new for the Boston Marathon.

This is New England, after all.

Monday’s temperatures in the 30s and rain and wind are similar to the 2015 race, which was just a few degrees warmer. In 2007, the area dodged the worst of a nor’easter that had organizers considering whether to cancel the race. Five races were run in the snow, most recently 1967.

You want heat? They’ve had that, too.

In 2012, forecasts were so dire that the Boston Athletic Association offered runners an unprecedented chance to skip the race and run the next year, instead. Temperatures climbed to 89 degrees on the course — still not as hot as the 1976 race that became known as the “Run for the Hoses.” The 1905 race reportedly topped 100 degrees.

Other years, things got downright weird.

A storm combined with a partial solar eclipse left runners at the start of the 1939 race in darkness. 2002 saw a heavy mist that grounded the helicopters and left TV viewers staring through a haze. And many runners couldn’t make it to Boston in 2010 after a volcano erupted in Iceland, spewing ash and grounding flights in Europe for weeks.

___

8:10 a.m.

The Boston Marathon last year was sunny with a high temperature of 75 degrees (23.9 Celsius). This year it’ll be much colder and wetter.

It was 35 degrees at the start line about 40 minutes before the first runners were set to take off Monday, projected to be in the upper 30s and low 40s throughout most of the race, eventually hitting a high of 51.

Runners awaiting the start are hunkered down under large tents wearing ponchos and layered clothing to stay warm.

Diana Dearden, a 26-year-old runner from Wilmington, Delaware, says she feels challenged by the rain and is worried the cold will lead to problems. She says she’s “just trying to take it in stride” but she has lost hope of getting a good time.

Connor Buchholz, a 25-year-old from Toledo, Ohio, qualified for Boston with a race in Pennsylvania in September. He says folks are a little distraught over the weather but they knew it was going to be raining, and he’s looking forward to working together with the other runners to accomplish their goals.

___

7:45 a.m.

Runners are arriving in Hopkinton and trying to stay dry as they await the start of the Boston Marathon.

It’s cold, wet and windy on Monday for the 122nd running of the world’s oldest and most prestigious annual marathon.

Bruce Rogers, a 46-year-old runner from Rochester, New York, says he’s nervous but excited for “one heck of an adventure.” Runners are gathering underneath large tents set up outside of the town’s high school. Many are wearing ponchos, extra layers of clothing and grocery bags wrapped around their sneakers to keep warm and dry before the race.

Defending champions Geoffrey Kirui and Edna Kiplagat, both Kenyan, lead a field of more than 30,000 runners on the 26.2-mile trek from Hopkinton to Copley Square.

The mobility impaired division is scheduled to begin at 8:40 a.m.BOSTON (AP) — The Latest on the 122nd running of the Boston Marathon (all times local):

10:25 a.m.

To deal with the cold weather, elite runners were each given an extra bib in case they decide to shed layers along the Boston Marathon course.

Official bib numbers mark runners as official entrants and also serve to track them along the course. Top competitors are usually given a bib with their name on it instead of a number so fans can call it out as they cheer. This year, many of the runners kept that one on the inside and pinned their extra —with a number— to an outer layer.

Organizers say they do this from time to time when the weather is bad or likely to change during the race.

___

10:05 a.m.

The men’s Elite field and open field of more than 30,000 runners have started down the course in the Boston Marathon.

There was a light rain falling at the start line in Hopkinton. The temperature was 39 degrees with a 15 mph wind.

Japan’s Yuki Kawauchi led the race with a time of 4:37 for the first mile split. The lead pack followed about 30 yards behind him.

___

9:45 a.m.

The top women are off at the Boston Marathon.

Forty elite competitors have left Hopkinton on their way to Copley Square on Monday. Among them are Olympic medalist Shalane Flanagan and 2011 Boston runner-up Desi Linden. Another top American, Jordan Hasay, dropped out on Sunday with a sore heel. She was third here last year in her marathon debut.

The pack moved carefully over the wet roads and against strong headwinds. Aselefech Mergia went out to an early lead but quickly dropped back in the pack.

___

9:10 a.m.

Bad weather is nothing new for the Boston Marathon.

This is New England, after all.

Monday’s temperatures in the 30s and rain and wind are similar to the 2015 race, which was just a few degrees warmer. In 2007, the area dodged the worst of a nor’easter that had organizers considering whether to cancel the race. Five races were run in the snow, most recently 1967.

You want heat? They’ve had that, too.

In 2012, forecasts were so dire that the Boston Athletic Association offered runners an unprecedented chance to skip the race and run the next year, instead. Temperatures climbed to 89 degrees on the course — still not as hot as the 1976 race that became known as the “Run for the Hoses.” The 1905 race reportedly topped 100 degrees.

Other years, things got downright weird.

A storm combined with a partial solar eclipse left runners at the start of the 1939 race in darkness. 2002 saw a heavy mist that grounded the helicopters and left TV viewers staring through a haze. And many runners couldn’t make it to Boston in 2010 after a volcano erupted in Iceland, spewing ash and grounding flights in Europe for weeks.

___

8:10 a.m.

The Boston Marathon last year was sunny with a high temperature of 75 degrees (23.9 Celsius). This year it’ll be much colder and wetter.

It was 35 degrees at the start line about 40 minutes before the first runners were set to take off Monday, projected to be in the upper 30s and low 40s throughout most of the race, eventually hitting a high of 51.

Runners awaiting the start are hunkered down under large tents wearing ponchos and layered clothing to stay warm.

Diana Dearden, a 26-year-old runner from Wilmington, Delaware, says she feels challenged by the rain and is worried the cold will lead to problems. She says she’s “just trying to take it in stride” but she has lost hope of getting a good time.

Connor Buchholz, a 25-year-old from Toledo, Ohio, qualified for Boston with a race in Pennsylvania in September. He says folks are a little distraught over the weather but they knew it was going to be raining, and he’s looking forward to working together with the other runners to accomplish their goals.

___

7:45 a.m.

Runners are arriving in Hopkinton and trying to stay dry as they await the start of the Boston Marathon.

It’s cold, wet and windy on Monday for the 122nd running of the world’s oldest and most prestigious annual marathon.

Bruce Rogers, a 46-year-old runner from Rochester, New York, says he’s nervous but excited for “one heck of an adventure.” Runners are gathering underneath large tents set up outside of the town’s high school. Many are wearing ponchos, extra layers of clothing and grocery bags wrapped around their sneakers to keep warm and dry before the race.

Defending champions Geoffrey Kirui and Edna Kiplagat, both Kenyan, lead a field of more than 30,000 runners on the 26.2-mile trek from Hopkinton to Copley Square.

The mobility impaired division is scheduled to begin at 8:40 a.m.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The Philadelphia Eagles have released cornerback Daryl Worley, hours after he was arrested.

NFL Network reported that Worley was arrested Sunday morning near the team’s practice facility and that police used a Taser on him after he became combative. The report also said a gun was found in Worley’s vehicle.

The team first issued a statement that it was investigating Worley’s arrest and later announced he was cut.

The Super Bowl champions traded wide receiver Torrey Smith to the Carolina Panthers for Worley in March. They also acquired defensive end Michael Bennett in a trade with Seattle. Bennett was arrested last month on a charge that he injured a paraplegic woman as he tried to get onto the field after last year’s Super Bowl to celebrate with his brother.

Worley, a third-round pick in 2016, started 25 games in the past two seasons for the Panthers.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The Philadelphia Eagles have released cornerback Daryl Worley, hours after he was arrested.

NFL Network reported that Worley was arrested Sunday morning near the team’s practice facility and that police used a Taser on him after he became combative. The report also said a gun was found in Worley’s vehicle.

The team first issued a statement that it was investigating Worley’s arrest and later announced he was cut.

The Super Bowl champions traded wide receiver Torrey Smith to the Carolina Panthers for Worley in March. They also acquired defensive end Michael Bennett in a trade with Seattle. Bennett was arrested last month on a charge that he injured a paraplegic woman as he tried to get onto the field after last year’s Super Bowl to celebrate with his brother.

Worley, a third-round pick in 2016, started 25 games in the past two seasons for the Panthers.April 16 (UPI) — Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison announced his retirement from the NFL on Monday.

“I’ve missed way too much for way too long … and I’m done,” Harrison wrote on Instagram. “Many thanks to my family, coaches, the fans, and everyone who played a role in my football life. #2ndAndFinalRetirement. #HarrisonFamilyValues. #BlessedAndHighlyFavored. #GodsPlan.”

“Deebo” included photos of his two sons on his retirement posts.

Harrison, 39, was the 2008 NFL Defensive Player of the Year. He made the Pro Bowl five times and was named an All-Pro twice during his 15-year NFL tenure.

Pittsburgh signed the Kent State product in 2002 as an undrafted rookie free agent. He played his first 10 seasons for the Steelers, before joining the Cincinnati Bengals in free agency in 2013. Harrison returned to the Steelers in 2011. He signed with the New England Patriots last offseason.

The 6-foot, 242-pound defender won a Super Bowl with the Steelers in 2009. He also appeared in the Super Bowl in 2011 with the Steelers and in February with the Patriots.

Harrison had 84.5 sacks, 34 forced fumbles, 26 passes defensed, nine fumble recoveries, eight interceptions and a touchdown in 193 career appearances. Harrison ranked No. 7 in the NFL on the list of active sack leaders.April 16 (UPI) — Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison announced his retirement from the NFL on Monday.

“I’ve missed way too much for way too long … and I’m done,” Harrison wrote on Instagram. “Many thanks to my family, coaches, the fans, and everyone who played a role in my football life. #2ndAndFinalRetirement. #HarrisonFamilyValues. #BlessedAndHighlyFavored. #GodsPlan.”

“Deebo” included photos of his two sons on his retirement posts.

Harrison, 39, was the 2008 NFL Defensive Player of the Year. He made the Pro Bowl five times and was named an All-Pro twice during his 15-year NFL tenure.

Pittsburgh signed the Kent State product in 2002 as an undrafted rookie free agent. He played his first 10 seasons for the Steelers, before joining the Cincinnati Bengals in free agency in 2013. Harrison returned to the Steelers in 2011. He signed with the New England Patriots last offseason.

The 6-foot, 242-pound defender won a Super Bowl with the Steelers in 2009. He also appeared in the Super Bowl in 2011 with the Steelers and in February with the Patriots.

Harrison had 84.5 sacks, 34 forced fumbles, 26 passes defensed, nine fumble recoveries, eight interceptions and a touchdown in 193 career appearances. Harrison ranked No. 7 in the NFL on the list of active sack leaders.Alabama football coach Nick Saban was at the White House celebrating team victory this week when he told Breitbart News that a copyright challenge from LeBron James will not keep Alabama from publishing its barbershop interview web series.

While standing outside the White House West Wing alongside three Alabama players, Saban was asked whether if James’s grievance will cause him to stop filming his barbershop videos.

“Not at all,” replied Saban who added that they aren’t going to do anything illegal.

“I’m very respectful of LeBron James and the player that he is and any rights that he has, we certainly don’t want to violate any,” said Saban. He then qualified that by saying that they want to continue to have their opportunity.

Forbes writer Thomas Baker suggested that James’ cease and desist letter may have served more to elevate attention to the Alabama series than to halt it as the letter spurred an article by ESPN.

While initially entitled “Shop Talk,” similar to James’ “The Shop,” the Alabama series was renamed “Bama Cuts,” according to Forbes. Bama Cuts is the name of the actual barbershop that Alabama opened in their own Mal M. Moore athletic facility earlier this year.

ESPN published a portion of the letter sent to Alabama from UNINTERRUPTED, James’ co-founded media platform. It read, in part, “Your continued exploitation of ‘Shop Talk’ infringes ‘UNINTERRUPTED’s’ copyright, trademark rights and other valuable intellectual property rights in ‘The Shop’ and significantly damages ‘UNINTERRUPTED’s’ commercial prospects for ‘The Shop.’”

The first episode of “The Shop” garnered around 4 million views between UNINTERRUPTED’s website and ESPN’s YouTube channel.

Alabama published its second episode of “Bama Cuts” the web series just this past week. A third installment is set to release on April 18. The series features former Alabama players and at times, Coach Saban.

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaAlabama football coach Nick Saban was at the White House celebrating team victory this week when he told Breitbart News that a copyright challenge from LeBron James will not keep Alabama from publishing its barbershop interview web series.

While standing outside the White House West Wing alongside three Alabama players, Saban was asked whether if James’s grievance will cause him to stop filming his barbershop videos.

“Not at all,” replied Saban who added that they aren’t going to do anything illegal.

“I’m very respectful of LeBron James and the player that he is and any rights that he has, we certainly don’t want to violate any,” said Saban. He then qualified that by saying that they want to continue to have their opportunity.

Forbes writer Thomas Baker suggested that James’ cease and desist letter may have served more to elevate attention to the Alabama series than to halt it as the letter spurred an article by ESPN.

While initially entitled “Shop Talk,” similar to James’ “The Shop,” the Alabama series was renamed “Bama Cuts,” according to Forbes. Bama Cuts is the name of the actual barbershop that Alabama opened in their own Mal M. Moore athletic facility earlier this year.

ESPN published a portion of the letter sent to Alabama from UNINTERRUPTED, James’ co-founded media platform. It read, in part, “Your continued exploitation of ‘Shop Talk’ infringes ‘UNINTERRUPTED’s’ copyright, trademark rights and other valuable intellectual property rights in ‘The Shop’ and significantly damages ‘UNINTERRUPTED’s’ commercial prospects for ‘The Shop.’”

The first episode of “The Shop” garnered around 4 million views between UNINTERRUPTED’s website and ESPN’s YouTube channel.

Alabama published its second episode of “Bama Cuts” the web series just this past week. A third installment is set to release on April 18. The series features former Alabama players and at times, Coach Saban.

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. consumers bounced back in March and bought more cars, furniture and appliances after three months of declining retail sales.

The Commerce Department said retail sales rose 0.6 percent last month, the largest increase since November. Auto sales jumped 2 percent, the most in six months.

Sales at retailers slipped in the first two months of this year as consumers pulled back after heavy spending during the winter holidays. Last month’s figures suggest Americans are returning to more free-spending ways. Easter holiday purchases also likely lifted spending. Economists predict that healthy consumer confidence, steady job gains and the impact of tax cuts will fuel solid spending growth in the months ahead.

Sales rose at grocery stores, restaurants and bars, and drug stores. They fell at home and garden stores, clothing shops and sporting goods stores.

Online retail sales increased 0.8 percent in March and have risen nearly 10 percent compared with a year ago. That’s more than double the overall retail sales gain in the past 12 months of 4.5 percent.

Retail sales are closely watched by economists because they provide an early read on consumer spending, the principal driver of the U.S. economy. Store purchases account for about one-third of U.S. consumer spending, while spending on services such as haircuts and mobile phones plans makes up the other two-thirds.

Sales rose just 0.2 percent in the first three months of the year, suggesting consumer spending overall likely increased at a sluggish pace in the January-March quarter. The slowdown follows a 4 percent jump in consumer spending in the final three months of last year, the strongest gain in three years.

Economists forecast overall economic growth slowed to below 2 percent at an annual pace in the first quarter, after a 2.9 percent gain in the fourth quarter. But most expect it will rebound in the second quarter and top 3 percent.WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. consumers bounced back in March and bought more cars, furniture and appliances after three months of declining retail sales.

The Commerce Department said retail sales rose 0.6 percent last month, the largest increase since November. Auto sales jumped 2 percent, the most in six months.

Sales at retailers slipped in the first two months of this year as consumers pulled back after heavy spending during the winter holidays. Last month’s figures suggest Americans are returning to more free-spending ways. Easter holiday purchases also likely lifted spending. Economists predict that healthy consumer confidence, steady job gains and the impact of tax cuts will fuel solid spending growth in the months ahead.

Sales rose at grocery stores, restaurants and bars, and drug stores. They fell at home and garden stores, clothing shops and sporting goods stores.

Online retail sales increased 0.8 percent in March and have risen nearly 10 percent compared with a year ago. That’s more than double the overall retail sales gain in the past 12 months of 4.5 percent.

Retail sales are closely watched by economists because they provide an early read on consumer spending, the principal driver of the U.S. economy. Store purchases account for about one-third of U.S. consumer spending, while spending on services such as haircuts and mobile phones plans makes up the other two-thirds.

Sales rose just 0.2 percent in the first three months of the year, suggesting consumer spending overall likely increased at a sluggish pace in the January-March quarter. The slowdown follows a 4 percent jump in consumer spending in the final three months of last year, the strongest gain in three years.

Economists forecast overall economic growth slowed to below 2 percent at an annual pace in the first quarter, after a 2.9 percent gain in the fourth quarter. But most expect it will rebound in the second quarter and top 3 percent.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The CEO of Starbucks arrived in Philadelphia hoping to meet with two black men who were arrested when the coffee chain’s employees called 911 and said they were trespassing. Meanwhile, protesters took over the shop Monday.

“I would like to have a dialogue with them to make sure we have the opportunity to really understand the situation and they can join me in finding constructive way to solve this issue,” Starbucks’ CEO Kevin Johnson on ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Monday. He called their arrest “reprehensible.”

A call seeking comment from the men’s lawyer about any possible meeting wasn’t immediately returned.

About two dozen chanting protesters took over the Starbucks location Monday to protest the arrests.

“We don’t want this Starbucks to make any money today. That’s our goal,” said Abdul-Aliy Muhammad, one of the protest’s organizers and co-founder of the Black and Brown Workers Collective.

Just before 7:30 a.m., the protesters moved inside and stood in front of the counter, some holding banners reading “End Stop and Frisk,” chanting slogans like, “A whole lot of racism, a whole lot of crap, Starbucks coffee is anti-black.”

Starbucks regional vice president Camille Hymes attempted to talk to the protesters, but was shouted down.

Over the weekend, demonstrators called for the firing of the employee who contacted police, who arrested the men on Thursday.

Officials have said police officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s restroom but were denied because they hadn’t bought anything and they refused to leave.

Police haven’t released the names of the men who were arrested and later released after the district attorney’s office said there was lack of evidence that a crime had been committed.

Over the weekend Johnson issued a statement saying the company is investigating its practices, working on training and will reach out to outside experts to make any needed changes that would help prevent such an occurrence from happening again.

“Creating an environment that is both safe and welcoming for everyone is paramount for every store,” he said in the statement. “Regretfully, our practices and training led to a bad outcome — the basis for the call to the Philadelphia police department was wrong. Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did.”California’s terrible commuter rail service speeds and on-time performance are growing worse, due to homeless camps near the tracks and transients wandering on the rails.

The Sacramento Bee reports that train engineers are warning system operators and passengers that homeless people wandering on the rails have been hit, and engineers have been forced to slow and make high-speed emergency stops to avoid hitting transients.

But even with Amtrak’s Capitol Corridor passenger service, which operates between Sacramento and Silicon Valley, combining with the Union Pacific Railroad freight service on adjacent tracks to report homeless encampments to law enforcement, California’s homeless have civil rights allowing them to nest on city sidewalks and near isolated train tracks.

Breitbart News reported in July that the Trump administration plans to dump about half of Amtrak’s $1.4 billion annual taxpayer subsidy for passenger trains that have an on-time performance as low as 6 percent.

The San Francisco Chronicle noted that the Amtrak subsidy for the Capitol Corridor — running for 170 miles from Sacramento to Oakland and San Jose — was $700 million, or about $50.98 for each of the about 3,500 passengers who take the train each day.

Although the Capitol Corridor claims to have an average speed of 68 miles per hour, the Vision Implementation Report stated that Capitol Corridor trains “can’t go on forever making just 15 daily round trips, at an average speed of less than 45 miles per hour.”

The government-produced report made no mention of the homeless causing delays. Advocates instead blamed the drastically under-performing train speeds and abysmal on-time performance failures on the improper alignment of the tracks. Their solution would be to spend another $3.8 billion on a four-phase straightening of the train tracks.

The non-partisan Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO) forecasts that California transportation funding beginning in 2017‑18 would receive an average of $4.2 billion in extra funding per year from a new $65 vehicle registration tax, increases to gasoline and diesel excise taxes, and cap‑and‑trade auction revenues.

About 40 percent of that new spending, or $1.7 billion, is dedicated to fixed rail. Although the $1 billion winner is California’s moribund high-speed rail — which still hasn’t completed a mile of track — intercity and low-carbon rail projects will receive about $600 million in new funding.

California is the homeless capital of America, with about 118,000 people experiencing homelessness on an average night — a quarter of the nation’s homeless population.

Breitbart News has reported that homeless encampments are a major source of infectious diseases like tuberculosis, diphtheria, bloody diarrhea, and a deadly new strain of Streptococcus. The California Department of Public Health’s most recent bi-weekly report blames the homeless for the hepatitis A epidemic that it blames for 703 new cases, 461 hospitalizations, and 21 deaths.

Breitbart News reported that when Orange County removed 700 homeless people from the Santa Ana River, a federal judge forced the county to rent 400 motel rooms each night at a cost of about $780,000 a month to house the displaced people.California’s terrible commuter rail service speeds and on-time performance are growing worse, due to homeless camps near the tracks and transients wandering on the rails.

The Sacramento Bee reports that train engineers are warning system operators and passengers that homeless people wandering on the rails have been hit, and engineers have been forced to slow and make high-speed emergency stops to avoid hitting transients.

But even with Amtrak’s Capitol Corridor passenger service, which operates between Sacramento and Silicon Valley, combining with the Union Pacific Railroad freight service on adjacent tracks to report homeless encampments to law enforcement, California’s homeless have civil rights allowing them to nest on city sidewalks and near isolated train tracks.

Breitbart News reported in July that the Trump administration plans to dump about half of Amtrak’s $1.4 billion annual taxpayer subsidy for passenger trains that have an on-time performance as low as 6 percent.

The San Francisco Chronicle noted that the Amtrak subsidy for the Capitol Corridor — running for 170 miles from Sacramento to Oakland and San Jose — was $700 million, or about $50.98 for each of the about 3,500 passengers who take the train each day.

Although the Capitol Corridor claims to have an average speed of 68 miles per hour, the Vision Implementation Report stated that Capitol Corridor trains “can’t go on forever making just 15 daily round trips, at an average speed of less than 45 miles per hour.”

The government-produced report made no mention of the homeless causing delays. Advocates instead blamed the drastically under-performing train speeds and abysmal on-time performance failures on the improper alignment of the tracks. Their solution would be to spend another $3.8 billion on a four-phase straightening of the train tracks.

The non-partisan Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO) forecasts that California transportation funding beginning in 2017‑18 would receive an average of $4.2 billion in extra funding per year from a new $65 vehicle registration tax, increases to gasoline and diesel excise taxes, and cap‑and‑trade auction revenues.

About 40 percent of that new spending, or $1.7 billion, is dedicated to fixed rail. Although the $1 billion winner is California’s moribund high-speed rail — which still hasn’t completed a mile of track — intercity and low-carbon rail projects will receive about $600 million in new funding.

California is the homeless capital of America, with about 118,000 people experiencing homelessness on an average night — a quarter of the nation’s homeless population.

Breitbart News has reported that homeless encampments are a major source of infectious diseases like tuberculosis, diphtheria, bloody diarrhea, and a deadly new strain of Streptococcus. The California Department of Public Health’s most recent bi-weekly report blames the homeless for the hepatitis A epidemic that it blames for 703 new cases, 461 hospitalizations, and 21 deaths.

Breitbart News reported that when Orange County removed 700 homeless people from the Santa Ana River, a federal judge forced the county to rent 400 motel rooms each night at a cost of about $780,000 a month to house the displaced people.An overnight prison riot in South Carolina left seven inmates dead and 17 more injured. No guards were injured in the melee.

In an incident that began at about 7 p.m. Sunday night, South Carolina prison officials said numerous fights broke out in three maximum security housing units. The riots continued until nearly 3 a.m., Fox News reported Monday morning.

The riots broke out in the Lee Correctional Institution near Bishopville, South Carolina. The facility has been the scene of several incidents of violence in recent history, the news outlet reported.

Several surrounding counties provided law enforcement support to Lee County have the “mass casualty incident” broke out Sunday evening. State police officers also responded to the call for assistance.

Prison spokesman Jeff Taillon announced that no prison officers received injuries during the incident. The 17 injured prisoners required medical attention outside of the prison, The Journal Times reported.

Prison officials tweeted that injuries occurred during “inmate-on-inmate” violence.

Lee Correctional Institution was secured at 2:55 AM following an incident which started at 7:15 PM. The incident involved multiple inmate on inmate altercations in three housing units. — SC Dept. Corrections (@SCDCNews) April 16, 2018

The Lee Correctional Institution houses approximately 1,500 inmates, the local newspaper reported.

In February, one inmate killed another inmate inside the prison’s walls. In 2015, prison guards became the recipients of violence as inmates stabbed two officers.

Last year, four inmates died at the hands of two other inmates at the Kirkland Correctional Institution.An overnight prison riot in South Carolina left seven inmates dead and 17 more injured. No guards were injured in the melee.

In an incident that began at about 7 p.m. Sunday night, South Carolina prison officials said numerous fights broke out in three maximum security housing units. The riots continued until nearly 3 a.m., Fox News reported Monday morning.

The riots broke out in the Lee Correctional Institution near Bishopville, South Carolina. The facility has been the scene of several incidents of violence in recent history, the news outlet reported.

Several surrounding counties provided law enforcement support to Lee County have the “mass casualty incident” broke out Sunday evening. State police officers also responded to the call for assistance.

Prison spokesman Jeff Taillon announced that no prison officers received injuries during the incident. The 17 injured prisoners required medical attention outside of the prison, The Journal Times reported.

Prison officials tweeted that injuries occurred during “inmate-on-inmate” violence.

Lee Correctional Institution was secured at 2:55 AM following an incident which started at 7:15 PM. The incident involved multiple inmate on inmate altercations in three housing units. — SC Dept. Corrections (@SCDCNews) April 16, 2018

The Lee Correctional Institution houses approximately 1,500 inmates, the local newspaper reported.

In February, one inmate killed another inmate inside the prison’s walls. In 2015, prison guards became the recipients of violence as inmates stabbed two officers.

Last year, four inmates died at the hands of two other inmates at the Kirkland Correctional Institution.During an interview with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos, former FBI Director James Comey’s wife, Patrice, confessed that she supported Hillary Clinton and was “devastated” when Donald Trump won.

“I wanted a woman president really badly, and I supported Hillary Clinton,” Patrice Failor Comey told Stephanopoulos. “A lot of my friends worked for her. And I was devastated when she lost.”

James Comey admitted that his wife and girls all took part in the Women’s March in response to Donald Trump’s election.

“My wife and girls marched in the Women’s March, the day after President Trump’s inauguration,” he said. “At least my four daughters — probably all five of my kids, wanted Hillary Clinton to be the first woman president. I know my amazing spouse did.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentIn an interview that aired Sunday night, former FBI Director James Comey sat down with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos and offered an ominous assessment of the country under President Donald Trump’s leadership.

Stephanopoulos brought up Comey’s remarks that right now is a “dangerous” time in America.

“I think it is [dangerous],” Comey told Stephanopoulos. “And I chose those words carefully. I was worried when I chose the word “dangerous” first. I thought, is that an overstatement? And I don’t think it is.”

He expounded, “I worry that the norms at the center of this country — we can fight as Americans about guns, or taxes or immigration, and we always have, but what we have in common is a set of norms — most importantly, the truth. And if we lose that, if we lose tethering of our leaders to that truth, what are we?”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentSunday during an interview that aired on a special broadcast of ABC’s “20/20,” former FBI Director James Comey was asked by the network’s George Stephanopoulos if he considered President Donald Trump, who fired Comey nearly a year ago, “unfit” for office.

Comey replied in the affirmative, but not for the reasons of mental incompetence that some Trump critics have offered.

“Yes,” he said when asked if Trump was unfit. “But not in the way I often hear people talk about it. I don’t buy this stuff about him being mentally incompetent or early stages of dementia. He strikes me as a person of above average intelligence who’s tracking conversations and knows what’s going on. I don’t think he’s medically unfit to be president. I think he’s morally unfit to be president.”

“A person who sees moral equivalence in Charlottesville, who talks about and treats women like they’re pieces of meat, who lies constantly about matters big and small and insists the American people believe it — that person’s not fit to be president of the United States, on moral grounds,” he added. “Our president must embody respect, and adhere to the values that are at the core of this country. The most important being truth. This president is not able to do that. He is morally unfit to be president.”

Comey went on to resist calling for Trump’s impeachment because he argued it would let Americans “off the hook” for electing him president.

Comey also denied he had fallen “in love” with his own virtue.

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poorSunday during an interview that aired on a special broadcast of ABC’s “20/20,” former FBI Director James Comey was asked by the network’s George Stephanopoulos if he considered President Donald Trump, who fired Comey nearly a year ago, “unfit” for office.

Comey replied in the affirmative, but not for the reasons of mental incompetence that some Trump critics have offered.

“Yes,” he said when asked if Trump was unfit. “But not in the way I often hear people talk about it. I don’t buy this stuff about him being mentally incompetent or early stages of dementia. He strikes me as a person of above average intelligence who’s tracking conversations and knows what’s going on. I don’t think he’s medically unfit to be president. I think he’s morally unfit to be president.”

“A person who sees moral equivalence in Charlottesville, who talks about and treats women like they’re pieces of meat, who lies constantly about matters big and small and insists the American people believe it — that person’s not fit to be president of the United States, on moral grounds,” he added. “Our president must embody respect, and adhere to the values that are at the core of this country. The most important being truth. This president is not able to do that. He is morally unfit to be president.”

Comey went on to resist calling for Trump’s impeachment because he argued it would let Americans “off the hook” for electing him president.

Comey also denied he had fallen “in love” with his own virtue.

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poorFormer Secretary of State Madeleine Albright on President Trump: "I'm not calling him a fascist. I'm saying that he is a president that has undemocratic instincts that trouble me a lot" https://t.co/Q7uVRxP9Ew

Sunday on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said President Donald Trump thought he was “above the law.”

Albright said, “I’m not calling him a fascist. I’m saying that he is a president that has undemocratic instincts that trouble me a lot.”

She continued, “In terms of somebody who derides the importance of the press, calls you all the enemy of the people, who thinks he is above the law, who is in fact exacerbating the differences that exist in our society, and is somebody that kind of plays the crowds in way that I find dangerous in terms of propaganda, and has created a situation where there is identification with one group of people while there is no recognition of the individual rights of the others. And so that’s the kind of thing—and I went—the book is actually historical in terms of not just looking at Mussolini and Hitler, but what are the issues, where has fascism poked its head up again and what’s going on? It is a warning.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENFormer Secretary of State Madeleine Albright on President Trump: "I'm not calling him a fascist. I'm saying that he is a president that has undemocratic instincts that trouble me a lot" https://t.co/Q7uVRxP9Ew

Sunday on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said President Donald Trump thought he was “above the law.”

Albright said, “I’m not calling him a fascist. I’m saying that he is a president that has undemocratic instincts that trouble me a lot.”

She continued, “In terms of somebody who derides the importance of the press, calls you all the enemy of the people, who thinks he is above the law, who is in fact exacerbating the differences that exist in our society, and is somebody that kind of plays the crowds in way that I find dangerous in terms of propaganda, and has created a situation where there is identification with one group of people while there is no recognition of the individual rights of the others. And so that’s the kind of thing—and I went—the book is actually historical in terms of not just looking at Mussolini and Hitler, but what are the issues, where has fascism poked its head up again and what’s going on? It is a warning.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENWashington (United States) (AFP) – US actor and retired Marine R. Lee Ermey, best known for his role as foul-mouthed Gunnery Sergeant Hartman in Stanley Kubrick’s “Full Metal Jacket,” has died, his manager said Sunday. He was 74.

Manager Bill Rogin said the Golden Globe nominee Ermey died from complications of pneumonia.

“It is with deep sadness that I regret to inform you all that R. Lee Ermey (“The Gunny”) passed away this morning from complications of pneumonia,” he said in a statement on Twitter.

“He will be greatly missed by all of us. Semper Fi, Gunny. Godspeed,” he wrote, referencing the motto of the United States Marines Corps, in which Ermey served from 1961 to 1971 when he was medically discharged.

Born in Emporia, Kansas in 1944, Ermey bagged his first acting role while studying drama at the University of Manila in the Philippines, landing a part as a helicopter in “Apocalypse Now” (1979). He went on to appear in some 60 films, often in military-related roles.

Ermey also lent his voice to the likes of the “Toy Story” films as the gung ho plastic soldier Sarge, and “The Simpsons.”

A board member of the powerful National Rifle Association, Ermey also hosted weapons-related TV shows such as the History Channel’s “Lock n’ Load with R. Lee Ermey” and “GunnyTime with R. Lee Ermey” on the Outdoor Channel.Washington (United States) (AFP) – US actor and retired Marine R. Lee Ermey, best known for his role as foul-mouthed Gunnery Sergeant Hartman in Stanley Kubrick’s “Full Metal Jacket,” has died, his manager said Sunday. He was 74.

Manager Bill Rogin said the Golden Globe nominee Ermey died from complications of pneumonia.

“It is with deep sadness that I regret to inform you all that R. Lee Ermey (“The Gunny”) passed away this morning from complications of pneumonia,” he said in a statement on Twitter.

“He will be greatly missed by all of us. Semper Fi, Gunny. Godspeed,” he wrote, referencing the motto of the United States Marines Corps, in which Ermey served from 1961 to 1971 when he was medically discharged.

Born in Emporia, Kansas in 1944, Ermey bagged his first acting role while studying drama at the University of Manila in the Philippines, landing a part as a helicopter in “Apocalypse Now” (1979). He went on to appear in some 60 films, often in military-related roles.

Ermey also lent his voice to the likes of the “Toy Story” films as the gung ho plastic soldier Sarge, and “The Simpsons.”

A board member of the powerful National Rifle Association, Ermey also hosted weapons-related TV shows such as the History Channel’s “Lock n’ Load with R. Lee Ermey” and “GunnyTime with R. Lee Ermey” on the Outdoor Channel.French President Emmanuel Macron said Sunday that Paris had convinced Donald Trump to stay engaged in Syria “for the long-term” — but just hours later the White House responded by saying it wanted US forces there “to come home as quickly as possible”.

A day after France joined the United States and Britain in launching unprecedented strikes against regime targets, Macron insisted the intervention was legitimate and urged international powers to push for a diplomatic solution to the brutal seven-year war.

“We have not declared war on the regime of Bashar al-Assad,” the 40-year-old centrist said in a combative TV interview.

But Macron again argued his first major military intervention as president was necessary to send a signal that the use of chemical weapons against civilians would not go unpunished.

Saturday’s strikes targeted three alleged chemical weapons facilities in response to what the West says was a gas attack on the town of Douma that killed dozens of people.

“We have full international legitimacy in intervening in this case,” Macron said.

He said the US, France and Britain targeted “extremely precise sites of chemical weapons use” in an operation that went off “perfectly”.

While this operation was not sanctioned by the United Nations, Syria was supposed to destroy its chemical weapons arsenal under a 2013 UN resolution, he said.

As for his allies, Macron suggested France had helped change Trump’s mind on the need to stay involved in the conflict.

“Ten days ago, President Trump was saying the United States of America had a duty to disengage from Syria,” Macron said.

“I assure you, we have convinced him that it is necessary to stay for the long-term,” he told his interviewers.

Shortly after the interview aired, the White House said the US mission in Syria “has not changed”.

“The President has been clear that he wants US forces to come home as quickly as possible,” spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said.

She added that Washington was “determined to completely crush” the Islamic State group in the country “and create the conditions that will prevent its return”.

“In addition we expect our regional allies and partners to take greater responsibility both militarily and financially for securing the region.”

– Diplomacy push –

Despite soaring tensions with Russia, Macron stressed the need to “talk to everyone” in pursuing a Syrian settlement, saying his plans to visit Moscow in May remain unchanged.

In a reference to Trump’s comments on Twitter over the possibility of strikes, Macron added: “We have also convinced him that he must limit his strikes to chemical weapons, at a time when there was a media furore via tweet, as I’m sure you noticed.”

Like Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, Macron has faced a domestic backlash for striking Syria without consulting the legislature, but he defended the move as well within his constitutional powers.

“This mandate is given democratically to the president by the people in the presidential election,” he said.French President Emmanuel Macron said Sunday that Paris had convinced Donald Trump to stay engaged in Syria “for the long-term” — but just hours later the White House responded by saying it wanted US forces there “to come home as quickly as possible”.

A day after France joined the United States and Britain in launching unprecedented strikes against regime targets, Macron insisted the intervention was legitimate and urged international powers to push for a diplomatic solution to the brutal seven-year war.

“We have not declared war on the regime of Bashar al-Assad,” the 40-year-old centrist said in a combative TV interview.

But Macron again argued his first major military intervention as president was necessary to send a signal that the use of chemical weapons against civilians would not go unpunished.

Saturday’s strikes targeted three alleged chemical weapons facilities in response to what the West says was a gas attack on the town of Douma that killed dozens of people.

“We have full international legitimacy in intervening in this case,” Macron said.

He said the US, France and Britain targeted “extremely precise sites of chemical weapons use” in an operation that went off “perfectly”.

While this operation was not sanctioned by the United Nations, Syria was supposed to destroy its chemical weapons arsenal under a 2013 UN resolution, he said.

As for his allies, Macron suggested France had helped change Trump’s mind on the need to stay involved in the conflict.

“Ten days ago, President Trump was saying the United States of America had a duty to disengage from Syria,” Macron said.

“I assure you, we have convinced him that it is necessary to stay for the long-term,” he told his interviewers.

Shortly after the interview aired, the White House said the US mission in Syria “has not changed”.

“The President has been clear that he wants US forces to come home as quickly as possible,” spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said.

She added that Washington was “determined to completely crush” the Islamic State group in the country “and create the conditions that will prevent its return”.

“In addition we expect our regional allies and partners to take greater responsibility both militarily and financially for securing the region.”

– Diplomacy push –

Despite soaring tensions with Russia, Macron stressed the need to “talk to everyone” in pursuing a Syrian settlement, saying his plans to visit Moscow in May remain unchanged.

In a reference to Trump’s comments on Twitter over the possibility of strikes, Macron added: “We have also convinced him that he must limit his strikes to chemical weapons, at a time when there was a media furore via tweet, as I’m sure you noticed.”

Like Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, Macron has faced a domestic backlash for striking Syria without consulting the legislature, but he defended the move as well within his constitutional powers.

“This mandate is given democratically to the president by the people in the presidential election,” he said.Pope Francis expressed his distress over the situation in Syria Sunday, calling on world leaders to assure that “justice and peace prevail.”

The pope chose not to criticize the recent military actions of the United States, Great Britain, and France in his remarks, confining his comments to more general expressions of concern for the people involved and frustration that peace cannot be achieved without the use of military force.

“I am deeply troubled by the current world situation,” Francis told the crowds gathered in Saint Peter’s Square for the weekly prayer of the Regina Caeli at noon on Sunday, “in which, despite the means available to the international community, it is difficult to agree on joint action in favor of peace in Syria and in other regions of the world.”

“While I pray incessantly for peace, and I call upon all people of good will to continue to do the same,” the pontiff concluded, “I appeal again to all policymakers to make justice and peace prevail.”

Later in the day, the pope sent out a tweet reiterating the same message.

“While I continue to pray unceasingly for peace, and invite all people of good will to do the same, I renew my appeal to all those with political responsibilities to ensure that justice and peace prevail,” he said.

While I continue to pray unceasingly for peace, and invite all people of good will to do the same, I renew my appeal to all those with political responsibilities to ensure that justice and peace prevail. — Pope Francis (@Pontifex) April 15, 2018

Early Saturday morning, the United States led a joint military operation in Syria with the U.K. and France in response to the chemical gas attack on the Syrian town of Douma last week, in which 42 people reportedly died and many others were left gasping for breath and foaming at the mouth.

Satellite images show extensive damage to three chemical weapons facilities including a research site at Barzah and two weapons storage facilities in Homs.

According to reports from the U.S. government, the Barzah facility doubled as a center for the development and testing of both chemical and biological weapons.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromePope Francis expressed his distress over the situation in Syria Sunday, calling on world leaders to assure that “justice and peace prevail.”

The pope chose not to criticize the recent military actions of the United States, Great Britain, and France in his remarks, confining his comments to more general expressions of concern for the people involved and frustration that peace cannot be achieved without the use of military force.

“I am deeply troubled by the current world situation,” Francis told the crowds gathered in Saint Peter’s Square for the weekly prayer of the Regina Caeli at noon on Sunday, “in which, despite the means available to the international community, it is difficult to agree on joint action in favor of peace in Syria and in other regions of the world.”

“While I pray incessantly for peace, and I call upon all people of good will to continue to do the same,” the pontiff concluded, “I appeal again to all policymakers to make justice and peace prevail.”

Later in the day, the pope sent out a tweet reiterating the same message.

“While I continue to pray unceasingly for peace, and invite all people of good will to do the same, I renew my appeal to all those with political responsibilities to ensure that justice and peace prevail,” he said.

While I continue to pray unceasingly for peace, and invite all people of good will to do the same, I renew my appeal to all those with political responsibilities to ensure that justice and peace prevail. — Pope Francis (@Pontifex) April 15, 2018

Early Saturday morning, the United States led a joint military operation in Syria with the U.K. and France in response to the chemical gas attack on the Syrian town of Douma last week, in which 42 people reportedly died and many others were left gasping for breath and foaming at the mouth.

Satellite images show extensive damage to three chemical weapons facilities including a research site at Barzah and two weapons storage facilities in Homs.

According to reports from the U.S. government, the Barzah facility doubled as a center for the development and testing of both chemical and biological weapons.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeLONDON (AP) – Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.

EU Aims to Boost UN Role in Syria Strikes — 0840AM

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogerhini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”LONDON (AP) – Prime Minister Theresa May is set to face British lawmakers to explain her decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without a vote in Parliament.

Britain, the United States and France hit targets in Syria Saturday in response to a reported chemical attack in Douma.

Parliament returns Monday after a spring break, and was not consulted about the action. The government is not legally bound to seek Parliament’s approval for military strikes, though it is customary to do so.

May plans to tell lawmakers that the airstrikes were “in Britain’s national interest,” were carried out to stop further suffering from chemical weapons attacks and had broad international support.

The government says it will seek an emergency parliamentary debate on the airstrikes Monday, though that is unlikely to satisfy angry opposition lawmakers.

EU Aims to Boost UN Role in Syria Strikes — 0840AM

European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini says the bloc wants to use a major meeting on Syria next week to give impetus to U.N. peace moves following Western airstrikes on the country.

Mogerhini said on Monday “there is the need to give a push to the U.N.-led process.”

Speaking before chairing talks among EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, she said that “people are suffering, people are dying, and I think the whole international community has to take responsibility for this.”

More than 70 delegations are expected to attend the April 24-25 Syria donor conference in Brussels.

Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok said: “We should keep on pushing for a solution through the U.N. Security Council. It’s the only way forward.”Wells Fargo stemmed the tide of the push for new financial restrictions on gun makers and sellers by stressing that it is not a bank’s job to set U.S. gun policy.

Wells Fargo believes firearm policy is a debate for Congress instead.

According to Reuters, Wells Fargo chief financial officer John Shrewsberry said, “The best way to make progress on these issues is through the political and legislative process. In the meantime, Wells Fargo is engaging our customers that legally manufacture firearms and other stakeholders on what we can do together to promote better gun safety in our communities.”

Wells Fargo’s refusal to place new regulations or stipulations on legal firearm manufacturers represents a break with Citigroup and Bank of America. On March 23, 2018, Breitbart News reported that Citibank now requires customers who own gun stores to stop selling long guns to anyone under the age of 21 and to quit selling “high-capacity” magazines as well.

They also ask gun stores to refuse to sell any gun until an extended background check comes back conclusive, even though federal law recognizes that a federal firearms license holder can legally sell a gun if a check lasts three days and no incriminating evidence against the would-be buyer is found.

Last week, Bank of America made clear they will no longer loan money to manufacturers that make “military-style firearms.”

On March 9, 2018, Breitbart News reported that Visa refused to cut ties with semi-automatic rifle makers. In a statement conveying sentiment similar to Wells Fargo’s, Visa said it was not their job to “[set] restrictions on the sale of lawful goods and services.”

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Wells Fargo stemmed the tide of the push for new financial restrictions on gun makers and sellers by stressing that it is not a bank’s job to set U.S. gun policy.

Wells Fargo believes firearm policy is a debate for Congress instead.

According to Reuters, Wells Fargo chief financial officer John Shrewsberry said, “The best way to make progress on these issues is through the political and legislative process. In the meantime, Wells Fargo is engaging our customers that legally manufacture firearms and other stakeholders on what we can do together to promote better gun safety in our communities.”

Wells Fargo’s refusal to place new regulations or stipulations on legal firearm manufacturers represents a break with Citigroup and Bank of America. On March 23, 2018, Breitbart News reported that Citibank now requires customers who own gun stores to stop selling long guns to anyone under the age of 21 and to quit selling “high-capacity” magazines as well.

They also ask gun stores to refuse to sell any gun until an extended background check comes back conclusive, even though federal law recognizes that a federal firearms license holder can legally sell a gun if a check lasts three days and no incriminating evidence against the would-be buyer is found.

Last week, Bank of America made clear they will no longer loan money to manufacturers that make “military-style firearms.”

On March 9, 2018, Breitbart News reported that Visa refused to cut ties with semi-automatic rifle makers. In a statement conveying sentiment similar to Wells Fargo’s, Visa said it was not their job to “[set] restrictions on the sale of lawful goods and services.”

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.A gay man and attorney who worked on high-profile LGBT cases, including a challenge the Boy Scouts ban on homosexual members, set himself on fire on Saturday at a public park in New York City to protest fossil fuels and climate change, according to a suicide note.

The charred remains of David Buckel were found by a jogger in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park.

The Daily Mail reported:

David Buckel, 60, was found in the park at 6.30 a.m. on Saturday before hundreds descended on it to enjoy the warm spring weather. He left a note in a bag for police which read: ‘My name is David Buckel and I just killed myself by fire as a protest suicide. “I apologize to you for the mess,” the note said.

“He was protesting over climate change, his note read, and the dramatic method was intended as a metaphor for how fossil fuels are destroying the planet,” the Mail reported.

“My early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing to ourselves,” the New York Daily News reported his suicide note said.

A lifetime of service may best be preserved by giving a life. … Honorable purpose in life invites honorable purchase in death. ‘This is not new, as many have chose [sic] to give a life based on the view that no other action can most meaningfully address the harm they see. Here is a hope that giving a life might bring some attention to the need for expanded actions, and help others give a voice to our home, and Earth is heard.

Buckel worked on cases for Lamda Legal, one of the largest LGBT advocacy and legal groups in the nation.

The news of David Buckel’s death is heartbreaking. This is a tremendous loss for our Lambda Legal family, but also for the entire movement for social justice. https://t.co/SL9XZ2cYTR — Lambda Legal (@LambdaLegal) April 14, 2018

“Friends said that after he left the organization, Mr. Buckel became involved in environmental causes, which he alluded to in his note as the reason he decided to end his life by self-immolation with fossil fuels,” the New York Times reported.

“Pollution ravages our planet, oozing inhabitability via air, soil, water, and weather,” Buckel wrote in the email sent to the Times. “Most humans on the planet now breathe air made unhealthy by fossil fuels, and many die early deaths as a result — my early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing to ourselves.”

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterMore than half a million people dropped off the food stamp rolls in a single month, according to the latest figures from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).

The USDA data reveals that a total of 587,792 people discontinued their participation in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) between December 2017 and January 2018.

The latest numbers show that on the whole, food stamp enrollment has been on a steady decline for the first quarter of fiscal year (FY) 2018, which began in October 2017.

Here is the breakdown of how many people dropped off the food stamp rolls each month of the fiscal year (FY) 2018:

October to November- 4,008,165

November to December- 329,584

December to January- 587,792

Although enrollment in SNAP sharply increased by more than 3 million during the first month of the fiscal year (FY) 2018 (October 2017) due to temporary SNAP enrollment in hurricane-affected states, it dropped by more than 4 million the following month.

The decline came as states curtailed their temporary SNAP benefits in the months following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.

President Trump mentioned in 2017 that he wanted to make it a priority to keep SNAP program costs down at the state and federal levels, which if implemented, could cause enrollment to decline even more this year as the administration releases its plans to reform the federal welfare system.

While efforts to curb food stamp enrollment at the state level and get people back into the workforce have been underway over the past few years, the federal government has been trying to take those state-level reforms nationwide.

The Trump administration released an executive order on welfare reform this week that would require agencies such as the Department of Agriculture to issue updated rules for those receiving benefits.

The executive order would direct agencies to issue stricter requirements for those receiving benefits—such as limiting the amount of time people receive benefits without working—and invest in more federal programs that would enable welfare recipients to get back into the workforce.

“Since its inception, the welfare system has grown into a large bureaucracy that might be susceptible to measuring success by how many people are enrolled in a program rather than by how many have moved from poverty into financial independence,” the executive order states.

The Department of Agriculture has also been trying to ramp up its efforts to reform the federal welfare system over the past few months.

The agency proposed a “Blue Apron-style” food stamp program in February that would deliver shelf-stable food—such as cereal boxes, pasta, and canned produce—to food stamp recipients once a month.

The “Harvest Boxes” would make up half of recipients’ allotted benefits for the month while the other half would consist of SNAP benefits on electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards. The agency clarified that states in charge of delivering the boxes would take recipients’ dietary and religious preferences into account when selecting the type of food for the boxes.More than half a million people dropped off the food stamp rolls in a single month, according to the latest figures from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).

The USDA data reveals that a total of 587,792 people discontinued their participation in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) between December 2017 and January 2018.

The latest numbers show that on the whole, food stamp enrollment has been on a steady decline for the first quarter of fiscal year (FY) 2018, which began in October 2017.

Here is the breakdown of how many people dropped off the food stamp rolls each month of the fiscal year (FY) 2018:

October to November- 4,008,165

November to December- 329,584

December to January- 587,792

Although enrollment in SNAP sharply increased by more than 3 million during the first month of the fiscal year (FY) 2018 (October 2017) due to temporary SNAP enrollment in hurricane-affected states, it dropped by more than 4 million the following month.

The decline came as states curtailed their temporary SNAP benefits in the months following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.

President Trump mentioned in 2017 that he wanted to make it a priority to keep SNAP program costs down at the state and federal levels, which if implemented, could cause enrollment to decline even more this year as the administration releases its plans to reform the federal welfare system.

While efforts to curb food stamp enrollment at the state level and get people back into the workforce have been underway over the past few years, the federal government has been trying to take those state-level reforms nationwide.

The Trump administration released an executive order on welfare reform this week that would require agencies such as the Department of Agriculture to issue updated rules for those receiving benefits.

The executive order would direct agencies to issue stricter requirements for those receiving benefits—such as limiting the amount of time people receive benefits without working—and invest in more federal programs that would enable welfare recipients to get back into the workforce.

“Since its inception, the welfare system has grown into a large bureaucracy that might be susceptible to measuring success by how many people are enrolled in a program rather than by how many have moved from poverty into financial independence,” the executive order states.

The Department of Agriculture has also been trying to ramp up its efforts to reform the federal welfare system over the past few months.

The agency proposed a “Blue Apron-style” food stamp program in February that would deliver shelf-stable food—such as cereal boxes, pasta, and canned produce—to food stamp recipients once a month.

The “Harvest Boxes” would make up half of recipients’ allotted benefits for the month while the other half would consist of SNAP benefits on electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards. The agency clarified that states in charge of delivering the boxes would take recipients’ dietary and religious preferences into account when selecting the type of food for the boxes.WASHINGTON, DC – Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) announced on Friday that he will vote against CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s nomination to become secretary of state because of Pompeo’s beliefs on marriage and sexuality — beliefs consistent with Pompeo’s Christian faith. Conservative leaders are now denouncing Booker’s vote as a violation of the Constitution’s Religious Test Clause.

Booker sharply questioned Pompeo on Thursday during the nominee’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, referring to words Pompeo spoke at a church in his district when the current director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was still serving in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Pompeo has also supported efforts to defend marriage as the union between one man and one woman. Those beliefs are consistent with mainstream Christian beliefs.

Booker announced on Facebook late Friday that he will vote against Pompeo, saying that the former congressman’s religious beliefs on these issues make him unfit to serve in federal office representing the United States. “I believe you can’t lead the people if you don’t love the people,” Booker wrote. The senator then quotes Bible verses that he thinks Pompeo is not living up to, including references to loving his neighbor.

Article VI of the U.S. Constitution provides, “No religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office of public Trust under the United States.”

Conservative and Christian leaders are appalled at Booker’s announcement, saying the Constitution forbids Booker’s voting against Pompeo because of the nominee’s religious beliefs.

“Demanding a loyalty oath to Sen. Booker’s determination of which beliefs are acceptable isn’t what this country is about; indeed, it’s what we fought for independence from,” Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council (FRC), tells Breitbart News. “We should celebrate that we are a nation that not only allows but encourages every American to hold and express their beliefs – including their religious beliefs – without fear of retribution by the government.”

Perkins, whose FRC has launched a petition protesting Booker’s violation of the Religious Test Clause that has 25,000 signatures at the time this article was filed, adds that this principle “is the essence of America and the Constitution.”

“Religious bigotry and discrimination is unacceptable in this country, much less from someone who takes an oath to our Constitution and who is supposed to serve the people of this country,” agrees Kelly Shackelford, president of First Liberty Institute, in an exclusive comment to Breitbart News.

“Sen. Cory Booker questioned Secretary of State-nominee Mike Pompeo for comments he made at his church, comments which reflected long-standing church doctrine regarding homosexual conduct and the biblical definition of marriage,” said Prof. John Eastman, chairman of the National Organization for Marriage (NOM). “And now Sen. Booker asserts that he will oppose Pompeo for those views.”

“This is essentially imposing a religious test on officers of the United States, something explicitly forbidden by Article VI of the Constitution,” added Eastman, whose NOM has likewise launched a petition.

“The American people put President Trump in the White House in part because they refuse to be discriminated against for their long-held, mainstream beliefs,” Trump Transition Team leader Ken Blackwell offers to Breitbart News. “Whether on abortion, marriage, the Bible, the Second Amendment, or other issues, tens of millions of Americans who are wonderful people have been vilified for their beliefs by left-wing elites, and the American people chose a president who will stand up for them.”

Pompeo’s nomination is still pending in the Senate, with committee approval expected shortly but no final floor vote yet scheduled.

Ken Klukowski is senior legal editor for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @kenklukowski.Sunday on MSNBC, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) said President Donald Trump was “most despicable, the most deplorable human being” that she had ever encountered in her life.

Waters said, “The president calling Comey a liar is laughable. The president is the biggest liar in the universe. The president accusing Comey of having leaked classified information — well, look what the president has done. He gave classified information to the Russian ambassador and foreign minister right in the White House, and it certainly made our ally, Israel, very upset that he had done that. So the president trying to defend himself against Comey and trying to make someone believe that he’s telling the truth really does not fly.”

She added, “I think that our special counsel, Mueller, has been doing a great job. I do think that this president should be forced to testify. All of this business about him not wanting to interview, what is he hiding? If he’s not guilty of anything, why is he resisting so hard, you know, coming forward and interviewing and telling his side of the story? I believe that the president of the United States is perhaps the most despicable, the most deplorable human being that I’ve ever encountered in my life. He does not deserve to be president of the United States. I want him impeached. I don’t want to wait until 2020. I think this country deserves better. He has no respect for our democracy.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENSunday on MSNBC, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) said President Donald Trump was “most despicable, the most deplorable human being” that she had ever encountered in her life.

Waters said, “The president calling Comey a liar is laughable. The president is the biggest liar in the universe. The president accusing Comey of having leaked classified information — well, look what the president has done. He gave classified information to the Russian ambassador and foreign minister right in the White House, and it certainly made our ally, Israel, very upset that he had done that. So the president trying to defend himself against Comey and trying to make someone believe that he’s telling the truth really does not fly.”

She added, “I think that our special counsel, Mueller, has been doing a great job. I do think that this president should be forced to testify. All of this business about him not wanting to interview, what is he hiding? If he’s not guilty of anything, why is he resisting so hard, you know, coming forward and interviewing and telling his side of the story? I believe that the president of the United States is perhaps the most despicable, the most deplorable human being that I’ve ever encountered in my life. He does not deserve to be president of the United States. I want him impeached. I don’t want to wait until 2020. I think this country deserves better. He has no respect for our democracy.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENMGA Entertainment, Inc., which made billions of dollars from the fashion forward “Bratz” dolls and Little Tykes toys, has bid $900 million for the failing Toys “R” Us brand and its 1,700 remaining stores.

CEO and founder Isaac Larian of San Fernando Valley-based MGA built a wildly profitable empire over the last two decades selling Bratz and Lalapoloopsy fashion dolls, big-eyed Moxie teen dolls, Bratzillaz witches, and Little Tykes toys. They recently entered the online video market with Project Mc2.

Along the way, MGA battled Mattel., Inc. claims for eight years that Bratz stole Barbie’s intellectual property, and fought all the way to the Supreme Court, coming up with a legal draw and an award of $137 million in legal fees from the Ninth Circuit.

Reuters reported that Toys “R” Us received a number of bids in excess of $1 billion for an 85 percent share of the Asian operations of the dominant toy retailer in the booming market.

Eight months into the September 18, 2017 Toys “R” Us bankruptcy, with no viable buyer for the North American operations and the asset’s enterprise value fading rapidly, Larian made a $900 million bid. He told NBC: “The time is now. Everyday that goes by, the value of Toys R Us declines and more people lose their jobs.”

The breakdown of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court bid by MGA is $675 million to buy 274 Toys “R” Us stores and obtain exclusive ownership of the brand name and files. MGA will also pay $215 million for 82 Canadian stores, with help of other investors. It is assumed that MGA will personally put up much of his own cash and use banking lines for the balance.

Larian had announced two months ago that he would use GoFundMe crowdsource financing to raise the cash for a $1 billion customer takeover fund of Toys “R” Us, but the effort collapsed after 22 days with 1,955 donors contributing just $59,000.

MGA is believed to have sold about 20 percent of its product line sales through the North American Toys “R” Us divisions, so it would seem that that keeping the channel alive could be very valuable to MGA. But its nemeses, El Segundo-based Mattel, Inc. and Pawtucket, Rhode Island rival Hasbro, Inc., would seem to have a vested interest in trying to make sure that the world’s former top toy retailer can be rehabilitated.MGA Entertainment, Inc., which made billions of dollars from the fashion forward “Bratz” dolls and Little Tykes toys, has bid $900 million for the failing Toys “R” Us brand and its 1,700 remaining stores.

CEO and founder Isaac Larian of San Fernando Valley-based MGA built a wildly profitable empire over the last two decades selling Bratz and Lalapoloopsy fashion dolls, big-eyed Moxie teen dolls, Bratzillaz witches, and Little Tykes toys. They recently entered the online video market with Project Mc2.

Along the way, MGA battled Mattel., Inc. claims for eight years that Bratz stole Barbie’s intellectual property, and fought all the way to the Supreme Court, coming up with a legal draw and an award of $137 million in legal fees from the Ninth Circuit.

Reuters reported that Toys “R” Us received a number of bids in excess of $1 billion for an 85 percent share of the Asian operations of the dominant toy retailer in the booming market.

Eight months into the September 18, 2017 Toys “R” Us bankruptcy, with no viable buyer for the North American operations and the asset’s enterprise value fading rapidly, Larian made a $900 million bid. He told NBC: “The time is now. Everyday that goes by, the value of Toys R Us declines and more people lose their jobs.”

The breakdown of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court bid by MGA is $675 million to buy 274 Toys “R” Us stores and obtain exclusive ownership of the brand name and files. MGA will also pay $215 million for 82 Canadian stores, with help of other investors. It is assumed that MGA will personally put up much of his own cash and use banking lines for the balance.

Larian had announced two months ago that he would use GoFundMe crowdsource financing to raise the cash for a $1 billion customer takeover fund of Toys “R” Us, but the effort collapsed after 22 days with 1,955 donors contributing just $59,000.

MGA is believed to have sold about 20 percent of its product line sales through the North American Toys “R” Us divisions, so it would seem that that keeping the channel alive could be very valuable to MGA. But its nemeses, El Segundo-based Mattel, Inc. and Pawtucket, Rhode Island rival Hasbro, Inc., would seem to have a vested interest in trying to make sure that the world’s former top toy retailer can be rehabilitated.Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Daryl Worley was tased and arrested by police in Philadelphia, according to multiple reports.

Police responded to a car blocking a highway entrance at Broad and Pattison early on Sunday morning and found Worley asleep inside the vehicle, Fox 29 reported.

Officers said that upon arousing the recently signed player, he became combative and fought with them. Officers say they had to tase Worley to subdue him for an arrest.

Police also reportedly found a gun in the vehicle.

In a statement released Sunday morning, the Eagles said, “We are in the process of gathering more information about Daryl Worley’s arrest this morning.”

The news of the William Penn Charter School graduate’s arrest was first reported by the NFL Network’s Ian Rappaport, USA Today said.

#Eagles CB Daryl Worley was arrested at 6 am this morning when he became combative with police and Philadelphia police administrated a taser on him, sources tell @MikeGarafolo and me. A gun was recovered on the scene. — Ian Rapoport (@RapSheet) April 15, 2018

The incident occurred only miles from the team facility.

As he started his NFL career, the Carolina Panthers drafted Worley in the third round of the 2016 draft. He had two interceptions and 49 tackles for Carolina last season and was traded to the Eagles last month for wide receiver Torrey Smith.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.TEL AVIV – Satellite images from Saturday’s U.S.-led joint military operation in Syria show extensive damage to three chemical weapons facilities in the war-torn country.

The photos, released by an Israeli imaging company, show a research site at Barzah overlooking Damascus as well as two weapons storage facilities in Homs. The U.S. said that in addition to research, the Barzah facility was used as a center for the development and testing of both chemical and biological weapons.

In a joint operation with the UK and France, chemical weapons sites, including a storage facility and a research base, were targeted in the pre-dawn hours, constituting the largest military intervention so far since the civil war began. The military assault was a response to the chemical gas attack on the Syrian town of Douma last week in which 42 people reportedly died and many others, according to images and video, were left gasping for breath and foaming at the mouth.

The satellite images show three buildings at Barzah completely destroyed.

“The three facilities are — or more appropriately, were — the fundamental components of the regime’s chemical weapons warfare infrastructure,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, the Pentagon’s Joint Staff director, was quoted as saying by the New York Times.

Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White on Saturday said the strikes “successfully hit every target.”

Russia denied the U.S.’s assessment, saying that Syrian air defense systems intercepted 71 out of 103 cruise missiles. Syria also said the strikes failed to impact the targets in Homs, but the images show extensive damage.

Trump announced the joint operation on Friday, saying it was a direct response to the toxic gas atttack.

“The evil and the despicable attack left mothers and fathers, infants and children thrashing in pain and gasping for air. These are not the actions of a man. They are crimes of a monster instead,” Trump said.

U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said the strikes were a “one-time shot” and that there was no additional action planned for the immediate future. Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, also confirmed that there were no further strikes in the pipeline.

Trump praised the strikes, saying he could not have wished for a better outcome.

“A perfectly executed strike last night. Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military,” Trump tweeted early Saturday.

“Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!”

In response, Syrian President Bashar Assad vowed the American-led “aggression” will only “make Syria and its people more determined to keep fighting and crushing terrorism in every inch of the country.”

“Good souls will not be humiliated,” Assad tweeted.

Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei described the leaders of the military assault as “criminals.”TEL AVIV – Satellite images from Saturday’s U.S.-led joint military operation in Syria show extensive damage to three chemical weapons facilities in the war-torn country.

The photos, released by an Israeli imaging company, show a research site at Barzah overlooking Damascus as well as two weapons storage facilities in Homs. The U.S. said that in addition to research, the Barzah facility was used as a center for the development and testing of both chemical and biological weapons.

In a joint operation with the UK and France, chemical weapons sites, including a storage facility and a research base, were targeted in the pre-dawn hours, constituting the largest military intervention so far since the civil war began. The military assault was a response to the chemical gas attack on the Syrian town of Douma last week in which 42 people reportedly died and many others, according to images and video, were left gasping for breath and foaming at the mouth.

The satellite images show three buildings at Barzah completely destroyed.

“The three facilities are — or more appropriately, were — the fundamental components of the regime’s chemical weapons warfare infrastructure,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie, the Pentagon’s Joint Staff director, was quoted as saying by the New York Times.

Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White on Saturday said the strikes “successfully hit every target.”

Russia denied the U.S.’s assessment, saying that Syrian air defense systems intercepted 71 out of 103 cruise missiles. Syria also said the strikes failed to impact the targets in Homs, but the images show extensive damage.

Trump announced the joint operation on Friday, saying it was a direct response to the toxic gas atttack.

“The evil and the despicable attack left mothers and fathers, infants and children thrashing in pain and gasping for air. These are not the actions of a man. They are crimes of a monster instead,” Trump said.

U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said the strikes were a “one-time shot” and that there was no additional action planned for the immediate future. Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, also confirmed that there were no further strikes in the pipeline.

Trump praised the strikes, saying he could not have wished for a better outcome.

“A perfectly executed strike last night. Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military,” Trump tweeted early Saturday.

“Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!”

In response, Syrian President Bashar Assad vowed the American-led “aggression” will only “make Syria and its people more determined to keep fighting and crushing terrorism in every inch of the country.”

“Good souls will not be humiliated,” Assad tweeted.

Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei described the leaders of the military assault as “criminals.”