CHEYENNE, Wyo. (AP) — The Wyoming school district where U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos suggested that teachers might need to be armed to protect children from grizzly bears voted Tuesday on doing just that, though concerns about school shootings worry parents more than the possibility of big bruins on the prowl.

The 4-2 vote by the Park County School District No. 6 board in the town of Cody near Yellowstone National Park came after more than six months of discussion and debate. Under the proposed policy, school employees would need to have at least 24 hours of initial firearms training and annual recertification to carry concealed guns at school.

A February shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, killed 17 people but didn’t really change minds in northwest Wyoming about whether to arm teachers, parents said.

“I think people are really entrenched,” said Yancy Bonner, an opponent of arming teachers who said she may remove her fifth-grade daughter from the school district.

The policy was up for a final vote after passing two earlier votes 5-2.

Nationwide, some districts are discussing arming teachers not with guns but buckets of rocks (Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania) and tiny baseball bats (Erie, Pennsylvania). But in some rural areas including much of Texas, school officials have been quietly arming teachers for years.

In January 2017, DeVos said during her confirmation hearings that elementary school teachers in Wapiti, a small community about a half-hour drive from Cody where DeVos’ family owns land, might already be armed against grizzlies.

They weren’t — and the remark drew widespread ridicule despite being rooted in a measure of fact. Grizzlies descend from the Absaroka Range into Wapiti and other areas near Cody in search of habitat and food. A tall fence surrounds the Wapiti school grounds to keep bears out.

DeVos’ comments did not come up during Tuesday night’s discussion, according to a reporter for The Cody Enterprise.

The Wyoming Legislature, which passes gun-friendly legislation almost every year, was considering a bill at the same time to let school districts decide whether to allow teachers and other employees to carry concealed weapons. Republican Gov. Matt Mead signed the bill into law and schools in the city of Evanston in March become Wyoming’s first to allow armed teachers.

Tuesday’s vote happened in Park County, which has one of the biggest gun museums in the U.S. and plenty of hunters, outfitters, ranchers and libertarians who like guns.

“We have a right to conceal carry in this state. And I think people should exercise their rights,” said Rachel Rodriguez-Williams, a former California police officer with two children attending a private school in Cody. “Whether it’s Walmart or a school building, if you conceal carry you conceal carry — you have a permit to do so.”

Proponents of guns for teachers in schools say it can take too long for police or sheriff’s deputies to respond to a shooter or any other disturbance at a rural school.

“But regardless of distance or the police response, if you have somebody there that’s willing to stop a lethal threat using lethal means, then that’s great,” said Rodriguez-Williams.

Bonner said she’s not opposed to allowing guns in remote schools, but worries that teachers shooting back at perceived threats could do more harm than good.

“I’m not anti-gun. I mean, we hunt — my whole family hunts. We have guns in our house. I just feel that there are better ways to keep our teachers safe,” Bonner said.

Another Wyoming school district about 25 miles (40 kilometers) from Cody in the city of Powell voted recently to study a range of possible new safety measures up to and including arming teachers. But firearms for teachers are not the main focus, said Superintendent Jay Curtis.

“They’re not off the table at this point, but I don’t think anyone in Powell — at least not on the board or the administration — believes concealed carry is the answer,” Curtis said.

___

Follow Mead Gruver at https://twitter.com/meadgruver

___

This story has been updated to correct the name of the North Fork of the Shoshone River.HOUSTON (AP) — The Latest on the death of former first lady Barbara Bush (all times local):

10:10 p.m.

Funeral services for Barbara Bush are planned for 11 a.m. Saturday at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church in Houston, which she and former President George H.W. Bush regularly attended.

According to a post on the George Bush Presidential Library Foundation website, Barbara Bush will lie in repose from noon to midnight Friday at the church for members of the public wishing to pay respects.

The funeral service Saturday is by invitation only.

Burial will be on the grounds of the Bush library at Texas A&M University in College Station, about 100 miles (161 kilometers) northwest of Houston. The couple’s 3-year-old daughter, Robin, who died in 1953 of leukemia, also is buried at the site.

___

10 p.m.

President Donald Trump is ordering U.S. flags to be flown at half-staff in honor of former first lady Barbara Bush, who died Tuesday at the age of 92.

In a proclamation issued Tuesday night, Trump says Americans mourn the loss of “an outstanding and memorable woman of character.” He calls Mrs. Bush “an advocate of the American family” who “lived a life that reminds us always to cherish our relationships with friends, family, and all acquaintances.”

The proclamation calls for flags to remain lowered until sunset on the day of her burial.

___

9:35 p.m.

A spokeswoman says former President George H.W. Bush held the hand of his wife, Barbara Bush, all day and was by her side when she died.

Jean Becker, the chief of staff at Bush’s office in Houston, said in a statement released by Bush family spokesman Jim McGrath that the 41st president “is broken-hearted to lose his beloved Barbara.”

The former first lady died Tuesday in Houston. She was 92.

Becker says it’s a “very challenging time” for the 93-year-old Bush, but “he also is stoic and strong, and is being lifted up by his large and supportive family.”

___

9 p.m.

Former President Jimmy Carter paid tribute to Barbara Bush’s “warmth, generosity and keen wit” following the former first lady’s death.

A family spokesman says Bush died Tuesday at age 92.

Carter says Bush was “the matriarch of a family dedicated to serving.” In a statement, he says that through Bush’s “work to promote literacy as a value in every American home, countless families now have the knowledge and skills they need to thrive in all aspects of their lives.”

Carter says he and former first lady Rosalynn Carter are saddened by her death and they’ll miss her.

___

8:10 p.m.

Former President Lyndon Johnson’s daughter Lynda Johnson Robb says she smiles when she thinks of Barbara Bush, saying her candor was always refreshing and her grace was endless.

Robb says Bush’s love of family “never wavered and she was always a true patriot.” She says her family was fortunate to know her and “will always be grateful for her service to our country.”

Robb’s sister, Lucy Baines Johnson, describes Bush as a “no nonsense” devoted mother to her family and the nation and was “wit, wisdom, honesty, and character on two feet.”

Johnson says Bush inspired “a ‘thousand points of light’ of service to our country and was a beacon to us all. We loved her for who she was and for what we became because of her example. Our hearts go out to her remarkable family and to all who loved her as we did. The world is a poorer placer without Barbara Bush.”

___

8:05 p.m.

Former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are calling former first lady Barbara Bush a remarkable woman with “grit and grace, brains and beauty.”

The Clintons, in a statement shortly after Barbara Bush’s death was announced Tuesday, say she was “fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes.”

Clinton says she “showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory.”

Clinton defeated her husband, George H.W. Bush, in the 1992 election.

___

7:45 p.m.

President Donald Trump and the first lady are paying tribute to Barbara Bush after her death Tuesday.

The White House says in a statement posted on the president’s Twitter feed that the Trumps “join the nation in celebrating Barbara Bush.”

The statement hails the former first lady as “an advocate of the American family” and says she “will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well.”

The Trumps are also praising Mrs. Bush for “recognizing the importance of literacy as a fundamental family value that requires nurturing and protection.”

In a separate statement, Melania Trump is offering her “heartfelt condolences and prayers” to the Bush family.

___

7:15 p.m.

Former President George W. Bush says he and his family are saddened by the death of his mother, former first lady Barbara Bush.

But the 43rd president says the family’s “souls are settled because we know hers was.”

A family spokesman says Barbara Bush died Tuesday. A family statement Sunday had said she had decided to terminate medical treatment for assorted ailments and would seek comfort therapy instead.

In his statement, George W. Bush calls his mother “a fabulous first lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love and literacy to millions.” He says his mother “kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end.”

___

6:50 p.m.

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died. She was 92.

Family spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement that she died Tuesday in Houston. She had decided to decline further medical treatment for health problems and focus instead on “comfort care” at home in Houston.

The snowy-haired Mrs. Bush was one of only two first ladies who was also the mother of a president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams.

Mrs. Bush’s plainspoken manner and utter lack of pretense made her more popular at times than her husband. She brought a grandmotherly style to buttoned-down Washington, often appearing in her trademark fake pearl chokers and displaying no vanity about her white hair and wrinkles.

She married George H.W. Bush in 1945. They had six children and were married longer than any presidential couple in American history.WASHINGTON (AP) — CIA Director Mike Pompeo recently traveled to North Korea to meet with leader Kim Jong Un, two officials told The Associated Press on Tuesday.

The highly unusual, secret visit comes as the enemy nations prepare for a meeting between President Donald Trump and Kim within the next couple of months.

The officials spoke about Pompeo’s trip on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.

The Washington Post, which first reported Pompeo’s meeting with Kim, said it took place over Easter weekend — just over two weeks ago, shortly after the CIA chief was nominated to become secretary of state.

Trump, currently at his Florida resort hosting Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said Tuesday that the U.S. and North Korea were holding direct talks at “extremely high levels” in preparation for a possible summit with Kim. He said five locations were under consideration for the meeting, which is slated to take place by early June.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump and Kim have not spoken directly.

Kim’s offer for a summit was initially conveyed to Trump by South Korea last month, and the president shocked many when it was announced that he had accepted. U.S. officials have indicated over the past two weeks that North Korea’s government has communicated directly with Washington that it is ready to discuss its nuclear weapons program.

It would be the first ever summit between U.S. and North Korea during more than six decades of hostility since the Korean War. North Korea’s nukes and capability to deliver them by ballistic missile pose a growing threat to the U.S. mainland.

The U.S. and North Korea do not have formal diplomatic relations, complicating the arrangements for contacts between the two governments. It is not unprecedented for U.S. intelligence officials to serve as a conduit for communication with Pyongyang.

In 2014, then-Director of National Intelligence James Clapper secretly visited North Korea to bring back two American detainees.

At his confirmation hearing last week to become the top U.S. diplomat, Pompeo played down expectations for a breakthrough deal on ending North Korea’s nuclear weapons at the planned Trump-Kim summit, but said it could lay the groundwork for a comprehensive agreement on denuclearization.

“I’m optimistic that the United States government can set the conditions for that appropriately so that the president and the North Korean leader can have that conversation and will set us down the course of achieving a diplomatic outcome that America and the world so desperately need,” Pompeo told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

After a year of escalating tensions, when North Korea conducted nuclear and long-range missile tests that drew world condemnation, Kim has pivoted to international outreach.

The young leader met China’s President Xi Jinping in Beijing in late March, Kim’s first trip abroad since taking power six years ago. He is set to meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in in the demilitarized zone between the rival Koreas on April 27.SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — Carmen Yulin Cruz has attended only a handful of Major League Baseball games in her life, and she won’t be adding to that total this week.

Soon, she hopes, that will change.

Cruz, San Juan’s mayor, isn’t attending the two-game series in her city between the Cleveland Indians and Minnesota Twins — because she’s receiving an award on Wednesday from the National Press Club in recognition of her work trying to get help to the island after Hurricane Maria ravaged Puerto Rico last year.

Her hopes for these games are simple: Cruz wants it known that San Juan “is open for business,” and she wants to see big league games in her city again soon.

“I think it’s important that we are thankful for those who didn’t neglect us and understand that this is a very long road to recovery,” Cruz said in a telephone interview. “Continued help is necessary. That’s number one. Number two, there is something to be said that assuring that sports and cultural events are seen as a tool for financial and social development. It shows we’re capable of putting together world-class level of activity and our facilities are up to it.”

Cruz pleaded loudly for help in the days after Maria hit Puerto Rico with 155 mph winds, causing more than an estimated $100 billion in damage, making it the third-costliest hurricane in U.S. history. The official death toll from the storm in Puerto Rico is 65; hundreds more may be added to that tally once a government review is completed.

The mayor was a regular guest on newscasts around the world after the storm, criticizing the response of the U.S. government in comments that raised the ire of President Donald Trump. She has detractors in San Juan, too; when she appeared at a charity event at Hiram Bithorn earlier this year, some in the crowd booed.

But media coverage helped her make points then, and she believes attention directed at San Juan again now — this series is the first time MLB has played here since 2010 — will reiterate the need for more help.

“News organizations will say ‘Live from San Juan, Puerto Rico,'” Cruz said. “It’s good for the municipality. It’s good for the country. It’s a sense of pride.”

There was some doubt that these games would be played in San Juan, which lost a two-game series in 2016 between Pittsburgh and Miami because of fears about the Zika virus.

Unlike Zika, however, Maria remains an enormous problem all across Puerto Rico.

Hiram Bithorn Stadium was hit hard by the storm and nearly $2 million in repairs were needed, most of which was covered by insurance. Light fixtures were broken and wound up being upgraded. Clubhouses and dugouts were repaired and batting cages were rebuilt. The turf was damaged, signs were destroyed, a statue of Bithorn — Puerto Rico’s first big leaguer — was knocked down and broken, and power lines looked like spaghetti.

Cruz said she never lost faith. Weekly meetings were held to keep people updated on plans and progress.

“I was very, very clear on this,” Cruz said. “Once we committed to these games, they were going to happen.”

MLB players from Puerto Rico have made no secret about how thrilled they are to see San Juan host these games. Boston Red Sox manager Alex Cora tweeted that he is thankful the Twins, the Indians and MLB officials believed in the Puerto Rico series, and St. Louis catcher Yadier Molina said it’s another positive step for the place he calls home.

“We’ve had some tremendous players, us and the Indians, who have come from that island,” Minnesota manager Paul Molitor said. “And it’s going to be a great opportunity for them to see a few of their homegrown.”

Cruz said she’ll be watching the games closely and has no doubt that San Juan will leave the right impression.

“Sports unites people,” Cruz said. “For two days, we’re all one. We leave our sorrows and we focus on assuring that we show how proud we are for everything our country has accomplished, for how hard our people are working and how proud we are to be represented by our players.”

___

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballCOLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Twenty South Carolina prisoners have been killed at the hands of fellow inmates in the past 16 months. The staggering amount of violence, which includes the gang-fueled bloodshed that left seven prisoners dead and 22 injured this week at Lee Correctional Institution, has some legislators calling for more oversight and transparency at the state Department of Corrections.

At a news conference, Corrections Director Bryan Stirling said officers stormed in and took the first of three dorms back from rioting prisoners about four hours after the melee began on Sunday night. He said the officers were assembled at the rural prison as quickly as possible and went in only when it was safe to do so.

After the institution was back under control, it then took more time to get injured inmates to hospitals. The prison is located 40 miles (64 kilometers) east of Columbia.

“It shouldn’t take five hours to get in there and put some water on these fires,” said state Rep. Justin Bamberg, a Democrat and lawyer whose clients include the families of several inmates who were attacked in previous instances.

Contraband cellphones and staffing shortages are often blamed for many of the department’s woes. Stirling, who oversees 21 prisons and more than 19,000 inmates, has said he’s hired some of the 500 corrections officers he needs, but stresses the need for funding more officers.

Sen. Gerald Malloy, whose district includes Lee Correctional, said the government has a responsibility to keep the prison population safe and thinks lawmakers need to look at whether cost savings in corrections has been efficient.

“The burden comes back to the General Assembly, what are you going to do?” he said.

Stirling – who served as then-Gov. Nikki Haley’s chief of staff before she appointed him to lead the prisons in 2013 – said his No. 1 security threat is cellphones, which gives inmates unfettered communication allowing them to commit crimes inside and outside of prison. He said the riot started Sunday night as a gang war over territory, money and illegal items such as cellphones.

Stirling has urged the Federal Communications Commission to allow the prison to block or jam cellphone signals to prevent inmates from using them.

Violence at Lee and other institutions throughout South Carolina is not surprising, Republican Gov. Henry McMaster noted at the news conference. McMaster echoed Stirling’s call for the ability to jam cellphones in prison but did not propose any other substantive alternatives. “We do the best we can,” the governor said.

From 2001 to 2014, an average of 60 inmates died annually in state prisons across the country, according to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics. In 2017, a dozen South Carolina inmates were killed by other inmates.

“That’s staggeringly out of proportion,” said John Pfaff, a Fordham law professor who tracks prison data. “It makes a prison that is supposed to be a secure facility – a place with no weapons, a place where you can’t leave – as dangerous as living in the most dangerous city in America.”

In February, an inmate killed a fellow prisoner at Lee, where this week’s attack took place among inmates armed with homemade knives used to slash and stab rival gang members. An inmate stabbed two officers in 2015. At Kirkland, another maximum-security prison, two inmates killed four prisoners last year in under an hour.

For the past few months, The Associated Press has been communicating with a Lee prisoner who used a contraband cellphone to offer insight into life behind bars. He said inmates there roam freely, have easy access to cellphones and drugs, and are often left to police themselves.

The inmate spoke to AP on the condition of anonymity because his cellphone is illegal and he fears retribution from other prisoners. He described a facility run by gangs, and guards who take a hands-off approach because they fear for their own safety.

In the most recent incident, he told AP that officers stayed in a control booth for hours Sunday night, waiting for backup as inmates lay dying in pools of blood. That echoes earlier anecdotes he shared about what happens whenever gang fights break out.

“The Crips and Bloods had a confrontation just a few feet from my cell door and, when the knives, machetes, axes, pipes and body armor came out, the cops were nowhere to be found,” he wrote in February.

To get away from the fighting, the inmate said he stays in his cell. But the door lock has been broken for months, so he said he and others jam materials into the lock to try to keep others from coming in.

“ALL of the doors to the cells are broken,” the inmate wrote. “At any time, I can let myself out of my cell, to do whatever it is that I would want to do.”

___

Associated Press writers Jeffrey Collins and Christina Myers in Columbia, South Carolina, contributed to this report.

___

Kinnard can be reached at http://twitter.com/MegKinnardAP . Read more of her work at https://apnews.com/search/meg%20kinnard .WILLIAMSON, W.Va. (AP) — Convicted former Massey Energy CEO Don Blankenship claims documents that would have assisted his defense weren’t made available to his attorneys before his trial and he’s asking a federal court to vacate his misdemeanor conviction.

Blankenship made the claim in a news release through his U.S. Senate campaign to announce a planned motion to vacate the conviction. No motion was listed on a federal court website Tuesday night.

The statement claims that among the withheld information were federal Mine Safety And Health Administration documents. The campaign’s statement didn’t include the documents.

Blankenship served a one-year prison term on a misdemeanor conviction stemming from the 2010 explosion at the Upper Big Branch mine that killed 29 men in southern West Virginia. Blankenship has long maintained he didn’t get a fair trial.

Deanna Eder, a spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney’s office in Charleston, declined comment Tuesday night.HOUSTON (AP) — Barbara Bush didn’t hesitate to tell people that her trademark pearl necklaces were fake. Americans liked that everything else about the snowy-haired first lady was real.

The wife of the nation’s 41st president and mother of the 43rd brought a plainspoken, grandmotherly style to buttoned-down Washington, displaying an utter lack of vanity about her white hair and wrinkles.

“What you see with me is what you get. I’m not running for president — George Bush is,” she said at the 1988 Republican National Convention, where her husband, then vice president, was nominated to succeed Ronald Reagan.

Mrs. Bush died Tuesday, according to a statement from family spokesman Jim McGrath. She was 92.

The Bushes, who were married on Jan. 6, 1945, had the longest marriage of any presidential couple in American history. And Mrs. Bush was one of only two first ladies who had a child who was elected president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams.

“I had the best job in America,” she wrote in a 1994 memoir describing her time in the White House. “Every single day was interesting, rewarding, and sometimes just plain fun.”

The publisher’s daughter and oilman’s wife could be caustic in private, but her public image was that of self-sacrificing, supportive spouse who referred to her husband as her “hero.”

In the White House, “you need a friend, someone who loves you, who’s going to say, ‘You are great,'” Mrs. Bush said in a 1992 television interview.

Her uncoiffed, matronly appearance often provoked jokes that she looked more like the boyish president’s mother than his wife. Late-night comedians quipped that her bright white hair and pale features also imparted an uncanny resemblance to George Washington.

Eight years after leaving the nation’s capital, Mrs. Bush stood with her husband as their son George W. was sworn in as president. They returned four years later when he won a second term. Unlike Mrs. Bush, Abigail Adams did not live to see her son’s inauguration. She died in 1818, six years before John Quincy Adams was elected.

Mrs. Bush insisted she did not try to influence her husband’s politics.

“I don’t fool around with his office,” she said, “and he doesn’t fool around with my household.”

In 1984, her quick wit got her into trouble when she was quoted as referring to Geraldine Ferraro, the Democratic vice presidential nominee at the time, as “that $4 million — I can’t say it, but it rhymes with rich.”

“It was dumb of me. I shouldn’t have said it,” Mrs. Bush acknowledged in 1988. “It was not attractive, and I’ve been very shamed. I apologized to Mrs. Ferraro, and I would apologize again.”

Daughter-in-law Laura Bush, another first lady, said Mrs. Bush was “ferociously tart-tongued” from the start.

“She’s never shied away from saying what she thinks. … She’s managed to insult nearly all of my friends with one or another perfectly timed acerbic comment,” Laura Bush said in her 2010 book, “Spoken from the Heart.”

In her 1994 autobiography, “Barbara Bush: A Memoir,” she said she did her best to keep her opinions from the public while her husband was in office. But she revealed that she disagreed with him on two issues: She supported legal abortion and opposed the sale of assault weapons.

“I honestly felt, and still feel, the elected person’s opinion is the one the public has the right to know,” Mrs. Bush wrote.

She also disclosed a bout with depression in the mid-1970s, saying she sometimes feared she would deliberately crash her car. She blamed hormonal changes and stress.

“Night after night, George held me weeping in his arms while I tried to explain my feelings,” she wrote. “I almost wonder why he didn’t leave me.”

She said she snapped out of it in a few months.

Mrs. Bush raised five children: George W., Jeb, Neil, Marvin and Dorothy. A sixth child, 3-year-old daughter Robin, died of leukemia in 1953.

In a speech in 1985, she recalled the stress of raising a family while married to a man whose ambitions carried him from the Texas oil fields to Congress and then into influential political positions that included ambassador to the United Nations, GOP chairman and CIA director.

“This was a period, for me, of long days and short years,” she said, “of diapers, runny noses, earaches, more Little League games than you could believe possible, tonsils and those unscheduled races to the hospital emergency room, Sunday school and church, of hours of urging homework or short chubby arms around your neck and sticky kisses.”

Along the way, she said, there were also “bumpy moments — not many, but a few — of feeling that I’d never, ever be able to have fun again and coping with the feeling that George Bush, in his excitement of starting a small company and traveling around the world, was having a lot of fun.”

In 2003, she wrote a follow-up memoir, “Reflections: Life After the White House.”

“I made no apologies for the fact that I still live a life of ease,” she wrote. “There is a difference between ease and leisure. I live the former and not the latter.”

Along with her memoirs, she wrote “C. Fred’s Story” and “Millie’s Book,” based on the lives of her dogs. Proceeds from the books benefited adult and family literacy programs. Laura Bush, a former teacher with a master’s degree in library science, continued her mother-in-law’s literacy campaign in the White House.

The 43rd president was not the only Bush son to seek office in the 1990s. In 1994, when George W. was elected governor of Texas, son Jeb narrowly lost to incumbent Lawton Chiles in Florida. Four years later, Jeb was victorious in his second try in Florida.

“This is a testament to what wonderful parents they are,” George W. Bush said as Jeb Bush was sworn into office. He won a second term in 2002, and then made an unsuccessful bid for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.

Sons Marvin and Neil both became businessmen. Neil achieved some notoriety in the 1980s as a director of a savings and loan that crashed. Daughter Dorothy, or Doro, has preferred to stay out of the spotlight. She married lobbyist Robert Koch, a Democrat, in 1992.

In a collection of letters published in 1999, George H.W. Bush included a note he gave to his wife in early 1994.

“You have given me joy that few men know,” he wrote. “You have made our boys into men by bawling them out and then, right away, by loving them. You have helped Doro to be the sweetest, greatest daughter in the whole wide world. I have climbed perhaps the highest mountain in the world, but even that cannot hold a candle to being Barbara’s husband.”

Mrs. Bush was born Barbara Pierce in Rye, New York. Her father was the publisher of McCall’s and Redbook magazines. After attending Smith College for two years, she married young naval aviator George Herbert Walker Bush. She was 19.

After World War II, the Bushes moved to the Texas oil patch to seek their fortune and raise a family. It was there that Bush began his political career, representing Houston for two terms in Congress in the late 1960s and early 1970s.

In all, the Bushes made more than two dozen moves that circled half the globe before landing at the White House in 1989. During the next four years, opinion polls often gave her approval ratings that exceeded her husband’s.

The couple’s final move, after Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton, was to Houston, where they built what she termed their “dream house” in an affluent neighborhood. The Bush family also had an oceanfront summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine.

After retiring to Houston, the Bushes helped raise funds for charities and appeared frequently at events such as Houston Astros baseball games. Public schools in the Houston area are named for both of them.

In 1990, Barbara Bush gave the commencement address at all-women Wellesley College, though some had protested her selection because she was prominent only through the achievements of her husband. Her speech that day was rated by a survey of scholars in 1999 as one of the top 100 speeches of the century.

“Cherish your human connections,” Mrs. Bush told graduates. “At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a child, a friend or a parent.”

___

Online:

George Bush Presidential Library, http://bushlibrary.tamu.edu/BEIRUT (AP) — The latest on developments in Syria (all times local):

5:35 a.m.

Russia is clashing again with the United States and its Western allies, saying airstrikes on suspected chemical sites in Syria have set back any political negotiations to end the seven-year conflict.

The U.S., France and Britain insist that recent events are an opportunity to get the political process back on track.

The exchange came Tuesday during the sixth meeting that the U.N. Security Council has held on Syria in nine days.

Russia called the council meeting to discuss the humanitarian situation in Raqqa, which was the de facto capital of the Islamic State extremist group’s “caliphate” until its ouster in October. Also on the agenda was Rukban, a town on the Jordan-Syria border where some 50,000 displaced Syrians have been left stranded.

Deputy U.S. Ambassador Kelley Currie she said it was part of Russia’s “messaging campaign to try to distract from the atrocities committed by the Assad regime.”

___

4 a.m.

Russia’s U.N. ambassador is rejecting a draft U.N. resolution on Syria proposed by the United States, Britain and France, calling it “untimely” and “unnecessary.”

Vassily Nebenzia dismissed the attempt by the three Western allies who attacked alleged Syrian chemical sites to push for Security Council approval of a resolution calling for a political solution to Syria’s seven-year conflict, for a new body to assess blame for chemical attacks and for humanitarian access.

Nebenzia said Tuesday there is no need for a new independent body to determine responsibility for chemical attacks because “they attributed the guilt, and they already punished the culprits.”

He says Russian envoys were present when Security Council experts discussed the Western draft Monday “just to hear, but we said really this effort now is untimely.”

___

3:10 a.m.

Syria’s U.N. ambassador says a U.N. security team has visited the Damascus suburb of Douma to decide whether investigators from the international chemical weapons watchdog can visit the site of a suspected chemical weapons attack.

Bashar Ja’afari told the U.N. Security Council on Tuesday that the team arrived in Douma about 3 p.m. Damascus time. He said if the team decides “the situation is sound,” the fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons will start work there Wednesday.

Earlier, Syrian state TV had said the OPCW inspectors had reached the site.

Ja’afari says Syria’s government has done “all that it can do to facilitate the work of this mission” and it’s up to the U.N. security team and the OPCW to give a green light for the investigators to enter Douma.

Ja’afari says the OPCW mission has been working in Damascus, including listening to statements from some witnesses about the alleged incident.

___

10:30 p.m.

Russia says it strongly supports international inspectors’ visit to the site of a suspected chemical attack in Syria.

The Foreign Ministry’s spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, dismissed allegations that Russia was trying to hamper the mission by experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

Syrian activists say more than 40 people were killed in the April 7 chemical attack in Douma, which they blamed on government forces. The attack prompted the U.S., Britain and France to launch Saturday’s missile strikes on Syria.

Syria and its ally Russia have denied any chemical attack took place, and Moscow accused Syrian rebels of fabricating the attack with British assistance, a claim Britain has rejected.

The Russian military claimed Tuesday it found rebel chemical weapons stockpiles in Douma, including chlorine and mustard gas precursors.

Syrian state TV says the OPCW team entered Douma on Tuesday, after days of delays by Syrian and Russian authorities.

___

7:10 p.m.

Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister says the kingdom is in talks with the Trump administration about sending forces into Syria, and that this proposal has been under discussion since the Obama administration.

Adel al-Jubeir told reporters Tuesday: “We are in discussions with the U.S. and have been since the beginning of this crisis about sending forces into Syria.”

He says Saudi Arabia has also offered to send forces from a mostly Sunni bloc of Muslim nations established by the kingdom to fight terrorism. He says the Obama administration did not take them up on either offer.

The kingdom has backed and helped arm Sunni rebel groups fighting Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces, which are backed by Shiite-majority Iran. Saudi Arabia is also a member of the U.S.-led coalition battling the Islamic State group.

___

6:50 p.m.

Premier Paolo Gentiloni has told Italy’s new parliament that Italy stands firmly by the United States, France and Britain in the decision to launch strikes against Syria aimed at disabling the use of chemical weapons.

Gentiloni told lawmakers in Rome on Tuesday that “Italy is not a neutral country that choses each time which side to take between the Atlantic alliance and Russia. It is a coherent ally of the United States, and not of this or that American administration.”

Italy’s role in any military action has been especially politically sensitive given the impasse in forming a new government after last month’s elections ended with a hung parliament. The leader of the center-right coalition, Matteo Salvini, has come out against the strikes.

Gentiloni specified that Italy gave logistical support to the operation from the joint air base in Aviano on the condition that “no actions aimed at striking Syria would depart from our territory. And so it was.”

___

6:20 p.m.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called on the Syrian government to ensure international chemical weapons inspectors are able to work without restrictions.

Earlier Tuesday, Syria’s state news agency said inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons had reached the town of Douma to investigate a suspected April 7 gas attack.

Guterres said “it’s the obligation of the Syrian government to provide all the conditions for them to work without any restrictions.”

He stopped short of confirming whether the inspectors were able to reach Douma, telling reporters in Saudi Arabia on Tuesday that the U.N. has done “everything possible to make sure that the OPCW experts will be able to get to Douma sooner rather than later.”

___

5:55 p.m.

The Russian military says that it has found rebel chemical weapons stockpiles in the Syrian town hit by a suspected chemical attack.

Alexander Rodionov of the military’s chemical weapons protection unit said Tuesday its experts found chlorine and components for producing mustard gas at a rebel laboratory in Douma.

Syrian activists blamed the Syrian government for the April 7 chemical attack in Douma, which they said killed over 40 people. Rodionov said the canister with chlorine was similar to the one shown in images released by activists.

The attack prompted the U.S., Britain and France to launch Saturday’s strike on Syria. Syria and its ally Russia denied any chemical attack took place, and Moscow has accused rebels of feigning a chemical attack with British assistance, a claim Britain has rejected.

___

5:30 p.m.

Turkish officials say Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called for a scaling down of tensions over the chemical weapons issue in Syria during a call with Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani.

The officials said Erdogan and Rouhani held a telephone conversation on Tuesday during which the Turkish leaders said actions increasing tensions should be avoided.

The two also agreed that Turkey, Iran and Russia should continue to work together for a political solution to the conflict in Syria.

The officials provided the information on condition of anonymity, in line with government regulations.

Turkey has backed the weekend’s strikes on Syria by the United States, France and Britain.

— Suzan Fraser in Ankara.

___

4:40 p.m.

Syria’s state news agency says inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons have reached the town of Douma to investigate reports of a suspected April 7 gas attack.

The inspectors entered Douma on Tuesday after arriving in Syria on Saturday.

The United States, Britain, and France say the Syrian government was behind the attack, and launched a wave of missiles targeting Syrian military installations on Saturday as punishment.

Syria and its ally Russia deny any chemical attack took place, and Russian officials have gone even further, accusing Britain of staging a “fake” chemical attack.

Douma was the last town held by rebels in the eastern Ghouta region outside Damascus, until they surrendered the day after the alleged gas attack.

___

2:30 p.m.

The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told German Chancellor Angela Merkel that the United States, Great Britain and France have violated international law and hurt the peace process in Syria by launching airstrikes at targets in Damascus.

Russia has condemned the allied strikes on Sunday but refrained from responding to the attack on its ally, Syrian President Bashar Assad.

The Kremlin said on Tuesday in a read-out of the phone call between Putin and Merkel that the prospect for peace talks for Syria were damaged by the airstrikes, which were carried out in retaliation for the reported poison gas attack on a rebel-controlled suburb of Damascus.

A fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is due to visit the site of the suspected gas attack. The Kremlin said on Tuesday both Putin and Merkel support the OPCW mission and hope for a thorough probe.

___

2:20 p.m.

French President Emmanuel Macron has vigorously defended his decision to launch airstrikes on Syria, responding to criticism on the joint operation by France, Britain and the United States.

He spoke at the European parliament on Tuesday, showing signs of anger and sometimes almost shouting.

Macron cited all those “who are outraged each time by images we’ve seen of children, women who died of a chlorine attack.”

He asked: “Do we sit back, do we defend (human) rights by saying: rights are for us, principles are for us, and realities are for other? No, no!”

He says the U.S., France and Britain intervened in a “legitimate, multilateral framework” and stressed airstrikes specifically targeted three chemical weapon facilities “without any human life loss.”

Some European lawmakers expressed criticism at France’s action in Syria, raising placards reading “Stop the war in Syria” and “Hands off Syria” during Macron’s speech.

___

12:45 p.m.

Syria’s state run television says a false alarm — and not an outside aggression and incoming airstrikes — had set off Syrian air defenses early this morning.

The TV quotes an unnamed military official as saying on Tuesday that air defenses fired a number of missiles because of a false alarm, without providing more information.

Hours earlier, Syrian government-run media said the country’s air defenses confronted a new “aggression,” shooting down missiles over the central region of Homs and a suburb of Damascus.

The reports did not say who carried out the pre-dawn strikes, which were reported by Syrian state TV and the government-run Syrian Central Media.

The reports came just a few days after the United States, Britain and France conducted airstrikes targeting alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria, in retaliation for a suspected poisonous gas attack.

___

10:40 a.m.

The Group of Seven leading industrialized nations has issued a joint statement endorsing the U.S.-led air strikes in Syria.

The leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain, the United States and European Union said in a joint statement early Tuesday that they condemn the April 7 chemical attack in eastern Ghouta in Syria.

The G-7 say they “fully support all efforts made by the United States, the United Kingdom and France to degrade the (Bashar) Assad regime’s ability to use chemical weapons and to deter any future use” with the strikes.

The say the airstrikes last Saturday by the three nations were “limited, proportionate and necessary” and followed “only after exhausting every possible diplomatic option to uphold the international norm against the use of chemical weapons.”

The G-7 members say they “remain committed to a diplomatic solution to the conflict in Syria.”

___

8:30 a.m.

Syrian state-run television has reported that the country’s defenses have confronted a new “aggression,” shooting down missiles over the central Homs region.

It didn’t say who carried out the early Tuesday airstrikes. The Syrian Central Media said the missiles targeted Shayrat air base in Homs. Another strike earlier this month in Homs was blamed on Israel.

The report comes a few days after the U.S., Britain and France conducted airstrikes targeting alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria, in retaliation for a suspected chemical weapons attack that they blamed on the Syrian government.

Experts from the international chemical weapons watchdog are in Syria and are now expected to visit that site in the town of Douma Wednesday. That’s after Syrian and Russian authorities prevented them from going to the scene Monday.PHOENIX (AP) — Arizona teachers on Tuesday began weighing whether to walk out of their classrooms to demand more school funding after weeks of growing protests — a vote that’s raising questions about how an unprecedented strike could play out across the state’s education system.

The walkout vote comes after Republican Gov. Doug Ducey offered teachers a 20 percent raise by 2020. Teachers in a grass-roots group that’s mobilized tens of thousands of teachers say the plan doesn’t address other needs, including raises for support staff and a return to pre-Great Recession school funding levels.

Arizona teachers are among the lowest paid in the nation, and their actions came as educators in many Republican-dominant states have demanded higher pay. The movement started in West Virginia, where a strike garnered a raise, and spread to Oklahoma, Kentucky and most recently Colorado.

The potential for Arizona educators to walk out en masse is causing some confusion about how school districts would respond and what the repercussions could be in this right-to-work state, where unions do not collectively bargain with school districts and representation is not mandatory.

The Arizona Education Association, the largest teacher membership group, has supported the so-called #RedforEd movement, which grew out of a grass-roots effort on social media that turned into the Arizona Educators United group.

The association said it has informed its 20,000 members of the risks of a walkout because of a 1971 Arizona attorney general opinion. It said no law bans a teacher strike but that a statewide strike would be illegal under common law and participants could lose their teaching credentials.

“We’ve been telling our members that for six weeks, and they understand it,” association President Joe Thomas said. “And it doesn’t seem to faze them. That shows how upset they are. They’re willing to take this risk for their students.”

He would not reveal how many votes need to be cast in favor of a walkout. If it happens, it’s largely up to school districts how to handle it.

Craig Pletneik, spokesman for Phoenix Union High School District, said there are “pages of questions” on the logistics — such as the threshold for closing schools, who gets paid and how food service could be handled.

“All the districts are trying to sort this out,” he said. “Hopefully there’ll be enough time for us to communicate properly to our schools and our parents.”

At Mesa Public Schools, the state’s largest district, leaders told staff members that if a walkout is called, schools will close and extracurricular activities would be suspended.

Short-term contract support personnel and hourly employees, such as custodial workers and bus drivers, would not work and would not be paid, while certified employees would keep receiving paychecks, district guidance said.

Students wouldn’t be able to access buildings on campuses, and any school days missed would be made up at year’s end, Superintendent Michael Cowan wrote to teachers.

Most voting was expected to take place Wednesday, the day of the week educators have been meeting for pre-work rallies and walk-ins.

The past six weeks of rallying triggered stories about teachers living with their parents, working multiple jobs and teaching in facilities with poor infrastructure and out-of-date materials.

In response, Ducey touted his plan for raises that would cost about $650 million a year. The governor, who is up for re-election this year, said rosy economic projections, lower social service needs, “efficiencies” in other departments and the elimination of other planned budget proposals would cover the cost.

Some lawmakers, who must approve Ducey’s proposal, have expressed concerns about finding the money for it. But some education groups have said it’s a step in the right direction.

Arizona Rural Schools Association executive director Wes Brownfield said he understands why teachers may want to walk out, although he’s waiting to see how lawmakers may tinker with Ducey’s plan.

“If somebody throws you a life vest, you’re taking the vest,” he said.

But Brownfield also said he understands why teachers may want to walk out, a move that he hasn’t seen statewide after decades of working in Arizona schools.

Thomas, head of the Arizona Education Association, said similar demonstrations have happened at the district level but nothing quite like this.

“We’ve never had a situation as dire as what we have right now, and that’s what’s truly unique,” Thomas said. “These aren’t teachers and support staff and counselors who are frustrated with their district, they are frustrated with their state governor and their state Legislature.”Here is some reaction to the death of former first lady Barbara Bush, whom a family spokesman says died Tuesday:

“My dear mother has passed on at age 92. Laura, Barbara, Jenna, and I are sad, but our souls are settled because we know hers was. Barbara Bush was a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love, and literacy to millions. To us, she was so much more. Mom kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end. I’m a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother. Our family will miss her dearly, and we thank you all for your prayers and good wishes.” — Statement from her son, former President George W. Bush.

___

“Columba and I join every member of the Bush family in offering our sincere gratitude for the outpouring of love and support for my Mom in recent days, and throughout her remarkable life. I’m exceptionally privileged to be the son of George Bush and the exceptionally gracious, gregarious, fun, funny, loving, tough, smart, graceful woman who was the force of nature known as Barbara Bush. Thank you for your prayers, and we look forward to celebrating and honoring her life and contributions to our family and great nation in the coming days.”— Statement from her son, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.

___

“President Donald J. Trump and first lady Melania Trump join the nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush. As a wife, mother, grandmother, military spouse and former first lady, Mrs. Bush was an advocate of the American family. Amongst her greatest achievements was recognizing the importance of literacy as a fundamental family value that requires nurturing and protection. She will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well. The president and first lady’s thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Mrs. Bush.” — Statement from President Donald J. Trump and first lady Melania Trump.

___

“Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit and grace, brains and beauty. She was fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory. We will never forget the courtesy and kindness she and President Bush showed us, starting when I was governor in 1983. I’ll always treasure my summer visits to Kennebunkport. Barbara joked that George and I spent so much time together I had become almost a member of the family, the “black sheep” that had gone astray. Our hearts and prayers go out to President Bush; to George, Jeb, Neil, Marvin, Doro, and her grandchildren and great-grandchildren; and to the entire Bush family she loved so much. We know that through them her remarkable strength, warmth and wit, and her devotion to our country will live on.” — Statement from former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

___

“Barbara Bush was the rock of a family dedicated to public service, and our thoughts and prayers are with both Presidents Bush and the entire Bush family tonight. We’ll always be grateful to Mrs. Bush for the generosity she showed to us throughout our time in the White House, but we’re even more grateful for the way she lived her life — as a testament to the fact that public service is an important and noble calling; as an example of the humility and decency that reflects the very best of the American spirit. She’ll be remembered for passing those American values on to her children, her grandchildren, her great-grandchildren — and to the countless citizens whom she and George inspired to become ‘points of light’ in service to others.” — Statement from former President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama.

___

“With the passing of Barbara Bush, our country has lost one of its most beloved and gracious citizens. I always enjoyed being with Barbara and hearing her opinions, which she was never reluctant to share. She was a wise and thoughtful woman, and Marilyn and I will miss her. Our hearts are full of sympathy and love for our dear friend President Bush in this sad hour.” — Statement from former Vice President Dan Quayle.

___

“Rosalynn and I are saddened by the death of Barbara Bush. She touched the hearts of millions with her warmth, generosity, and keen wit. The matriarch of a family dedicated to serving, she urged volunteerism as a way for all citizens to participate in our nation’s progress. Through her own work to promote literacy as a value in every American home, countless families now have the knowledge and skills they need to thrive in all aspects of their lives. She will be missed.” — Statement from former President Jimmy Carter and first lady Rosalynn Carter.

___

“Barbara Bush dedicated her life to helping others. As only the second woman in history to be both the wife and mother of U.S. presidents, Barbara had a unique and profound impact on our country. Spearheading the fight against illiteracy, she created the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy, working to improve the lives of those less fortunate through education. Her selfless devotion to service defines the inspiring legacy Barbara has left behind. Her impact on Texas and our nation will forever be treasured. Cecilia and I extend our deepest condolences to President George H.W. Bush and the entire Bush family during this difficult time. We ask that all Texans join us in keeping them in their thoughts and prayers as they mourn the passing of a devoted wife, mother, and public servant.” — Statement from Texas Gov. Greg Abbott.

___

“Mrs. Bush was a ‘no nonsense’ devoted mother to her family, and our nation. She was wit, wisdom, honesty, and character on two feet. She inspired a ‘thousand points of light’ of service to our country and was a beacon to us all. We loved her for who she was and for what we became because of her example. Our hearts go out to her remarkable family and to all who loved her as we did. The world is a poorer placer without Barbara Bush.” — Statement from Luci Baines Johnson, daughter of former President Lyndon B. Johnson.

___

“When I think of Barbara Bush, I smile. Her candor was always refreshing, her grace was endless, her love of family never wavered, and she was always a true patriot. My family has been fortunate to know her and we will always be grateful for her service to our country. I share her commitment to reading and literacy which will be a large part of her legacy.” — Statement from Lynda Johnson Robb, daughter of former President Lyndon B. Johnson.

___

“Susan and I are deeply saddened to lose a beloved friend who was a passionate voice for volunteerism and the view that everyone should believe in something larger than self. Barbara Bush challenged each of us to build a better world by empowering people through literacy. As only one of two women in American history who can be called First Lady and First Mother, she was matriarch of a family that remains as dedicated to public service as it was to politics. We Americans were fortunate to have had Barbara and George Bush as one of the best First Couples of all time. We send our deepest love and affection to President Bush and to his entire family.” — Statement from former Secretary of State and White House Chief of Staff James Baker III.

___

“Barbara Pierce Bush was best known to the world as the wife of a president and the mother of another, but in Houston we also knew her as a local leading light, an achiever in her own right who spoke and acted from the heart and the gut. She was a focused advocate for literacy and volunteerism; she was the brightest light among the ‘Thousand Points of Light’ her husband charted; and frankly her kindness and counsel to me, away from the public gaze, will remain valuable as well as unforgettable. For these reasons and more, I join Houstonians and her many admirers around the globe in mourning her death and expressing heartfelt condolences to our treasured neighbor, Former President George H.W. Bush, and the rest of the Bush family.” — Statement from Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner.

___

“Today is a very sad day for our city and for our entire nation. As First Lady, Mrs. Bush epitomized grace, dignity and strength. As a humanitarian, she impacted the lives of so many young people through the work of her Foundation for literacy and more. As Houstonians and frequent visitors to Minute Maid Park to watch their beloved Astros, we had the great privilege of getting to know Mrs. Bush and President Bush personally. While at the ballpark, both always greeted everyone from the ticket-takers to the ushers with a warm, friendly smile. On behalf of the Houston Astros, I send my heartfelt condolences to the entire Bush family and to Mrs. Bush’s many friends and admirers.” — Statement from Houston Astros President of Business Operations Reid Ryan.

___

“Karen and I send our deepest sympathies to President Bush and the entire Bush family with the passing of Barbara Bush. Barbara Bush was a woman of unique strength and grace whose devotion to her family was an inspiration to every American. Mrs. Bush’s example in public life and her encouragement made a lasting impact on our family, as it did on the families of millions of Americans, and she will be missed. We offer our deepest condolences to the entire Bush family during this difficult time and we will be praying for all who mourn the passing of this good and great woman. God bless Barbara Bush.” — Statement from Vice President Mike Pence and Karen Pence.HOUSTON (AP) — The Latest on the death of former first lady Barbara Bush (all times local):

9 p.m.

Former President Jimmy Carter paid tribute to Barbara Bush’s “warmth, generosity and keen wit” following the former first lady’s death.

A family spokesman says Bush died Tuesday at age 92.

Carter says Bush was “the matriarch of a family dedicated to serving.” In a statement, he says that through Bush’s “work to promote literacy as a value in every American home, countless families now have the knowledge and skills they need to thrive in all aspects of their lives.”

Carter says he and former first lady Rosalynn Carter are saddened by her death and they’ll miss her.

___

8:10 p.m.

Former President Lyndon Johnson’s daughter Lynda Johnson Robb says she smiles when she thinks of Barbara Bush, saying her candor was always refreshing and her grace was endless.

Robb says Bush’s love of family “never wavered and she was always a true patriot.” She says her family was fortunate to know her and “will always be grateful for her service to our country.”

Robb’s sister, Lucy Baines Johnson, describes Bush as a “no nonsense” devoted mother to her family and the nation and was “wit, wisdom, honesty, and character on two feet.”

Johnson says Bush inspired “a ‘thousand points of light’ of service to our country and was a beacon to us all. We loved her for who she was and for what we became because of her example. Our hearts go out to her remarkable family and to all who loved her as we did. The world is a poorer placer without Barbara Bush.”

___

8:05 p.m.

Former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton are calling former first lady Barbara Bush a remarkable woman with “grit and grace, brains and beauty.”

The Clintons, in a statement shortly after Barbara Bush’s death was announced Tuesday, say she was “fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes.”

Clinton says she “showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory.”

Clinton defeated her husband, George H.W. Bush, in the 1992 election.

___

7:45 p.m.

President Donald Trump and the first lady are paying tribute to Barbara Bush after her death Tuesday.

The White House says in a statement posted on the president’s Twitter feed that the Trumps “join the nation in celebrating Barbara Bush.”

The statement hails the former first lady as “an advocate of the American family” and says she “will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well.”

The Trumps are also praising Mrs. Bush for “recognizing the importance of literacy as a fundamental family value that requires nurturing and protection.”

In a separate statement, Melania Trump is offering her “heartfelt condolences and prayers” to the Bush family.

___

7:15 p.m.

Former President George W. Bush says he and his family are saddened by the death of his mother, former first lady Barbara Bush.

But the 43rd president says the family’s “souls are settled because we know hers was.”

A family spokesman says Barbara Bush died Tuesday. A family statement Sunday had said she had decided to terminate medical treatment for assorted ailments and would seek comfort therapy instead.

In his statement, George W. Bush calls his mother “a fabulous first lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love and literacy to millions.” He says his mother “kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end.”

___

6:50 p.m.

Former first lady Barbara Bush has died. She was 92.

Family spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement that she died Tuesday in Houston. She had decided to decline further medical treatment for health problems and focus instead on “comfort care” at home in Houston.

The snowy-haired Mrs. Bush was one of only two first ladies who was also the mother of a president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams.

Mrs. Bush’s plainspoken manner and utter lack of pretense made her more popular at times than her husband. She brought a grandmotherly style to buttoned-down Washington, often appearing in her trademark fake pearl chokers and displaying no vanity about her white hair and wrinkles.

She married George H.W. Bush in 1945. They had six children and were married longer than any presidential couple in American history.BEIRUT (AP) — The latest on developments in Syria (all times local):

4 a.m.

Russia’s U.N. ambassador is rejecting a draft U.N. resolution on Syria proposed by the United States, Britain and France, calling it “untimely” and “unnecessary.”

Vassily Nebenzia dismissed the attempt by the three Western allies who attacked alleged Syrian chemical sites to push for Security Council approval of a resolution calling for a political solution to Syria’s seven-year conflict, for a new body to assess blame for chemical attacks and for humanitarian access.

Nebenzia said Tuesday there is no need for a new independent body to determine responsibility for chemical attacks because “they attributed the guilt, and they already punished the culprits.”

He says Russian envoys were present when Security Council experts discussed the Western draft Monday “just to hear, but we said really this effort now is untimely.”

___

3:10 a.m.

Syria’s U.N. ambassador says a U.N. security team has visited the Damascus suburb of Douma to decide whether investigators from the international chemical weapons watchdog can visit the site of a suspected chemical weapons attack.

Bashar Ja’afari told the U.N. Security Council on Tuesday that the team arrived in Douma about 3 p.m. Damascus time. He said if the team decides “the situation is sound,” the fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons will start work there Wednesday.

Earlier, Syrian state TV had said the OPCW inspectors had reached the site.

Ja’afari says Syria’s government has done “all that it can do to facilitate the work of this mission” and it’s up to the U.N. security team and the OPCW to give a green light for the investigators to enter Douma.

Ja’afari says the OPCW mission has been working in Damascus, including listening to statements from some witnesses about the alleged incident.

___

10:30 p.m.

Russia says it strongly supports international inspectors’ visit to the site of a suspected chemical attack in Syria.

The Foreign Ministry’s spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, dismissed allegations that Russia was trying to hamper the mission by experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

Syrian activists say more than 40 people were killed in the April 7 chemical attack in Douma, which they blamed on government forces. The attack prompted the U.S., Britain and France to launch Saturday’s missile strikes on Syria.

Syria and its ally Russia have denied any chemical attack took place, and Moscow accused Syrian rebels of fabricating the attack with British assistance, a claim Britain has rejected.

The Russian military claimed Tuesday it found rebel chemical weapons stockpiles in Douma, including chlorine and mustard gas precursors.

Syrian state TV says the OPCW team entered Douma on Tuesday, after days of delays by Syrian and Russian authorities.

___

7:10 p.m.

Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister says the kingdom is in talks with the Trump administration about sending forces into Syria, and that this proposal has been under discussion since the Obama administration.

Adel al-Jubeir told reporters Tuesday: “We are in discussions with the U.S. and have been since the beginning of this crisis about sending forces into Syria.”

He says Saudi Arabia has also offered to send forces from a mostly Sunni bloc of Muslim nations established by the kingdom to fight terrorism. He says the Obama administration did not take them up on either offer.

The kingdom has backed and helped arm Sunni rebel groups fighting Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces, which are backed by Shiite-majority Iran. Saudi Arabia is also a member of the U.S.-led coalition battling the Islamic State group.

___

6:50 p.m.

Premier Paolo Gentiloni has told Italy’s new parliament that Italy stands firmly by the United States, France and Britain in the decision to launch strikes against Syria aimed at disabling the use of chemical weapons.

Gentiloni told lawmakers in Rome on Tuesday that “Italy is not a neutral country that choses each time which side to take between the Atlantic alliance and Russia. It is a coherent ally of the United States, and not of this or that American administration.”

Italy’s role in any military action has been especially politically sensitive given the impasse in forming a new government after last month’s elections ended with a hung parliament. The leader of the center-right coalition, Matteo Salvini, has come out against the strikes.

Gentiloni specified that Italy gave logistical support to the operation from the joint air base in Aviano on the condition that “no actions aimed at striking Syria would depart from our territory. And so it was.”

___

6:20 p.m.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called on the Syrian government to ensure international chemical weapons inspectors are able to work without restrictions.

Earlier Tuesday, Syria’s state news agency said inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons had reached the town of Douma to investigate a suspected April 7 gas attack.

Guterres said “it’s the obligation of the Syrian government to provide all the conditions for them to work without any restrictions.”

He stopped short of confirming whether the inspectors were able to reach Douma, telling reporters in Saudi Arabia on Tuesday that the U.N. has done “everything possible to make sure that the OPCW experts will be able to get to Douma sooner rather than later.”

___

5:55 p.m.

The Russian military says that it has found rebel chemical weapons stockpiles in the Syrian town hit by a suspected chemical attack.

Alexander Rodionov of the military’s chemical weapons protection unit said Tuesday its experts found chlorine and components for producing mustard gas at a rebel laboratory in Douma.

Syrian activists blamed the Syrian government for the April 7 chemical attack in Douma, which they said killed over 40 people. Rodionov said the canister with chlorine was similar to the one shown in images released by activists.

The attack prompted the U.S., Britain and France to launch Saturday’s strike on Syria. Syria and its ally Russia denied any chemical attack took place, and Moscow has accused rebels of feigning a chemical attack with British assistance, a claim Britain has rejected.

___

5:30 p.m.

Turkish officials say Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called for a scaling down of tensions over the chemical weapons issue in Syria during a call with Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani.

The officials said Erdogan and Rouhani held a telephone conversation on Tuesday during which the Turkish leaders said actions increasing tensions should be avoided.

The two also agreed that Turkey, Iran and Russia should continue to work together for a political solution to the conflict in Syria.

The officials provided the information on condition of anonymity, in line with government regulations.

Turkey has backed the weekend’s strikes on Syria by the United States, France and Britain.

— Suzan Fraser in Ankara.

___

4:40 p.m.

Syria’s state news agency says inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons have reached the town of Douma to investigate reports of a suspected April 7 gas attack.

The inspectors entered Douma on Tuesday after arriving in Syria on Saturday.

The United States, Britain, and France say the Syrian government was behind the attack, and launched a wave of missiles targeting Syrian military installations on Saturday as punishment.

Syria and its ally Russia deny any chemical attack took place, and Russian officials have gone even further, accusing Britain of staging a “fake” chemical attack.

Douma was the last town held by rebels in the eastern Ghouta region outside Damascus, until they surrendered the day after the alleged gas attack.

___

2:30 p.m.

The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told German Chancellor Angela Merkel that the United States, Great Britain and France have violated international law and hurt the peace process in Syria by launching airstrikes at targets in Damascus.

Russia has condemned the allied strikes on Sunday but refrained from responding to the attack on its ally, Syrian President Bashar Assad.

The Kremlin said on Tuesday in a read-out of the phone call between Putin and Merkel that the prospect for peace talks for Syria were damaged by the airstrikes, which were carried out in retaliation for the reported poison gas attack on a rebel-controlled suburb of Damascus.

A fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is due to visit the site of the suspected gas attack. The Kremlin said on Tuesday both Putin and Merkel support the OPCW mission and hope for a thorough probe.

___

2:20 p.m.

French President Emmanuel Macron has vigorously defended his decision to launch airstrikes on Syria, responding to criticism on the joint operation by France, Britain and the United States.

He spoke at the European parliament on Tuesday, showing signs of anger and sometimes almost shouting.

Macron cited all those “who are outraged each time by images we’ve seen of children, women who died of a chlorine attack.”

He asked: “Do we sit back, do we defend (human) rights by saying: rights are for us, principles are for us, and realities are for other? No, no!”

He says the U.S., France and Britain intervened in a “legitimate, multilateral framework” and stressed airstrikes specifically targeted three chemical weapon facilities “without any human life loss.”

Some European lawmakers expressed criticism at France’s action in Syria, raising placards reading “Stop the war in Syria” and “Hands off Syria” during Macron’s speech.

___

12:45 p.m.

Syria’s state run television says a false alarm — and not an outside aggression and incoming airstrikes — had set off Syrian air defenses early this morning.

The TV quotes an unnamed military official as saying on Tuesday that air defenses fired a number of missiles because of a false alarm, without providing more information.

Hours earlier, Syrian government-run media said the country’s air defenses confronted a new “aggression,” shooting down missiles over the central region of Homs and a suburb of Damascus.

The reports did not say who carried out the pre-dawn strikes, which were reported by Syrian state TV and the government-run Syrian Central Media.

The reports came just a few days after the United States, Britain and France conducted airstrikes targeting alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria, in retaliation for a suspected poisonous gas attack.

___

10:40 a.m.

The Group of Seven leading industrialized nations has issued a joint statement endorsing the U.S.-led air strikes in Syria.

The leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain, the United States and European Union said in a joint statement early Tuesday that they condemn the April 7 chemical attack in eastern Ghouta in Syria.

The G-7 say they “fully support all efforts made by the United States, the United Kingdom and France to degrade the (Bashar) Assad regime’s ability to use chemical weapons and to deter any future use” with the strikes.

The say the airstrikes last Saturday by the three nations were “limited, proportionate and necessary” and followed “only after exhausting every possible diplomatic option to uphold the international norm against the use of chemical weapons.”

The G-7 members say they “remain committed to a diplomatic solution to the conflict in Syria.”

___

8:30 a.m.

Syrian state-run television has reported that the country’s defenses have confronted a new “aggression,” shooting down missiles over the central Homs region.

It didn’t say who carried out the early Tuesday airstrikes. The Syrian Central Media said the missiles targeted Shayrat air base in Homs. Another strike earlier this month in Homs was blamed on Israel.

The report comes a few days after the U.S., Britain and France conducted airstrikes targeting alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria, in retaliation for a suspected chemical weapons attack that they blamed on the Syrian government.

Experts from the international chemical weapons watchdog are in Syria and are now expected to visit that site in the town of Douma Wednesday. That’s after Syrian and Russian authorities prevented them from going to the scene Monday.WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — The Latest on President Donald Trump hosting Japan’s Shinzo Abe at Mar-a-Lago (all times local):

7:55 p.m.

The White House says the U.S. has had talks “at the highest level” with North Korea’s government in advance of a planned summit. But White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders clarifies those talks were not with President Donald Trump directly.

Trump appeared to answer in the affirmative Tuesday evening when asked whether he had been speaking directly with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

But he said as he sat down for dinner with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, “Let’s leave it a little bit short of that,” adding, “We have had talks at the highest level.”

Trump is hosting Abe at his private Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida.

In a surprise move last month, Trump accepted an invitation from Kim to meet in person in the coming months

__

4:15 p.m.

President Donald Trump says the U.S. and North Korea are speaking directly and at “extremely high levels” in advance of a potential meeting with Kim Jong Un.

Trump made the comment during a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Trump’s private club in Florida. The two leaders are trying to coordinate their thinking on the summit, which Trump would like to hold within the coming two months.

The president did not answer shouted questions about whether he has spoken with Kim.

Trump told Abe he would raise the issue of Japanese abductees held by North Korea, which Abe is calling a “top Japanese priority,” during any potential meeting with Kim.

___

3:35 p.m.

President Donald Trump says conversations between North and South Korea to end their decades-long war have his blessing.

Speaking as he welcomed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to his private club in Florida, Trump confirmed that the two Koreas are negotiating an end to hostilities. A meeting between North Korea’s Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in is expected in next week. Trump said the leaders “do have my blessing” to discuss an official end to the war.

Meanwhile, Trump says five locations are under consideration for the historic U.S.-North Korea meeting, which he hopes will take place in the next two months.

___

3:20 p.m.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is praising President Donald Trump’s “courage” for accepting North Korea’s Kim Jong Un’s invitation for an in-person meeting.

Speaking through a translator as he begins two days of meetings with Trump on North Korea policy and trade issues, Abe says the U.S. and Japanese effort to place “maximum pressure” on Kim’s government has been successful.

Abe says: “I’d like to commend Donald’s courage in his decision to have the upcoming summit meeting with the North Korean leader.” Trump says five locations are under consideration for that meeting, which could take place within two months.

Abe added that he will raise the issue of Japanese abductees held in North Korea, calling it “a priority issue for Japan.”

___

3:05 p.m.

President Donald Trump is welcoming Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida.

On the agenda for their two-day summit: Trump’s upcoming meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, which Japan views warily.

The two leaders are also expected to discuss other issues, including trade and energy. Abe is likely to push Trump to exempt Japan from new steel and aluminum import tariffs, and encourage him to rejoin the Trans-Pacific trade partnership.

They’re also expected to play a round of golf.

It’s Abe’s second trip to the private Florida club that Trump has dubbed the “winter White House.”

___

1:05 p.m.

The White House is leaving open the option of providing exemptions to steel and aluminum tariffs for Japan as President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe prepare to kick off a two-day summit in Florida.

Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, says issuing Japan the waiver to the Trump-ordered sanctions or opening negotiations on a new trade agreement with Japan are “all on the table.”

Most other key U.S. allies, including Australia, Canada, the European Union, and Mexico have been granted exemptions to the protectionist measures, which went into effect last month. Obtaining a waiver is a priority for Abe at the summit.

Trump last week directed Kudlow to lead the administration’s reconsideration of rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade accord, but Kudlow says right now, it’s more thought than policy.

___

12:30 a.m.

President Donald Trump will play host to Japan’s Shinzo Abe at Mar-a-Lago this week amid growing strain between the two countries over the president’s planned meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un and his push for new tariffs.

The visit, beginning Tuesday, will be an opportunity for the two leaders to discuss Trump’s upcoming summit with North Korea, which Japan eyes warily.

It will also serve as a test of whether the fond personal relationship the two leaders have forged on the golf course and over meetings and phone calls has chilled over Trump’s recent moves, including his failure to exempt Japan from new steel and aluminum tariffs.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Monday that she expects the visit to be “very positive.”REYKJAVIK, Iceland (AP) — A prisoner in Iceland suspected of masterminding the theft of about 600 computers that were being used to mine bitcoin and other virtual currencies escaped custody and fled Tuesday on a passenger plane that a witness said also carried the remote North Atlantic nation’s prime minister.

Police said surveillance footage showed a suspect they identified as Sindri Thor Stefansson boarding a flight to Sweden at Iceland’s international airport in Keflavik. They said he traveled under a passport in someone else’s name.

“He had an accomplice,” Police Chief Gunnar Schram told Visir, an online news outlet in Iceland. “We are sure of that.”

Investigators think Stefansson left the low-security prison where he recently had been transferred through a window early Tuesday. Guards did not report him missing until after the flight to Sweden had taken off..

Stefansson was among 11 people arrested earlier this year for allegedly stealing the powerful computer in Iceland’s biggest thefts. The stolen equipment, which still is missing, has been valued at almost $2 million. Icelandic media have the case the “Big Bitcoin Heist.”

If the stolen equipment is used for its original purpose — to create new bitcoins — the thieves could turn a massive profit in an untraceable currency without ever selling the items.

The escaped prisoner was being held at the Sogn prison in rural southern Iceland, located some 95 kilometers (59 miles) from the airport. The prison is unfenced and inmates there have telephone and internet access.

Stefansson had been in custody since February. He was moved to the open prison 10 days ago, police said.

A passenger on the flight that the escaped inmate allegedly caught to Sweden told national broadcaster RUV that Iceland’s prime minister, Katrin Jakobsdottir, was also on the plane. Jakobsdottir was among five Nordic prime ministers who met with India’s prime minister Tuesday in Stockholm,

The prime minister’s presence, the witness said, was the only unusual thing about that flight.

The escape is yet another twist in a criminal case without parallel on the peaceful island nation with a population of 340,000 and one of the world’s lowest crime rates. Police commissioner Olafur Helgi Kjartansson told The Associated Press in March it was “a grand theft on a scale unseen before.”

Police have arrested 22 people altogether, including a security guard, without solving the burglaries.

Blessed with an abundance of renewable energy, Iceland has emerged as a popular base for large virtual currency companies that use massive amounts of electricity running the computers that create bitcoins.

Owners of the stolen computers have, in a rare public outreach, promised a $60,000 reward to anyone who can lead detectives to the stolen computers.

Helgi Gunnlaugsson, a sociology professor at the University of Iceland, said keeping a high-profile prisoner in such low-security surroundings was unusual — but more so was his organized escape.

“Prison breaks in Iceland usually mean someone just fled to get drunk,” he said. “The underworlds are tiny and it is extremely difficult to hide, let alone flee the country.”DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) — Syrian media said international chemical weapons inspectors on Tuesday entered the town of Douma, where an alleged poison gas attack was carried out earlier this month, but a Syrian diplomat said later that only a U.N. security team visited the Damascus suburb.

The reported attack led to Western airstrikes against the Syrian government over the weekend.

Syria’s U.N. ambassador, Bashar Ja’afari, told the Security Council that the U.N. team went to Douma to decide whether investigators from the international chemical weapons watchdog could safely visit the site. If the team decides “the situation is sound,” the fact-finding mission from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons will start work there Wednesday, Ja’afari said

The team’s entry into Douma came 10 days after the alleged attack, raising concerns that any evidence the inspectors find could be useless.

On Monday, OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu said Syrian and Russian authorities had blocked its inspectors from going to Douma and instead offered them 22 people to interview as witnesses. The team arrived in the Syrian capital of Damascus on Saturday.

Journalists in Damascus were prevented by government minders from contacting the OPCW inspectors, and The Hague-based organization refused to comment on “operational details regarding the Douma deployment.”

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said it was the “obligation of the Syrian government to provide all the conditions for (OPCW inspectors) to work without any restrictions.”

British Prime Minister Theresa May accused the Syrian government and its ally Russia of trying to cover up evidence and obstruct the investigation.

The OPCW is investigating reports that government forces gassed sites in Douma on April 7, when the town was still held by rebels and home to tens of thousands of people — residents and others who were displaced by fighting elsewhere.

Syrian activists said more than 40 people were killed in the alleged attack.

Less than two days later, the Army of Islam rebels surrendered the town, which was the last stronghold in the once rebellious eastern Ghouta region at the doorstep of Damascus.

The U.S. and France say they have evidence that Syrian President Bashar Assad’s military was behind the poison gas attack, but they have made none of that evidence public. On Saturday, the U.S., France and Britain bombarded sites they said were linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program.

Journalists were allowed access to Douma on Monday. The Associated Press spoke to survivors and witnesses who described being hit by gas, fainting, and discovering their relatives had died, with foam bubbling around their mouths.

The Syrian government and Russia have denied using chemical weapons and accused rebels, with Western backing, of using such weapons or faking such an attack.

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova dismissed allegations that Russia was trying to hamper the OPCW inspectors, saying Moscow strongly supports their mission to Douma.

Alexander Rodionov of the Russian military’s chemical weapons protection unit said its experts found chlorine and components for producing mustard gas at a rebel laboratory in Douma. He said the canister with chlorine was similar to one shown in images released by activists in the days after April 7.

Russian President Vladimir Putin told German Chancellor Angela Merkel that the Western strikes had violated international law and set back the peace process, the Kremlin said.

But French President Emmanual Macron defended the military action in an impassioned and at times angry speech to the European parliament.

He spoke of the “outrage by images we’ve seen of children, women who died of a chlorine attack.”

“Do we sit back, do we defend (human) rights by saying, ‘Rights are for us, principles are for us, and realities are for others?’ No, no!” the French leader said. “Three countries have intervened, and let me be quite frank: this is for the honor of the international community.”

The alleged attack and subsequent military response underscored the challenge that the seven-year conflict in Syria poses for the West. President Donald Trump wants to remove U.S. troops from Syria, where it has been fighting the Islamic State militants.

A new strategy appeared to be crystalizing to let the U.S. leave Syria without relinquishing its interests to Assad government or his allies, Iran and Russia.

Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir said the U.S.-aligned kingdom could deploy forces from a bloc of mostly Sunni Muslim nations that was established to fight terrorism. He said the Obama administration did not agree to such an offer.

The kingdom has supported Sunni rebel groups fighting Assad’s forces, which are backed by Shiite-majority Iran. Saudi Arabia is also a member of the U.S.-led coalition battling IS militants.

The OPCW visit to Douma came hours after Syrian media reported airstrikes Tuesday on government military installations in the central Homs region and the suburbs of Damascus, but the military later said a false alarm had set off air defense systems.

Explosions were heard in the areas of the two bases, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the conflict via a network of sources in the country. But it said no missiles landed inside the bases.

Earlier this month, four Iranian military personnel were killed in an airstrike on Syria’s T4 air base, also in Homs. Syria, Iran and Russia blamed Israel for that attack. Israel did not confirm or deny it.

___

Associated Press writer Bassem Mroue reported this story in Damascus and AP writer Philip Issa reported from Beirut. AP writers Zeina Karam in Beirut, Aya Batrawy in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Michael Corder in Amsterdam and Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow contributed to this report.SAN DIEGO (AP) — Leaders of California’s second-largest county voted Tuesday to officially support the Trump administration’s lawsuit against the state’s so-called sanctuary law that limits police cooperation with federal immigration agents.

The decision by San Diego County’s all-Republican Board of Supervisors comes amid a growing conservative backlash in California against the Democratic governor’s stance on immigration enforcement.

The region of 3 million residents that borders Mexico joins neighboring Orange County and at least nine other Orange County cities that have passed anti-sanctuary resolutions or voted to support the lawsuit filed last month by President Donald Trump’s administration.

The board voted 3-1, with one member absent. It pledged to file an amicus brief supporting the federal lawsuit at the first available opportunity, chairwoman Kristin Gaspar said. She expects the Trump administration to win and California to appeal, at which point the county would be allowed to file its brief.

The board made the decision in closed session after hearing 45 minutes of public comment. Most of the more than two dozen speakers urged the supervisors not to support the lawsuit.

Supervisor Greg Cox, who cast the only dissenting vote, said in a statement afterward that “the board’s vote is a largely symbolic move that will create fear and divisiveness in our region, waste taxpayer funds and create distrust of law enforcement and local government within many communities.”

Gaspar held up a stack of printed emails and letters more than a foot high that she said the board had received from residents who wanted the county to stand up against the state policy. She held up a second stack of only a few inches that she said was correspondence from those opposed to supporting the lawsuit.

Gaspar is among a crowded field of candidates seeking to replace retiring Republican U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa.

Citing the San Diego County Sheriff’s Department, Gaspar said the sanctuary law has allowed 284 criminal suspects to be released instead of handed over to immigration authorities since January. Before the law, San Diego had a close relationship with police, she said.

“San Diego was really a model of excellence before,” said Gaspar said. “We were safer before SB54.”

California Gov. Jerry Brown said Tuesday that opponents like to overstate the law’s restrictions. He said nothing prevents local officials from notifying federal immigration officials that suspects are about to be released.

“If you look at the law, it allows reasonable collaboration at all levels between state officials and federal officials,” Brown told reporters at the National Press Club in Washington. “We’ll find out when the court rules, there’s less there than meets the eye.”

The governor said Washington’s tough stance against immigrants in the country illegally is “just an inflammatory football that very low-life politicians like to exploit.”

If President Donald Trump “wants to round them up like some totalitarian government and ship them out, say that,” Brown said. “But he doesn’t say that because the American people would repudiate him and his party.”

California’s all-Democratic leadership has positioned the state as a national leader in battling the Trump administration, especially on immigration issues.

Government leaders at the state level and in big cities have condemned mass raids and deportation efforts, the president’s call for a border wall with Mexico and Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ “zero tolerance” order to prosecute people caught illegally entering the United States for the first time.

Brown elicited rare praise from Trump last week for pledging to contribute 400 troops to the National Guard’s deployment to the Mexican border. But Brown was clear that California troops will help go after drugs, guns and criminal gangs — not immigrants.

San Diego County heard from both sides Tuesday.

Margaret Baker, who lives near the U.S.-Mexico border in San Diego County, told officials that backing the lawsuit will “be a stain on your legacy.” She said it will discourage immigrants from reporting crime.

“We see this lawsuit as an attack on our safety and the well-being of our community,” she said.

Luis Reyes said the state law is unconstitutional, and California must do something about illegal immigration before it’s too late.

“We’re looking at something like what is happening in Europe coming this way,” he said.

The board voted a day after the small town of Los Alamitos in neighboring Orange County declared itself legally exempt from the state policy.

The City Council approved the first ordinance of its kind late Monday in a 4-1 vote, which was followed by a peaceful but noisy confrontation with demonstrators on both sides of the issue.

Like San Diego County, the city of 12,000 argues that the federal government — not the state — has authority over immigration, the same argument made by the Trump administration.

___

Associated Press writer Kathleen Ronayne in Sacramento contributed to this report.Americans are getting an extra day to file their taxes after key elements of the IRS website crashed on deadline day.

The IRS said that individuals or businesses with a filing or payment due Tuesday now have until midnight Wednesday to complete the task.

Earlier Tuesday, Americans who had waited until the final day to file online got an unwelcome surprise: The agency’s website for making payments and gaining access to other key services was down due to what Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin later described as a “high-volume technical issue.”

The website was back online late Tuesday.

“This is the busiest tax day of the year, and the IRS apologizes for the inconvenience this system issue caused for taxpayers,” Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter said in a statement. “The IRS appreciates everyone’s patience during this period. The extra time will help taxpayers affected by this situation.”

No additional paperwork is needed to get the one-day extension, the IRS said.

The IRS snafu also caused problems for popular third-party tax preparers such as Turbo Tax and H&R Block. Both said that they would hold on to customer tax returns and file after IRS system reopened.

The agency did not say how many people were affected by the outage. But last year, about 5 million tax returns were filed on the final day of the traditional tax season. Electronic filing is the most popular way to file in the US.

The IRS said that at this point, the problem appears to be a hardware issue. It provided no further details on the cause or severity of the problem.

Tax day fell on April 17 this year because April 15 was a Sunday and April 16 was Emancipation Day, a holiday in Washington, D.C.

Former IRS Commissioner John Koskinen warned last year of a possible system failure, due in part to underfunding of the agency. Among the areas that he said were underfunded were the agency’s aging information systems.

Frustrated taxpayers and baffled observers took to social media to complain. Political leaders weighed in publicly as well.

Democrats quickly blamed federal budget cuts to the IRS as part of the problem, and pushed to protect taxpayers from penalties.

“We know for certain the IRS’s lack of funding is compounding these kinds of problems,” said Sen. Ron Wyden Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. “We don’t want taxpayers and middle-class folks and small businesses penalized. They didn’t do anything wrong.”

Republicans have targeted the agency for budget cuts since taking control of the House in 2011, relenting a bit this year to help the IRS implement last year’s overhaul of the tax code.

The IRS typically recommends that taxpayers use electronic filing to avoid common mistakes. Online filing is quicker than dropping something in the mail — when the site works, of course.

___

Associated Press writer Holly Ramer in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report.PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — The new White House economic adviser apologized Tuesday to U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley after suggesting she was suffering from “momentary confusion” when she announced over the weekend that new sanctions against Russia were imminent.

Haley had fired back at Larry Kudlow, saying, “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

A White House official said Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, called Haley to apologize Tuesday afternoon in an effort to mend fences. The official spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity to describe private discussions.

A striking intra-administration quarrel played out in public when Kudlow told reporters during a briefing in Florida that Haley “got ahead of the curve” when she said the U.S. would be slapping new sanctions on Russia on Monday in retaliation for the country’s support for Syria’s Assad government after its latest suspected chemical attack.

Kudlow said additional sanctions are under consideration but have yet to be implemented. Of Haley, he said, “There might have been some momentary confusion about that.”

Haley had said Sunday during an appearance on “Face the Nation” that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin would be announcing new sanctions directed at companies associated with Syria’s chemical weapons program on Monday, “if he hasn’t already.”

But Monday came and went without an announcement.

On Tuesday, following Kudlow’s remark that she must have been confused, Haley said in a statement to Fox News: “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

The dispute between Haley’s team and the White House had been playing out largely behind the scenes since Haley’s initial comments. The White House has been struggling to explain Haley’s remarks amid reports that President Donald Trump put the brakes on the new sanctions. Several administration officials have disputed that characterization, saying Haley was out of the loop.

Three senior administration officials said there were several attempts to get Haley to back off or clarify her comments, but she refused.

The officials said that, under the plan conceived last week, the sanctions would have been announced Friday night, at the same time U.S., French, and British forces launched a missile strike on Syrian President Bashar Assad’s chemical weapons facilities. But the sanctions were not ready in time for Trump’s Friday night statement, so they were delayed.

The officials said a decision was then made to announce the sanctions as an answer to Russia’s response to the strikes. But that plan was re-evaluated and then put on hold over the weekend as it became clear that Russia’s response was less robust than anticipated. The officials were not authorized to discuss private administration deliberations publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.

A National Security Council memorandum sent overnight Friday said the new sanctions would be announced soon, but it did not specify a date. Over the next 36 hours, officials began to delve deeper into the proposed sanctions and decided to hold off on anything imminent, but Haley was unaware, the officials said.

On Monday, a new memo went out from the NSC saying that additional sanctions were under consideration, but no decision had been made. In the face of Haley’s refusal to clarify on Sunday, draft language was sent to her suggesting again that she do so, the officials said.

Haley and her office ignored that so the White House decided to push back, the officials said.

On Capitol Hill, House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., applauded the administration Tuesday as having “moved miles in the right direction” on Russia policy.

“Not only did we scuttle the reset, not only are we now sanctioning Russian citizens, not only are we sanctioning Russian oligarchs, we’re sanctioning Russia itself. We have so improved our policy with respect to Russia, far more hawkish, far more realistic,” he said.

___

Lee reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations and Lisa Mascaro in Washington contributed to this report.JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) — Missouri’s Republican legislative leadership called on GOP Gov. Eric Greitens to resign Tuesday after the state’s attorney general suggested that Greitens’ use of a charity donor list for political purposes may have broken state law. Greitens quickly replied that he won’t quit.

The Republican governor already is facing a felony invasion-of-privacy charge related to an extramarital affair that occurred as he was preparing to run for governor in 2015. Legislative leaders said the potential of a second felony charge was too much for the state to bear.

“When leaders lose the ability to effectively lead our state, the right thing to do is step aside. In our view, the time has come for the governor to resign,” House Speaker Todd Richardson said in a joint statement with House Speaker Pro Tem Elijah Haahr, and House Majority Floor Leader Rob Vescovo.

Greitens said he plans to remain in office as his May 14 trial date approaches on the invasion of privacy charge.

“I will not be resigning the Governor’s office,” he said. “In three weeks, this matter will go to a court of law, where it belongs and where the facts will prove my innocence. Until then, I will do what the people of Missouri sent me here to do: to serve them and work hard on their behalf.”

If Greitens doesn’t quit, Senate President Pro Tem Ron Richard said the House should immediately begin impeachment proceedings to try to remove him from office.

“We are past the point of concerning and alarming. Since his time in office, the governor has caused tension, conflict and hostility. The weight of his actions are being felt throughout the state,” Richard said.

Earlier Tuesday, Republican Attorney General Josh Hawley said an investigation by his office shows that Greitens took computer data listing the top donors to The Mission Continues without the consent of the St. Louis-based veterans’ charity he had founded and used it to raise money for his gubernatorial campaign.

Hawley said he referred the matter to St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner, who has jurisdiction to decide whether to charge Greitens with a crime. He also referred his findings to a special House investigatory committee that is considering whether to recommend impeachment proceedings to try to remove Greitens from office.

The Associated Press first reported in 2016 that Greitens’ campaign obtained the list and raised nearly $2 million from donors on it.

“We believe that the evidence we have will support a finding of probable cause that the governor obtained the list, used the list (and) transmitted the list without the permission of The Mission Continues and he did so for political fundraising purposes,” Hawley said at a news conference.

Greitens issued a rebuttal statement questioning the legal skills of Hawley and lambasting him for working with Gardner, a Democrat. Greitens and Hawley both won election in 2016 as maverick political outsiders. Hawley now is challenging Democratic U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill and has faced an onslaught of Democratic ads trying to link him to Greitens.

“Anyone who has set foot in a Missouri courtroom knows these allegations are ridiculous,” Greitens said. He added: “We will dispense with these false allegations.”

The invasion-of-privacy charge in St. Louis alleges he took and transmitted a nonconsensual photo of a partially nude woman with whom he had an affair in 2015. A separate House investigatory panel released a report last week containing testimony from the woman alleging that Greitens restrained, slapped, grabbed, shoved and threatened her during a series of sexual encounters that at times left her crying and afraid.

A spokeswoman for Gardner said St. Louis prosecutors met with officials from the attorney general’s office Monday and are “reviewing the evidence” related to The Mission Continues donor list.JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) — The Indonesian police’s seizure of a luxury yacht at the request of the FBI was unlawful, a Jakarta court said Tuesday, in a blow to the U.S. probe into an alleged multibillion-dollar theft of funds from a Malaysian state investment company.

At the South Jakarta District Court, Judge Ratmoho, who uses one name, ordered the return of the yacht to its owner.

Indonesian police seized the $250 million Equanimity off Bali on Feb. 28 in cooperation with the FBI but were prevented from handing it over to the U.S. after a legal challenge from the yacht’s Cayman Islands-registered holding company.

The Equanimity is among assets the U.S. Department of Justice alleges were bought by Malaysian national Jho Low using money stolen from 1MBD, the Malaysian fund, and laundered through Singapore, Switzerland, Luxembourg and the U.S.

Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak was embroiled in the scandal when it emerged that some $700 million had passed through his personal bank accounts. He denied any wrongdoing and said the money was a political donation from the Saudi royal family that was later returned.

Ratmoho said the U.S. request for cooperation should have been through Indonesia’s Ministry of Law under a 2006 law governing mutual legal assistance. Police should have advised the FBI to follow that process, he said.

“Police should only conduct joint operations after mutual legal assistance is agreed by the Ministry of Law and Human Rights,” he said.

The Department of Justice filed a civil case in June seeking recovery of assets worth several hundred million dollars it says were bought with laundered 1MBD money, including Equanimity. Overall, it says more than $4.5 billion was stolen between 2009 and 2014 from 1MBD, which was set up by Najib to promote economic development.

Low, an associate of Najib, had no formal role at the fund but considerable influence over it, according to the U.S. court documents.

Andi Simangunsong, a lawyer for Equanimity’s holding company, welcomed the ruling and said the court had provided clear guidance to police on dealing with foreign requests for legal cooperation.

“There are procedures to be followed under the mutual legal assistance law,” he said. “We hope our law enforcers will pay attention to these procedures.”

Lawyers for police declined to comment.

National Police deputy director of economic crimes Daniel Silitonga, who headed the seizure operation, said police would review the court ruling to determine their next steps.

“We are now closely coordinating with the FBI to respond to it.”

Equanimity’s lavish amenities include a helicopter landing pad, plunge pool, gymnasium and a cinema. It was built in 2014 by Netherlands yacht manufacturer Oceano, which received detailed instructions from Low about its outfitting, according to the U.S. civil case documents.Washington (AFP) – The US military’s hands-off approach on the ground in Syria is ceding influence to Russia and Iran, a top lawmaker warned Tuesday, as the Pentagon said it has seen the Islamic State “resurge” in parts of the country.

Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman Bob Corker said Moscow and Tehran have “significant influence” in the war-ravaged Middle Eastern nation due to their years-long commitment, while President Donald Trump signals the US could be headed for the exits there.

When asked whether he wanted a greater US troop presence to shape events in Syria, Corker was somber.

“I think the administration’s plans are to complete the efforts against ISIS and to not be involved,” he said, using another acronym for the jihadist group.

A frustrated Corker spoke after exiting a classified briefing by Secretary of Defense James Mattis and top generals, who explained the Pentagon’s strategy to lawmakers following last weekend’s missile strikes on Syria.

“Syria is Russia and Iran’s now. They will be determining the future,” he said.

“We may be at the table, but when you’re just talking and have nothing to do with shaping what’s happening on the ground, you’re just talking.”

Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, expressed alarm about a lack of US engagement in the country where insurgents have waged a brutal civil war against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad.

“Everything in that briefing made me more worried, not less,” he said.

– ‘All tweet, no action’ –

“There is no military strategy on the table to deal with the malign influence of Iran and Russia,” Graham said.

After the pinpoint air strikes that Trump telegraphed on social media, “I think Assad… believes we’re all tweet, no action,” he added.

Democrats joined in the criticism, with Senator Chris Coons, warning that Trump’s administration has “failed to deliver on a coherent plan” in Syria.

“If we completely withdraw, our leverage in any diplomatic resolution or reconstruction, or any hope for a post-Assad Syria, goes away.”

Meanwhile, Colonel Ryan Dillon, a spokesman for the US-led coalition fighting IS in Syria and Iraq, said Assad’s regime and Russia have not always been able to hold the terrain recaptured from IS.

“As we look at ISIS in areas where we are not operating, where we are not supporting our partners on the ground, there has been ISIS elements who have been able to come back and take territory (including in) some of the neighborhoods in southern Damascus,” Dillon said.

“We’ve seen ISIS start to resurge in areas west of the Euphrates River.”

The US military is closely watching IS in Syria and Iraq, where the jihadists have lost 98 percent of the land they once held, according to the Pentagon.

Progress however has halted in recent weeks in areas where the US-led coalition is fighting IS through the Syrian Democratic Forces, a local proxy group, due to Turkish military action in the north.

Ankara in January launched a bloody operation around Afrin to push Kurdish fighters out of the city.

Many of the Kurds who had been engaged in anti-IS operations have quit that fight to support comrades in Afrin.WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump’s pick for secretary of state, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, is facing so much opposition from Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that the panel could be forced to take the unusual step of sending the nomination to the full Senate without a favorable recommendation.

Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire on Tuesday became the latest member of the committee to announce her opposition, and Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., recently said he would vote no. Both supported Pompeo as CIA director last year.

Pompeo is still expected to have enough votes in the full Senate to replace Rex Tillerson, who was fired by Trump. But as support peels away, his confirmation may come down to a handful of senators. The backlash ahead of the panel’s vote is a rare rebuke for such a high-profile Cabinet pick, and sets Pompeo on a potentially uneven path for the new job.

“I continue to have deep concerns regarding Mr. Pompeo’s past statements and policy views, particularly in regards to the LGBTQ community, American Muslims and women’s reproductive rights,” Shaheen said in a statement, after calling the former Kansas congressman Tuesday to tell him she would be opposed.

Shaheen said Pompeo’s previous roles “are fundamentally different from that of Secretary of State, who represents American values around the world.”

Rarely has the panel failed to back a nominee, and some said not since President George W. Bush nominated John Bolton as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations has the committee declined to recommend a White House pick.

Republicans have a narrow Senate majority, which gives them a single-vote advantage on the panel. But with stiff opposition from Democrats — and at least one Republican, Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, opposed — the committee may have few other options when it convenes as soon as next week.

“We’ll see,” said the committee’s chairman, Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn.

Under Senate rules, if the nominee does not have support in the committee, the panel could report to the full Senate unfavorably, which would send a strong rebuke to the White House, or simply report without a recommendation. It also could take no action.

One top committee Democrat, Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland, said he was still reviewing his decision. Senators submitted more than 100 questions for the nominee after his initial hearing, and many are waiting for those responses.

Trump initially tapped Pompeo as CIA director, one of his first Cabinet nominees in 2017, and they became close allies. But some Democrats have faced resistance for their votes, and Pompeo is having a tougher path as the nominee for secretary of state over his hawkish foreign policy views and comments about minorities, having suggested that Muslims should denounce extremism and gay people should not be able to marry.

During his confirmation hearing last week, Pompeo told senators it’s unlikely he’d resign if Trump fired special counsel Robert Mueller, who is leading the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.

Of the more than a dozen Democrats who supported Pompeo’s nomination as CIA director in 2017, at least four, including Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California and Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii, now oppose his nomination for State.

“The Secretary of State is a very different role than CIA director, and it’s not the kind of position you learn on the job,” Feinstein said in a statement Tuesday. “I sense a certain disdain for diplomacy in Mike Pompeo that I believe disqualifies him from being our next senior diplomat.”

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who also backed Pompeo earlier, declined to say Tuesday how he would vote.

___

Follow Mascaro on Twitter at https://twitter.com/LisaMascaroSAN DIEGO (AP) — California’s second-largest county voted Tuesday to officially support the Trump administration’s lawsuit against the state’s so-called sanctuary law that limits police cooperation with federal immigration agents.

The decision by San Diego County’s all-Republican Board of Supervisors comes amid a growing conservative backlash in California against the Democratic governor’s stance on immigration enforcement.

The region of 3 million residents that borders Mexico joins neighboring Orange County and at least nine other Orange County cities that have passed anti-sanctuary resolutions or voted to support the lawsuit filed last month by President Donald Trump’s administration.

The board voted 3-1, with one member absent. It pledged to file an amicus brief supporting the federal lawsuit at the first available opportunity, chairwoman Kristin Gaspar said. She expects the Trump administration to win and California to appeal, at which point the county would be allowed to file its brief.

Gaspar is among a crowded field of candidates seeking to replace Republican U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa, who announced he was retiring after nine terms.

The board made the decision in closed session after hearing 45 minutes of public comment. Most of the more than two dozen speakers urged the supervisors not to support the lawsuit.

Gaspar held up a stack of printed emails and letters more than foot high that she said the board had received from residents who want the county to stand up against the state policy. She held up a second stack of only a few inches that she said was correspondence from those opposed to supporting the lawsuit.

Citing the San Diego County Sheriff’s Department, Gaspar said the sanctuary law has allowed 284 criminal suspects to be released instead of handed over to immigration authorities since January. Before the law, San Diego had a close relationship with police, she said.

“San Diego was really a model of excellence before,” Gaspar said. “We were safer before SB54.”

California Gov. Jerry Brown said Tuesday that opponents like to overstate the law’s restrictions. He said nothing prevents local officials from notifying federal immigration officials that suspects are about to be released.

“If you look at the law, it allows reasonable collaboration at all levels between state officials and federal officials,” Brown told reporters at the National Press Club in Washington. “We’ll find out when the court rules, there’s less there than meets the eye.”

The governor said Washington’s tough stance against immigrants in the country illegally is “just an inflammatory football that very low-life politicians like to exploit.”

If President Donald Trump “wants to round them up like some totalitarian government and ship them out, say that,” Brown said. “But he doesn’t say that because the American people would repudiate him and his party.”

California’s all-Democratic leadership has positioned the state as a national leader in battling the Trump administration, especially on immigration issues.

Government leaders at the state level and in big cities have condemned mass raids and deportation efforts, the president’s call for a border wall with Mexico and Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ “zero tolerance” order to prosecute people caught illegally entering the United States for the first time.

Brown elicited rare praise from Trump last week for pledging to contribute 400 troops to the National Guard’s deployment to the Mexican border. But Brown was clear that California troops will help go after drugs, guns and criminal gangs — not immigrants.

San Diego County heard from both sides Tuesday.

Margaret Baker, who lives near the U.S.-Mexico border in San Diego County, told officials that backing the lawsuit will “be a stain on your legacy.” She said it will discourage immigrants from reporting crime.

“We see this lawsuit as an attack on our safety and the well-being of our community,” she said.

Luis Reyes said the state law is unconstitutional, and California must do something about illegal immigration before it’s too late.

“We’re looking at something like what is happening in Europe coming this way,” he said.

The board voted a day after the small town of Los Alamitos in neighboring Orange County declared itself legally exempt from the state policy.

The City Council approved the first ordinance of its kind late Monday in a 4-1 vote, which was followed by a peaceful but noisy confrontation with demonstrators on both sides of the issue.

Like San Diego County, the city of 12,000 argues that the federal government — not the state — has authority over immigration, the same argument made by the Trump administration.

___

Associated Press writer Kathleen Ronayne in Sacramento contributed to this report.HOUSTON (AP) — Barbara Bush, the snowy-haired first lady whose plainspoken manner and utter lack of pretense made her more popular at times than her husband, President George H.W. Bush, died Tuesday. She was 92.

Family spokesman Jim McGrath confirmed the death in a statement. The cause wasn’t immediately known.

Mrs. Bush brought a grandmotherly style to buttoned-down Washington, often appearing in her trademark fake pearl chokers and displaying no vanity about her white hair and wrinkles.

“What you see with me is what you get. I’m not running for president — George Bush is,” she said at the 1988 Republican National Convention, where her husband, then vice president, was nominated to succeed Ronald Reagan.

The Bushes, who were married Jan. 6, 1945, had the longest marriage of any presidential couple in American history. And Mrs. Bush was one of only two first ladies who had a child who was elected president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams.

“I had the best job in America,” she wrote in a 1994 memoir describing her time in the White House. “Every single day was interesting, rewarding, and sometimes just plain fun.”

The publisher’s daughter and oilman’s wife could be caustic in private, but her public image was that of a self-sacrificing, supportive spouse who referred to her husband as her “hero.”

In the White House, “you need a friend, someone who loves you, who’s going to say, ‘You are great,'” Mrs. Bush said in a 1992 television interview.

Her uncoiffed, matronly appearance often provoked jokes that she looked more like the boyish president’s mother than his wife. Late-night comedians quipped that her bright white hair and pale features also imparted a resemblance to George Washington.

Eight years after leaving the nation’s capital, Mrs. Bush stood with her husband as their son George W. was sworn in as president. They returned four years later when he won a second term. Unlike Mrs. Bush, Abigail Adams did not live to see her son’s inauguration. She died in 1818, six years before John Quincy Adams was elected.

Mrs. Bush insisted she did not try to influence her husband’s politics.

“I don’t fool around with his office,” she said, “and he doesn’t fool around with my household.”

In 1984, her quick wit got her into trouble when she was quoted as referring to Geraldine Ferraro, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, as “that $4 million — I can’t say it, but it rhymes with rich.”

“It was dumb of me. I shouldn’t have said it,” Mrs. Bush acknowledged in 1988. “It was not attractive, and I’ve been very shamed. I apologized to Mrs. Ferraro, and I would apologize again.”

Daughter-in-law Laura Bush, wife of the 43rd president, said Mrs. Bush was “ferociously tart-tongued.”

“She’s never shied away from saying what she thinks. … She’s managed to insult nearly all of my friends with one or another perfectly timed acerbic comment,” Laura Bush wrote in her 2010 book, “Spoken from the Heart.”

In her 1994 autobiography, “Barbara Bush: A Memoir,” Mrs. Bush said she did her best to keep her opinions from the public while her husband was in office. But she revealed that she disagreed with him on two issues: She supported legal abortion and opposed the sale of assault weapons.

“I honestly felt, and still feel, the elected person’s opinion is the one the public has the right to know,” Mrs. Bush wrote.

She also disclosed a bout with depression in the mid-1970s, saying she sometimes feared she would deliberately crash her car. She blamed hormonal changes and stress.

“Night after night, George held me weeping in his arms while I tried to explain my feelings,” she wrote. “I almost wonder why he didn’t leave me.”

She said she snapped out of it in a few months.

Mrs. Bush raised five children: George W., Jeb, Neil, Marvin and Dorothy. A sixth child, 3-year-old daughter Robin, died of leukemia in 1953.

In a speech in 1985, she recalled the stress of raising a family while married to a man whose ambitions carried him from the Texas oil fields to Congress and into influential political positions that included ambassador to the United Nations, GOP chairman and CIA director.

“This was a period, for me, of long days and short years,” she said, “of diapers, runny noses, earaches, more Little League games than you could believe possible, tonsils and those unscheduled races to the hospital emergency room, Sunday school and church, of hours of urging homework or short chubby arms around your neck and sticky kisses.”

Along the way, she said, there were also “bumpy moments — not many, but a few — of feeling that I’d never, ever be able to have fun again and coping with the feeling that George Bush, in his excitement of starting a small company and traveling around the world, was having a lot of fun.”

In 2003, she wrote a follow-up memoir, “Reflections: Life After the White House.”

“I made no apologies for the fact that I still live a life of ease,” she wrote. “There is a difference between ease and leisure. I live the former and not the latter.”

Along with her memoirs, she wrote “C. Fred’s Story” and “Millie’s Book,” based on the lives of her dogs. Proceeds from the books benefited adult and family literacy programs. Laura Bush, a former teacher with a master’s degree in library science, continued her mother-in-law’s literacy campaign in the White House.

The 43rd president was not the only Bush son to seek office in the 1990s. In 1994, when George W. was elected governor of Texas, son Jeb narrowly lost to incumbent Lawton Chiles in Florida. Four years later, Jeb was victorious in his second try in Florida.

“This is a testament to what wonderful parents they are,” George W. Bush said as Jeb Bush was sworn into office. He won a second term in 2002, and then made an unsuccessful bid for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.

Sons Marvin and Neil both became businessmen. Neil achieved some notoriety in the 1980s as a director of a savings and loan that crashed. Daughter Dorothy, or Doro, has preferred to stay out of the spotlight. She married lobbyist Robert Koch, a Democrat, in 1992.

In a collection of letters published in 1999, George H.W. Bush included a note he gave to his wife in early 1994.

“You have given me joy that few men know,” he wrote. “You have made our boys into men by bawling them out and then, right away, by loving them. You have helped Doro to be the sweetest, greatest daughter in the whole wide world. I have climbed perhaps the highest mountain in the world, but even that cannot hold a candle to being Barbara’s husband.”

Mrs. Bush was born Barbara Pierce in Rye, New York. Her father was the publisher of McCall’s and Redbook magazines. After attending Smith College for two years, she married young naval aviator George Herbert Walker Bush. She was 19.

After World War II, the Bushes moved to the Texas oil patch to seek their fortune and raise a family. It was there that Bush began his political career, representing Houston for two terms in Congress in the late 1960s and early 1970s.

In all, the Bushes made more than two dozen moves that circled half the globe before landing at the White House in 1989. Opinion polls taken over the next four years often showed her approval ratings higher than her husband’s.

The couple’s final move, after Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton, was to Houston, where they built what she termed their “dream house” in an affluent neighborhood. The Bush family also had an oceanfront summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine.

After retiring to Houston, the Bushes helped raise funds for charities and appeared frequently at events such as Houston Astros baseball games. Public schools in the Houston area are named for both of them.

In 1990, Barbara Bush gave the commencement address at all-women Wellesley College. Some had protested her selection because she was prominent only through the achievements of her husband. Her speech that day was rated by a survey of scholars in 1999 as one of the top 100 speeches of the century.

“Cherish your human connections,” Mrs. Bush told graduates. “At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a child, a friend or a parent.”

___

Online:

George Bush Presidential Library, http://bushlibrary.tamu.edu/NORRISTOWN, Pa. (AP) — Bill Cosby’s own words from 2005 might have undercut his defense on sexual-assault charges.

Prosecutors on Tuesday sought to maximize the impact of Cosby’s graphic deposition, in which he testified about his sexual encounter with chief accuser Andrea Constand and acknowledged apologizing to her mother a year later “because I’m thinking this is a dirty old man with a young girl.”

Cosby, 80, testified more than a dozen years ago as part of a civil lawsuit that Constand filed against him, and prosecutors won the right to introduce it at his sexual-assault retrial on charges he drugged and molested her at his suburban Philadelphia home.

In a transcript read to the jury, Cosby testified he believed the encounter was in 2004, undermining his defense team’s assertion that it had to have been earlier and thus outside the criminal statute of limitations. Cosby was charged in late 2015.

Cosby also testified he didn’t think Constand had come forward to collect a big payday. But his defense team has called Constand a “con artist” who set him up by leveling false accusations of sexual assault.

Montgomery County Detective James Reape, who has been working on the Cosby investigation since it was reopened in 2015, told jurors he wasn’t concerned about inconsistencies in Constand’s story, such as her early uncertainty over the date of the alleged assault, because Cosby’s testimony had filled in many of the blanks.

“The defendant said it happened. The defendant said it happened in 2004. The defendant said he was present. The defendant admitted to the contact that she said happened,” Reape told jurors. “When I look at who, what, when, where, why in 2015, I’m able to see the answers.”

Reape made clear what he thinks of Cosby: “I have strong beliefs that he drugged and sexually assaulted Andrea Constand.”

Cosby says the encounter with Constand was consensual.

As prosecutors approached the end of their case, jurors were expected to hear more from the deposition on Wednesday, including Cosby’s explosive testimony about how he gave quaaludes to women before sex.

The unsealing of the deposition, at the request of The Associated Press, led prosecutors to reopen Cosby’s criminal case and shredded his good-guy persona as America’s Dad.

Jurors got a sense of Cosby’s view of consent when the comedian described in the deposition reaching an area “somewhere between permission and rejection” during what he claims was a prior sexual encounter with Constand.

“I’m giving Andrea time to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ about an area that is right there in the question zone,” Cosby testified.

He said he rubbed the skin above her trousers and “without talking I’m asking can I go farther.”

“I don’t hear her say anything. And I don’t feel her say anything,” Cosby testified in the deposition. “And so I continue, and I go into the area that is somewhere between permission and rejection. I am not stopped.”

He then described the purported encounter in extremely graphic terms that had several jurors with their hands to their chins, some of them looking taken aback, pained or disgusted.

Constand has testified she rejected Cosby’s prior advances.

Judge Steven O’Neill ruled on Tuesday that prosecutors could have the “Cosby Show” star’s deposition testimony read into the record, handing the prosecution a key victory in its effort to portray the comedian as a serial predator.

The deposition also was included at Cosby’s first trial, which ended with a hung jury last year.

Prosecutors used another of Cosby’s statements, one he gave to police in 2005, to show how he described the encounter for which he is facing aggravated indecent assault charges that could send him to prison for years.

Cosby said he gave Constand 1 1/2 tablets of the cold and allergy medicine Benadryl to help her relax, then fondled her breasts and genitals, according to the police transcript, which also was read to the jury on Tuesday.

Cosby said Constand never told him to stop.

“We are petting. I enjoyed it,” the TV star said, according to the transcript. “And then I stopped, and I went up to bed. We stopped, and then we talked.”

Constand says Cosby knocked her out with the pills and then sexually assaulted her, penetrating her with his fingers and guiding her hand to his penis. Cosby told police he didn’t remember whether Constand touched his genitals.

The jury was expected to hear Wednesday about Cosby’s acknowledged use of quaaludes, a popular party drug in the 1970s that was banned in the U.S. in 1982, to help get women to have sex with him.

Cosby said in his deposition that he had obtained several prescriptions for quaaludes from his doctor in Los Angeles in the 1970s, ostensibly for a sore back. The long-married comedian said he never took the drug, instead giving it to women he wanted to have sex with “the same as a person would say, ‘Have a drink.'”

“Quaaludes happen to be the drug that kids, young people were using to party with, and there were times when I wanted to have them just in case,” Cosby testified.

The comic settled Constand’s lawsuit for nearly $3.4 million.

Cosby’s lawyers argued the testimony is irrelevant to his retrial because there is no evidence he gave Constand the drug. Prosecutors have suggested otherwise.

On Monday, Constand rejected defense allegations that she concocted her story to score a big payday, and her mother testified that Cosby apologized in a phone call and called himself a “sick man.”

Andrea and Gianna Constand’s testimony followed that of five additional accusers who told jurors that Cosby had drugged and assaulted them two decades earlier.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

Follow Mike Sisak at https://twitter.com/mikesisak.

___

For more coverage visit https://www.apnews.com/tag/CosbyonTrial.United Nations (United States) (AFP) – US Ambassador Nikki Haley on Tuesday shot back at a White House aide who suggested that “confusion” had led her to mistakenly announce fresh sanctions on Russia.

“With all due respect, I don’t get confused,” Haley said in a statement to Fox News that was confirmed by the US mission to the United Nations.

Haley on Sunday said new US sanctions on Russia would be announced on Monday by US Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, but the White House said no such decision had been made.

President Donald Trump’s assistant for economic policy, Larry Kudlow, told reporters that Haley “got ahead of the curve” with her announcement of sanctions on Russia over an alleged chemical attack by President Bashar al-Assad’s forces in Syria.

“There might have been some momentary confusion about that,” Kudlow told reporters ahead of a meeting between Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

A former governor of South Carolina who has been a leading voice on foreign policy since taking over as US ambassador to the United Nations, Haley has taken a hard line on Russia.WICHITA, Kan. (AP) — Jurors began deliberating Tuesday afternoon in the case against three Kansas militia members accused of scheming to bomb a mosque and apartment complex housing Somalis.

During closing arguments, Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Mattivi credited another militia member for alerting authorities, calling Dan Day the “one man standing between these three defendants and apartment complex full of innocent people.”

Curtis Allen, Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright face charges of conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction and conspiracy against civil rights. Wright also faces a charge of lying to the FBI.

The government has argued the men formed a splinter group of the militia Kansas Security Force that came to be known as “the Crusaders.” The three men were indicted in October 2016 for an attack planned for the day after the Presidential election in the meatpacking town of Garden City, 220 miles (350 kilometers) west of Wichita. The government has said that the men wanted to “exterminate cockroaches,” saying they wanted to send the message that Muslims are not welcomed.

Prosecutors played a jailhouse conversation in which Stein tells his mother, “We were (expletive) infiltrated, mom.”

Day was “the one militia member who decided to do the right thing,” Mattivi said.

Not only did Day alert authorities to the escalating talk of violence, but he agreed to secretly record months of conversations. There were times he was scared for his life, but couldn’t live with himself if that apartment building got blown away, Mattivi told jurors.

“The heart of that hero is the heart of this case,” Mattivi said.

But defense attorneys tried to cast doubt on Day’s credibility as an informant who was paid more than $32,000 during the investigation. It was Day who had suggested the apartment complex as the target, and the FBI picked it because it was a rental property that would allow the government to claim federal jurisdiction in the case, said Melody Brannon, the attorney representing Allen.

“Make no mistake there was a conspiracy — it’s just not the one the government wants you to believe,” Brannon said. “There was indeed a conspiracy but the conspiracy was between Patrick Stein, Dan Day and the FBI.”

Brannon told jurors that the government was “investigating for the conviction, not for the truth.”

She urged jurors not to trust a paid informant who choose the target, asking them to return a not guilty verdict “to tell the government that their evidence and their tactics are too untrustworthy.”

Defense attorney Jim Pratt, who represents Stein, told jurors that the other militia members who had not alerted authorities didn’t so not because they were scared but because they knew the men were just venting and didn’t take their words seriously.

“All words, not action,” Pratt said.

Day and the government gave Stein a sense of purpose and allowed him to continue down a path they created for him to build chargeable offenses, Pratt said.

“It is not morally right to hold such hate, but it is not legally wrong,” Pratt said. “We all have the right to hate.”

Defense attorney Kari Schmidt, who represents Wright, told jurors that her client was not at many of the key moments in the government’s plot.

But the government argued that the defendants manufactured explosives and brought 300 pounds of fertilizer to an undercover agent to make explosives. They planned to put razor blades, nails and ball bearings in the bombs to make them more deadly.

“Defendants didn’t just express their views, the defendants plotted to murder dozens of innocent men women and children,” Mattivi said.

And he said the government left other militia members alone regardless of their views or their guns. He noted the government that the defendants so distrust has given them a fair trial.

“The evidence in this case has showcased the very best of the FBI, the very best of the United States,” Mattivi said.NORRISTOWN, Pa. (AP) — The Latest on Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial (all times local):

6:10 p.m.

Bill Cosby’s own words are undercutting his defense.

Jurors at the comedian’s sexual assault retrial are hearing portions of a deposition he gave in 2005 as part of a civil lawsuit filed by his chief accuser.

Andrea Constand says Cosby drugged and molested her at his suburban Philadelphia home. He says she consented.

Cosby testified in 2005 that he believed their encounter was in 2004, undercutting his current defense team’s assertion that it had to have been earlier and outside the criminal statute of limitations. Cosby was charged in late 2015.

The 80-year-old also testified in the deposition that he didn’t think Constand had come forward to collect a big payday. His defense team has called Constand a “con artist” who set him up by leveling false accusations of sexual assault.

___

4:30 p.m.

Jurors are getting a sense of Bill Cosby’s view of consent from lurid deposition testimony in which the comedian described reaching an area “somewhere between permission and rejection” during what he claims was a prior sexual encounter with his chief accuser.

Cosby testified a dozen years ago as part of a civil lawsuit that Andrea Constand filed against him.

A prosecutor and detective are reading excerpts from Cosby’s 2005 testimony at his sexual assault retrial Tuesday.

In the deposition, Cosby graphically described a sexual encounter he says he and Constand once had.

Constand has testified she rejected Cosby’s previous advances. The former Temple University women’s basketball administrator accused Cosby of drugging and molesting her at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004.

The jury at Cosby’s first trial deadlocked on the charges.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

12:25 p.m.

Jurors are hearing from a police interview in which Bill Cosby acknowledged fondling his chief accuser’s breasts and genitals after giving her pills at his suburban Philadelphia home.

Authorities are reading a transcript of the January 26, 2005, interview to the jury Tuesday. The interview was conducted about two weeks after Andrea Constand went to police.

The 80-year-old “Cosby Show” star says he gave Constand 1½ tablets of the cold and allergy medicine Benadryl to help her relax. He says she showed no ill effects from the pills and did not object when he touched her.

Cosby told investigators he had a social and romantic relationship with Constand.

Constand says Cosby knocked her out with the pills and then sexually assaulted her.

Cosby’s first trial ended without a verdict.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

12:05 p.m.

A police sergeant has told jurors that a suburban Philadelphia prosecutor abruptly shut down an initial investigation into allegations that Bill Cosby sexually assaulted a woman.

Cheltenham Township Police Sgt. Richard Schaffer testified Tuesday that then-Montgomery County District Attorney Bruce Castor announced he was closing the 2005 probe just hours after investigators met to discuss leads that needed to be followed up.

Castor ended the investigation into Cosby four weeks after Andrea Constand told police the comedian had drugged and molested her about a year earlier. The prosecutor has said the evidence showed both parties “could be held in less than a flattering light.”

His successors reopened the criminal case in 2015 after Cosby’s testimony from Constand’s civil suit was unsealed.

Cosby says his encounter with Constand was consensual.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

9:30 a.m.

The judge in Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial says jurors can hear the comedian’s prior testimony about giving quaaludes to women before sex.

Judge Steven O’Neill ruled Tuesday that prosecutors can read the testimony into the record at Cosby’s retrial on charges he drugged and molested Andrea Constand at his suburban Philadelphia mansion in 2004.

Cosby testified at a deposition related to Constand’s lawsuit against him that he had gotten quaaludes from his doctor in Los Angeles in the 1970s. He said he was given seven prescriptions for the now-banned sedative, ostensibly for a sore back.

Cosby said he never took the drug, instead giving it to women he wanted to have sex with.

Cosby’s lawyers argued the testimony is irrelevant to his retrial because there’s no evidence he gave Constand the drug.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

8:30 a.m.

Bill Cosby has arrived for his sexual assault retrial, where prosecutors are building to a close in their case.

A spokeswoman for the 80-year-old comedian blasted his chief accuser and her mother as they arrived at a suburban Philadelphia courthouse Tuesday morning.

Ebonee Benson says that Andrea and her mother Gianna Constand’s testimony “seemed to be more colorful and more embellished” than during last year’s trial that ended with a hung jury.

Constand on Monday denied making up her story to set up a big pay day, and her mother testified that Cosby apologized.

Cosby is on trial over charges he drugged and molested Constand in 2004. He says the encounter was consensual.

Investigators and a pharmaceutical expert are expected to take the stand on the seventh day of the proceedings.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

12:30 a.m.

Prosecutors are building to the conclusion of their case against comedian Bill Cosby in his sexual assault retrial.

Investigators and a pharmaceutical expert are expected to take the stand beginning Tuesday.

Prosecutors on Monday delivered a one-two punch as chief accuser Andrea Constand rejected defense allegations that she concocted her story to score a big payday, and her mother testified that Cosby apologized.

Andrea and Gianna Constand’s testimony followed that of five additional accusers who told jurors that Cosby had drugged and assaulted them two decades earlier.

Andrea Constand has accused Cosby of drugging and molesting her at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. Cosby has denied the allegations.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Twenty South Carolina prisoners have been killed at the hands of fellow inmates in the past 16 months. The staggering amount of violence, which includes the gang-fueled bloodshed that left seven prisoners dead and 22 injured this week at Lee Correctional Institution, has some legislators calling for more oversight and transparency at the state Department of Corrections.

At a news conference, Corrections Director Bryan Stirling said officers stormed in and took the first of three dorms back from rioting prisoners about four hours after the melee began. He said the officers were assembled at the rural prison as quickly as possible and went in only when it was safe to do so.

After the institution was back under control, it then took more time to get injured inmates to hospitals. The prison is located 40 miles east of Columbia.

“It shouldn’t take five hours to get in there and put some water on these fires,” said state Rep. Justin Bamberg, a Democrat and lawyer whose clients include the families of several inmates who were attacked in previous instances.

Contraband cellphones and staffing shortages are often blamed for many of the department’s woes. Stirling, who oversees 21 prisons and more than 19,000 inmates, has said he’s hired some of the 500 corrections officers he needs, but stresses the need for funding more officers.

Sen. Gerald Malloy, whose district includes Lee Correctional, said the government has a responsibility to keep the prison population safe and thinks lawmakers need to look at whether cost savings in corrections has been efficient.

“The burden comes back to the General Assembly, what are you going to do?” he said.

Stirling – who served as then-Gov. Nikki Haley’s chief of staff before she appointed him to lead the prisons in 2013 – said his No. 1 security threat is cellphones, which gives inmates unfettered communication allowing them to commit crimes inside and outside of prison. He said the riot started Sunday night as a gang war over territory, money and illegal items such as cellphones.

Stirling has urged the Federal Communications Commission to allow the prison to block or jam cellphone signals to prevent inmates from using them.

Violence at Lee and other institutions throughout South Carolina is not surprising, Republican Gov. Henry McMaster noted at the news conference. McMaster echoed Stirling’s call for the ability to jam cellphones in prison but didn’t propose any other substantive alternatives. “We do the best we can,” the governor said.

From 2001 to 2014, an average of 60 inmates died annually in state prisons across the country, according to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics. In 2017, a dozen South Carolina inmates were killed by other inmates.

“That’s staggeringly out of proportion,” said John Pfaff, a Fordham law professor who tracks prison data. “It makes a prison that is supposed to be a secure facility – a place with no weapons, a place where you can’t leave – as dangerous as living in the most dangerous city in America.”

In February, an inmate killed a fellow prisoner at Lee, where this week’s attack took place among inmates armed with homemade knives used to slash and stab rival gang members. An inmate stabbed two officers in 2015. At Kirkland, another maximum-security prison, two inmates killed four prisoners last year in under an hour.

For the past few months, The Associated Press has been communicating with a Lee prisoner who used a contraband cellphone to offer insight into life behind bars. He said inmates there roam freely, have easy access to cellphones and drugs, and are often left to police themselves.

The inmate spoke to AP on the condition of anonymity because his cellphone is illegal and he fears retribution from other prisoners. He described a facility run by gangs, and guards who take a hands-off approach because they fear for their own safety.

In the most recent incident, he told AP that officers stayed in a control booth for hours Sunday night, waiting for backup as inmates lay dying in pools of blood. That echoes earlier anecdotes he shared about what happens whenever gang fights break out.

“The Crips and Bloods had a confrontation just a few feet from my cell door and, when the knives, machetes, axes, pipes and body armor came out, the cops were nowhere to be found,” he wrote in February.

To get away from the fighting, the inmate said he stays in his cell. But the door lock has been broken for months, so he said he and others jam materials into the lock to try to keep others from coming in.

“ALL of the doors to the cells are broken,” the inmate wrote. “At any time, I can let myself out of my cell, to do whatever it is that I would want to do.”

___

Associated Press writers Jeffrey Collins and Christina Myers in Columbia contributed to this report.

___

Kinnard can be reached at http://twitter.com/MegKinnardAP . Read more of her work at https://apnews.com/search/meg%20kinnard .

___

This story has been corrected to say Kirkland instead of McCormick.GENEVA (AP) — The United States has told the World Trade Organization it has agreed to discuss with China the Trump administration’s efforts to slap tariffs on steel, aluminum and an array of goods from China.

A Geneva-based trade official said Tuesday that the move was an expected, but not mandatory, step that buys Washington time to flesh out its differences with Beijing.

China requested the discussions about U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports that the administration has defended on national security grounds, and the possibility of U.S. tariffs on 1,300 Chinese goods. The tariffs on the goods have been billed as a penalty for Beijing forcing U.S. companies to hand over technology to obtain access to China’s market.

The official said the United States had agreed to the discussions, known as consultations in WTO parlance, without yielding about its belief that the tariffs are justified. The official requested anonymity since he was not authorized to speak publicly about the discussions.

The United States has argued that the proposed tariffs on goods like electronics and machinery have not been levied yet, so China’s request wasn’t justified under WTO dispute settlement rules.

Also Tuesday, India requested consultations with the United States over the steel and aluminum tariffs, seeking to maintain a similar level of concessions from the U.S. — mirroring a similar move a day earlier by the European Union.

Critics of the U.S. tariffs on the metals accuse Washington of unfairly trying to defend a national industrial sector under the guise of national security concerns.

Mexico and Canada — U.S. trading partners under the NAFTA agreement — are among countries that have won temporary exemptions to the otherwise blanket tariffs on U.S. imports of aluminum and steel.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the outage of the IRS payment website (all times local):

4:30 p.m.

Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin says Americans who have been unable to pay their taxes Tuesday because the IRS payment website is down will receive an extension when the site is working again.

The website has been down most of the day and wasn’t operational as of 4:30 p.m. EDT.

Mnuchin commented on the outage when asked by reporters after an event in Derry, New Hampshire, where he promoted the Trump tax overhaul along with Ivanka Trump.

Mnuchin described the problem as a “high-volume technical issue” that the IRS is attempting to resolve.

Tax day falls on April 17 this year because April 15 was a Sunday and April 16 was Emancipation Day, a holiday in Washington, D.C.

___

4:10 p.m.

The IRS website where people can pay their taxes and access other key services has been down for most the day, frustrating last-minute tax filers.

A message on the website about the outage indicates the agency still expects Americans to pay their taxes on time.

The IRS did not give an immediate explanation for the failure but said in a statement that “certain IRS systems are experiencing technical difficulties.”

The agency also said that taxpayers should filing their tax returns as they normally would. The problem is, electronic filing is the most popular way to file.

Tax day falls on April 17 this year because April 15 was a Sunday and April 16 was Emancipation Day, a holiday in Washington, D.C.SAN DIEGO (AP) — President Donald Trump on Tuesday slammed California Gov. Jerry Brown’s posture on sending National Guard troops to the Mexican border even as Brown said he was nearing agreement on joining the president’s mission.

The volley of words came a day after federal officials said Brown rejected a proposal for the California Guard’s specific border duties, a characterization that state officials disputed.

“Looks like Jerry Brown and California are not looking for safety and security along their very porous Border,” Trump said in an early-morning tweet. “He cannot come to terms for the National Guard to patrol and protect the Border.”

Brown’s office responded with a tweet reiterating its public stance that nothing has changed since the governor pledged 400 troops last week and that the state was waiting on a response to proposed contract that would include a ban on any activities related to immigration enforcement.

The Democratic governor said California was “pretty close” to an agreement with the administration to join the nation’s three other Mexican border states — Arizona, New Mexico and Texas — for the Guard’s third large-scale border deployment since 2006.

Brown expressed strong interest in work against drug and gun smuggling and human trafficking, noting that the California Guard already had about 50 troops near the border on such efforts.

“It is a very logical next step to add a couple hundred more, or more than that, and the Guard is chomping at the bit ready to go and so, I think we’ll get there,” Brown told reporters at the National Press Club in Washington.

The Republican governors of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas have openly embraced the administration’s plans and specific jobs for their troops, along with Trump’s premise to fight illegal immigration and drugs. Troops from Texas are already doing aerial and ground surveillance to assist the Border Patrol. The Arizona National Guard said last week that its troops will provide air and ground support.

Brown has conditioned his contribution of 400 troops on avoiding any immigration work, even in a supporting role. Talks with the federal government on what specific jobs that would entail are ongoing. It is unclear how troops would distinguish work related on immigration from drug smuggling and other crimes.

Ronald Vitiello, U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s acting deputy commissioner, said Monday that Brown rejected terms of an initial troop rollout that was similar to plans for Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. But Vitiello emphasized that California may contribute in other ways must still be worked out. Robert Salesses, the Defense Department’s deputy assistant secretary for homeland defense integration, said the initial phase had called for 237 California troops.

According to two U.S. officials, the federal government’s initial rollout of National Guard member border duties includes fixing and maintaining vehicles, using remote-control surveillance cameras to report suspicious activity to U.S. Border Patrol agents, operating radios and providing “mission support,” which can include clerical work, buying gas and handling payrolls. The officials spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter.

Brown elicited rare and effusive praise from Trump last week when he pledged 400 troops, which helped put the president above the lower end of his threshold of marshaling 2,000 to 4,000 troops for his border mission. The governor cast his decision as a welcome infusion of support paid for by the U.S. government to fight transnational criminal gangs and drug and firearms smugglers.

The Guard had about 900 troops working on the border mission Monday, a number that changes daily, said Lt. General Daniel R. Hokanson, the National Guard Bureau’s vice chief. Nearly 250 were in Arizona, more than 60 in New Mexico and about 650 in Texas.

___

Associated Press writers Kathleen Ronanye in Sacramento, California, and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed to this report.WASHINGTON (AP) — For the second straight year, President Donald Trump is holding a rally instead of attending the White House Correspondents Dinner.

The president’s campaign announced Tuesday that Trump will hold a rally on April 28 in Michigan.

The event in the town of Washington, which is outside Detroit, is slated to begin around the same time as the glitzy gala in the far more well-known Washington, D.C.

Trump has skipped the dinner both years he has been in office.

But this year, unlike in 2017, he has encouraged aides to attend. Some, however, will be needed to staff the just-announced rally.

Last year, he held a rally in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and spent much of the evening bashing the press, saying he was “with much, much better people” at the rally.WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Tuesday thwarted a bipartisan effort to protect special counsel Robert Mueller’s job, saying he will not hold a floor vote on the legislation even if it is approved next week in the Senate Judiciary Committee.

McConnell said the bill is unnecessary because President Donald Trump will not fire Mueller.

“We’ll not be having this on the floor of the Senate,” McConnell said on Fox News.

His comments came amid widespread opposition to the bill among members of his caucus, with several GOP senators saying the bill is unconstitutional. Others said it’s simply not good politics to try and tell Trump what to do, likening the legislation to “poking the bear.”

The bipartisan legislation was introduced last week as Trump publicly criticized Mueller, who is investigating potential ties between Russia and Trump’s 2016 campaign as well as possible obstruction of justice by the president. Trump, fuming about a raid of his personal lawyer’s office by a different division of the FBI, said last week that the Mueller investigation is “an attack on our country” and is “corrupt.”

Trump has also privately pondered firing Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who is overseeing Mueller’s investigation.

Within a day of Trump’s criticism, Republicans Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina combined two bills they introduced last summer to protect special counsels. They introduced the new bill along with Democratic Sens. Chris Coons of Delaware and Cory Booker of New Jersey, and Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, a Republican, announced that his committee would vote on the bill.

The legislation would give any special counsel a 10-day window to seek expedited judicial review of a firing, and would put into law existing Justice Department regulations that require a firing to be for “good cause.”

Democrats immediately jumped on the legislation, but many Republicans have been cool to it.

At least three of the 11 GOP members of the Judiciary panel have said they will vote against it and another five have said they have questions about its constitutionality. Grassley is one of those with concerns, but said he felt obligated to hold a vote.

Republicans off the committee had questions too — and some acknowledged that it could be politically difficult.

South Dakota Sen. Mike Rounds said Tuesday that Trump that should make the decision on his own and be responsible for the consequences.

“I think having Congress tell him what we believe he should do in this case is simply poking the bear, and I’d just prefer not to do that,” Rounds said.

Oklahoma Sen. Jim Lankford said the bill is a “political distraction.”

“You create this whole constitutional political stir over something that is not going to happen,” he said.

Others said there was little point.

“It’s about as popular as cholera with the leader in the Senate and it’s about as popular as malaria in the House,” said Louisiana Sen. John Kennedy, a member of the Judiciary panel. “I think most people think we’re picking an unnecessary fight with the president.”

Coons bristled at the criticism that the legislation is unconstitutional, noting that several courts have upheld similar special counsel statutes.

“If I were convinced this were unconstitutional, I would not be moving it,” said Coons, a lawyer.

At a September hearing on the two separate bills, before they were combined, scholars were divided on whether the bills were constitutional, with some voicing concerns that allowing the judicial branch that authority over an executive decision may not pass muster in the courts.

“I think it’s probably unconstitutional and I don’t think there’s any realistic chance that the president will fire Mr. Mueller,” Sen. John Cornyn, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate and the former Texas attorney general, said Tuesday.

McConnell agreed, adding that Trump would never support the legislation.

“Just as a practical matter, even if we pass it, why would he sign it?” McConnell said in the Fox interview.

Republicans who have talked to the White House almost uniformly have held the line that Trump will not fire Mueller or Rosenstein — including Tillis and Graham, who say they are pushing the legislation because it would be good policy under any president.

“I don’t think he’s going to fire Mueller, but I think institutionally it would be nice to have some protections,” Graham said Tuesday.

Tillis acknowledged last week that he had taken some “heat” from conservatives for the bill, but told the Judiciary panel, “this is really an opportunity to take an ethical stand, and not do it when the situation benefits you.”

Democrats said Republicans opposed to the legislation were simply protecting Trump.

Connecticut Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a member of the Judiciary Committee, said the argument over constitutionality is a “red herring used by some of my colleagues as a pretext for opposing the bill, when they really have other reasons.” He gave no specifics.

Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, said the special counsel bill is “so much more” than another policy debate.

“I think this will be one that history will judge us all,” Warner said.

___

Associated Press writer Lisa Mascaro contributed to this report.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Republican chairman of a Senate oversight committee is pressing the head of the Environmental Protection Agency to provide details about his use of multiple government email addresses.

Senate Environment and Public Works Chairman John Barrasso issued a letter asking EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to disclose all his email addresses and affirm that all were being searched in response to Freedom of Information Act requests.

EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox said Tuesday that the agency maintains two email addresses for Pruitt that are used by his staff for public correspondence and maintaining his calendar. A third is used by Pruitt himself. A fourth account was also created for Pruitt, but Wilcox said it had never been used.

“When we receive a FOIA request all accounts are searched before we respond,” Wilcox said.

Barrasso’s letter followed one sent last week by Democratic Sens. Jeff Merkey of Oregon and Tom Carper of Delaware asking EPA’s inspector general to review the issue. The two Democrats, both members of the Senate environment committee, expressed concern that the agency’s searches for public records may not cover all of the EPA administrator’s accounts.

In his letter, Barrasso recounted that during confirmation hearings last year Pruitt had assured the senators he would not take any actions that would make it more difficult or impossible to access his official written communications under FOIA.

Pruitt has been under intense scrutiny since it was first reveled last month that he had stayed last year in a bargain-priced Capitol Hill condo tied to a fossil-fuels lobbyist. The embattled EPA administrator and those around him are the subject of multiple investigations launched by government watchdogs and congressional committees looking into luxury travel expenses, outsized security spending and massive raises awarded to political appointees.

EPA’s inspector general has at least five ongoing Pruitt-related probes, while the House oversight panel on Friday demanded interviews with five of his closest aides.

The National Archives and Records Administration ruled in 2013 that federal officials could use undisclosed government email accounts to conduct official business as long as the messages are safely preserved and turned over under FOIA.

The action came in response to reporting by The Associated Press that revealed several high-ranking Obama administration appointees, including then-EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, had been using secret email accounts. At the time, congressional Republicans accused Jackson of using a government email account under the name “Richard Windsor” to sidestep disclosure rules.

Pruitt has also previously faced questions about transparency with his emails. An Oklahoma judge ruled last year that Pruitt, the state’s former attorney general, had violated public records laws by improperly withholding his correspondence for at least two years. Thousands of emails were eventually released under court order, but only after Pruitt had already won Senate confirmation for his current job.

The AP reported last year that those Oklahoma emails showed ties between Pruitt and his state’s oil and gas industry, including close coordination on lawsuits challenging EPA environmental regulations. When a summer thunderstorm knocked out power to Scott Pruitt’s home in 2013, for example, the then-attorney general directed his executive assistant to coordinate with a lobbyist for American Electric Power to get the lights back on quickly.

Records also showed Pruitt occasionally used a private email account to communicate with state staff, despite assurances he made during his Senate confirmation process that he had always used a state email account for government business. Democrats later accused Pruitt of being untruthful in his sworn testimony before the committee.

On Tuesday, Wilcox said Pruitt had not used private email to conduct public business while at EPA.

___

Follow Associated Press environmental reporter Michael Biesecker at http://twitter.com/mbieseckWASHINGTON (AP) — Stormy Daniels injected fresh mystery into the sensational story of the president, the fixer and the porn star on Tuesday, releasing an artist’s sketch of the man she says threatened her in a Las Vegas parking lot to stay quiet about her sexual tryst with Donald Trump.

After teasing the reveal for more than a week, the adult film actress appeared on ABC’s “The View” to unveil an image of the man she says menaced her and her young daughter and warned her in 2011 to keep quiet about a 2006 encounter with Trump. Upping the stakes, her attorney, Michael Avenatti, pledged a $100,000 reward for information leading to the man’s identification.

While the mad internet scramble to identify the man added to the circus atmosphere surrounding the president’s legal troubles, the development also kept a spotlight on what Trump views as an increasingly serious threat: the federal investigation into his longtime image protector.

Daniels says that Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, paid her $130,000 just before the 2016 election to keep quiet about her relationship with the GOP nominee. The case took on new significance last week when FBI agents raided Cohen’s office, looking for information on topics including the payment to Daniels. Both Daniels and Cohen were in court in New York City on Monday, as a U.S. District judge heard debate over what should happen to those records.

On Tuesday, Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, said she was speaking out because she was “done being bullied.”

Recalling the alleged threat, Daniels said she and her daughter were approached in a parking lot by a man who said: “Oh it’s a beautiful little girl, would be a shame if something happened to her mom. Forget about this story, leave Mr. Trump alone.”

Daniels said she did not report the threat at the time because she would have had to reveal the alleged affair and she was afraid.

“I didn’t want everyone to know. I didn’t want my family to find out that way. I didn’t want my life to turn upside down,” she said.

The artist’s sketch depicts a white male in his 30s or 40s and carries a description of him as “lean but fit.” The image quickly prompted a flurry of online speculation about the person’s identity, with Twitter commentators wildly comparing the image to a number of celebrities, including football player Tom Brady, musician Jon Bon Jovi and actor Willem Dafoe.

Even some Trump allies got in on the action. After a Twitter posting showed the sketch next to a photo of short-lived White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci, the always camera-ready figure known as “the Mooch” joked that he wasn’t tall enough to match the description: “I thought the description said he was 6′ 2″! I am all good.”

Daniels insisted she remembered the years-prior parking lot encounter vividly, in part because the man was “sort of handsome.”

Building suspense, Avenatti recently tweeted a photo he said showed Daniels sitting with a sketch artist. He set up a suitably pugnacious email address to receive information from tipsters — idthethug@gmail.com — and said later Tuesday that he had already received hundreds of tips.

After Daniels first alleged on CBS several weeks ago that she had been threatened, a lawyer for Cohen demanded that she publicly apologize to his client for suggesting Cohen was involved. Daniels responded by filing a revised federal lawsuit accusing Cohen of defamation. The White House has also said Trump does not believe any of Daniels’ claims.

An attorney for Cohen did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday.

Daniels, currently on a national strip-club tour, said she has gained fame from her alleged encounter with Trump but “this isn’t what I want to be known for.” She also said she did not name her tour “Make America Horny Again” — a play on Trump’s “Make America Great Again” slogan. She called it “cheesy” and said the idea came from one of the clubs where she made an appearance.

While she’s getting more attention, Daniels said, much of the experience has been “downright scary,” adding that her daughter needs a tutor and she has engaged bodyguards.

Trump answered questions about Daniels for the first time recently, saying he had no knowledge of the payment made by Cohen and didn’t know where Cohen had gotten the money. The White House has consistently said Trump denies the affair.

Asked about Trump’s denials, Daniels was unmoved. “I work in the adult business,” she said. “And I’m a better actress than he is.”Americans who waited until the last day to pay their taxes online got an unwelcome surprise: The IRS website to make payments and access other key services is down.

The IRS still expects Americans to pay their taxes but U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin says extensions will be granted to those impacted when the site is up again.

The IRS said in a statement that “certain IRS systems are experiencing technical difficulties.” It also said that at this point, the problem appears to be a hardware issue.

The agency advised taxpayers to “continue filing their tax returns as they normally would.”

The problem is, electronic filing is the most popular way to file. And the IRS offered no immediate solution but said the returns will be processed when feasible.

However, Mnuchin who oversees the IRS, said that they expect the direct pay system to go up shortly.

“We’ll make sure taxpayers have extensions once the system comes up to make sure they can use it and it in no way impacts people paying their taxes,” he told reporters in New Hampshire. “It was just a technical issue we’re working through. A high volume technical issue that impacted the system.”

Pages on the IRS website (www.irs.gov) used to view account information, make a direct payment or set up a payment plan were all not functioning most of the day Tuesday.

It’s unclear when and why the failure occurred. But it appears, based on a message on the site, that the online payment system became unavailable at 2:50 A.M. ET that morning.

It’s unclear how many people were impacted Tuesday but, by comparison, about 5 million tax returns were filed on the final day of last year’s tax season.

The IRS snafu also caused problems for popular third-party tax preparers such as Turbo Tax and H&R Block. Both said that they will hold onto customer tax returns and file them as soon as the IRS system reopens.

Tax day falls on April 17 this year because April 15 was a Sunday and April 16 was Emancipation Day, a holiday in Washington, D.C.

IRS Acting Commissioner David Kautter testified during a House Oversight Hearing Tuesday that a number of systems are down at the moment and that the agency is working to resolve the issue.

Trump’s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow offered a deadpan reaction when asked about the failure.

“The IRS is crashing? Sounds horrible. Really bad,” he said during a briefing with reporters in West Palm Beach, Florida. “I hope it gets fixed.”

The IRS typically recommends that taxpayers use electronic filing to avoid common mistakes. Online filing is quicker than dropping something in the mail — when the site works, of course.

___

Jill Colvin in West Palm Beach, Florida and Holly Ramer in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report.HELENA, Mont. (AP) — One of the four cities in Pearl Jam’s brief North American tour this summer will be tiny Missoula, Montana, the part-time home of bassist Jeff Ament.

The politically active band has dubbed the sold-out Aug. 13 concert “Rock2Vote” and plans to give a portion of its proceeds to four Montana organizations that support youth and Native American voting, land conservation and women’s health.

Ament told The Associated Press on Tuesday that he’s been inspired by the national youth movement led by survivors of the high school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

It’s the third time the pioneering grunge rock band has played in Montana when Ament’s childhood friend, U.S. Sen. Jon Tester, is up for election.

Pearl Jam also will play two shows each in Seattle, Chicago and Boston this summer.NEW YORK (AP) — Fox News Channel said Tuesday that it was as surprised as anyone to learn that Sean Hannity shared a lawyer with President Donald Trump but that its popular prime-time host “continues to have our full support.”

Hannity is a hot topic for journalism ethics experts and comedians alike after his relationship with attorney Michael Cohen was reluctantly revealed in a court hearing Monday on material seized from Cohen as part of the probe on Trump’s Russian contacts. Fox said Tuesday that it had reviewed Hannity’s “informal relationship” with Cohen and talked with Hannity about it.

Hannity has described his personal dealings with Cohen as centered on real estate advice, and said that it “never rose to any level that I needed to tell anyone that I was asking him questions.”

The prime-time host is both Trump’s biggest defender in the media and Fox’s most popular personality. Usually, either Hannity or MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow has the biggest audience in cable news.

For a traditional journalist, having a professional relationship with a figure he or she frequently reports on is considered unethical, even more so when that relationship is not disclosed to viewers or readers. For that figure not to inform bosses about it is often considered a firing offense.

Fox frequently makes a distinction between news programming during its daytime hours and opinion shows at night.

“I don’t think it’s enough to say that Sean Hannity was not a journalist,” said Indira Lakshmanan, a journalism ethics expert for the Poynter Institute. “He describes himself as a journalist when it suits him, and a commentator at other times. If you’re an opinion journalist, you’re still a journalist.”

The issue plays to his credibility, said Aly Colon, an ethics expert at Washington & Lee University. Hannity frequently draws connections on his show between different people to suggest something nefarious is afoot — like a “deep state” plot against President Trump — so it’s particularly damaging when he is revealed to have secret connections of his own to figures he supports, he said.

The whole situation put Fox in a bind, said television news consultant Andrew Tyndall.

Firing Hannity would make Fox “seem craven to its ideological base of viewers in capitulating to professional norms and politically correct procedures,” he said. “The second option, namely to not punish Hannity, would strip away the last vestiges of its claims to be a news channel operating in the journalistic mainstream, leaving it with no defense whatsoever against charges that it is running a propaganda operation.”

History indicates that Fox takes action against its stars when its bottom line is threatened, Lakshmanan said. For example, settlements were reached on sexual misconduct accusations against Bill O’Reilly without it affecting his job. But after they became publicly known and an advertiser boycott against him quickly caught momentum, O’Reilly was fired.

Attempts by critics to foment an advertiser boycott against Hannity in the past have failed, and there’s yet to be any indication that this latest news is starting a new one.

“I’m not sure it matters to his fans, but it should matter to a network that claims to be a legitimate news network,” Lakshmanan said.

Before it became clear that Hannity had not revealed his connection to Cohen to his superiors, two people on Fox News — “The Five” co-host Juan Williams and Hannity interview guest Alan Dershowitz — both suggested on the air he faced questions for not doing it. But on the “Fox & Friends” morning show on Tuesday, the hosts compared the relationship to a friendship where you would informally ask someone for advice.

“Apparently Sean regarded their relationship as something like that,” said Steve Doocy, one of the show’s co-hosts.

In addition to dismissing the revelation as nothing serious, Hannity on his show Tuesday blamed the “absolutely insane” media for attacking him.

Rival news personalities were quick to go after Hannity (“This is crazy town in the news business,” said MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski on Tuesday), and so did comedians. Ironically, one of the more subdued was ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel talking about “my pal”; he engaged in a bitter dispute with Hannity just a week ago over a Kimmel joke about Melania Trump.

“Jon Stewart, after the show, I’m going to come over and we’re just going to spoon,” Stephen Colbert said.

The funniest line may have come from CNN’s Jake Tapper in a tweet. “Go home 2018,” he wrote. “You’re drunk.”PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — President Donald Trump said Tuesday that the U.S. and North Korea are holding direct talks at “extremely high levels” in preparation for a potential summit with dictator Kim Jong Un.

At Mar-a-Lago with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Trump also confirmed that North and South Korea are negotiating an end to hostilities before next week’s meeting between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in. The meeting will be the third inter-Korean summit since the Koreas’ 1945 division.

“They do have my blessing to discuss the end of the war,” said Trump, who welcomed Abe to his Florida resort on Tuesday.

Trump is looking to hold his own summit with Kim in the next two months and said five locations are under consideration. The proposed summit follows months of increasingly heated rhetoric over the North’s nuclear weapons program.

“We have had direct talks at very high levels — extremely high levels — with North Korea,” Trump said.

“We’ll either have a very good meeting or we won’t have a good meeting,” he added. “And maybe we won’t even have a meeting at all, depending on what’s going in. But I think that there’s a great chance to solve a world problem.”

The president did not answer shouted questions about whether he has spoken with Kim.

Kim ‘s offer for a summit was initially conveyed to Trump by South Korea last month, and the president accepted. U.S. officials have indicated over the past two weeks that North Korea’s government has communicated directly with Washington that it is ready to discuss its nuclear weapons program. The officials also said discussions between the two sides are being held in preparation for a summit.

Abe, who has voiced fears that short- and medium-range missiles that pose a threat to Japan might not be part of the U.S. negotiations, praised Trump on Tuesday for his bravery in agreeing to meet with the North Korean dictator.

“I’d like to commend Donald’s courage in his decision to have the upcoming summit meeting with the North Korean leader,” Abe said.

Trump took credit for the inter-Korean talks, saying, “Without us and without me, in particular, I guess you would have to say, they wouldn’t be discussing anything.”

North Korea has long sought a peace treaty with the U.S. to formally end the 1950-53 Korean War. It is unusual for the North to seek to broach the issue directly with South Korea rather than with Washington itself. The armistice that ended the fighting was signed by the United Nations Command — the U.S.-led forces in the conflict — North Korea and China. South Korea was a member of the U.N. Command but was not a direct signatory.

The U.S. has traditionally sought to resolve the dispute over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program before addressing the North’s demands for a peace treaty, which the isolated, authoritarian nation views as a means to ensuring its security. The U.S. retains nearly 30,000 troops in South Korea to deter North Korean aggression. The leaders of the two Koreas are due to meet April 27 on the southern side of the tense, demilitarized zone that separates them.

The Abe summit will serve as a test of whether the fond personal relationship the two leaders have forged on the golf course and over meetings and phone calls has chilled following Trump’s recent moves, including his decision not to exempt Japan from new steel and aluminum tariffs.

The official visit began Tuesday afternoon as an honor cordon of uniformed service-members lined the palm-fringed drive to the club. Trump greeted Abe at the red-carpeted door of the mansion as the pair posed for photos ahead of a planned one-on-one meeting. It will be followed by a small group discussion with top national security officials focused on the Kim summit. The president and first lady Melania Trump will also have dinner with Abe and his wife.

On Wednesday, the agenda will broaden to include other issues affecting the Indo-Pacific region, including trade and energy, and Trump said he and Abe would “sneak out” to play a round of golf. Trump and Abe will also hold a news conference before the president and first lady host the Japanese delegations for dinner. Abe will return to Japan on Thursday morning.

The first time Trump hosted Abe at Mar-a-Lago — shortly after the inauguration — North Korea conducted its first missile test of Trump’s administration, and the two delivered a joint statement denouncing the launch.

Abe will be seeking reassurance from Trump that security threats to Japan won’t be overlooked in the U.S.-North Korea summit.

“I don’t think that Prime Minister Abe will leave Mar-a-Lago with anything other than a high degree of confidence in the health of the alliance, including as we go into the summit with the North Koreans,” said Matthew Pottinger, the National Security Council’s senior director for Asian affairs.

Both sides insist that Trump and Abe remain close. U.S. officials stressed that Trump has met with Abe more than any other world leader and say they’ve been in “constant contact” since Trump accepted Kim’s invitation.

Abe said he had secured a commitment from Trump to raise with Kim the issue of Japanese abductees, one of his top policy priorities. Pyongyang has acknowledging abducting 13 Japanese, while Tokyo maintains North Korea abducted 17. Five have been returned to Japan. North Korea says eight others died and denies the remaining four entered its territory. Japan has demanded further investigation.

The U.S. itself is pushing for the release of three Americans.

After five years in office, Abe is one of Japan’s longest-serving, post-World War II prime ministers but has suffered plummeting poll ratings over allegations that a school linked to his wife received preferential government treatment in a land sale.

___

Associated Press writer Matthew Pennington in Washington contributed to this report.

___

Follow Colvin and Miller on Twitter at https://twitter.com/colvinj and https://twitter.com/ZekeJMillerFormer First Lady Barbara Bush passed away on Tuesday at the age of 92, two days after her family spokesman, Jim McGrath, announced that she would seek “comfort care” rather than additional medical treatment for her ailing health.

Bush, who was born Barbara Pierce, remains one of the most universally admired women to hold the title of First Lady. She married one man who later became president, and raised another, and brought a sharp wit, a matronly demeanor, and an air of gravitas to one of the most visible public roles in American political and social life.

In one infamous incident in 1992, Mrs. Bush filled in for her husband after he collapsed suddenly during a state dinner being given in his honor in Japan. After President Bush was rushed to the hospital, First Lady Barbara Bush remained behind to continue the evening’s toasts and speeches.

McGrath announced Mrs. Bush’s passing on Twitter:

Statement by the Office of @GeorgeHWBush on the passing of Barbara Pierce Bush this evening at the age of 92. pic.twitter.com/c6JU0xy6Vc — Jim McGrath (@jgm41) April 17, 2018

The statement read:

A former First Lady of the United States of America and relentless proponent of family literacy, Barbara Pierce Bush passed away April 17, 2018 at the age of 92. She is survived by her husband of 73 years, President George H. W. Bush; five children and their spouses; 17 grandchildren; seven great grandchildren; and her brother, Scott Pierce. She was preceded in death by her second child, Pauline Robinson “Robin” Bush, and her siblings Martha Rafferty and James R. Pierce.

McGrath had released a statement on Sunday: “It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others. She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving.”

Fox News medical correspondent Marc Siegel commented in the Wall Street Journal on Tuesday that “Barbara Bush … is facing death with fortitude, courage and realism. She should inspire everyone in the medical arena, doctors and patients alike. … It has taken me many years to accept that Mrs. Bush and those like her are the most courageous. I suspect millions of others would agree.”

During the 2016 campaign, Mrs. Bush was scathing in her criticism of then-candidate Donald Trump. “I don’t know how women can vote for” him, she told CBS News.

Nevertheless, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump issued a joint statement on Tuesday “celebrating the life of Barbara Bush.”

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4NzyjxqAFM — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.From what we know so far, conservative talker Sean Hannity had a limited business relationship with Michael Cohen, who is also President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, and who just had his offices, home, and hotel room raided by the FBI. Because Hannity is a commentator with four hours to fill every day, he has a lot to say about the raid.

But now that a partisan judge (to say the least — the swamp is deep, my friends) has forced Cohen to reveal that Hannity is a client, everyone in the establishment media (read those with much lower ratings than Hannity) have the knives out because Hannity did not reveal this potential conflict of interest.

So desperate are they to bloody Hannity, the media have just done a very good thing with the creation of what we will call the “Sean Hannity Standard,” a standard that demands commentators and reporters disclose any and all potential conflicts-of-interest pertaining to the story or person they are reporting on.

What a wonderful idea!

Over at the far-left Politico, Michael Calderone writes, that Hannity “should have disclosed that he’s a client of Cohen’s.”

What a wonderful idea!

Kathleen Bartzen Culver, director of the Center for Journalism Ethics at the University of Wisconsin, told Politico, “commentators should still be expected to maintain independence from subjects they covering and disclose relevant ties.”

What a wonderful idea!

CNN, Media Matters, MSNBC… Everyone agrees with this wonderful idea!

And I could not agree more.

It is long past time for the media to pour sunshine on any and all potential conflicts-of-interest.

And the timing could not be more perfect. Good grief, less than 24 hours before the creation of the “Sean Hannity Standard,” former-President Bill Clinton’s very own press secretary George Stephanopoulos interviewed James Comey, the disgraced former chief of the FBI, about his decision not to prosecute Bill Clinton’s wife Hillary over her countless email crimes.

Naturally, neither ABC or Stephanopoulos bothered to disclose this.

But thanks to the “Sean Hannity Standard” this will never happen again.

Right?

What’s more, how many so-called journalists who downplayed reported on Hillary Clinton’s scandals are friendly with Bill and Hillary, or members of their inner circle?

Now that we are entering the era of the “Sean Hannity Standard,” we will finally be enlightened with full disclosures from every political journalist/commentator about their personal relationships with Democrat politicians and their respective handlers.

I am especially eager to hear from Andrea Mitchell, Maggie Haberman, and Joe Scarborough.

How many dinners, dinner parties, coffees, baby showers, wedding showers?

How many lunches, drinks, cocktail parties?

If you recall, Comey allowed Cheryl Mills to pretend to be Hillary’s attorney when the FBI questioned Hillary about her rogue email server (it was all a show — Comey had already written Hillary’s exoneration). At long last we are about to find out how many of those who reported on this particular story are palsy walsy with Hillary’s attorney. With former Attorney General Loretta Lynch! With Comey!

DC is an incestuous pit. What a relief, then, that we will now be told in advance if a commentator or reporter has ever shared a lawyer, literary rep, children’s prep school, public relations firm, investment manager, or agent, with the public figures they report on.

Jake Tapper’s wife was a regional field manager for the abortion mill Planned Parenthood.

Chuck Todd’s wife is a Democrat activist.

CNN regularly reports on Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ). Thank heaven the public will now be informed that CNN chief Jeff Zucker’s 14-year-old son was awarded stock options potentially worth millions from Booker.

Claire Shipman, a senior national correspondent at ABC News, is married to no other than Jay Carney, who was Obama’s White House Press Secretary.

Virginia Moseley, a CNN Vice President and Washington Bureau Chief is married to Tom Nides, who was a Deputy Secretary of State under Barack Obama.

CBS News president David Rhodes is the brother of Ben Rhodes, a top foreign policy adviser to Obama — the man behind the Benghazi cover-up and the disastrous Iran deal.

Barack Obama attended the wedding of Marth Raddadtz, a senior correspondent at ABC news who moderated the 2012 vice presidential debate.

How exciting that these glaring conflicts-of-interest will no longer remain hidden.

What’s more, if attorney-client privilege is no longer sacred under the “Sean Hannity Standard,” that can only mean that we will finally say goodbye to confidential and unnamed sources. Not all of them. Just those with a conflict-of-interest, those whose leaks further their own agenda — which pretty much means all of them.

Welcome to a whole new era of transparency in journalism.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.President Donald Trump has just pushed a never-Trump advisor out of the Vice President’s office, but he is still relying on a trio of establishment or never-Trump aides who failed to get immigration reforms or border-wall funding from Congress in 2017 and 2018.

Jon Lerner was hired and quickly dropped by Vice President Pence after Trump discovered that Lerner had run anti-Trump ads during the 2016 election for the never-Trump Club for Growth group. According to Axios:

Trump was furious when he learned Pence was bringing on Nikki Haley’s deputy Jon Lerner, according to three sources familiar with the events. The President believed Lerner was a card-carrying member of the “Never Trump” movement because Lerner crafted brutal attack ads for Club for Growth’s multimillion-dollar anti-Trump blitz during the Republican primaries.

“Why would Mike do that?” Trump wondered aloud about Pence’s decision, according to two sources briefed on the President’s private conversations.

On Sunday night, Lerner withdrew from the job but said he would keep his advisory job with U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley.

Lerner’s quick departure puts the spotlight back on Trump’s Capitol Hill liaison chief, Marc Short.

Short was also a prominent anti-Trump leader in 2016 – and he has played a prominent role in the White House’s failure to have Congress legislate or fund the President’s popular immigration agenda.

Prior to becoming the Director of Legislative Affairs for Trump, Short worked for Charles and David Koch, who loudly oppose Trump’s populist, wage-raising immigration reform proposals. During the 2016 campaign, Gov. Mike Pence hired Short as a communications aide, and then Short got the congressional liaison job in 2017. Short got the job instead of Rick Dearborn, the former chief of staff to Sen. Jeff Sessions.

Pence is a cheap-labor advocate and an ally of amnesty supporters, such as GOP Sen. Jeff Flake.

In 2017, Short pushed hard to get a tax cut but he failed to get any funding for Trump’s top-priority border wall in the May 2017 omnibus bill. Short got only $641 million for 50 miles of fencing in the March 2018 omnibus — and he failed to win much funding to hire more immigration personnel.

Before the February 2018 Senate defeat of Trump’s immigration reforms, Short was described as offering weak support for Trump immigration reforms. Politico reported:

In his first year as Trump’s top liaison to Congress, Republicans say Short has been more of a facilitator, rather than an arm-twister. That role will become particularly critical on immigration – an issue Congress has spectacularly failed to resolve in the past. “I don’t see him as the real deal-maker so much as the kind of go-between, the mediator,” said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), who’s interacted with Short on a host of issues including health care, the opioid crisis and energy policy. “He doesn’t try to reshape our thoughts. He sort of takes it in, and then, I’m assuming, reports back to the White House.”

During the closed-door debates over the 2018 omnibus, Short apparently did not report much back to Trump, who was surprised to learn how GOP and Democratic leaders had united to shortchange his election-winning immigration reforms.

Sen. Lindsey Graham, who has consistently allied with Democrats to oppose Trump’s immigration policies and has consistently called for more wage-reducing imported labor, told Politico that “I think he does a good job.”

.@MarcShort45 is Never Trump, like Lerner–and he also effed up, in exactly the way you'd expect a NeverTrumper to eff up, shepherding disastrous omnibus bill that totally failed to achieve Trump goals (on immg) that GOP Estab. resists. Why is he still in WH? https://t.co/mND2lGS4wd — Mickey Kaus (@kausmickey) April 16, 2018

At least one of Short’s partners during the 2017 and 2018 closed-door budget talks had close ties to the never-Trump camp. According to the Washington Post:

The details of this spending package should not have been new to the president. Short, Jonathan Slemrod and Kathleen Kraninger — all administration aides — were involved in the negotiations in recent days that went until the wee hours of the morning with congressional appropriators, according to three people familiar with the talks.

Jonathan Slemrod has been the associate director for legislative affairs at the Office of Management and Budget since March 2017, even though he worked on Sen. Marco Rubio’s 2016 presidential campaign. In 2016, he was also an alternate delegate from the D.C. GOP.

But in 2015, he was hired by Sen. Marco Rubio as policy director for his 2016 presidential campaign. That campaign failed, in part, because Trump slammed Rubio’s pro-amnesty policies, which called for border control, more guest workers to keep wages low, plus amnesty for all illegals in the United States.

Before the OMB job, Slemrod also worked for Texas GOP Sen. John Cornyn. He also worked for Rubio in 2011 and 2012, and even for pro-migration Rep. Paul Ryan between August 2010 and February 2011.

Short also worked with Kathy Kraninger, who is “OMB program associate director for general government.”

From 2011 to March 2017, Kraninger worked for the House and Senate homeland-security appropriations committees, neither of which supported Trump’s policies in 2017 or 2018.

Kraninger was the majority clerk of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security before she joined the administration.

In the House, Kraninger was hired January 2011, under the chairmanship of Kentucky Republican Rep. Harold Rogers, who did little to oppose the pro-migration policies established by former President Barack Obama.

Before she worked at the House, Kraninger worked in President George W. Bush’s DHS for Gov. Tom Ridge, a business-first Republican who favors a cheap-labor immigration policy. According to a post from a DHS-focused consulting group, Catalyst Partners:

Kraninger also served as a Policy Advisor to DHS Secretary Ridge … There is arguably no person outside of the DHS front office with a broader or deeper understanding of DHS operations than Kraninger. Period. Full Stop.

Prior to the House job, Kraninger worked for a small DHS-focused consulting firm, the Sentinel HS Group.

White House officials declined to respond to messages from Breitbart News.Reps. Todd Rokita (R-IN) and Luke Messer (R-IN) clashed on Breitbart News Saturday this weekend over several issues – especially immigration – in back-to-back appearances on the program amid their bid to win the Indiana Senate Republican primary.

Congressmen Rokita and Messer, as well as businessman and former state Rep. Mike Braun, continue to vie for the Indiana Senate Republican nomination, hoping to challenge Democratic Sen. Joe Donnelly in the 2018 Indiana Senate midterm election in November. The three Republican heavy weights face the voters at the polls on May 8, just weeks away, in one of the first nominating contests in the country.

On Saturday’s Breitbart News Saturday program on SiriusXM 125 the Patriot Channel, Rokita and Messer traded barbs, at each other and at Braun, who himself has not accepted multiple invitations to come on the program–while laying out their visions for their Senate campaigns and attempting to out-flank one aother on the right on several core issues. The political arms race to the right was reminiscent of the 2016 GOP presidential primaries, where 17 candidates raced to the most conservative and hardest core positions on issues for a chance to win voters’ approval and represent the party in the general election that year.

And just like 2016, the issue of immigration was a particularly hot-button one on Saturday, with Rokita detailing how he supports English as the official language of the United States of America–and arguing that Messer is pro-amnesty. Messer fired back, arguing that he has never supported amnesty and that he has been an ally of President Donald Trump’s in the U.S. House of Representatives.

The three candidates are aiming to be the Republican nominee for U.S. Senate against vulnerable red-state Democrat Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-IN) in a state where President Trump trounced Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2016. Donnelly, one of the U.S. Senate’s most vulnerable Democrats up for re-election in the 2018 midterm elections, represents the state where Vice President Mike Pence–Trump’s 2016 running mate–served as governor before the president selected him to round out his ticket.

The Indiana race is a unique situation in a year in which Democrats are gaining momentum nationally. In Indiana, the heart of Trump country and the state where the president became the presumptive GOP nominee for president nearly two years ago, it’s the inverse of the national equation. With a three-way race to the right for the Republican nomination, and a red-state Democrat desperate to present himself as a moderate waiting for whomever wins in the general election in November, Indiana’s Senate race is defying the national political odds.

“There’s not going to be a blue wave in Indiana,” Messer said on the program on Saturday. “There’s a red wave coming. We’re not going to beat Joe Donnelly with another Joe Donnelly.”

“Competition is a good thing,” Rokita said in his appearance. “It’s only the establishment and the elites who wring their hands and say, ‘Oh there’s more than one guy running so we can’t coordinate everything.’ That’s absolutely ridiculous. The old biblical passage was something along the lines of ‘iron sharpens iron.’ That’s what’s happening here.”

Immigration

On the program, Rokita attacked Messer, arguing that he does not live in the state of Indiana and has served as a member of the House Gang of Eight, which supported amnesty for illegal immigrants. Rokita also hit Messer for missing his original hit time on the program, something Messer to his credit made up for by appearing later in the program after Rokita. Messer was originally scheduled to appear on the program before Rokita on Saturday, but switched to a time after Rokita’s appearance due to a scheduling mistake. Braun would not appear at all on Breitbart News Saturday this past weekend, despite numerous invitations–something Rokita hammered him on as well.

“One guy, maybe two guys, couldn’t get on the show–they’re not running organized campaigns–I know how to run an organized campaign, I’ve been Secretary of State for two terms, I’ve been on the ballot statewide, I’ve gotten more votes than Joe Donnelly, the guy we’re running against, who votes with Bernie Sanders 85 percent of the time,” Rokita said. “Mike Braun, the candidate who’s trying to buy the Senate Seat in Indiana, can’t get on your show, can’t call in. It’s absolutely ridiculous, and he’s going to buy millions of dollars worth of ads … Luke Messer does not even live in the state of Indiana, he has to get on a plane every time he wants to campaign. Perhaps that is the reason for his delay and ability to be on today. When you have a guy like Joe Donnelly, who votes with Bernie Sanders 85 percent of the time, who was part of the Gang of Eight, who wanted amnesty, and Luke Messer was on the House version of the Gang of Eight, we saw the power of one vote in a very terrible way a few months ago in the Senate with the president’s agenda. We were one vote away from getting Obamacare repealed and sent to the president’s desk, and we can blame John McCain all we want, and in fact he should be blamed, but in fact Joe Donnelly had the same vote. If you do not get these senators in their first term, then it is hard to get them. I have the record, I know the state, we are driving 400 miles before the day is out.”

Later on Breitbart News Saturday, during his rescheduled hit, Messer disputed the claim that he was a member of the House Gang of Eight, instead calling Rokita a Trump-like nickname: “Lyin’ Todd Rokita.”

“That guy in Indiana is known as ‘Lyin’ Todd Rokita,’” Messer fired back. “He was called out by PolitiFact in the last couple of days for running an ad campaign that’s mostly false. From what I understand, I wasn’t listening, but from what other people have told me, I have never been part of any Gang of Eight – that’s just simply not true. In fact, I’ve helped lead the fight with President Trump to get after illegal immigration. The legislation I put forward is an example working with President Trump, and Breitbart took a big lead on this, we were able to make major progress in ending tax credits for illegal immigrants. It’s crazy under the law, you can get a child tax credit as an illegal immigrant. My legislation is frankly tougher than where we ended up as a tax package, and there’s more to it in ending $7 billion in tax credits for illegal immigrants. But because of this president’s leadership, my leadership, and frankly the leadership of Breitbart, I was one of the first elected leaders last year that we already had the authorization to build a border wall, and I got criticized by CNN, and now we are making steps in the right direction. Of course, we want to do a lot more. My whole career I’ve been an authentic conservative. You are right, listen all of us have learned from President Trump, and we are getting even tougher on illegal immigration. But I will always start by telling you the truth and I think that’s important in any campaign.”

“If someone will lie to you if they are running for office, then guess what? They will lie to you when you are in office. I think most Hoosiers understand that,” Messer added of Rokita.

The Messer campaign also emphasized to Breitbart News that Messer opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants and shared a rating from Numbers USA, a pro-American immigration reform group, that confirms that Messer “opposes amnesty.”

Reps. Messer and Rokita have the same Numbers USA rating on immigration–83 percent–and Messer was not a part of the Gang of Eight, per the Messer campaign.

The Messer campaign added that it was Rokita who was one of the first congressmen to endorse Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) over Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign. Rubio was in fact one of the signature authors of the Senate Gang of Eight’s amnesty legislation. The Messer campaign highlighted for Breitbart News reports of Rokita having, during the 2016 primary, called Trump “vulgar, if not profane” and having said about Trump while campaigning for Rubio that “at some point, you have to be presidential.”

But Rokita made the point during his appearance on Breitbart News Saturday that he supports English as the official language of the United States–one of the strongest positions in favor of American sovereignty any politician can take.

“I’m the only one in this race that has the guts to come out and talk about English as the official language of this country,” Rokita said. “I’m a cosponsor of that bill. I don’t think there’s anything mean, I don’t think there’s anything wrong. I think there’s everything not politically correct [about this]. Common borders, language, culture, right? We want to build a wall not to just necessarily keep people out but so we can have a sovereign nation. There’s no nation worth living in that doesn’t have a wall or a wall system or an ability to keep people out and know who’s in–and to keep things out. Ninety percent of heroin comes in across the Southern border, and we have an opioid epidemic. Everybody wants to talk about this, that, and their hair’s on fire about the opioid epidemic. Well, let’s try keeping the stuff out of our country. And you got to, to have a sovereign nation, be able to do that. Part and parcel of that is having a common language. Part and parcel of being a unified nation is that you share the same language. That’s all that means. That doesn’t mean you can’t speak your native tongue in your own house, but in terms of the government, in terms of public speech, in terms of everything that we do as a nation, English is our language.”

Messer, meanwhile, walked through new legislation he has proposed targeting sanctuary cities using citizenship data collected during the upcoming Census.

“Sanctuary cities literally get a federal tax dollar bonus under current law–we need to stop it,” Messer said. “I was excited to hear the president’s proposal to ask the citizenship question on the Census. It’s amazing that the left has tried to make that controversial at all. What we want to do is give that information some teeth. Under current law, any total population calculation for federal funding actually includes illegal immigrants. It’s crazy. It needs to stop. As you know, one of President Trump’s most important campaign promises was to secure our borders and to defund sanctuary cities. This gives us a way to do that by basically saying if you’re going to receive federal dollars based on population, it should be the number of legal residents and citizens who are counted, not illegal immigrants.”

Syria

On Friday night, President Trump ordered precision missile strikes on Syria in reaction to Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad’s alleged use of chemical weapons.

In reaction to the news, Rokita told Breitbart News Saturday that he backs the president.

“I’m supportive of the president,” Rokita said. “I was supportive last time he did it, not only because it gives some immediate help to innocent civilians, but also buttresses our friend Israel. Finally, it again it sends another message more widespread to the rest of the world that, ‘Hey this is not the last guy, this is not the last guy who led from behind, this is a new sheriff in town. I think that approach and attitude already gave us some dividends in other parts of the world.”

Rokita argued that America needs to create a new authorization of military force (AUMF) to set the parameters of future military action in Syria.

“The current authorization is way overdue. I have a lot of questions. We have to get a new one in place, or we are at least going to have to debate how we’re going forward here, if things get worse going forward,” Rokita said. “The power to wage war lies squarely under Congress in the Constitution, and that needs to be maintained.”

Rokita continued, “The point is the world knows, that America is leading again. You need to be our ally to be on the right side of history, on the right side of facts and the right side of the moral things. That is good, that produces dividends. It will make dictators in North Korea rethink things, and Russia re-think things.”

On Syria, there was not much disagreement between the two candidates, as Messer agreed with Trump’s action as well.

“I support the president,” Messer said. “America is safe when America is strong. I think it was a smart and a closely tailored strike and appropriate under the circumstances.”

THE INDIANA SENATE RACE

Both Rokita and Messer, unsurprisingly, lit into Donnelly as a leftist who does not represent Indiana values.

But both also lit into their fellow GOP primary opponent, Braun, who has yet to agree to appear on Breitbart News radio on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125.

“I’ve got one guy running in this race, Mike Braun, who says he’s an outsider, but if anything he’s outside the Republican Party,” Messer said of Braun. “He’s a 14-year office holder, much of that time voting in Democrat primaries–was a Democrat even until 2012 and never supported Republicans. He says he’s a Republican. He never supported Republicans. I’ve already talked to you a little about Todd Rokita. Look, it’s not enough to just put on a MAGA hat–you have to vote with the president. That’s important too.”

Of Braun, Rokita added his own jabs at the third competitor in the race accusing him of being a “millionaire” running for the Senate because “It’s on his bucket list of things to do.”

“Both Luke Messer and Mike Braun are responsible for a billion dollars of tax hikes when they were in the legislature,” Rokita said. “Mike Braun was 45-0, he was two years in the state legislature, he voted for 45 tax increases. He’s never voted no on a tax bill including the state’s largest tax increase, which was our gas tax. You mentioned infrastructure. Even at our committee at the federal level, we were able to get a billion dollars for Indiana and all other states got their cut too without raising taxes, without printing the money, and without borrowing it. And that was Washington. And so if you send Mike Braun to the Senate, it’s going to be terrible, because all he knows how to do is raise taxes–same with Messer.”

Rokita also argued that he is better prepared to take on Donnelly, in that he has run–and won–statewide campaigns in Indiana before, when he was Secretary of State.

“All I can tell you is what I’m doing on the ground in Indiana is what I’ve always done to be successful running statewide and in my congressional seat, and that is go straight to the voters,” Rokita said. “I drive 45,000 miles a year, no joke, and when I was Secretary of State, I went to every county–all 92 of them–at least once. No one else is doing that, except Donnelly. Donnelly, the incumbent Democrat–a liberal Democrat who hugs Hillary Clinton and did what President Obama told him to do, got the final vote of Nancy Pelosi’s House for Obamacare, votes with Bernie Sanders 85 percent of the time. Ok, that guy–is very retail. He is, and I give that to him. He does that the way I do it. That’s why you’re going to need a guy who’s known throughout the community and throughout the state–and the state knows him–who’s willing to work it, and who doesn’t live in McLean, Virginia.”

LISTEN TO INTERVIEWS WITH REPS. TODD ROKITA (R-IN) AND LUKE MESSER (R-IN):Conservatives can be expected to disagree reasonably over Justice Neil Gorsuch’s opinion Tuesday in Sessions v. Dimaya, in which he concurred with the Court’s liberals and cast the deciding vote in a 5-4 ruling invalidating an immigrant’s deportation.

But it is not reasonable to claim that Justice Gorsuch has somehow sold out his principles to become the next David Souter. His opinion in Dimaya is actually a conservative one, based on an originalist reading of the Constitution.

The majority held that Section 16(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is unconstitutionally vague. The law, as written, provides a legal basis for the deportation of a legal immigrant who is convicted of “crime of violence,” defined as “any other offense that is a felony and that, by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense.”

The legal immigrant in question has been convicted twice of first-degree burglary in California. But the Court held, following the precdent in Johnson v. United States (2015), that the idea of “substantial risk” of physical violence was just too vague. Congress simply had not provided a precise enough definition of a “crime of violence.” That meant that the Fifth Amendment due process rights of a legal immigrant convicted of a crime could be violated by deportation.

Gorsuch’s concurring opinion begins:

Vague laws invite arbitrary power. Before the Revolu­tion, the crime of treason in English law was so capa­ ciously construed that the mere expression of disfavored opinions could invite transportation or death. The founders cited the crown’s abuse of “pretended” crimes like this as one of their reasons for revolution. See Declaration of Independence ¶21. Today’s vague laws may not be as invidious, but they can invite the exercise of arbitrary power all the same—by leaving the people in the dark about what the law demands and allowing prosecutors and courts to make it up.

In other words, Gorsuch is not concerned with the welfare of this immigrant or any other. Rather, he is concerned about the federal government potentially abusing its power by exploiting vague language in the law.

He goes on to point out that “burglary” includes “everyone from armed home intruders to door-to-door salesmen peddling shady products,” leaving the courts in the dark about how to determined a “substantial risk” of force.

Gorsuch also addresses the question of whether invalidating a statute for vagueness is itself constitutional — a question raised by Justice Clarence Thomas in his own dissenting opinion — and applies originalist arguments to that subject as well, citing precedent and principle in 18th century English law.

The main dissenting opinion, written by Chief Justice Roberts, disagrees that the law is unconstitutionally vague, distinguishing the Dimaya case from the Johnson precedent and saying that the courts were merely called upon to make a “commonsense inquiry” about the risks of violence. And Thomas questions the “vagueness” doctrine itself.

Gorsuch’s opinion is not a case of yet another Republican appointee to the Supreme Court going liberal. Rather, it is analogous to Justice Antonin Scalia’s dissent in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld (2004), in which the original originalist voted against President George W. Bush because he believed that the Constitution forbade the government from holding an American citizen — even one accused of fighting alongside our terrorist enemies — without charge.

These cases both remind us that originalists will sometimes disagree in their conclusions, even if they agree in their methods.

And in this case, there is a clear remedy: Congress can simply amend the statute to clarify “crimes of violence.”

Far from violating the trust under which he was appointed, Gorsuch is fulfilling his commitment to originalism.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.Los Angeles officials are going forward with a $40,000-a-mile program to coat public streets to fight climate change, despite the city’s many financial challenges — including a $73 million budget shortfall for dealing with the ever-expanding homeless population.

The program uses a light-colored sealant to cover the streets, which decreases the pavement temperature of so-called “heat-islands,” according to media reports.

Fox News reported (original links):

The LA Street Services began rolling out the project last May, which preliminary testing shows has reduced the temperature of roadways by up to 10 degrees. The project involves applying a light gray coating of the product CoolSeal, made by the company GuardTop.

$40,000/mile to paint roads white.

California is insane.https://t.co/kWfAq3dZE8 — Caleb Jordan Schulz (@Based_Jedi) April 10, 2018

“CoolSeal is applied like conventional sealcoats to asphalt surfaces to protect and maintain the quality and longevity of the surface,” according to the company website. “While most cool pavements on the market are polymer based, CoolSeal is a water-based, asphalt emulsion.”

Last year, the L.A. Daily News reported on the high cost of the project — and that local officials approved it nonetheless.

The morning temperature of the black asphalt in the middle of a nearby intersection read 93 degrees. The new light gray surface on Jordan Avenue read a cool 70 — on what would turn out to be the first heat wave of the year. “It’s awesome. It’s very cool — both literally and figuratively,” exclaimed Councilman Bob Blumenfield, whose Los Angeles district includes Canoga Park, squinting into the laser handheld thermometer. “We are trying to control ‘the heat island effect’ ” — or hotter temperatures caused by urban sprawl. “The downside: we won’t be able to fry eggs on the streets,” Blumenfield said.

$40,000 per mile of wasted taxpayers money. Peak #stupid in #ClimateChange while California have millions of homeless.https://t.co/atTmRmAa0t — Andy Oz (@AndyOz2) April 10, 2018

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who is eyeing a run for the White House in 2020, has embraced the program “as part of an overall plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the city by 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2025,” according to Fox News.

And environmental activists are praising L.A.’s street-sealing project.

“Advocates are confident that advances in asphalt technology will drive down the cost,” Mother Nature Network reported on Sunday.

“There’s also the related economic benefits to consider: in once-sweltering neighborhoods where streets are now painted white, residents will be less likely to crank the air conditioning on full blast, leading to significant savings on energy bills and decreased emissions,” the website reported.

“What’s more, the highly reflective nature of white-coated asphalt means that street lighting doesn’t have to kick in quite as early in the evening, saving additional energy.”

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterHarvard Law School professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz told Breitbart News Tonight on Monday that Attorney General Jeff Sessions should withdraw his recusal from the Department of Justice’s investigation into Trump associates — at least as far as it considers President Donald Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen.

Dershowitz offered his remarks during a Monday interview on SiriusXM’s Breitbart News Tonight with hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak.

Dershowitz said, “Sometimes you should un-recuse yourself, and I think Attorney General Sessions should un-recuse himself when it comes to the New York investigation because it’s not part of the Russia investigation. He’s not a witness or a potential subject there. He’s the attorney general of the United States. He ought to be in charge of supervising the New York investigation, not Rosenstein.”

LISTEN:



Pollak asked Dershowitz if such an un-recusal from Sessions would lead to a pursuit of obstruction of justice charges against President Donald Trump.

Dershowitz replied, “[Jeff Sessions] wouldn’t try to stop [the New York investigation]. He’d play the same role, presumably, that [Deputy Attorney General Rod] Rosenstein is playing. He’d be one to sign off on the search warrant. He’d be the one to be supervising the U.S. attorney as the Attorney General of the United States always does. It’s just that he would replace Rosenstein. Rosenstein isn’t stopping the investigation. Presumably neither would [Sessions], but he’d be the one in charge. There’s no reason why he should be recused from the New York investigation, unless the New York investigation is really just an extension of Mueller’s investigation, in which case that raises other problems.”

Pollak then described Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s supervision of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s operation as unusual given his dual role as both a supervisor and potential witness.

Pollak stated, “There’s a lot of questions arising about Rod Rosenstein, who signed off on the decision to go after Michael Cohen. The curious thing about him is he’s technically in charge of Mueller and the whole special counsel investigation, but he’s also a witness in that investigation because he’s the person who wrote the memo directing that James Comey be fired. I don’t understand how you can have someone who’s a witness, potentially, in an investigation also supervising the investigation. From the start this seems weird.”

Dershowitz concurred with Pollak’s assessment.

He said, “I’ve been making this point for three months. He should have recused himself. He’s more recusable, even than Sessions, and he clearly will be called as a witness if there’s any obstruction of justice charges against the president because the first witness you’re going to want is the guy who signed the letter justifying it.

“So I don’t understand how he stays on. Even if technically he doesn’t have to recuse himself, when you’re going after the president, again, you have to be ‘Caesar’s wife’ and you have to lean over backwards and make sure that you don’t give your enemies any ammunition. The idea that a witness is going to be this person supervising the prosecution just defies common sense.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.Gun control proponent David Hogg is pushing a boycott of mutual fund companies invested in firearm manufacturer stocks.

This follows his boycott of Fox News’s Laura Ingraham, which resulted in her initially losing advertisers and apologizing to him only to have her viewership jump 20 percent.

Now Hogg is targeting BlackRock, Vanguard Group, and a few other mutual fund companies for holding gun manufacturers’ stock in their mutual funds.

Hogg tweeted:

.@blackrock and @Vanguard_Group are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know. Thanks 😉 — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 17, 2018

He is trying to get the hashtags #BoycottBlackrock and #BoycottVanguard to trend.

On April 17, Breitbart News reported that Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D) and the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) have launched similar campaigns. Emanuel wants to punish banks that continued unfettered business with gun makers and sellers by refusing city contracts to said banks. AFT is calling on school pension fund managers to divest of any holdings in manufacturers of “assault weapons.”

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.NOTE FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT:

Nobody had more respect and admiration for Dennis Miller than Andrew Breitbart. One of Andrew’s great joys was filling in as a guest host on the Dennis Miller radio show on Westwood One. They were connected by humor, insight, and the shared belief that conservative ideas can be advanced through culture. We are excited that things have come full circle and we welcome Dennis to Breitbart News.

****

As we begin to establish a firm yet flimsy foothold in the Second Year A.D. (After Donald) of the Mueller Investigation (Doesn’t Hold Watergate), I think we should take stock (stalk?) and think of possible endgames. All right, enough Rounded Brackets for a while.

I realize that half the country, or even a little more, get up each morning to check the satchel of overnight dispatch-leaks from Team Mueller. I know they’re hoping that President Trump either retires, is un-hired, or expires. I get that. I concede it readily… and I obviously don’t think that all the folks who sign up for that are stupid or bad.

I’m just not sure that the other side in this growing national spat is willing to make that conciliatory concession. I think they now view the conservative side as malevolent hayseed bumpkins who just won’t get it.

Let me elaborate on what they should know before rendering that judgment. We don’t believe Trump and the Russians arranged (sorry but I’m “colluded” out) to shift the vote in a few key Rust Belt and Southern states to deliver him an appreciable Electoral College victory. Yes, we do believe in the Electoral College and are also able to simultaneously juggle the thought that Trump University might not have been Oxford. We’re past the point in history where the slap-ass nature of that online salon can matter that much. If Professor Trump owes any of his former students money, he should pay them posthaste.

Next, we do believe that The Smartest Girl in the Room was at best dangerously sloppy with her E-mails and, at worst, cunning. I know all 33K deleted missives were about yoga, but to be honest I think the Downward Dog in Hillary’s life is her Old Man.

We also believe that both Clinton and Trump hit everything that moved or didn’t move fast enough during their public tenures. “The horny wheel on the bus goes round and round. “ Jack Warner begat Teddy Kennedy and Teddy begat Bubba and Bu… Needless to say, the long Women’s Rights March from Chappaquidick to Chappaqua was talked and not walked.

And that’s pretty much it. All the pertinent cards on the table. So where do we go from here?

Well, to be accurate, Clinton did have articles of impeachment brought against him. The reason was not for laying hands on body parts but rather for laying hands on a Bible and lying about laying hands on body parts. Granted, in a dissipating societal order, we shouldn’t ask much of the man who is right behind the AG as the chief law enforcement officer, but lying under oath should at least exact a mild twitch above the weak eye of the perjurer.

Anyhoo, Clinton skated. He always skates. He’s Eric Heiden with an extra ripple in the unitard. I’m not sure Bill Clinton will ever suffer comeuppance until he eventually kicks in a Las Vegas hotel room door to collect his bobbleheads.

So that’s where we are, and now I’d like to make a Modest Proposal, fully realizing my detractors think of me as anything but swift. I think President Trump should demand those same Articles of Impeachment be lodged against him tomorrow.

Let’s face it, this country couldn’t be more Polarized if Jaruzelski was at the North Pole and Walesa had just set up camp at the hemline of Antarctica. I know, I know. That’s a longer way to go for that joke than either of those destinations.

The Left thinks Trump is Adolf Hitler on bad days and Satan on good days. The brilliant writer Salena Zito said it best: “The press takes him literally, but not seriously; his supporters take him seriously, but not literally.” Newly discovered Radium was not as distilled down and illuminating as that observation.

But playtime should be over now. The constant sturm and drang of the Russia thing is slowly croaking the host organism, that being the country that half of us hold dear… and half of us would hold dear if it was recreated in unsettling exactitude to perfectly mirror the precise image of it that they so unstintingly hold in their brilliant minds.

Start the impeachment process NOW. Time to commence to tusslin’! I know the Left wants to wait until Olde Blink 183 reassumes her Speaker of the House duties after the midterm elections, but I’m not sure as a citizenry we have all that much time to waste. Things are approaching surly critical mass. To the Never Trumpers, if you truly love your country you should begin your effort to dismantle it ASAP!

Whichever of the two reasons you deem Trump should be impeached for — the sex with the Porn Star and the attendant payoff OR the Kremlin’s insertion of Trump into our system via a Soviet front private school a half-century ago, decades then spent becoming the quintessential egomaniacal capitalist billionaire, all just to lay in wait until two years ago when Putin flipped the Red Queen on him and activated the Ghost in the Machine — let’s do it!

Flip a Bitcoin and pick one during business hours this week as it’s now Go Time. Bring him down or pipe down, because the status quo is a really bad look for the country.The latest polling from Rasmussen Reports (one of the most reliable in 2016) shows a huge slide in support for James Comey, the disgraced former head of the FBI. A plurality of 46 percent now want to see him prosecuted for leaking to the media.

While President Trump’s job approval rating continues to climb in both the Rasmussen daily tracking poll (49 percent approval) and in the Real Clear Politics poll of polls, in the wake of his public relations blitz, Comey’s numbers have taken a steep dive.

As far as the job he did as FBI director, Rasmussen discovered that “just 14% of Likely U.S. Voters believe that Comey was a better FBI director than most of those who held the job before him. Thirty-eight percent (38%) say he did a worse job this his predecessors, while nearly as many (35%) rate his job performance as about the same as theirs.”

Even those who “strongly disapprove” of Trump are not big fans of Comey, with only 21 percent of that particular group giving him credit as a better FBI director than his predecessors.

Comey has admitted to leaking details of his classified conversations with Trump to the media through an intermediary. Last June, only 41 percent wanted to see him prosecuted for this. That number has now jumped to a near-majority and clear plurality of 46 percent.

In worse news for Comey, his base of support among those who do not want to see him prosecuted has plummeted -13 points, from 47 percent in June to just 34 percent today.

In June, Comey was above water by six points on the issue of prosecution, 47 percent to 41 percent.

Today he is upside down -12 points, 34 percent to 46 percent — a stunning shift of 18 points against him.

The partisan breakdown should also worry Comey and his media allies.

While only 29 percent of Democrats want him prosecuted, a plurality of 46 percent of Independents agree, along with nearly two-thirds (65 percent) of Republicans.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.United Nations (U.N.) Deputy Ambassador Jon Lerner has deep ties to not only his longtime colleague and boss, U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, but also Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, the failed “Never Trump” movement, and the pro-mass immigration billionaire GOP mega-donors the Koch brothers.

Lerner, 49, withdrew from consideration to become Vice President Mike Pence’s national security adviser after news broke that President Trump was reportedly livid that a key member of the Never Trump movement would be joining his White House.

Still, Lerner has squeezed his way into the administration he avidly fought against despite having no foreign policy experience, with a source telling the New York Times that the consultant will informally advise the White House on national security.

Nikki Haley and Never Trump Ties

Nikki Haley first hired Lerner for her successful gubernatorial campaign in South Carolina. Then, after winning the South Carolina governorship, Haley kept Lerner around as one of her senior strategists.

Haley endorsed Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) in the 2016 GOP presidential primary and infamously indirectly attacked Trump’s “America First” agenda in her 2016 State of the Union response while Lerner was advising her.

Great meeting w/ the next Ambassador to the UN, Governor @nikkihaley. She will be a strong voice for the United States on the world stage pic.twitter.com/jLDT5x9D4j — Mike Pence (@mike_pence) January 5, 2017

Though Haley was operating her own, more discreet Never Trump strategy in 2016, Lerner was also running a Never Trump operation for the Koch brothers-aligned “Club for Growth” organization.

The Koch brothers, as Breitbart News reported, oppose Trump’s pro-American immigration agenda and have most recently pushed a campaign for amnesty for millions of illegal aliens. The Club for Growth opposes Trump’s fair trade agenda, instead favoring multinational free trade, which has led to massive job loss for American workers.

During the 2016 presidential race, Lerner — while working for Haley — aided the Club for Growth in pushing the pro-Rubio, anti-Trump operation. In early 2016, at the height of the GOP primary, POLITICO noted Club for Growth’s staunch Never Trump campaign:

Throughout the summer and fall, Club for Growth experimented with modest TV ad buys against Trump in early primary states. But last month, during a meeting of the group’s top donors, discussions intensified. There was frustration, said one person present at the gathering, that more groups had not done more to take on Trump. There was also talk about what another anti-Trump offensive would look like, and what states made most sense to focus on. In addition to its $1.5 million Florida offensive, the Club for Growth has launched a roughly $2 million TV blitz against Trump in Illinois, another delegate rich state that votes on March 15. [Emphasis added]

Lerner’s polling firm, Basswood Research, was conducting polls for the Club for Growth that pushed the same anti-Trump agenda during the GOP primary, as Breitbart News reported at the time.

Trump, in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News, called the Club for Growth a “pack of thieves.”

“They [the Club for Growth] came to my office looking for money. I turned them down. That’s why they’re after me,” Trump told Breitbart News.

Mark Zuckerberg and Open Borders Lobby Ties

Before being hand-picked by Haley to join her in the Trump administration, Lerner helped create and launch Mark Zuckerberg’s open borders lobbying group, FWD.us.

Zuckerberg’s FWD.us, as Breitbart News has chronicled, serves as an open borders lobbying group for Silicon Valley’s tech conglomerates. FWD.us is a pro-amnesty, pro-foreign labor organization funded by the elites of Silicon Valley – including Zuckerberg, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, and former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer.

The group opposes Trump’s wage-boosting, immigration-reducing agenda, instead demanding the continued flow of mass immigration whereby more than 1.5 million illegal and legal immigrants are admitted to the U.S. every year.

Key to FWD.us’s mission is importing more foreign workers to take coveted, high-paying, white-collar American jobs. In November 2017, Breitbart News reported how FWD.us brought illegal aliens to Washington, D.C. to lobby lawmakers on supporting an amnesty that would likely result in the 12 to 30 million illegal aliens living in the U.S. being allowed to permanently stay in the country.

Lerner worked alongside a number of other members of the permanent consultant class to help launch Zuckerberg’s open borders organization, including former Bill Clinton staffer Joe Lockhart and Republican strategist Rob Jesmer.

In July 2016, while still working for Haley and the Club for Growth, Lerner was railing against Trump’s popular pro-American immigration agenda, wherein the president called for reducing legal immigration to boost American workers’ wages.

Like his time with the Club for Growth, Lerner’s tenure with Zuckerberg’s open borders group was spent conducting polls that claimed Trump’s staunch fight against illegal and mass immigration was unpopular with Republican voters.

CNet reported at the time:

Jon Lerner, of Republican polling organization Basswood Research, acknowledged that anti-immigration rhetoric worked in Trump’s favor during much of his campaign season. But he thinks that time has passed. “Trump got mileage to date out of his position [on immigration] but that mileage is quickly running out and the electorate he has to appeal to now is very different,” Lerner said in a press call.

Foreign Policy

Lerner has played a key role in foreign policy under Haley, despite his having a thin foreign policy resume. He reportedly helped draft a speech delivered by Haley in Washington, D.C. in September, laying out what was seen as the case for leaving the Iran nuclear deal.

Yet, shortly after Trump declined to certify Iran’s compliance with the 2015 Iran deal — Obama’s signature foreign policy goal – Haley said the U.S. hoped to stay in the deal.

“What we hope is that we can improve the situation,” she told NBC’s Meet the Press in October. “And that’s the goal. So I think right now, we’re in the deal to see how we can make it better. And that’s the goal. It’s not that we’re getting out of the deal. We’re just trying to make the situation better so that the American people feel safer.”

There are other signs of Haley being out of step. From the beginning of the administration, Haley has taken a hawkish stance towards Russia, surprising some of Trump’s critics, but Trump’s praise of Haley batted down any suggestion of a disconnect.

However, cracks showed on Monday after the president learned of Lerner’s appointment and after Haley announced the U.S. would be imposing new sanctions on Russia. The White House quickly walked back that announcement, with the president still considering the move.

According to Bloomberg, Lerner’s foreign policy bona fides are less important than his loyalty. He was described as Haley’s “eyes and ears on the ground” in Washington, D.C., in a piece profiling him in September.

Haley has also taken a more hawkish stance than Trump on Syria, arguing for regime change. Last year, she told CNN, “We don’t see a peaceful Syria with Assad in there,” and said regime change was inevitable.

She reportedly called for a more forceful response than last week’s strikes against Syria’s chemical weapons facilities, which Defense Secretary Jim Mattis feared would spark a wider conflict.

Last year, Rubio told Bloomberg that Lerner’s work is reflected in Haley’s performance.

“Jon’s doing a great job and I think that’s reflected in the work Nikki is doing,” Rubio said. “She’s got a real good team and I think it shows in the end result. Jon is certainly a big part of that.”United Nations (U.N.) Deputy Ambassador Jon Lerner has deep ties to not only his longtime colleague and boss, U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, but also Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, the failed “Never Trump” movement, and the pro-mass immigration billionaire GOP mega-donors the Koch brothers.

Lerner, 49, withdrew from consideration to become Vice President Mike Pence’s national security adviser after news broke that President Trump was reportedly livid that a key member of the Never Trump movement would be joining his White House.

Still, Lerner has squeezed his way into the administration he avidly fought against despite having no foreign policy experience, with a source telling the New York Times that the consultant will informally advise the White House on national security.

Nikki Haley and Never Trump Ties

Nikki Haley first hired Lerner for her successful gubernatorial campaign in South Carolina. Then, after winning the South Carolina governorship, Haley kept Lerner around as one of her senior strategists.

Haley endorsed Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) in the 2016 GOP presidential primary and infamously indirectly attacked Trump’s “America First” agenda in her 2016 State of the Union response while Lerner was advising her.

Great meeting w/ the next Ambassador to the UN, Governor @nikkihaley. She will be a strong voice for the United States on the world stage pic.twitter.com/jLDT5x9D4j — Mike Pence (@mike_pence) January 5, 2017

Though Haley was operating her own, more discreet Never Trump strategy in 2016, Lerner was also running a Never Trump operation for the Koch brothers-aligned “Club for Growth” organization.

The Koch brothers, as Breitbart News reported, oppose Trump’s pro-American immigration agenda and have most recently pushed a campaign for amnesty for millions of illegal aliens. The Club for Growth opposes Trump’s fair trade agenda, instead favoring multinational free trade, which has led to massive job loss for American workers.

During the 2016 presidential race, Lerner — while working for Haley — aided the Club for Growth in pushing the pro-Rubio, anti-Trump operation. In early 2016, at the height of the GOP primary, POLITICO noted Club for Growth’s staunch Never Trump campaign:

Throughout the summer and fall, Club for Growth experimented with modest TV ad buys against Trump in early primary states. But last month, during a meeting of the group’s top donors, discussions intensified. There was frustration, said one person present at the gathering, that more groups had not done more to take on Trump. There was also talk about what another anti-Trump offensive would look like, and what states made most sense to focus on. In addition to its $1.5 million Florida offensive, the Club for Growth has launched a roughly $2 million TV blitz against Trump in Illinois, another delegate rich state that votes on March 15. [Emphasis added]

Lerner’s polling firm, Basswood Research, was conducting polls for the Club for Growth that pushed the same anti-Trump agenda during the GOP primary, as Breitbart News reported at the time.

Trump, in an exclusive interview with Breitbart News, called the Club for Growth a “pack of thieves.”

“They [the Club for Growth] came to my office looking for money. I turned them down. That’s why they’re after me,” Trump told Breitbart News.

Mark Zuckerberg and Open Borders Lobby Ties

Before being hand-picked by Haley to join her in the Trump administration, Lerner helped create and launch Mark Zuckerberg’s open borders lobbying group, FWD.us.

Zuckerberg’s FWD.us, as Breitbart News has chronicled, serves as an open borders lobbying group for Silicon Valley’s tech conglomerates. FWD.us is a pro-amnesty, pro-foreign labor organization funded by the elites of Silicon Valley – including Zuckerberg, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, and former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer.

The group opposes Trump’s wage-boosting, immigration-reducing agenda, instead demanding the continued flow of mass immigration whereby more than 1.5 million illegal and legal immigrants are admitted to the U.S. every year.

Key to FWD.us’s mission is importing more foreign workers to take coveted, high-paying, white-collar American jobs. In November 2017, Breitbart News reported how FWD.us brought illegal aliens to Washington, D.C. to lobby lawmakers on supporting an amnesty that would likely result in the 12 to 30 million illegal aliens living in the U.S. being allowed to permanently stay in the country.

Lerner worked alongside a number of other members of the permanent consultant class to help launch Zuckerberg’s open borders organization, including former Bill Clinton staffer Joe Lockhart and Republican strategist Rob Jesmer.

In July 2016, while still working for Haley and the Club for Growth, Lerner was railing against Trump’s popular pro-American immigration agenda, wherein the president called for reducing legal immigration to boost American workers’ wages.

Like his time with the Club for Growth, Lerner’s tenure with Zuckerberg’s open borders group was spent conducting polls that claimed Trump’s staunch fight against illegal and mass immigration was unpopular with Republican voters.

CNet reported at the time:

Jon Lerner, of Republican polling organization Basswood Research, acknowledged that anti-immigration rhetoric worked in Trump’s favor during much of his campaign season. But he thinks that time has passed. “Trump got mileage to date out of his position [on immigration] but that mileage is quickly running out and the electorate he has to appeal to now is very different,” Lerner said in a press call.

Foreign Policy

Lerner has played a key role in foreign policy under Haley, despite his having a thin foreign policy resume. He reportedly helped draft a speech delivered by Haley in Washington, D.C. in September, laying out what was seen as the case for leaving the Iran nuclear deal.

Yet, shortly after Trump declined to certify Iran’s compliance with the 2015 Iran deal — Obama’s signature foreign policy goal – Haley said the U.S. hoped to stay in the deal.

“What we hope is that we can improve the situation,” she told NBC’s Meet the Press in October. “And that’s the goal. So I think right now, we’re in the deal to see how we can make it better. And that’s the goal. It’s not that we’re getting out of the deal. We’re just trying to make the situation better so that the American people feel safer.”

There are other signs of Haley being out of step. From the beginning of the administration, Haley has taken a hawkish stance towards Russia, surprising some of Trump’s critics, but Trump’s praise of Haley batted down any suggestion of a disconnect.

However, cracks showed on Monday after the president learned of Lerner’s appointment and after Haley announced the U.S. would be imposing new sanctions on Russia. The White House quickly walked back that announcement, with the president still considering the move.

According to Bloomberg, Lerner’s foreign policy bona fides are less important than his loyalty. He was described as Haley’s “eyes and ears on the ground” in Washington, D.C., in a piece profiling him in September.

Haley has also taken a more hawkish stance than Trump on Syria, arguing for regime change. Last year, she told CNN, “We don’t see a peaceful Syria with Assad in there,” and said regime change was inevitable.

She reportedly called for a more forceful response than last week’s strikes against Syria’s chemical weapons facilities, which Defense Secretary Jim Mattis feared would spark a wider conflict.

Last year, Rubio told Bloomberg that Lerner’s work is reflected in Haley’s performance.

“Jon’s doing a great job and I think that’s reflected in the work Nikki is doing,” Rubio said. “She’s got a real good team and I think it shows in the end result. Jon is certainly a big part of that.”‘DREAMers Are Among Our Best and Brightest:’ Koch Brothers to Push Amnesty with Seven-Figure Ad Campaign‘DREAMers Are Among Our Best and Brightest:’ Koch Brothers to Push Amnesty with Seven-Figure Ad CampaignCIA Director Mike Pompeo, now President Donald Trump’s nominee to serve as Secretary of State, secretly traveled to North Korea over Easter weekend to meet with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un.

Pompeo made the trip for high-level talks to discuss the planned bilateral meeting with Trump later this year. The news was first reported by the Washington Post.

Trump announced on March 13 his decision to fire Rex Tillerson and replace him with Pompeo, but the CIA director is still waiting for a confirmation vote from the Senate. Tillerson left the State Department on March 22.

During his confirmation hearings on Thursday, Pompeo told U.S. Senators on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he was “optimistic” that the government could set Trump up for success.

The president hinted that “direct talks at very high levels” had already taken place with North Korea, while hosting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida.

He denied personally speaking to Jong-un via the White House press office.

Trump appeared eager to conclude a successful negotiation with North Korea, although he autioned that the meeting could be canceled at any time.

“There’s a great chance to solve a world problem,” He told reporters. “This is not a problem for the United States. This is not a problem for Japan or any other country. This is a problem for the world.”CIA Director Mike Pompeo, now President Donald Trump’s nominee to serve as Secretary of State, secretly traveled to North Korea over Easter weekend to meet with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un.

Pompeo made the trip for high-level talks to discuss the planned bilateral meeting with Trump later this year. The news was first reported by the Washington Post.

Trump announced on March 13 his decision to fire Rex Tillerson and replace him with Pompeo, but the CIA director is still waiting for a confirmation vote from the Senate. Tillerson left the State Department on March 22.

During his confirmation hearings on Thursday, Pompeo told U.S. Senators on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he was “optimistic” that the government could set Trump up for success.

The president hinted that “direct talks at very high levels” had already taken place with North Korea, while hosting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida.

He denied personally speaking to Jong-un via the White House press office.

Trump appeared eager to conclude a successful negotiation with North Korea, although he autioned that the meeting could be canceled at any time.

“There’s a great chance to solve a world problem,” He told reporters. “This is not a problem for the United States. This is not a problem for Japan or any other country. This is a problem for the world.”Gun control proponent David Hogg is pushing a boycott of mutual fund companies invested in firearm manufacturer stocks.

This follows his boycott of Fox News’s Laura Ingraham, which resulted in her initially losing advertisers and apologizing to him only to have her viewership jump 20 percent.

Now Hogg is targeting BlackRock, Vanguard Group, and a few other mutual fund companies for holding gun manufacturers’ stock in their mutual funds.

Hogg tweeted:

.@blackrock and @Vanguard_Group are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know. Thanks 😉 — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 17, 2018

He is trying to get the hashtags #BoycottBlackrock and #BoycottVanguard to trend.

On April 17, Breitbart News reported that Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D) and the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) have launched similar campaigns. Emanuel wants to punish banks that continued unfettered business with gun makers and sellers by refusing city contracts to said banks. AFT is calling on school pension fund managers to divest of any holdings in manufacturers of “assault weapons.”

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.A new investigation reveals that while the Broward County schools superintendent and school board are touting fewer arrests of minority students, the most recent state data actually shows the district has the highest rate of weapons-related incidents in South Florida.

Research conducted by Paul Sperry for RealClearInvestigations (RCI) shows while Broward County Public Schools, under the direction of superintendent Robert Runcie, has embraced Obama-era, social justice school discipline policies aimed at ending the “school-to-prison pipeline” for minority students, data indicate the school district has grown increasingly unsafe over recent years.

The school district has drawn intense scrutiny since accused shooter Nikolas Cruz killed 17 individuals two months ago at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. Despite an extensive history of violence and threats, Cruz was never expelled from the district or referred to law enforcement for arrest, factors that prevented a background check from flagging authorities who might have blocked his ability to obtain a firearm for his rampage.

RCI reports Cruz was not the only violent young person who failed to be reformed through “restorative justice” counseling offered through the Obama-era school discipline framework:

Records show such policies have failed to curtail other campus violence and its effects now on the rise in district schools — including fighting, weapons use, bullying and related suicides. Meanwhile, murders, armed robberies and other violent felonies committed by children outside of schools have hit record levels, and some see a connection with what’s happening on school grounds. Since the relaxing of discipline, Broward youths have not only brazenly punched out their teachers, but terrorized Broward neighborhoods with drive-by shootings, gang rapes, home invasions and carjackings.

“Broward County now has the highest percentage of ‘the most serious, violent [and] chronic’ juvenile offenders in Florida, according to the county’s chief juvenile probation officer,” Sperry writes. “Since 2015, at least three other pupils have brought loaded firearms into schools and threatened to go on shooting sprees.”

Like Runcie, the district’s Chief Public Information Officer Tracy Clark, denies the district has grown unsafe as a result of the social justice disciplinary policies.

“In fact, our district’s overall disciplinary incidents have dropped since we adopted the new policy and wraparound supports to students with behavior issues,” Clark said, according to RCI.

Parents, however, have complained about a lack of responsiveness from the superintendent and school board to their concerns about school safety over recent years. One 19-year-old Broward online education student, Kenneth Preston, presented research last week at a school board meeting alleging that of $104,325,821 designated for school safety as part of the Broward Schools 2014 Bond Appropriation, only $5,584,512 – about 5.3 percent – has been spent since its appropriation.

Growing concerns about school safety and the role of the district’s discipline policies in Cruz’s massacre have led Runcie and the school board to plan a community forum Wednesday evening.

The superintendent, however, has said accusations that his PROMISE program is connected to the shooting are “reprehensible” and “fake news.”

“We’re not going to dismantle a program in this district that is serving and helping kids appropriately because of news that is not fact-based,” Runcie said at the school board meeting.

The district’s PROMISE program was likely one used as a model program for the Obama administration’s national school discipline initiative mapped out in a 2014 Dear Colleague letter. The directive coerced schools into reducing reports of arrests, expulsions, and suspensions of minority students in order to avoid federal investigations and the withdrawal of federal funding.

Runcie came to Broward County from Chicago where he worked for Obama Education Secretary Arne Duncan when Duncan headed up Chicago Public Schools. The first year after Runcie put PROMISE in place in Broward, the school district’s arrest rate dropped 66 percent – since schools were instructed not to refer assaults and other crimes committed by minority students to law enforcement.

However, RCI reports:

Prosecutors and probation officers complain that while overall juvenile arrests are down, serious violent crimes involving school-aged Broward youths – including armed robbery, kidnapping and even murder – have spiked, even as such violent crimes across the state have dropped. Juvenile arrests for murder and manslaughter increased 150 percent between 2013 and 2016. They increased by another 50 percent in 2017. County juveniles were responsible for a total of 16 murders or manslaughters in the past two years alone, according to the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice.

RCI adds that thousands of Broward students who were arrested “had their records deleted in the system as part of a program to end ‘disproportionate minority contact’ with law enforcement, blindfolding both street cops and school resource officers to the criminal history of potential juvenile threats.”

“[T]he actual police reports are being destroyed,” Broward juvenile prosecutor Maria Schneider stated at a recent Juvenile Justice Circuit Advisory Board meeting.

Two weeks after Cruz’s rampage, retired Broward School Resource Officer (SRO) Robert Martinez, agreed the school district wanted to keep arrest numbers down and encouraged SROs not to make arrests, reported WSVN.

“He [Martinez] said removing a dangerous teen like Cruz from a school can take up to two years due to all the red tape that was added to the process by Runcie’s new discipline policies and programs,” the news report continued.

“We know that when Cruz committed felonies he wasn’t arrested,” Manhattan Institute senior fellow and education policy expert Max Eden tells Breitbart News. “We hear, from a retired School Resource Officer, that the school board and police department verbally instructed SROs to not arrest for certain felonies in addition to PROMISE misdemeanors. It appears Cruz was shielded from felony arrests by a program designed for re-integrating students post felony-conviction.”

Indeed, while Runcie has asserted his PROMISE program is not connected to the shooting because Cruz did not participate in that program, RCI reveals Cruz was enrolled in the Behavior Intervention Program, an initiative that Eden describes as “PROMISE on steroids for felons.”

As RCI previously reported Broward’s Behavior Intervention Program is intended for “students who exhibit severe, unmanageable behavior that cannot be adequately controlled in a traditional school setting.”

Students referred to the Behavior Intervention Program are those “returning from residential Juvenile Justice Programs,” including students “convicted of a serious crime such as: rape, murder, attempted murder, sexual battery or firearm related,” and those whose behavior off campus would qualify them for expulsion.

Eden says Runcie and school board members who supported him at the school board meeting last week will have to answer to Parkland parents Wednesday evening when school safety is addressed.

“Runcie had the gall to look Parkland parents in the eyes and call their concerns ‘fake news,'” he asserts. “His school board ally Dr. Rosalind Osgood outdid him by accusing them of being motivated by ‘evil.’ But it looks like Runcie was doing a disingenuous tap dance, labeling concerns about ‘PROMISE’ as unfounded when the truth was far worse than that.”A new investigation reveals that while the Broward County schools superintendent and school board are touting fewer arrests of minority students, the most recent state data actually shows the district has the highest rate of weapons-related incidents in South Florida.

Research conducted by Paul Sperry for RealClearInvestigations (RCI) shows while Broward County Public Schools, under the direction of superintendent Robert Runcie, has embraced Obama-era, social justice school discipline policies aimed at ending the “school-to-prison pipeline” for minority students, data indicate the school district has grown increasingly unsafe over recent years.

The school district has drawn intense scrutiny since accused shooter Nikolas Cruz killed 17 individuals two months ago at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. Despite an extensive history of violence and threats, Cruz was never expelled from the district or referred to law enforcement for arrest, factors that prevented a background check from flagging authorities who might have blocked his ability to obtain a firearm for his rampage.

RCI reports Cruz was not the only violent young person who failed to be reformed through “restorative justice” counseling offered through the Obama-era school discipline framework:

Records show such policies have failed to curtail other campus violence and its effects now on the rise in district schools — including fighting, weapons use, bullying and related suicides. Meanwhile, murders, armed robberies and other violent felonies committed by children outside of schools have hit record levels, and some see a connection with what’s happening on school grounds. Since the relaxing of discipline, Broward youths have not only brazenly punched out their teachers, but terrorized Broward neighborhoods with drive-by shootings, gang rapes, home invasions and carjackings.

“Broward County now has the highest percentage of ‘the most serious, violent [and] chronic’ juvenile offenders in Florida, according to the county’s chief juvenile probation officer,” Sperry writes. “Since 2015, at least three other pupils have brought loaded firearms into schools and threatened to go on shooting sprees.”

Like Runcie, the district’s Chief Public Information Officer Tracy Clark, denies the district has grown unsafe as a result of the social justice disciplinary policies.

“In fact, our district’s overall disciplinary incidents have dropped since we adopted the new policy and wraparound supports to students with behavior issues,” Clark said, according to RCI.

Parents, however, have complained about a lack of responsiveness from the superintendent and school board to their concerns about school safety over recent years. One 19-year-old Broward online education student, Kenneth Preston, presented research last week at a school board meeting alleging that of $104,325,821 designated for school safety as part of the Broward Schools 2014 Bond Appropriation, only $5,584,512 – about 5.3 percent – has been spent since its appropriation.

Growing concerns about school safety and the role of the district’s discipline policies in Cruz’s massacre have led Runcie and the school board to plan a community forum Wednesday evening.

The superintendent, however, has said accusations that his PROMISE program is connected to the shooting are “reprehensible” and “fake news.”

“We’re not going to dismantle a program in this district that is serving and helping kids appropriately because of news that is not fact-based,” Runcie said at the school board meeting.

The district’s PROMISE program was likely one used as a model program for the Obama administration’s national school discipline initiative mapped out in a 2014 Dear Colleague letter. The directive coerced schools into reducing reports of arrests, expulsions, and suspensions of minority students in order to avoid federal investigations and the withdrawal of federal funding.

Runcie came to Broward County from Chicago where he worked for Obama Education Secretary Arne Duncan when Duncan headed up Chicago Public Schools. The first year after Runcie put PROMISE in place in Broward, the school district’s arrest rate dropped 66 percent – since schools were instructed not to refer assaults and other crimes committed by minority students to law enforcement.

However, RCI reports:

Prosecutors and probation officers complain that while overall juvenile arrests are down, serious violent crimes involving school-aged Broward youths – including armed robbery, kidnapping and even murder – have spiked, even as such violent crimes across the state have dropped. Juvenile arrests for murder and manslaughter increased 150 percent between 2013 and 2016. They increased by another 50 percent in 2017. County juveniles were responsible for a total of 16 murders or manslaughters in the past two years alone, according to the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice.

RCI adds that thousands of Broward students who were arrested “had their records deleted in the system as part of a program to end ‘disproportionate minority contact’ with law enforcement, blindfolding both street cops and school resource officers to the criminal history of potential juvenile threats.”

“[T]he actual police reports are being destroyed,” Broward juvenile prosecutor Maria Schneider stated at a recent Juvenile Justice Circuit Advisory Board meeting.

Two weeks after Cruz’s rampage, retired Broward School Resource Officer (SRO) Robert Martinez, agreed the school district wanted to keep arrest numbers down and encouraged SROs not to make arrests, reported WSVN.

“He [Martinez] said removing a dangerous teen like Cruz from a school can take up to two years due to all the red tape that was added to the process by Runcie’s new discipline policies and programs,” the news report continued.

“We know that when Cruz committed felonies he wasn’t arrested,” Manhattan Institute senior fellow and education policy expert Max Eden tells Breitbart News. “We hear, from a retired School Resource Officer, that the school board and police department verbally instructed SROs to not arrest for certain felonies in addition to PROMISE misdemeanors. It appears Cruz was shielded from felony arrests by a program designed for re-integrating students post felony-conviction.”

Indeed, while Runcie has asserted his PROMISE program is not connected to the shooting because Cruz did not participate in that program, RCI reveals Cruz was enrolled in the Behavior Intervention Program, an initiative that Eden describes as “PROMISE on steroids for felons.”

As RCI previously reported Broward’s Behavior Intervention Program is intended for “students who exhibit severe, unmanageable behavior that cannot be adequately controlled in a traditional school setting.”

Students referred to the Behavior Intervention Program are those “returning from residential Juvenile Justice Programs,” including students “convicted of a serious crime such as: rape, murder, attempted murder, sexual battery or firearm related,” and those whose behavior off campus would qualify them for expulsion.

Eden says Runcie and school board members who supported him at the school board meeting last week will have to answer to Parkland parents Wednesday evening when school safety is addressed.

“Runcie had the gall to look Parkland parents in the eyes and call their concerns ‘fake news,'” he asserts. “His school board ally Dr. Rosalind Osgood outdid him by accusing them of being motivated by ‘evil.’ But it looks like Runcie was doing a disingenuous tap dance, labeling concerns about ‘PROMISE’ as unfounded when the truth was far worse than that.”Pro-mass immigration GOP megadonor billionaires the Koch brothers are set to release a seven-figure ad campaign to push amnesty for millions of illegal aliens in the United States, just months ahead of the 2018 midterm elections.

Statements by spokesmen for the Koch brothers and their network of organizations reveal that the billionaires are lobbying President Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress to back a plan that would open the door for amnesty for millions of illegal aliens who are eligible and enrolled in the President Obama-created Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.

Daniel Garza, the president of the Koch-funded LIBRE Initiative told Business Insider in a statement:

The American people deserve a government that is effective and efficient in solving our nation’s problems. Congress and the White House have spent a lot of time talking about DACA, but today our elected officials have yet to approve a permanent legislative solution. The Dreamers are among our best and brightest. They are students, workers, and men and women risking their lives in the Armed Forces. Washington must come together and approve a bipartisan solution that provides certainty for Dreamers and security improvements along our border. [Emphasis added]

James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch brothers, told Axios:

Elected officials must stop thinking about this as a campaign issue … this is an avoidable crisis; we’re only here because of Washington’s failure to act. President Trump and our congressional leaders should step up and do the right thing. This is too big of a problem for lawmakers to ignore, or to allow politics to get in the way. [Emphasis added]

The plan by the Koch brothers to lobby the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress to pass an amnesty ahead of the 2018 midterm elections is a strategic political move for the billionaires in order to prevent Trump and likeminded Republicans from running campaigns against cheap, foreign labor and mass immigration.

A push for amnesty ahead of the 2018 midterm elections is deeply unpopular with Republican voters.

Reducing immigration was a bigger priority for GOP voters than tax cuts, repealing Obamacare, getting the U.S. out of the Iran Deal, destroying ISIS, and expanding family leave.https://t.co/pUz16TCR6j — John Binder 👽 (@JxhnBinder) April 11, 2018

As Breitbart News most recently reported, reducing overall immigration — whereby more than 1.5 million illegal and legal immigrants enter the country every year to compete for working and middle class jobs against Americans — is a bigger priority for GOP voters than tax cuts, repealing Obamacare, getting the U.S. out of the Iran Deal, destroying ISIS, and expanding family leave.

Immigration is so important to Republican voters that it even surpassed the economy and jobs as being the biggest political issue.

Supporters of Trump say reducing immigration should be the second biggest priority for the White House and Congress, just after stimulating American jobs.

The popularity of Trump’s pro-American immigration reform has not kept the Koch brothers from continuing to promote mass immigration and amnesty to keep a never-ending flow of cheap foreign labor arriving in the U.S.

In an ad campaign in February, the Koch brothers called DACA illegal aliens “patriots” and announced their opposition to all reductions to current legal immigration levels.

The Koch brothers, along with House Speaker Paul Ryan, and a number of White House aides like former “Never Trump” movement leader and Koch employee, Legislative Affairs Director Marc Short, have sought to make the 2018 midterm elections centered around an agenda of tax reform and cuts to entitlements, rather than Trump’s wage-boosting immigration reduction agenda.

John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.Pro-mass immigration GOP megadonor billionaires the Koch brothers are set to release a seven-figure ad campaign to push amnesty for millions of illegal aliens in the United States, just months ahead of the 2018 midterm elections.

Statements by spokesmen for the Koch brothers and their network of organizations reveal that the billionaires are lobbying President Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress to back a plan that would open the door for amnesty for millions of illegal aliens who are eligible and enrolled in the President Obama-created Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.

Daniel Garza, the president of the Koch-funded LIBRE Initiative told Business Insider in a statement:

The American people deserve a government that is effective and efficient in solving our nation’s problems. Congress and the White House have spent a lot of time talking about DACA, but today our elected officials have yet to approve a permanent legislative solution. The Dreamers are among our best and brightest. They are students, workers, and men and women risking their lives in the Armed Forces. Washington must come together and approve a bipartisan solution that provides certainty for Dreamers and security improvements along our border. [Emphasis added]

James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch brothers, told Axios:

Elected officials must stop thinking about this as a campaign issue … this is an avoidable crisis; we’re only here because of Washington’s failure to act. President Trump and our congressional leaders should step up and do the right thing. This is too big of a problem for lawmakers to ignore, or to allow politics to get in the way. [Emphasis added]

The plan by the Koch brothers to lobby the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress to pass an amnesty ahead of the 2018 midterm elections is a strategic political move for the billionaires in order to prevent Trump and likeminded Republicans from running campaigns against cheap, foreign labor and mass immigration.

A push for amnesty ahead of the 2018 midterm elections is deeply unpopular with Republican voters.

Reducing immigration was a bigger priority for GOP voters than tax cuts, repealing Obamacare, getting the U.S. out of the Iran Deal, destroying ISIS, and expanding family leave.https://t.co/pUz16TCR6j — John Binder 👽 (@JxhnBinder) April 11, 2018

As Breitbart News most recently reported, reducing overall immigration — whereby more than 1.5 million illegal and legal immigrants enter the country every year to compete for working and middle class jobs against Americans — is a bigger priority for GOP voters than tax cuts, repealing Obamacare, getting the U.S. out of the Iran Deal, destroying ISIS, and expanding family leave.

Immigration is so important to Republican voters that it even surpassed the economy and jobs as being the biggest political issue.

Supporters of Trump say reducing immigration should be the second biggest priority for the White House and Congress, just after stimulating American jobs.

The popularity of Trump’s pro-American immigration reform has not kept the Koch brothers from continuing to promote mass immigration and amnesty to keep a never-ending flow of cheap foreign labor arriving in the U.S.

In an ad campaign in February, the Koch brothers called DACA illegal aliens “patriots” and announced their opposition to all reductions to current legal immigration levels.

The Koch brothers, along with House Speaker Paul Ryan, and a number of White House aides like former “Never Trump” movement leader and Koch employee, Legislative Affairs Director Marc Short, have sought to make the 2018 midterm elections centered around an agenda of tax reform and cuts to entitlements, rather than Trump’s wage-boosting immigration reduction agenda.

John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.Armed with endorsements from President Donald Trump, Sean Hannity, and Mark Levin, Conservative Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL) has vaulted to the top of the Florida governor’s race — and that has special interests squirming.

A group, the National Liberty Federation (NLF), funded by the sugar subsidy lobby, has launched a $1 million-plus smear campaign against DeSantis, who opposes corporate welfare, because the special interests prefer Adam Putnam, an establishment-insider and career politician unsurprisingly supportive of sugar industry interests.

From investigating FISA abuse to championing President Trump’s call for a border wall, DeSantis, an Iraq veteran, has established himself as one of the top conservatives in the country. He has also led by example by declining both the taxpayer-financed congressional pension and special health insurance subsidies for members of Congress (which he deems illegal and unfair to taxpayers). DeSantis is also the leading advocate in Congress for term limits, introduced the Drain the Swamp Act to codify Trump’s endorsed reforms, and led the effort to eliminate the infamous taxpayer-funded hush fund used by members of Congress to pay sexual harassment settlements.

It’s no wonder why entrenched interests are scared of him, as Putnam’s 20 year record is absolutely horrific: voting for the $700 billion bailout of Wall Street banks, backing both the Bush amnesty proposals as well as the 2013 Schumer-Obama Gang of 8 amnesty, opposing the use of the National Guard to secure the southern border, and voting with Nancy Pelosi for the absurd Obama “cash for clunkers” program.

Putnam maintained his hostility against Donald Trump even after he won the GOP nomination, calling him “abhorrent and dishonorable,” “vile and obscene,” and asserting that Trump is not “a level, steady, consistent guy who is well-read.”

With the contrast between DeSantis the swamp drainer and Putnam the insider so stark, the entrenched interests are playing the only card they can: shower their money on a fake news smear campaign designed to damage DeSantis. The result has been one of the most dishonest ad campaigns in recent memory. That it won’t work — the voters that powered Trump to victory in FL will smell this rat a mile away — doesn’t mean it shouldn’t be called out for the cynical campaign that it is.

The attacks are laughable to anyone who knows anything about Ron DeSantis. They include:

Fake News: food stamps for illegals. Daniel Horowitz at Conservative Review has shredded the false claim that opposing the massive, $1 trillion pork-laden farm bill somehow constitutes a vote in favor of giving food stamps to illegals. While containing no benefit changes for illegals, the bill did codify the disastrous Obama food stamp regime. Every conservative group, including Heritage Action for America, key voted “no” on the farm bill and almost every conservative member of the House — such as Freedom Caucus founder Jim Jordan — opposed the measure. The claim against DeSantis was so obviously false that several radio stations pulled the ad off the air.

food stamps for illegals. Daniel Horowitz at Conservative Review has shredded the false claim that opposing the massive, $1 trillion pork-laden farm bill somehow constitutes a vote in favor of giving food stamps to illegals. While containing no benefit changes for illegals, the bill did codify the disastrous Obama food stamp regime. Every conservative group, including Heritage Action for America, key voted “no” on the farm bill and almost every conservative member of the House — such as Freedom Caucus founder Jim Jordan — opposed the measure. The claim against DeSantis was so obviously false that several radio stations pulled the ad off the air. Fake News: not supporting President Trump. As absurd as it may sound to suggest that a candidate supported by President Trump does not support the President, it’s a claim being made. This is so obviously false that Fox News’ Laura Ingraham highlighted the ad in a segment with Rep. DeSantis. Laura scoffed at the ad and noted DeSantis has been a strong supporter of the President’s agenda.

not supporting President Trump. As absurd as it may sound to suggest that a candidate supported by President Trump does not support the President, it’s a claim being made. This is so obviously false that Fox News’ Laura Ingraham highlighted the ad in a segment with Rep. DeSantis. Laura scoffed at the ad and noted DeSantis has been a strong supporter of the President’s agenda. Fake News: “colluding” with George Soros. In what must be an attempt to determine how gullible voters are, the NLF is running web and social media ads trying to link DeSantis to George Soros. No basis is given for this, as there is none. In fact, DeSantis has been a frequent target of Soros-funded groups such as American Bridge.

When it comes to the National Liberty Federation, buyer beware. This is a front group for entrenched interests seeking to block a Trump-endorsed, conservative candidate. The smear campaign against DeSantis is a desperate attempt by these special interests to keep their place at the taxpayer trough. Florida voters will see through the National Liberty Foundation’s dishonest ad campaign.

Steven Hantler is a retired auto industry executive and writer at Breitbart.Armed with endorsements from President Donald Trump, Sean Hannity, and Mark Levin, Conservative Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL) has vaulted to the top of the Florida governor’s race — and that has special interests squirming.

A group, the National Liberty Federation (NLF), funded by the sugar subsidy lobby, has launched a $1 million-plus smear campaign against DeSantis, who opposes corporate welfare, because the special interests prefer Adam Putnam, an establishment-insider and career politician unsurprisingly supportive of sugar industry interests.

From investigating FISA abuse to championing President Trump’s call for a border wall, DeSantis, an Iraq veteran, has established himself as one of the top conservatives in the country. He has also led by example by declining both the taxpayer-financed congressional pension and special health insurance subsidies for members of Congress (which he deems illegal and unfair to taxpayers). DeSantis is also the leading advocate in Congress for term limits, introduced the Drain the Swamp Act to codify Trump’s endorsed reforms, and led the effort to eliminate the infamous taxpayer-funded hush fund used by members of Congress to pay sexual harassment settlements.

It’s no wonder why entrenched interests are scared of him, as Putnam’s 20 year record is absolutely horrific: voting for the $700 billion bailout of Wall Street banks, backing both the Bush amnesty proposals as well as the 2013 Schumer-Obama Gang of 8 amnesty, opposing the use of the National Guard to secure the southern border, and voting with Nancy Pelosi for the absurd Obama “cash for clunkers” program.

Putnam maintained his hostility against Donald Trump even after he won the GOP nomination, calling him “abhorrent and dishonorable,” “vile and obscene,” and asserting that Trump is not “a level, steady, consistent guy who is well-read.”

With the contrast between DeSantis the swamp drainer and Putnam the insider so stark, the entrenched interests are playing the only card they can: shower their money on a fake news smear campaign designed to damage DeSantis. The result has been one of the most dishonest ad campaigns in recent memory. That it won’t work — the voters that powered Trump to victory in FL will smell this rat a mile away — doesn’t mean it shouldn’t be called out for the cynical campaign that it is.

The attacks are laughable to anyone who knows anything about Ron DeSantis. They include:

Fake News: food stamps for illegals. Daniel Horowitz at Conservative Review has shredded the false claim that opposing the massive, $1 trillion pork-laden farm bill somehow constitutes a vote in favor of giving food stamps to illegals. While containing no benefit changes for illegals, the bill did codify the disastrous Obama food stamp regime. Every conservative group, including Heritage Action for America, key voted “no” on the farm bill and almost every conservative member of the House — such as Freedom Caucus founder Jim Jordan — opposed the measure. The claim against DeSantis was so obviously false that several radio stations pulled the ad off the air.

food stamps for illegals. Daniel Horowitz at Conservative Review has shredded the false claim that opposing the massive, $1 trillion pork-laden farm bill somehow constitutes a vote in favor of giving food stamps to illegals. While containing no benefit changes for illegals, the bill did codify the disastrous Obama food stamp regime. Every conservative group, including Heritage Action for America, key voted “no” on the farm bill and almost every conservative member of the House — such as Freedom Caucus founder Jim Jordan — opposed the measure. The claim against DeSantis was so obviously false that several radio stations pulled the ad off the air. Fake News: not supporting President Trump. As absurd as it may sound to suggest that a candidate supported by President Trump does not support the President, it’s a claim being made. This is so obviously false that Fox News’ Laura Ingraham highlighted the ad in a segment with Rep. DeSantis. Laura scoffed at the ad and noted DeSantis has been a strong supporter of the President’s agenda.

not supporting President Trump. As absurd as it may sound to suggest that a candidate supported by President Trump does not support the President, it’s a claim being made. This is so obviously false that Fox News’ Laura Ingraham highlighted the ad in a segment with Rep. DeSantis. Laura scoffed at the ad and noted DeSantis has been a strong supporter of the President’s agenda. Fake News: “colluding” with George Soros. In what must be an attempt to determine how gullible voters are, the NLF is running web and social media ads trying to link DeSantis to George Soros. No basis is given for this, as there is none. In fact, DeSantis has been a frequent target of Soros-funded groups such as American Bridge.

When it comes to the National Liberty Federation, buyer beware. This is a front group for entrenched interests seeking to block a Trump-endorsed, conservative candidate. The smear campaign against DeSantis is a desperate attempt by these special interests to keep their place at the taxpayer trough. Florida voters will see through the National Liberty Foundation’s dishonest ad campaign.

Steven Hantler is a retired auto industry executive and writer at Breitbart.U.N. ambassador Nikki Haley may have suffered “momentary confusion” on Sunday when she incorrectly announced that the U.S. Treasury Department would further sanction Russia, chief economic advisor Larry Kudlow told CNN on Tuesday.

Haley’s statement on CBS’s weekend Face the Nation program that Treasury Sec. Steve Mnuchin would announce sanctions Monday, was later corrected by Trump administration officials.

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters on Monday morning, “We are considering additional sanctions on Russia and a decision will be made in the near future.”

As of Tuesday afternoon, there was still no announcement from the Treasury Department on additional sanctions on Russia over Syria and chemical weapons.

Director of the National Economic Council Larry Kudlow told CNN on Tuesday that Haley “got ahead of the curve” on potential additional Russia sanctions.

Haley had stated definitively that the sanctions “will go directly to any sort of companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons use.”

The chief economic advisor complimented Haley’s job performance, but added that in this case she may have been confused about the sanctions. “There might have been some momentary confusion about that,” he said.

Kudlow definitively said “no,” when asked if the administration was confused on the sanctions, “I think the issue here is we have a set of sanctions, and additional sanctions are under discussion but haven’t been determined.”

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaU.N. ambassador Nikki Haley may have suffered “momentary confusion” on Sunday when she incorrectly announced that the U.S. Treasury Department would further sanction Russia, chief economic advisor Larry Kudlow told CNN on Tuesday.

Haley’s statement on CBS’s weekend Face the Nation program that Treasury Sec. Steve Mnuchin would announce sanctions Monday, was later corrected by Trump administration officials.

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters on Monday morning, “We are considering additional sanctions on Russia and a decision will be made in the near future.”

As of Tuesday afternoon, there was still no announcement from the Treasury Department on additional sanctions on Russia over Syria and chemical weapons.

Director of the National Economic Council Larry Kudlow told CNN on Tuesday that Haley “got ahead of the curve” on potential additional Russia sanctions.

Haley had stated definitively that the sanctions “will go directly to any sort of companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons use.”

The chief economic advisor complimented Haley’s job performance, but added that in this case she may have been confused about the sanctions. “There might have been some momentary confusion about that,” he said.

Kudlow definitively said “no,” when asked if the administration was confused on the sanctions, “I think the issue here is we have a set of sanctions, and additional sanctions are under discussion but haven’t been determined.”

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaU.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley took a swift shot at chief economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Tuesday afternoon, after he commented on her Sunday claim that the U.S. Treasury Department would sanction Russia by Monday afternoon.

Kudlow suggested to CNN that Haley may have suffered “momentary confusion” on Sunday when she definitively announced on CBS’s weekend Face the Nation program that by the end of Monday, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin would announce additional U.S. sanctions on Russia.

Haley had said during the Sunday program that the sanctions “will go directly to any sort of companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons use.”

By Monday morning, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders was telling the press, “We are considering additional sanctions on Russia and a decision will be made in the near future.”

As Tuesday arrived, still no sanctions had been announced. Kudlow told CNN’s Jeff Zeleny that Haley has done a good job, but added that in this case Haley “got ahead of the curve” and “there might have been some momentary confusion about that.” The chief economic adviser said there was no confusion within the administration on the issue and that “additional sanctions are under discussion but haven’t been determined.”

Haley shot back at the suggestion that she may have been confused in a statement read on air by Fox News’s Dana Perino, “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaU.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley took a swift shot at chief economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Tuesday afternoon, after he commented on her Sunday claim that the U.S. Treasury Department would sanction Russia by Monday afternoon.

Kudlow suggested to CNN that Haley may have suffered “momentary confusion” on Sunday when she definitively announced on CBS’s weekend Face the Nation program that by the end of Monday, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin would announce additional U.S. sanctions on Russia.

Haley had said during the Sunday program that the sanctions “will go directly to any sort of companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons use.”

By Monday morning, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders was telling the press, “We are considering additional sanctions on Russia and a decision will be made in the near future.”

As Tuesday arrived, still no sanctions had been announced. Kudlow told CNN’s Jeff Zeleny that Haley has done a good job, but added that in this case Haley “got ahead of the curve” and “there might have been some momentary confusion about that.” The chief economic adviser said there was no confusion within the administration on the issue and that “additional sanctions are under discussion but haven’t been determined.”

Haley shot back at the suggestion that she may have been confused in a statement read on air by Fox News’s Dana Perino, “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe praised President Donald Trump for his success in getting North Korea to agree to preliminary talks with the United States.

“The background of this change is Donald’s unwavering conviction, as well as the determination that you demonstrated in addressing the issue of North Korea,” Abe told Trump. “So your stance made it possible to achieve this major change.”

Abe made his remarks while visiting the president on Tuesday at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida, where they discussed national security issues, trade, and the ongoing diplomatic process in North Korea.

He praised the strength of the United States military as well as the success of the Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, concluding that diplomatic relations in the region had changed dramatically since Trump became president.

“I’d like to take this opportunity to express and pay my tribute to your leadership,” he said.

Abe said that denuclearization in the region was a top priority for Japan, expressing hope for the expected diplomatic meeting.

“This will be a historic meeting, and I certainly hope that there will be progress on these fronts,” he said.Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe praised President Donald Trump for his success in getting North Korea to agree to preliminary talks with the United States.

“The background of this change is Donald’s unwavering conviction, as well as the determination that you demonstrated in addressing the issue of North Korea,” Abe told Trump. “So your stance made it possible to achieve this major change.”

Abe made his remarks while visiting the president on Tuesday at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida, where they discussed national security issues, trade, and the ongoing diplomatic process in North Korea.

He praised the strength of the United States military as well as the success of the Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, concluding that diplomatic relations in the region had changed dramatically since Trump became president.

“I’d like to take this opportunity to express and pay my tribute to your leadership,” he said.

Abe said that denuclearization in the region was a top priority for Japan, expressing hope for the expected diplomatic meeting.

“This will be a historic meeting, and I certainly hope that there will be progress on these fronts,” he said.Los Angeles officials are going forward with a $40,000-a-mile program to coat public streets to fight climate change, despite the city’s many financial challenges — including a $73 million budget shortfall for dealing with the ever-expanding homeless population.

The program uses a light-colored sealant to cover the streets, which decreases the pavement temperature of so-called “heat-islands,” according to media reports.

Fox News reported (original links):

The LA Street Services began rolling out the project last May, which preliminary testing shows has reduced the temperature of roadways by up to 10 degrees. The project involves applying a light gray coating of the product CoolSeal, made by the company GuardTop.

$40,000/mile to paint roads white.

California is insane.https://t.co/kWfAq3dZE8 — Caleb Jordan Schulz (@Based_Jedi) April 10, 2018

“CoolSeal is applied like conventional sealcoats to asphalt surfaces to protect and maintain the quality and longevity of the surface,” according to the company website. “While most cool pavements on the market are polymer based, CoolSeal is a water-based, asphalt emulsion.”

Last year, the L.A. Daily News reported on the high cost of the project — and that local officials approved it nonetheless.

The morning temperature of the black asphalt in the middle of a nearby intersection read 93 degrees. The new light gray surface on Jordan Avenue read a cool 70 — on what would turn out to be the first heat wave of the year. “It’s awesome. It’s very cool — both literally and figuratively,” exclaimed Councilman Bob Blumenfield, whose Los Angeles district includes Canoga Park, squinting into the laser handheld thermometer. “We are trying to control ‘the heat island effect’ ” — or hotter temperatures caused by urban sprawl. “The downside: we won’t be able to fry eggs on the streets,” Blumenfield said.

$40,000 per mile of wasted taxpayers money. Peak #stupid in #ClimateChange while California have millions of homeless.https://t.co/atTmRmAa0t — Andy Oz (@AndyOz2) April 10, 2018

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who is eyeing a run for the White House in 2020, has embraced the program “as part of an overall plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the city by 45 percent below 1990 levels by 2025,” according to Fox News.

And environmental activists are praising L.A.’s street-sealing project.

“Advocates are confident that advances in asphalt technology will drive down the cost,” Mother Nature Network reported on Sunday.

“There’s also the related economic benefits to consider: in once-sweltering neighborhoods where streets are now painted white, residents will be less likely to crank the air conditioning on full blast, leading to significant savings on energy bills and decreased emissions,” the website reported.

“What’s more, the highly reflective nature of white-coated asphalt means that street lighting doesn’t have to kick in quite as early in the evening, saving additional energy.”

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterSportswear giant Adidas has promised to sign Colin Kaepernick to an endorsement deal, but only if an NFL team signs him first, according to reports.

Speaking to the Arizona Republic, Adidas North American President Mark King insisted, “If he signs on a team, we would definitely want to sign him.”

Of course, many suspect that the reason the former San Francisco 49er is no longer an active player and has been left unsigned is because of his protests during the national anthem, protests that Kaepernick has not promised to end.

Kaepernick even recently had a meeting set up with the Seattle Seahawks that was scuttled reportedly because he would not pledge to put an end to his protests. Then, the very next day, the Seahawks announced that they had signed another player instead of Kaepernick.

But, apparently, the anti-American protests do not bother Adidas.

“We love athletes that have a platform to make the world a better place,” King told the Republic. “If they’re an activist in a way that brings attention to something that moves the world forward, even if there’s controversy at that moment, we’re really interested in those athletes because I think it represents the world today.

“We’re not in the business of activism, we’re in the business of sport,” King added. “But allowing our athletes to tell their story, it’s really important to us.”

Still, the announcement that he would sign Kaepernick to a deal, but only if a team signs him first may seem a bit like self-serving, virtue signaling for King and Adidas. The Seattle Seahawks had more anthem protesters than any other team in the league last year, other than San Francisco. If even a politically active team like Seattle wouldn’t sign Kaepernick, then the chances of him getting picked up anywhere else seem extremely small.

Adidas knows this, of course. Which makes their overture to Kaepernick as much if not more of a virtue signaling political ploy, as opposed to a real offer.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Sportswear giant Adidas has promised to sign Colin Kaepernick to an endorsement deal, but only if an NFL team signs him first, according to reports.

Speaking to the Arizona Republic, Adidas North American President Mark King insisted, “If he signs on a team, we would definitely want to sign him.”

Of course, many suspect that the reason the former San Francisco 49er is no longer an active player and has been left unsigned is because of his protests during the national anthem, protests that Kaepernick has not promised to end.

Kaepernick even recently had a meeting set up with the Seattle Seahawks that was scuttled reportedly because he would not pledge to put an end to his protests. Then, the very next day, the Seahawks announced that they had signed another player instead of Kaepernick.

But, apparently, the anti-American protests do not bother Adidas.

“We love athletes that have a platform to make the world a better place,” King told the Republic. “If they’re an activist in a way that brings attention to something that moves the world forward, even if there’s controversy at that moment, we’re really interested in those athletes because I think it represents the world today.

“We’re not in the business of activism, we’re in the business of sport,” King added. “But allowing our athletes to tell their story, it’s really important to us.”

Still, the announcement that he would sign Kaepernick to a deal, but only if a team signs him first may seem a bit like self-serving, virtue signaling for King and Adidas. The Seattle Seahawks had more anthem protesters than any other team in the league last year, other than San Francisco. If even a politically active team like Seattle wouldn’t sign Kaepernick, then the chances of him getting picked up anywhere else seem extremely small.

Adidas knows this, of course. Which makes their overture to Kaepernick as much if not more of a virtue signaling political ploy, as opposed to a real offer.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Sendai (Japan) (AFP) – Junko Iizuka remembers clearly the day she was taken to a hospital as a teenager and forcibly sterilised under a Japanese government programme.

Her foster mother gave her a rice ball as they stood by a river, and then took her without explanation to a doctor.

Sometime afterwards, Iizuka, who requested a pseudonym to describe her experience, woke up in a hospital bed with a huge vertical scar across her stomach.

Iizuka, now in her seventies, is one of thousands of men and women forcibly sterilised as part of what has been called a “eugenics” programme — a Japanese law in place until 1996 that mandated the procedure for people judged to have disabilities.

After the operation, Iizuka was sent back to her birth parents and it was only then she understood what had happened, when she overheard them saying she was now sterile.

“That was when my anguish started,” she told AFP at her small, meticulously neat home.

Japan’s health ministry acknowledges that around 16,500 people were forcibly sterilised under the law, which came into force in 1949.

The law allowed doctors to sterilise people with heritable intellectual disabilities, to “prevent the generation of poor quality descendants”.

Another 8,500 people were sterilised with their consent, according to authorities, though lawyers say even those cases were likely “de facto forced” because of the pressure individuals faced.

Iizuka had never been formally diagnosed with a disability, though her foster mother sent her to a home for intellectually disabled children at the age of 14.

Her father later told her that local officials had “repeatedly pushed” him to sign off on the procedure, an operation that has haunted her for decades.

“When I moved to Tokyo to start working, I went to a hospital to ask doctors if they could fix my body,” she said quietly, her voice tight with frustration.

“But it was impossible.”

– ‘Clear human rights violation’ –

In her twenties she turned down marriage offers because she was sterile, though she eventually married and adopted a son.

“But I still envy my friends when I see them receiving visits from their grandchildren,” she said.

For two decades, she lobbied Japan’s government to recognise her suffering, but she always received the same response: the procedure was legal at the time, and no apology nor compensation would be given.

Michiko Sato heard the same line as she lobbied on behalf of her sister-in-law Yumi, who was sterilised as a teenager.

Both of the women, who are in their sixties, asked to be identified by pseudonyms.

“I’ve picked up the gauntlet,” Michiko told AFP. “But to be honest, I feel so empty asking myself ‘why do we have to fight despite this clear human rights violation’?”

Michiko learnt about the procedure Yumi was subjected to when she married into the Sato family, more than 40 years ago.

“I was 19, she was 18…. When I first heard about it from her mother, I felt so sorry for both of them.”

“I couldn’t ask why, I felt it would be too cruel to her mother to ask,” she said.

“For years I wondered why she had been sterilised, before I learnt last year that it had been forced on her at the age of 15.”

A childhood photo shows Yumi as a smiling, rosy-cheeked girl with bobbed hair.

She had learning disabilities caused by an accident involving anaesthesia during an operation as an infant.

It was a condition she could not have passed on, but she was sterilised anyway.

With Michiko’s help, she is now suing the government in a first-of-its-kind lawsuit, demanding compensation and an apology.

The government has urged the court to dismiss the case.

– ‘Years of agony’ –

“Disabled people are still stigmatised by the general public, and that’s part of the reason I’m doing this,” said Michiko.

She points to the murder last year of 19 people at a centre for the disabled south of Tokyo.

The perpetrator claimed he was on a mission to rid the world of people with mental illness.

“We have to change this kind of thinking,” Michiko said.

“Disabled people are human beings, and precious family members.”

The lawsuit has prompted others to come forward, including a man in his seventies who read about Sato’s case and thought: “Isn’t this what happened to me?”

“I’ve been in agony about this for years,” he told reporters recently, speaking on condition of anonymity.

He was sterilised as a teenager. When he married years later, he couldn’t bring himself to tell his wife, only confiding in her shortly before her death in 2013.

“I felt pain when I saw my wife cradling someone else’s baby,” he said.

“I’ve kept this burden in my heart for a long time… I want my life back.”

In March, lawmakers pledged to study compensation for those affected, with plans for a bill on the issue next year.

But victims and their supporters say the process is moving too slowly.

“I am inching closer to my grave,” Iizuka, now battling breast cancer, told lawmakers in March.

“Everyone is ageing. Please make progress quickly.”Singapore (AFP) – Gamers wearing headsets and wielding rifles adorned with flashing lights battle a horde of zombies, letting out the occasional terrified shriek.

The virtual reality arcade in Singapore is part of a wave of such venues being opened as backers of the technology seek to shake off teething problems and break into the mainstream.

The buzz around virtual reality (VR) gaming has seen Taiwan-based HTC, Sony and Facebook-owned Oculus VR battling to woo consumers with a range of headgear.

But it has been slow to really take off, partly due to the hefty price of top-end headsets, beginning at around $350, and the challenges in setting up complex VR systems at home.

But VR arcades, which have been springing up around the world, particularly in Asia, are now giving people the chance to try it out more easily and for a fraction of the price.

“Given the complications of at-home, PC-based VR systems, pay-per-use, location-based entertainment venues can fill the gap,” said Bryan Ma, from International Data Corporation (IDC), a consumer technology market research firm, in a recent note on the industry.

Several VR gaming companies have made forays into Singapore, seeing the ultra-modern, affluent city-state that is home to hordes of expatriates as a good fit.

The zombie fight-out was taking place at a centre where participants stalked a room with a black floor and walls.

“I did paintball before, it’s quite fun… but I think the whole scene is much more interesting here,” said Jack Backx, a 55-year-old from the Netherlands, who was playing with colleagues from the oil and gas industry on a work day out.

The location is run by VR gaming group Zero Latency, which started in Australia and has expanded to nine countries. It uses “free-roam” virtual reality — where gamers move around in large spaces and are not tethered to computers with cables.

It’s not all intense, shoot-’em-ups — VR group Virtual Room has an outlet in Singapore that transports gamers to scenarios in the prehistoric period, a medieval castle, ancient Egypt and even a lunar landing.

– Asia leads the way –

VR arcades have been springing up in other places. China was an early hotbed for virtual reality gaming although the industry has struggled in recent times, while they can also be found in countries across the region including Japan, Taiwan and Australia.

Many key industry milestones over the past two years have been in Asia but arcades have appeared elsewhere — London’s first one opened last year while there are also some in the United States.

Consumer spending on virtual reality hardware, software and services is expected to more than double from $2.2 billion in 2017, to $4.5 billion this year, according to gaming intelligence provider SuperData Research.

For the best-quality experience, it can be relatively expensive — a session in Singapore costs Sg$59 ($45).

“The equipment here is not cheap,” said Simon Ogilvie, executive director of Tomorrow Entertainment, which runs the Zero Latency franchise in Singapore.

The industry faces huge challenges.

China offers a cautionary tale — according to IDC, VR arcades have struggled there after expanding too quickly.

There have also been warnings that improvements in home-based technology may eventually lead to VR gaming centres suffering the same fate as traditional arcades that were once filled with Pac-Man and Street Fighter machines.

“The rise and fall of coin-operated videogame arcades in the 1980s suggests that such VR arcades may eventually fade in relevance as home-based computing power and prices fall within mass consumer reach,” said the note from IDC’s Ma.

Rebecca Assice, who runs Virtual Room in Singapore, said one challenge was getting people interested in the first place as many still did not know about the arcades.

“VR is still a really new industry,” she said. “A lot of people just don’t know this sort of activity exists.”Los Angeles (AFP) – DeMar DeRozan scored 37 points as the Toronto Raptors overwhelmed the Washington Wizards 130-119 to take a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven Eastern Conference NBA playoff series Tuesday.

A record-breaking first-half performance laid the foundations for the Raptors, who had surged into a 76-58 lead at half-time to leave Washington chasing an 18-point deficit after the break.

DeRozan, who also contributed four assists and five rebounds, spearheaded a rampant Toronto offense, which saw six players finish with double-digit points tallies.

“I just let the game come to me,” DeRozan said afterwards.

“It’s not like I go out there thinking I have to score 30 or 40 points. Tonight I just wanted to be aggressive.”

Jonas Valanciunas scored 19 points, while C.J. Miles had 18 off the bench as Toronto took a firm grip on the series with game three set for Washington on Friday.

“We’re strong as a team, it’s not about individual players,” Valanciunas said.

“We did it as a team tonight. We were great defending, helping each other. It’s a team sport and when you play together and support each other it’s fun.”

Washington’s resistance was led by John Wall with 29 points, but the Wizards were rarely in the contest, save for one late rally as the top-seeded Raptors eased up.

Wall had given Washington hope of a recovery after draining two free throws to take the Wizards back to within five points at 108-103 in the fourth quarter.

But Toronto slammed the door with a rapid burst of scoring to take the game away from the Wizards for good as the clock wound down.

Earlier, the Raptors wasted no time in forging ahead during a lop-sided first half. Toronto powered into a 24-11 midway through the first period and were soon 34-13 up.

Toronto maintained a 20-point cushion through most of the first half, and they quickly passed their franchise record points tally of 63 to finish on 76 as the half-time the buzzer sounded at the Air Canada Center.

Elsewhere Tuesday, second seeds Boston shrugged off their injury crisis to down Milwaukee 120-106 to take a 2-0 lead in their first round series.

The Celtics are still reeling from confirmation that star Kyrie Irving will miss the rest of the season.

But the Boston club produced a dominant display to seal a win that puts them firmly in the driving seat in the best-of-seven series.

Jaylen Brown shouldered the offensive burden in the absence of Irving, scoring 30 points in 33 minutes on court.

Brown said the Celtics had been unfazed by the raft of injuries that has threatened to derail their season.

“I don’t pay attention to that — ultimately we just want to win games,” Brown said.

“We’re confident as ever. Teams have been writing us off all year and we just keep proving people wrong.”

Terry Rozier had 23 points with eight assists on a night when six Celtics put up double figures.

Giannis Antetokounmpo led the scoring for the Bucks with 30 points, with Khris Middleton adding 25 in a losing effort.PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — An internal White House quarrel over the timing of new Russia sanctions played out in public when the new economic adviser suggested U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley was suffering from “momentary confusion” and Haley retorted: “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

The feud appeared to quiet down after the economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, called Haley to apologize Tuesday afternoon, a White House official said. The official spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity to describe private discussions.

Earlier Tuesday, Kudlow told reporters during a briefing in Florida that Haley “got ahead of the curve” when she said the U.S. would be slapping new sanctions on Russia on Monday in retaliation for the country’s support for Syria’s Assad government after its latest suspected chemical attack.

Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, said additional sanctions are under consideration but have yet to be implemented. Of Haley, he said, “There might have been some momentary confusion about that.”

Haley then issued a terse statement to Fox News: “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

The dispute between Haley’s team and the White House had been playing out largely behind the scenes since Haley said Sunday on CBS’ “Face the Nation” that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin would be announcing new sanctions directed at companies associated with Syria’s chemical weapons program on Monday, “if he hasn’t already.”

The White House had been struggling to explain Haley’s remarks amid reports that President Donald Trump put the brakes on the new sanctions. Several administration officials have disputed that characterization, saying Haley was out of the loop.

Three senior administration officials said there were several attempts to get Haley to back off or clarify her comments, but she refused.

The officials said that, under the plan conceived last week, the sanctions would have been announced Friday night, at the same time U.S., French, and British forces launched a missile strike on Syrian President Bashar Assad’s chemical weapons facilities. But the sanctions were not ready in time for Trump’s Friday night statement, so they were delayed.

The officials said a decision was then made to announce the sanctions as an answer to Russia’s response to the strikes. But that plan was re-evaluated and then put on hold over the weekend as it became clear that Russia’s response was less robust than anticipated. The officials were not authorized to discuss private administration deliberations publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.

A National Security Council memorandum sent overnight Friday said the new sanctions would be announced soon, but it did not specify a date. Over the next 36 hours, officials began to delve deeper into the proposed sanctions and decided to hold off on anything imminent, but Haley was unaware, the officials said.

On Monday, a new memo went out from the NSC saying that additional sanctions were under consideration, but no decision had been made. In the face of Haley’s refusal to clarify on Sunday, draft language was sent to her suggesting again that she do so, the officials said.

Haley and her office ignored that so the White House decided to push back, the officials said.

On Capitol Hill, House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., applauded the administration Tuesday as having “moved miles in the right direction” on Russia policy.

“Not only did we scuttle the reset, not only are we now sanctioning Russian citizens, not only are we sanctioning Russian oligarchs, we’re sanctioning Russia itself. We have so improved our policy with respect to Russia, far more hawkish, far more realistic,” he said.

___

Lee reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations and Lisa Mascaro in Washington contributed to this report.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — A preliminary examination of the blown jet engine of the Southwest Airlines plane that set off a terrifying chain of events and left a businesswoman hanging half outside a shattered window showed evidence of “metal fatigue,” according to the National Transportation Safety Board.

Passengers scrambled to save the woman from getting sucked out the window that had been smashed by debris. She later died, and seven others were injured.

The pilots of the twin-engine Boeing 737 bound from New York to Dallas with 149 people aboard took it into a rapid descent Tuesday and made an emergency landing in Philadelphia. Oxygen masks dropped from the ceiling and passengers said their prayers and braced for impact.

“I just remember holding my husband’s hand, and we just prayed and prayed and prayed,” said passenger Amanda Bourman, of New York.

The dead woman was identified as Jennifer Riordan, a Wells Fargo bank executive and mother of two from Albuquerque, New Mexico. The seven other victims suffered minor injuries.

The National Transportation Safety Board sent a team of investigators to Philadelphia.

In a late night news conference, NTSB chairman Robert Sumwalt said one of the engine’s fan blades was separated and missing. The blade was separated at the point where it would come into the hub and there was evidence of metal fatigue, Sumwalt said.

The engine will be examined further to understand what caused the failure. The investigation is expected to take 12 to 15 months.

Photos of the plane on the tarmac showed a missing window and a chunk gone from the left engine, including part of its cover. A piece of the engine covering was later found in Bernville, Pennsylvania, about 70 miles (112 kilometers) west of Philadelphia, Sumwalt said.

As a precaution, Southwest said Tuesday night that it would inspect similar engines in its fleet over the next 30 days.

Passengers praised one of the pilots, Tammie Jo Shults, for her cool-headed handling of the emergency. The former Navy pilot was at the controls when the plane made the emergency landing. She walked through the aisle and talked with passengers to make sure they were OK after the aircraft touched down.

“She has nerves of steel. That lady, I applaud her,” said Alfred Tumlinson, of Corpus Christi, Texas. “I’m going to send her a Christmas card, I’m going to tell you that, with a gift certificate for getting me on the ground. She was awesome.”

In a recording of conversations between the cockpit and air traffic controllers, an unidentified crew member reported that there was a hole in the plane and “someone went out.”

Tumlinson said a man in a cowboy hat rushed forward a few rows to grab the woman and pull her back in.

“She was out of the plane. He couldn’t do it by himself, so another gentleman came over and helped to get her back in the plane, and they got her,” he said.

Passengers struggled to somehow plug the hole while giving the badly injured woman CPR.

As the plane came in for a landing, everyone started yelling to brace for impact, then clapped after the aircraft touched down safely, Bourman said.

Southwest CEO Gary Kelly said there were no problems with the plane or its engine when it was inspected on Sunday.

The jet’s CFM56-7B engines were made by CFM International, jointly owned by General Electric and Safran Aircraft Engines of France. CFM said in a statement that the CFM56-7B has had “an outstanding safety and reliability record” since its debut in 1997.

Last year, the engine maker and the Federal Aviation Administration instructed airlines to make ultrasonic inspections of the fan blades of engines like those on the Southwest jet. The FAA said the move was prompted by a report of a fan blade failing and hurling debris. A Southwest spokeswoman said the engine that failed Tuesday was not covered by that directive, but the airline announced it would speed up ultrasonic inspections of fan blades of its CFM56-series engines anyway.

“There’s a ring around the engine that is meant to contain the engine pieces when this happens,” said John Goglia, a former NTSB member. “In this case it didn’t. That’s going to be a big focal point for the NTSB — why didn’t (the ring) do its job?”

In 2016, a Southwest Boeing 737-700 blew an engine as it flew from New Orleans to Orlando, Florida, and shrapnel tore a 5-by-16-inch hole just above the wing. The plane landed safely. The NTSB said a fan blade had broken off, apparently because of metal fatigue.

___

Koenig reported from Dallas. Associated Press writers Kristen de Groot and Claudia Lauer in Philadelphia; Susan Montoya in Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Matthew Barakat in Washington, contributed to this story, along with AP researchers Monika Mathur and Jennifer Farrar.LOS ANGELES (AP) — The Latest on the arrest of a man outside a home owned by Taylor Swift (all times local):

9:30 p.m.

A masked man arrested outside a Beverly Hills home owned by Taylor Swift with a knife in his car has been released from custody while the investigation continues.

Los Angeles County jail records show that 38-year-old Julius Sandrock was released Tuesday morning.

He was arrested Saturday on suspicion of felony stalking. Swift wasn’t at the home.

Authorities say Sandrock was wearing a mask and rubber gloves, had a knife, rope and ammunition in his car and told police he’d driven from his home in Broomfield, Colorado to see Swift.

The details were contained in a temporary restraining order preventing the man from possessing guns.

Police who requested the restraining order said Sandrock told officers he owned three handguns and is on probation in Colorado for firing one of them.

Another man was arrested on April 8 for trespassing on the same property.

___

3:45 p.m.

Authorities say a man arrested outside a Beverly Hills home owned by Taylor Swift was wearing a mask and rubber gloves, had a knife, rope and ammunition, and told police he had driven from his Colorado home to see the singer who was not there at the time.

The details were contained in a temporary restraining order preventing the man, 38-year-old Julius Sandrock of Broomfield, Colorado, from possessing guns.

Police say Sandrock was arrested Saturday on suspicion of felony stalking and is expected to be released Tuesday while the investigation continues.

It isn’t clear whether he has an attorney who could comment.

Police who requested the restraining order said Sandrock told officers he owned three handguns and is on probation in Colorado for firing one of the weapons.

Another man was arrested on April 8 for trespassing on the same property.

The 28-year-old Swift, who lives in New York, was not at the home then either.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — A Southwest Airlines pilot who made an emergency landing Tuesday after the jet apparently blew an engine, got hit by shrapnel and lost a window, is being praised for her “nerves of steel” in helping to prevent a far worse tragedy after the catastrophe killed one passenger and left seven others hurt.

Tammie Jo Shults was at the controls of the Dallas-bound Flight 1380 when it made an emergency landing in Philadelphia, said her husband, Dean Shults. The twin-engine Boeing 737 that left New York with 149 people board was hit by shrapnel that smashed a window and damaged the fuselage, killing a passenger and injuring seven others, authorities said. The pilot took the plane into a rapid descent as passengers using oxygen masks that dropped from the ceiling braced for impact.

Shults was among the first female fighter pilots in the U.S. military, according to friends and the alumni group at Shults’ alma mater, MidAmerica Nazarene.

Shults was a 1983 graduate of the university in Olathe, Kansas, where she earned degrees in biology and agribusiness, said Carol Best, a university spokeswoman told The Kansas City Star.

Passenger Alfred Tumlinson, of Corpus Christi, Texas, lauded Shults and her crew for their professionalism.

“She has nerves of steel. That lady, I applaud her. I’m going to send her a Christmas card — I’m going to tell you that — with a gift certificate for getting me on the ground. She was awesome,” Tumlinson said “The lady, the crew, everything, everybody was immaculate. They were so professional in what they did to get us on the ground.”

Shults’ brother-in-law, Gary Shults, said her husband also is a Southwest pilot and told him she had made the emergency landing.

“She’s a formidable woman, as sharp as a tack,” said Gary Shults, a dentist in San Antonio. “My brother says she’s the best pilot he knows. She’s a very caring, giving person who takes care of lots of people.”

Passengers said she walked through the aisle and talked with them to make sure they were OK after the plane touched down.

U.S. transportation Secretary Elaine Chao extended her sympathies to the loved ones of the passenger who died, Jennifer Riordan, of New Mexico, and praised the pilot, crew and others who were on board.

“I commend the pilots who safely landed the aircraft, and the crew and fellow passengers who provided support and care for the injured, preventing what could have been far worse,” Chao said in a statement.

Travelers said fellow passengers dragged Riordan back in as the sudden decompression of the cabin pulled her part way through the smashed window.

National Transportation Safety Board chairman Robert Sumwalt said it was the first passenger fatality in an accident involving a U.S. airline since 2009.

___

Wallace and AP business writer David Koening reported from Dallas.PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — Seeking to reassure Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of their close alliance ahead of planned talks with North Korea, the Trump administration has signaled it is open to considering exempting Japan from new steel and aluminum tariffs that Abe opposes.

Hosting Abe at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Trump said the tariffs could be a topic during the visit, which comes as Trump prepares for an historic summit with North Korea’s Kim Jong Un.

Trump also gave Abe a win on Tuesday, pledging to raise the issue of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea, a top Japanese priority, in his meeting with Kim.

But Trump later suggested there was one area where he and Abe would have to agree to disagree: the Trans-Pacific trade partnership, which Trump pulled the U.S. out of days after his inauguration, but has recently said he might be open to re-joining.

“While Japan and South Korea would like us to go back into TPP, I don’t like the deal for the United States,” Trump tweeted, following a dinner with Abe and their wives. “Too many contingencies and no way to get out if it doesn’t work. Bilateral deals are far more efficient, profitable and better for OUR workers.”

The two-day Trump-Abe summit played out amid growing tensions between the two countries over North Korea and trade. Japan has warned that Kim may simply be trying to buy time and has raised concerns that the U.S. might not press Kim to abandon his short- and medium-range missiles, which pose an immediate threat to Japan, as they discuss the country’s nuclear weapons program.

Japan has also been questioning why it wasn’t granted exemptions to Trump’s protectionist measures on steel and aluminum when most other key U.S. allies — among them Australia, Canada, the European Union and Mexico — have been.

But Abe spent much of Tuesday praising Trump’s courage for agreeing to meet and suggested the two had already come to terms on several contentions issues.

Speaking through a translator during one of their meetings, Abe said he and Trump had had “very in-depth discussions” on both North Korea and economic issues and said that “on those two points” they had “successfully forged a mutual understanding.”

The two did not reveal what those agreements were, but Abe had been expected to urge to Trump to exempt Japan from the tariffs and press him on the missile issue.

Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, had said earlier Tuesday that issuing Japan the waiver was “on the table,” but he declined to say what Trump would ask for in return.

The talks came amid news that CIA Director Mike Pompeo had recently traveled in secret to North Korea to meet with Kim ahead of a U.S.-North Korea summit planned in the next two months. Two officials confirmed the trip to The Associated Press on Tuesday. The officials were not authorized to discuss the visit publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.

In the first news report about the meeting, The Washington Post said it had taken place two weeks ago, shortly after the CIA chief was nominated to become secretary of state.

Trump had revealed earlier Tuesday that the U.S. and North Korea had been holding direct talks at “extremely high levels” in preparation for the summit. Trump also confirmed that North and South Korea are negotiating an end to hostilities before next week’s meeting between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in. The meeting will be the third inter-Korean summit since the Koreas’ 1945 division.

“They do have my blessing to discuss the end of the war,” Trump said.

Trump said five locations for the summit are under consideration.

Trump took credit for the inter-Korean talks, saying, “Without us and without me, in particular, I guess you would have to say, they wouldn’t be discussing anything.”

Abe’s official visit began Tuesday afternoon as an honor cordon of uniformed service members lined the palm-fringed drive to the club. Trump greeted Abe at the red-carpeted door of the mansion as the pair posed for photos ahead of a one-on-one meeting and a group discussion with national security officials about the Kim summit. The president and first lady Melania Trump later hosted Abe and his wife for an al fresco dinner on the Mar-a-Lago patio.

On Wednesday, the agenda will broaden to include other issues affecting the Indo-Pacific region, including trade and energy, and Trump said he and Abe would “sneak out” to play a round of golf. Trump and Abe will also hold a news conference before the president and first lady host the Japanese delegations for dinner.

Abe said that Trump had promised to bring up the Japanese abductee issue in his meeting with Kim. “I am very grateful for your commitment,” he told Trump.

Pyongyang has acknowledging abducting 13 Japanese, while Tokyo maintains North Korea abducted 17. Five have been returned to Japan. North Korea says eight others died and denies the remaining four entered its territory. Japan has demanded further investigation.

The U.S. itself is pushing for the release of three Americans.

After five years in office, Abe is one of Japan’s longest-serving, post-World War II prime ministers but has suffered plummeting poll ratings over allegations that a school linked to his wife received preferential government treatment in a land sale.

___

Associated Press writer Matthew Pennington in Washington contributed to this report.

___

Follow Colvin and Miller on Twitter at https://twitter.com/colvinj and https://twitter.com/ZekeJMillerWASHINGTON (AP) — CIA Director Mike Pompeo recently traveled to North Korea to meet with leader Kim Jong Un, a highly unusual, secret visit undertaken as the enemy nations prepared for a meeting between President Donald Trump and Kim within the next few months.

Two officials confirmed the trip to The Associated Press on Tuesday. The officials were not authorized to discuss the visit publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.

The Washington Post, which first reported Pompeo’s meeting with Kim, said it took place over Easter weekend — just over two weeks ago, shortly after the CIA chief was nominated to become secretary of state.

Trump, who was hosting Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his Florida estate, said the U.S. and North Korea were holding direct talks at “extremely high levels” in preparation for a possible summit with Kim. He said five locations were under consideration for the meeting, which was slated to take place by early June.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump and Kim had not spoken directly.

Kim’s offer for a summit was initially conveyed to Trump by South Korea last month, and the president shocked many by accepting it. U.S. officials indicated over the past two weeks that North Korea’s government had communicated directly with Washington that it was ready to discuss its nuclear weapons program.

It would be the first-ever summit between U.S. and North Korea during more than six decades of hostility since the Korean War. North Korea’s nuclear weapons and its capability to deliver them by ballistic missile pose a growing threat to the U.S. mainland.

The U.S. and North Korea do not have formal diplomatic relations, complicating the arrangements for contacts between the two governments. It is not unprecedented for U.S. intelligence officials to serve as a conduit for communication with Pyongyang.

In 2014, then-Director of National Intelligence James Clapper secretly visited North Korea to bring back two American detainees.

At his confirmation hearing last week to become secretary of state, Pompeo played down expectations for a breakthrough deal on ending North Korea’s nuclear weapons at the planned Trump-Kim summit, but he said it could lay the groundwork for a comprehensive agreement on denuclearization.

“I’m optimistic that the United States government can set the conditions for that appropriately so that the president and the North Korean leader can have that conversation and will set us down the course of achieving a diplomatic outcome that America and the world so desperately need,” Pompeo told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

After a year of escalating tensions, when North Korea conducted nuclear and long-range missile tests that drew world condemnation, Kim has pivoted to international outreach.

The young leader met China’s President Xi Jinping in Beijing in late March, Kim’s first trip abroad since taking power six years ago. He is set to meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in in the demilitarized zone between the rival Koreas on April 27.

___

Associated Press writer Matthew Pennington contributed to this report.Brodska Varos (Croatia) (AFP) – A faithful male flying thousands of miles each year to join his handicapped female who cannot fly — the story of two storks in Croatia, Klepetan and Malena, is one of love and devotion beating the odds.

By late March, Klepetan was back in the tiny village of Brodski Varos in eastern Croatia for the 16th year in a row, after leaving his winter home in southern Africa.

There he again met the love of his life, white stork Malena — “Little One” in Croatian — who was waiting to start having more babies, to add to the 62 the pair already have.

The faithful couple’s long-distance relationship has made them celebrities in Croatia.

Local school caretaker Stjepan Vokic, a 71-year-old widower, adopted Malena in 1993 when he found her near a pond, injured by a shot from hunters.

She spends winters in a storage building in what Vokic calls an “improvised Africa” with a nest, heating and aquarium.

In spring Vokic makes a gigantic nest for Malena on the building’s roof.

Klepetan, the father stork, teaches his baby storks to fly before migrating with them in early August to southern Africa.

Meanwhile, Malena stays with Vokic, who bathes her and puts cream on her feet to stop them drying out, as she is away from her wetland habitat.

“I also take her fishing since I can’t take her to Africa. We even watch TV together,” Vokic told AFP.

“If I had left her in the pond foxes would have eaten her. But I changed her fate, so now I’m responsible for her life.”

Klepetan, named after a knocking sound storks make with their beaks, wears a tracking ring.

His final migratory destination has been traced to near Cape Town, some 14,500 kilometres (9,000 miles) from Malena. It takes him a little over a month.

Croatia is home to some 1,500 pairs of white storks.

Cigoc, in central Croatia, was proclaimed the first European stork village in 1994.

More than 210 birds live there in nests on the roofs and lamp posts. Their number is more than double the village’s human population.Wellington (AFP) – Waikato Chiefs halfback Brad Weber has condemned Wallabies superstar Israel Folau’s anti-gay comments and urged other rugby players to speak out.

Weber said he could not remain silent after Folau wrote on social media this month that God’s plan for gay people was hell unless they repent their sins.

“Kinda sick of us players staying quiet on some of this stuff,” Weber tweeted late Tuesday.

“I can’t stand that I have to play this game that I love with people, like Folau, who say what he’s saying.”

Weber, who earned his sole All Blacks cap in 2015 but has struggled with injuries since, said he was disgusted Folau, a devout Christian, was judging his loved ones.

“My cousin and her partner, and my aunty and her partner are some of the most kind, caring & loving people I have ever had the pleasure of knowing,” he wrote.

“To think that I play against someone that says they’ll go to hell for being gay disgusts me.”

Rugby Australia has decided against sanctioning Folau over his comments, saying the player never intended to hurt anyone.

Referee Nigel Owens, who attempted suicide as a young man struggling to accept he was gay, said he respected Folau’s religious beliefs but the player should think about the impact of his words.

“When you’re in a position of privilege like that, there comes a responsibility in the way in which you convey those beliefs,” he told British lifestyle website joe.co.uk.

“Me being gay is not a choice. There are young people out there taking their own lives, feeling like I did.”

Owens urged Folau to “judge me and other gay people on the content of their character, not on their sexuality”.

The furore has cast doubt on Folau’s future with the Wallabies after he revealed this week that he had offered to walk away from the final year of his contract if Rugby Australia thought he was hurting the game.

Rugby clubs in Europe and Japan, as well as Australia’s National Rugby League, are reportedly interested in signing the 29-year-old.

Until Weber’s comments, Folau’s fellow players have been largely quiet about his remarks, aside from a message of support from his NSW Waratahs teammate Curtis Rona.

The Wallabies’ major sponsor Qantas, which strongly backed Australia’s gay marriage referendum last year, told AFP on Wednesday that there were “no changes” to the contract, which is due to expire in 2020.April 18 (UPI) — Rapper Kodak Black could get an early release from jail after three charges against him were dropped on Tuesday.

Charges of gun possession, marijuana possession and neglecting a child were dropped against Black, whose real name is Dieuson Octave. He will now likely be released in October instead of January 2019.

The three dropped charges were the most serious of seven charges that South Florida prosecutors slapped on the rapper after police raided his Broward County home in January. Black was on probation at the time of the raid and faced up to 12 years in prison.

Black’s attorney, Bradford Cohen, told TMZ that his client admitted to violating his probation by driving with a suspended license and associating with people engaged in criminal activity and will get credit for time served.

Three other charges were dropped in February.

“Kodak [and I] are extremely happy to resolve this case with an excellent resolution,” Cohen said. “It was very nice to deal with a fair judge who understood the circumstances — along with prosecutors.”ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — Family, friends and community leaders are mourning the death of a bank executive on a Southwest Airlines jet that blew an engine as she was flying home from a business trip to New York.

Jennifer Riordan, a mother of two, was well known in New Mexico, where she had built a career over more than two decades in community relations and communications after graduating from the University of New Mexico.

Gov. Susana Martinez called Riordan “an incredible woman who put her family and community first” and said her loss would be felt across the state.

“The hearts of all New Mexicans are with the Riordan family,” Martinez, a Republican, said in a statement on Tuesday.

Before starting with Wells Fargo in 2008, Riordan had worked for the University of New Mexico hospital system in public relations and for Citigroup.

At Wells Fargo, she was the vice president for community relations and was in charge of managing employee volunteer and board service to nonprofit groups in New Mexico and parts of Texas. She also served on numerous boards and oversaw the annual United Way community campaign.

Mike English, a spokesman for Wells Fargo in New Mexico, said Riordan “was a well-known leader who was loved and respected.”

Albuquerque Mayor Tim Keller said his thoughts and prayers were with Riordan’s family.

“Today, Albuquerque lost a thoughtful leader who has long been part of the fabric of our community,” Keller, a Democrat, said in a statement.

Keller said Riordan’s leadership and philanthropic efforts “made this a better place every day and she will be terribly missed.”

State Attorney General Hector Balderas called Riordan a dear friend.

“I was honored to work with her on financial literacy issues for over a decade,” said Balderas, a Democrat. “Jennifer was exceptionally active and passionate in working to improve our community, and I express our sincerest condolences to her husband and children.”

Members of the broadcast community shared their condolences on social media, remembering the volunteer efforts and outreach spurred by Riordan through her many roles in the community.

In a tweet, the New Mexico Broadcasters Association expressed its heartbreak over Riordan’s death, noting that she was a former board member and scholarship winner.

Riordan also served on the boards of Junior Achievement of New Mexico, New Mexico First and The Catholic Foundation.

Ryan Cangiolosi, chairman of the Republican Party of New Mexico, said Riordan loved Albuquerque and worked tirelessly to help others.

“Her leadership in numerous charitable causes made a real impact on our state and earned her the respect and admiration of New Mexicans across the political spectrum,” Cangiolosi said.

Riordan and her husband, Michael Riordan, a former chief operating officer for Albuquerque, had been married for more than 20 years.

The pilot of the plane, a twin-engine Boeing 737 bound from New York to Dallas with 149 people aboard, took it into a rapid descent and made an emergency landing in Philadelphia on Tuesday.

Southwest Airlines Co., which is based in Dallas, said there were no problems with the plane or its engine when it was inspected on Sunday.Jeddah (Saudi Arabia) (AFP) – Colourful and oozing defiance, a sports-friendly version of the abaya gown was once considered a symbol of cultural rebellion in conservative Saudi Arabia, but it is fast becoming the new normal.

Pictures of female athletes running in the garb in the Red Sea city of Jeddah went viral last month, setting off a new debate on sartorial freedoms for women in a country where the typically all-black, body-shrouding garment is obligatory in public.

Some cultural purists vented fury online, calling it a breach of tradition, but opposition has been largely muted following recent comments from powerful Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman that the abaya — any abaya — is not mandatory in Islam.

Until a formal edict comes however, designers such as Eman Joharjy are cashing in on the growing popularity of the so-called sports abayas, as many women push back against traditional attitudes of equating chastity with dress code.

“There is a big demand,” Joharjy told AFP at her fashion studio in Jeddah.

“Having them in different colours is empowering.”

Akin to a zippered jumpsuit, sports abayas envelop a woman’s body but offer greater mobility for sporting activities, in contrast to the classic baggy version where tripping on the hem of the flowing garment is a common risk.

The 43-year-old’s designs come in colours like pistachio green, beige and white — more tolerable in the kingdom’s scorching heat — and she uses natural fabrics, including French poplin, that do not cling to a sweating body.

One of the early pioneers of the trend, Joharjy said she was branded a social outlier and jeered by some as “batman” when she began designing — and donning — sports abayas publicly in 2007.

“There was a little bit of rebellion but I designed it for myself, because it’s practical,” she said.

“You zip up and are ready to go.”

– ‘Soccer-themed abayas’ –

Joharjy has defied a popular maxim in Saudi Arabia: “If it’s not black, it’s not an abaya.”

Abayas have evolved over the years, with new patterns, fabrics and embellishments, and they are sometimes worn in the kingdom with baseball-style caps over headscarves.

The latest fad is an eye-catching ensemble of “soccer-themed abayas” — in the colours of the local teams, a new way for female sporting fans to cheer for their favourite players.

Such fashion trends are gaining momentum amid the kingdom’s liberalisation drive, including a historic royal decree allowing women to drive from June and enter sports stadiums for the first time.

The government is also seeking to jump-start women’s sports and is moving toward compulsory physical education classes for girls, after a ban was lifted in 2014.

Saudi officials recently announced that women would be able to participate next year in the Riyadh international marathon, previously a male-only event.

Women exercising in public were long a target for the kingdom’s austere religious police, which has largely been neutered in recent years.

And the once-unthinkable idea of doing away with the abaya appears to now be gaining traction.

“The laws are very clear and stipulated in the laws of Sharia: that women wear decent, respectful clothing, like men,” Prince Mohammed told CBS Television last month.

“This, however, does not particularly specify a black abaya. (It) is entirely left for women to decide what type of decent and respectful attire to wear.”

– ‘Modest look’ –

Muslim cleric Sheikh Ahmed bin Qassim al-Ghamdi added a new wrinkle to the debate when he dismissed the long-held view that black was the only colour for abayas permissible in Islam.

“The cloak is meant for maintaining a modest look and it does not have to be black,” the former chief of the religious police in the holy city of Mecca, told Saudi-owned Al-Arabiya television last month.

But the risk of a social backlash is real in a society steeped in conservatism.

“They look like cleaners!” a tweet said, in response to viral images of athletes dressed in sports abayas.

“Their purpose is not sports. We have all been running in full body veil,” tweeted another.

Back at Joharjy’s studio, a longtime client Marwa al-Hadi walked in wearing one of her designs with magenta sneakers.

“Abaya is like the Indian saree, it is part of our identity,” Joharjy told her, as they weighed in on the future evolution of the garment.

“But at the same time, if God did not want women to do sports, we would not have muscles or a body.”

Hadi nodded.

“It is no one’s business to stop and question what I’m wearing,” she said.Milan (AFP) – While design aficionados flock to Milan from around the globe for the world’s largest furniture fair, Italy’s kings of kitchen style are looking beyond its borders to beat a sluggish domestic market.

As the six-day “Salone del Mobile” got under way in Italy’s fashion capital on Tuesday, the country’s kitchen design industry was celebrating a 3.2 percent growth in exports last year.

The event hosts more than 2,450 exhibitors, of whom nearly a quarter are foreign. Last year, it attracted around 300,000 visitors from 165 countries.

The 779 million euros ($961 billion) generated by the kitchen sector is behind only Germany and China.

Consultancy firm Bain & Company estimates that the global design market grew four percent in 2017 to 35 billion euros, a figure that is destined to triple over the next 10 years.

Milan’s Centre for Industrial Studies (CSIL) says global kitchen exports are expected to reach $6.7 billion in 2021, an increase of about 20 percent from 2016.

And with the country slowly emerging from the global financial crisis, companies are capitalising on Italy’s reputation for style abroad to give themselves a place at the table.

“We realised (during the crisis) that it was time for us to focus on exports,” Paolo Zampieri, head of Zampieri Cucine, a small company that employs 34 people.

“The domestic market was once more than enough, but the purchasing power in our country has diminished and the competition is very strong.”

– ‘Release Valve’ –

The crisis has sped up the concentration of the sector.

“Twenty years ago, there were 300 kitchen companies in Italy, today there are around 100. Six companies account for around half of production and 30 percent of exports,” CSIL research director Aurelio Volpe told AFP.

After being almost invisible abroad for the best part of a decade, exports account for 35 percent of Zampieri Cucine’s sales.

The company is experiencing double-digit growth and others in the sector are benefitting from a more outward outlook.

“These companies have found a release valve in the export market. Even small businesses have found niches abroad,” says Volpe.

Veneta Cucine is one of Italy’s big six, and group controller Denise Archiutti says that the “companies that have managed to survive the crisis have become bigger, more productive and more technologically flexible”.

“Production logic has changed, with increasingly personalised products made to measure and at the moment of order,” she adds.

France is the industry’s largest export market — as it is for the furniture sector as a whole — and where last year it saw a 10.7 percent increase in sales, followed by the United States and Switzerland.

Volpe notes that Italy is playing to a more refined market than number one exporter China, which mostly sells low-cost kitchens to the United States.

Meanwhile Volpe says that Italian exports to China “have recorded an increase of 50 percent in a year.”London (AFP) – Half a century after emigrating to Britain, Anthony Bryan decided it was time to go abroad. But the decision set off a bureaucratic nightmare that saw him lose his job, detained twice and almost deported to Jamaica.

“In 2015, the missus applied for a passport for me… She came back and told me, you’re illegal,” the 60-year-old told AFP at his home in north London, his partner Janet McKay-Williams by his side.

“I said, what are you talking about, ‘I’m illegal’? I can’t be illegal, I’ve been here from when I was eight years old.”

Bryan, now a grandfather, thought the issue could be resolved swiftly, since he moved to Britain legally as part of the so-called Windrush generation of Caribbean migrants after World War II.

But he and many others who failed to regularise their status have been caught up in a clampdown on illegal migration, which has seen them declared as undocumented migrants and unable to work or access benefits.

Outrage over their plight led to a personal apology from Prime Minister Theresa May to Caribbean leaders on Tuesday, and ministers have promised that no one will be deported or detained.

After a long and expensive battle with the authorities, Bryan received his right to remain in Britain in February — but nothing will change the trauma he and his family have been through.

“It was a nightmare,” he said, his T-shirt spattered with paint from the decorating job to which he has now happily returned.

“It’s nice that she (May) apologises because she realises they were wrong, but I didn’t feel the apology, to be honest. It didn’t make no difference to me,” Bryan said.

“Put me back where I was before they arrested me, that would be nice — I didn’t have no debts before immigration come in, I wasn’t worrying and fretting about anything,” he said.

“My life was put on hold.”

Bryan speaks with a thick London accent and considers himself British, but he admitted his treatment had “tested” his allegiance to his adopted country.

“It broke the trust that I thought I had with the British,” he said.

– ‘He’d be on the street’ –

In 1948, the ship Windrush brought the first group of migrants from the West Indies to help rebuild post-war Britain, and many others followed from around the Commonwealth.

A 1971 law gave them a legal right to remain, but many never formalised their status, often because they were children who came over on their parents’ or siblings’ passports and then never applied for their own.

In recent years a government clampdown on illegal immigration has begun to identify those without papers — scooping up many elderly people from the Windrush generation.

Bryan was particularly vulnerable because he struggles with reading and has few documents — he has never even opened a bank account — making it hard to find the required proof of his life in Britain.

He was detained twice, first for three weeks, after which he was told to report every fortnight to the authorities.

“That was the worst, going to sign on and not knowing if you’re going to come out,” he said.

In November last year, he was detained again and booked on a plane to Jamaica two days later.

An immigration lawyer obtained a last-minute injunction and he was released.

But each time he and his family say they received no official explanation — until they contacted a newspaper, The Guardian, after which his case progressed rapidly.

When he received confirmation of his status in February, “it was great, but I still didn’t feel great because my debts was rolling on me, my missus was stressed,” he said.

Once Bryan finally gets his British passport, he is looking forward to travelling to Jamaica where his mother now lives.

He said he would apply for government compensation for legal costs which have left him in debt, and the couple may also sue for wrongful detention.

“If he never had friends or family, he’d be on the street,” McKay-Williams said.PHOENIX (AP) — Patrick Corbin lost his no-hit bid on a checked-swing infield single with two outs in the eighth inning but finished a one-hitter to lift the Arizona Diamondbacks over the San Francisco Giants 1-0 on Tuesday night.

Corbin (3-0) walked one but otherwise was cruising toward what would have been the franchise’s third no-hitter. Brandon Belt ended it with a softly hit ball to the left side of Arizona’s shifted infield, beating shortstop Nick Ahmed’s throw by a step to send a groan across Chase Field.

Corbin struck out eight and threw 100 pitches in his first career complete-game shutout. The Diamondbacks have tied the best start in franchise history (with 2000, 2008) at 12-4.

David Peralta lined a run-scoring single off Tony Watson (1-1) in the bottom of the eighth, the deciding blow in a duel between Corbin and San Francisco’s Johnny Cueto.

Cueto struck out 11 and allowed two hits in seven innings in his return from the DL. He was replaced by Watson, who walked Jarrod Dyson with one out in the eighth. Corbin moved Dyson over with a sacrifice bunt to set up Peralta’s go-ahead hit.

Corbin struck out at least eight his first three starts of the season — a first in his career — but did not factor in the decision his last time out, allowing three runs in 5 1/3 innings of Arizona’s 5-4 loss to the Giants.

Corbin walked Joe Panik in the fourth inning and kept the Giants off-balance until Belt’s single.

Diamondbacks third baseman Daniel Descalso made a diving stop from the right side of second base to rob Belt of a hit in the third inning. Center fielder A.J. Pollock saved another hit in the seventh, spinning around to making a diving catch on Buster Posey’s deep ball to center.

TRAINER’S ROOM

Giants: 3B Evan Longoria was scratched from the lineup and could miss the next two games after aggravating a left ankle injury that bothered him during spring training. He was replaced in the lineup by Pablo Sandoval.

Arizona: An MRI on Monday revealed a UCL injury in RHP Taijuan Walker’s right elbow after he was limited to two innings against the Los Angeles Dodgers on Saturday. Walker was placed on the 10-day DL after feeling right forearm tightness Sunday and will travel to New York for a second opinion.

UP NEXT

Giants RHP Chris Stanton is 1-1 with a 3.18 ERA in three career starts against Arizona, including a loss in his only start at Chase Field.

Diamondbacks LHP Robbie Ray has won his last six starts against the NL West since Aug. 30 headed into Wednesday’s game against the Giants.

___

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Shohei Ohtani’s third start for the Los Angeles Angels lasted only two innings Tuesday night after he developed a blister on his pitching hand.

The Angels pulled the Japanese two-way sensation early after he yielded three runs and four hits while struggling with his control against the AL-leading Boston Red Sox.

One inning after Ohtani left, the Angels announced the right-hander had developed a blister during the second inning.

Ohtani has had intermittent issues with blisters throughout his first few months with the Angels, and he had a bandage on one of his fingers last week.

Ohtani gave up a leadoff homer to Boston’s Mookie Betts, and he couldn’t throw his formidable breaking pitches for consistent strikes in the first night start of his big-league career. The Red Sox added two more runs in the second on Brock Holt’s RBI single and Andrew Benintendi’s sacrifice fly.

Although his fastball again hit 99 mph and he only walked one batter, Ohtani needed 66 pitches to get through two innings.

The Angels replaced him for the third with Luke Bard, who promptly gave up five runs on three homers to put Los Angeles in an 8-0 hole.

Ohtani won his first two big-league starts in impressive fashion against Oakland, retiring 27 consecutive batters in a combined stretch over the two games. He took a perfect game into the seventh inning against the Athletics nine days ago, striking out 12.

Ohtani’s third start initially was slated for Kansas City last Sunday, but the game was postponed because of frigid weather.

Ohtani also is off to a strong start as the Angels’ designated hitter, batting .367 with three homers and 11 RBIs. It’s unclear how his blister problems will affect his ability to hit.

___

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballCOLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Lars Eller scored in the second overtime period and the Washington Capitals beat the Columbus Blue Jackets 3-2 in Game 3 on Tuesday night to tighten up the their first-round playoff series.

The Capitals won at Nationwide Arena after Columbus won the first two games — both in overtime — in Washington. It was the Capitals’ turn to prevail in OT, this time on the Blue Jackets’ home ice, to pull to 2-1 in the best-of-seven series.

Eller tapped a rebound past Sergei Bobrovsky 9 minutes into the second extra period for his first goal in the playoff series.

Tom Wilson and John Carlson also scored, and Braden Holtby stopped 33 shots for the Capitals, who were in danger of falling into a nearly insurmountable hole had they let the game slip away.

Game 4 is Thursday night back here with Game 5 set for Washington on Saturday.

Pierre-Luc Dubois and Artemi Panarin scored for Columbus, and Bobrovsky finished with 42 saves after getting 54 in the Game 2 on Sunday.

Panarin knotted the score 4:12 into the third after he and Cam Atkinson went back and forth with pinpoint passes before he swiped it past Holtby from the left circle.

That’s the way it stayed until the second overtime.

After a scoreless first period, Wilson got credit for the first Washington goal when he deflected Matt Niskanen’s rising shot 5:52 into the second. The Blue Jackets got a break two minutes later when a goal by the Capitals’ Brett Connolly was waved off after a video replay showed he was offside bringing the puck down the ice.

Dubois tied it with 8:42 left in the second when he rifled a shot past Holtby’s glove from the right circle.

Later in the period, with Columbus’ Brandon Dubinsky and Ryan Murray both in the penalty box for slashing, Carlson connected with 5:17 left on a one-timer 28 seconds into the 5-on-3.

The Capitals have outshot the Blue Jackets 133-92 through the first three games.

NOTES: Washington F Jakub Vrana played in place of Andre Burakovsky, who is out at least through Thursday’s game with an upper-body injury suffered when he was checked into the boards by Blue Jackets F Boone Jenner on Sunday. Vrana was a healthy scratch for that game. … Blue Jackets F Alexander Wennberg missed a second game after being injured in Game 1. Sonny Milano again played in his place. … The announced crowd of 19,337 was the largest ever for a Blue Jackets game. … Washington star Alex Ovechkin appeared in his 100th career playoff game. … Panarin, who had an assist on Atkinson’s goal, has eight straight multi-point games. … It was the 22nd time in NHL history that a playoff series went to overtime in at least three consecutive games.

___

Follow Mitch Stacy at http://twitter.com/mitchstacyFlorida’s GOP-dominated bipartisan constitutional commission killed off a plan to put E-Verify on the November ballot — but did approve several ballots on minor issues, such as dog racing.

The 24-to-12 bipartisan win for business on April 16 was won by lobbyists for the state’s agriculture and construction industries, plus the Florida Chamber of Commerce. They flipped at least seven prior supporters of the E-Verify proposal, which would have required employers to use the federal E-Verify system to verify that prospective hires were allowed to work.

Business groups are worried that Americans’ wages are rising — and will rise faster if businesses can’t hire illegals via subcontractors for farming, construction, and tourist jobs.

Business advocates offered various reasons for their opposition to the proposal. A Chamber spokesman said the proposal “would have placed an ineffective federal government system into Florida’s foundational document.” One commissioner, who is a former top Democratic leader in the House, dismissed the popular proposal, saying “I don’t really see the teeth enough that this should be another paragraph on the ballot.”

Instead, the commission supported various ballots that would extend lobbying curbs on former legislators from two years to six years, and also to end greyhound racing by 2020.

The GOP’s business-first state leaders opposed the proposal even though it would spur GOP turnout in November. The Sun-Sentinel newspaper reported:

Commissioner Rich Newsome, who pushed for the verification system, said Monday the measure would solve a huge problem of undocumented workers “in a way that’s not callous.” “We don’t have to build a wall to help stop the problem of undocumented workers and of the nightmares that creates, not just for the workers, but the legal workers and the businesses that are trying to follow the law,” Newsome said. Newsome said the proposal would protect undocumented workers who do not have work or legal protections and would help legal workers who face “suppressed wages” because of undocumented immigrants who are willing to take less money. He also said the proposal “polls off the charts.”

Agricultural groups are promoting former Rep. Adam Putnam, now the state’s agriculture commissioner, in the GOP’s gubernatorial primary.

The E-Verify proposal was boosted by a volunteer pro-reform group, Floridians for E-Verify Now.

Despite the Florida defeat, reform advocates have made some progress is pushing E-Verify around the nation. More companies are using the system, and Florida’s Gov. Rick Scott required state employers to use the E-Verify system when hiring government workers.

According to the Federation for American Immigration Reform:

Twenty states have laws requiring at least some employers to use E-Verify. Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee mandate it for all employers. Florida Gov. Rick Scott, in 2011, signed an executive order directing state agencies and their contractors to use the system. Nationally, 2.4 million hiring sites were enrolled in the E-Verify program at the end of 2017. California, that famed sanctuary state, listed the most E-Verify-compliant hiring sites: 216,850. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services reported a record 9.1 million individual cases were processed during the last fiscal year. Notably, Florida ranked fourth in the country, with 454,100 E-Verify checks.

The push against immigration enforcement is echoed in other states, whether dominated by the GOP or by Democrats. For example, in Georgia, the GOP-run legislature just killed a proposal to alert federal enforcement authorities when illegal immigrants were detained in state jails. In California, in contrast, the Democrats have passed laws curbing cooperation between state officials and federal enforcement officials.Tuesday on HLN’s “S.E. Cupp Unfiltered,” host S.E. Cupp, formerly a contributor for the Fox News Channel, said the revelation that Sean Hannity was a client of President Donald Trump lawyer Michael Cohen showed Fox News was “increasingly becoming untethered from the standard preconceptions of what we expect news to be.”

Cupp said, “Whether Hannity is in any legal jeopardy regarding the Cohen investigation remains to be seen. As someone who knows and likes him, I certainly hope not. But what we can say for certain is, he should have disclosed this relationship to his viewers. On its face, it seems obvious. It’s a clear conflict of interest for Hannity to defend Cohen and his star client, the President of the United States, on his show regularly without revealing one of the reasons he might be doing so.”

She added, “Here is the deal. The Hannity/Cohen revelation exposes a bigger issue for Fox News which is that it is increasingly becoming untethered from the standard preconceptions of what we expect news to be. Now, to call Fox ‘infotainment’ is not new, nor do I think it’s particularly pejorative. Like other cable news channels, the network offers a melange of colorful personalities, ideological outrage, and, yes, good reporting too. Opinion infiltrated cable news long ago, but increasingly, and especially at Fox opinion, is not rooted in fact anymore. Instead, alarmingly it is sometimes rooted in flat-out fiction, and more often than not in feelings.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENMoscow (AFP) – The Kremlin’s annual list of Russian officials’ earnings has provided an outline of the richest names in government, even as the true wealth of many big-hitters remains opaque.

Anomalous results include a senator whose income is 230 times higher than the previous year and several government heavyweights whose earnings are eclipsed by those of their wives.

While speculation is rife about the personal fortune of Russian President Vladimir Putin, his officially declared income in the documents is relatively modest — in 2017 he earned 18.7 million rubles ($302,000, 242,000 euros).

His only declared properties are a 77-square-metre (828-square-feet) apartment and a garage, while a 1,500-square-metre plot of land that was listed the previous year is no longer mentioned.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev — who anti-corruption campaigner Alexei Navalny has accused of commanding a luxury property empire — declared an income of just 8.56 million rubles, one flat and a rented plot of land.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov earned 14.3 million rubles in 2017, but is married to Tatiana Navka — an Olympic ice dancing champion who heads two enterprises that have benefited from state contracts, according to data from the Russian Interfax news agency.

Navka, who was named in the “Panama Papers” scandal, had an income of 200 million rubles last year, up 66 percent from 2016.

The income of Marina Medinskaya, the wife of culture minister Vladimir Medinsky, also eclipsed that of her husband — boosted by her position as director of property and advertising companies, according to the Interfax data.

– Who wants to be a millionaire? –

According to an estimate by the RBK newspaper, the average family income of senior Russian officials has grown by 18 percent over the last year, even as the country’s economy makes slow progress recovering from a recession.

The highest-earning member of parliament in Russia is Grigory Anikeyev, with an income of 4.3 billion rubles in 2017, an eight-fold increase on the previous year.

The owner of the meat-processing ABI group, Anikeyev is listed among the 200 richest Russians by Forbes magazine.

Among the richest senators, according to the documents, is Suleyman Kerimov, whose income is now 230 times what it was in 2016 and who is currently being investigated for tax fraud in France.

The 51-year-old was arrested last year in the city of Nice over suspected tax evasion related to the purchase of luxury properties on the French Riviera, provoking an angry reaction from Moscow.

However, no foreign properties feature on the list published by the Kremlin. Kerimov owns only a 38-square-metre flat in Russia, according to the document.

Corruption scandals regularly envelop senior officials, ministers and regional governors in Russia.

In an angry editorial entitled “Who wants to be a millionaire?” for the independent Novaya Gazeta newspaper, managing editor Alexei Polukhin slammed the “phenomenal” increase in officials’ earnings.

“In a public role, you can see your income increase hundreds of times over,” he wrote, citing the example of deputy prime minister Alexander Khloponin who earned 2.9 billion rubles in 2017 — or 293 times his income from the previous year.

“All that because Khloponin sold property assets abroad. In other words, he not only acted practically, but also patriotically,” he wrote in a sarcastic barb.New York (AFP) – The crowds have thinned somewhat at Bitcoin Center, leaving just the true believers in the volatile cryptocurrency.

“Two months ago we couldn’t breathe here” due to the throngs, recalled Nick Spanos, founder of the trading and educational hub in lower Manhattan.

“People outside couldn’t get inside.”

The center, which was set up in December 2013, calls itself a one-of-a-kind epicenter for all things bitcoin. It is primarily frequented by technology and financial types, mostly male and mostly younger, although it aspires to go well beyond that core audience.

“The Bitcoin Center is open seven days a week to shed light on the world of bitcoin to whoever walks in our doors!,” proclaims its website. “Our staff can provide an overview of bitcoin on the spot or register guests for our comprehensive bitcoin courses.”

On a recent weekday evening, about 100 people gathered in the space, a parlor in a Ukrainian restaurant, to trade bitcoins on smartphone applications, nibble on complimentary snacks and take in the latest insights from Spanos.

He threw a few barbs at journalists who have cast a skeptical eye on the cryptocurrency’s rollercoaster performance.

But Spanos, who worked previously for former Republican and Libertarian presidential candidate Ron Paul, saved his sharpest words for Jamie Dimon, the JPMorgan Chase chief who last year said it was “stupid” to invest in bitcoin, which he has called a “fraud.”

The mention of Dimon drew boos from the crowd, who have seen bitcoin swoon from nearly $20,000 in mid-December to $7,895 on Tuesday, according to Bloomberg.

Total trading volumes have fallen in half between mid-December and the start of April, according to Bitcoinity.org.

In another sign of faltering interest, the number of weekly searches on Google for bitcoin now stands at about one-fifth the peak level in December, when the cryptocurrency began trading on major exchanges.

The price retreat comes as regulators adopt an increasingly skeptical stance towards the digital money.

On Tuesday, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, citing reports of theft of vast sums of virtual currency from customer accounts, and sudden and poorly explained trading outages, sent queries to 13 major trading platforms on their operations, internal controls, and safeguards to protect customer assets

– Buy and hold –

Twenty-four-year-old Zalman bought his first bitcoin a few months before the spike.

“I panicked at the end of December,” said the young man, who declined to give his last name.

“The slip was hard to digest even though I knew the price could not go up forever,” he said. “I did not sell because I believe in the technological revolution.”

Daniel, a fellow enthusiast, acknowledged selling a small number of his bitcoins amid the rout.

“It’s hard to wake up in the morning and realize that we’ve lost thousands of dollars in the night.”

Daniel said he first began buying the cryptocurrency eight years ago when it cost less than $1.

He said he thinks back on the 2013 bubble “to convince me to keep my bet,” alluding to a seven-day stretch when bitcoin lost about half its value after hitting $1,137 in November of that year.

Some see a silver lining in bitcoin’s recent stumble.

“It’s probably a good thing that prices have fallen, we had gone up too fast,” said one member of the Bitcoin Center who declined to give his name.

“People who knew absolutely nothing came to us by saying they would withdraw all their savings to put them in virtual currencies!”

Longtime cryptocurrency watchers have learned to ride out the waves of volatility.

“Mum-and-dad investors who entered the market when Bitcoin was worth $19,000 can be disappointed,” said Michael Casey, chairman of the advisory board at CoinDesk, a digital media and information service for crypto assets.

“But the community, including those who invested not later than last May, did not lose money.”

Spanos cautioned that “bitcoin is not a ‘get rich quick’ scam.”

“The goal is to keep your bet and ultimately get monetary independence.”Saint-Hyacinthe (Canada) (AFP) – At the site of a former cocoa factory in Canada’s Quebec province, tiny holes punctured in the walls of a warehouse allow fresh air to cool thousands of whirring processors connected by a tangle of wires.

Yessoulou Coulibaly watches over the sea of 7,000-odd computers hidden away in this industrial park at a center operated by Bitfarms, one of the emerging players of the cryptocurrency “mining” boom.

Unlike the dollar or the euro, cryptocurrencies are not issued by central banks. Instead they are “mined” or created thanks to server “farms” like the one in the Montreal suburb of Saint-Hyacinthe — which crack increasingly complex computer codes in order to unlock new batches, or blocks of virtual coins.

Mining on a large scale requires massive computing power, which in turn requires a lot of electric power.

That is where Quebec comes in the picture: luring miners with its plentiful, cheap electricity and below average temperatures — akin to Iceland, where a sister cryptocurrency blitz is also underway.

Coulibaly is among a wave of entrepreneurs flooding the province, in a bid to transform it into a Silicon Valley for the emerging sector.

But some authorities are leery, fearing a surge of demand for electric power could trigger blackouts, for the benefit of an industry that few fully understand.

In March, a number of Quebec municipalities slapped moratoriums on new cryptocurrency factories while the province’s government and the Hydro-Quebec public utility have halted new projects to get a better grasp of the technology and its broader economic impact.

The first to put on the brakes was the tiny municipality of Bromont, east of Montreal, where a new bitcoin operation was seeking to consume 30 of the town’s 36 megawatts of total available excess power.

Soon after, the neighboring township of Brome-Missisquoi imposed a similar ban on new bitcoin mines.

“Most of the business requests that we had in our region to open computer warehouses to mine cryptocurrencies would result in very little job creation,” said the town administrator, Robert Desmarais.

Marc-Antoine Pouliot, a Hydro-Quebec spokesman, added: “We can’t predict the future for this industry.”

Authorities, he explained, “want to see first how projects can be established in Quebec in a sustainable manner,” without ruling out a hike in electricity rates.

According to Pouliot, the dash began in September after China moved to regulate cryptocurrency trading.

Quebec has received proposals for projects that would use more than 9,000 megawatts combined, out of Hydro-Quebec’s total 40,000-megawatt capacity — equal to the power consumed by 83 percent of Quebec households.

Most of the interest in relocating to the province has so far come from China, according to Pouliot. Russian investors have also shown interest, say organizers of the first international blockchain summit to be held in Montreal in April.

In Quebec, “electricity is affordable, abundant and green,” Pouliot said, noting massive hydroelectric dams in the north generate most of the power. The cool weather also means factories require less air conditioning.

Add those factors to bitcoin’s soaring valuation — which peaked at $20,000 in December, before falling to less than half that — and Canada has itself a modern-day gold mine, even as some critics warn the virtual currency boom could amount to a bubble, or even a Ponzi scheme.

– Blockchain ‘revolution’ –

Bitfarms president Pierre-Luc Quimper said his startup already employs 90 people.

“It’s like a traditional mining company that digs up gold and sells it, but 2.0,” he said of his company, which channels computing power to mine bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies.

The internet entrepreneur made his fortune starting a web hosting and cloud services business at age 14.

Now in his 40s, he says blockchain — the name given to the shared public database where all bitcoin transactions are recorded — is “a new technology that can be compared to the internet” in terms of “revolutionary” potential.

Quimper started Bitfarms last year after first mining bitcoin at home and is confident in his investment.

“I did not miss the boat for the internet; I do not want to miss the boat for blockchain,” said the entrepreneur, who is convinced the technology will have applications for other industries including banking, aviation and transport.

Today, the Quebec company claims to be the North American leader in cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology, and is listed on the New York and Tel Aviv stock exchanges.

In its first two months of operation in November and December, Bitfarms earned $4.9 million selling virtual currency coined at the Saint-Hyacinthe and three other mines in Quebec.

The company already uses 27.5 megawatts to power 19,000 computers, and is aiming to boost its usage to 100 megawatts by the end of this year.

“If electricity prices spike, however, we will look elsewhere,” said Quimper, pointing to the abundant power sources also available in the Canadian provinces of Newfoundland and Manitoba.April 17 (UPI) — Newly-elected Myanmar President Win Myint granted amnesty to more than 8,500 prisoners on Tuesday, including dozens of political prisoners.

In a statement, Burma’s Presidential Office said the move was to “bring peace and pleasure to people’s heart and for the sake of humanitarian support.

The Burma representative for Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said the organization petitioned for the release of 44 political prisoners and 36 were released.

“This amnesty is very good news and we welcome and support it, but there should not be a single political prisoner in a democratic country,” the representative said, according to the Asian Correspondent.

In addition to political prisoners, two Christian pastors — Dumdaw Nawng Lat, 65, Langjaw Gam Seng, 35 — who were convicted for defaming the military after helping journalists report on the destruction of a church by military airstrike, were also released as part of the amnesty.

“Now we are free and we feel happy… I hope our land will be peaceful in the future so this kind of thing would not happen again,” Langjaw Gam Seng said, according to the Telegraph.

Despite the amnesty, two Reuters journalists who helped expose a mass burial ground where the bodies of Rohingya people killed by the Burmese military, remain in prison.

Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo could face 14 years in prison but their trial is pending and they have not been convicted. Tuesday’s amnesty was only available for prisoners who have already been convicted.April 17 (UPI) — A Georgia man on Tuesday was sentenced to 21 months in federal prison for his role in a U.S.-based gun trafficking ring that sold firearms to customers in other countries via the dark web.

Sherman Jackson, 28, of Atlanta, will also serve two years of probation after his prison term.

According to prosecutors, Jackson created an online vendor page titled “CherryFlavor” on a darknet retail website. He and his cohorts filled orders from overseas customers through domestic websites offering gun owners an online venue to sell firearms.

“The defendants then sold firearms to international buyers at extremely marked-up prices,” the Justice Department said in a statement. “For example, the defendants sold a Glock pistol for as much as $3,400 — a firearm normally sold for approximately $500.”

Transactions were conducted using Bitcoin and firearms were shipped overseas inside electronic equipment.

More than 70 firearms were sold to 14 countries through CherryFlavor. Most orders went to European countries with restrictive gun control laws, including Austria, Britain Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland and Netherlands. Other countries included Kazakhstan, Russia, Australia and Zambia.

Three other Georgia men were previously sentenced for the online gun scheme.

Gerren Johnson, 29, received two years and nine months in prison and Brendan Person, 29, received two years and three months in prison. Each man pleaded guilty to smuggling firearms in January.

William Jackson, 29, pleaded guilty smuggling goods in October and received two years probation.Departing Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards is saying, “Never say never” to anyone who asks whether she will be running for elected office.

NewsBusters’ Katie Yoder tweeted a series of clips of Richards responding to the question asked by various talk show hosts as she makes the rounds promoting her new book, Make Trouble:

It's *almost* like Planned Parenthood is giving the MEDIA talking points… What say you? WATCH: Media keep asking Cecile Richards if she'll run for office: pic.twitter.com/kt8JthU7zr — Katie Yoder (@k_yoder) April 10, 2018

On Tuesday, Richards appeared on MSNBC’s Morning Joe with Joe Scarborough, Mika Brzezinski, and Willie Geist.

“A lot of people are wondering if you’re stepping away from Planned Parenthood to get into elected politics yourself,” said Geist. “Is that something that’s on your mind?”

“Never say never,” replied Richards, who advocates for more pro-abortion women to run for office in her book.

While Brzezinski heaped praise upon Richards, Scarborough noted to the CEO of America’s largest abortion chain that many pro-life women are also running for office.

“What can somebody who’s pro-life learn from this book?” he asked. “Because obviously, there are a lot of pro-life women out there running [for office] as well.”

“I think a universal message is that women can’t wait until it’s their turn,” Richards responded. “I really do think that’s true. I mean, we now see women in the United States Senate, 23 women are record numbers. But still, we’re debating over basic health care issues for women.”

“Basic health care issues … like abortion?” Yoder asks. “But Richards suggested she’s ready for pro-life women to run – if they keep their views to themselves.”

“You can be pro-life and you can also understand that that isn’t something necessarily that government should be deciding for every woman in America,” Richards replied to Scarborough.

Planned Parenthood’s latest annual report shows a decline in many of whatever health care services are offered in its clinics, while its profits – driven by abortions performed – have risen dramatically.

“Under the leadership of Cecile Richards, Planned Parenthood has grown to push one agenda – abortion above all else – while throwing aside any inkling of actual medical care,” Penny Nance, CEO and president of Concerned Women for America, said in a statement upon the announcement of Richards’ plan to resign her post.

Planned Parenthood’s “abortion above all else” narrative made headlines in January when the organization condemned the House’s approval of a bill that would require abortionists to immediately provide emergency medical care to an infant born alive during an abortion.

Nance also observed that during Richards’ tenure, Planned Parenthood “has been exposed for refusing to report statutory rape and abuse, for aiding sex traffickers, for taking money to abort black babies, and for illegally profiting off of the body parts they have aborted.”Beijing (AFP) – The former head of China’s insurance regulatory body has been formally charged with bribery and abuse of power, prosecutors said on Monday, becoming the most senior financial regulator to be targeted in a continuing crackdown on corruption.

Xiang Junbo, 61, took advantage of his position to amass “an enormous amount of assets” first as a deputy governor of the central bank, then as head of the state-owned Agricultural Bank of China, and finally as chairman of the China Insurance Regulatory Commission, the Supreme People’s Procuratorate said in a statement.

Xiang was appointed to the top job at the regulatory commission in 2011.

He was put under investigation in April last year by the Communist Party’s anti-graft watchdog for suspected “serious disciplinary violations”, a phrase that usually refers to graft.

Xiang, who also served as a member of the central bank’s monetary policy committee, was removed from his position immediately after the investigation began.

Xiang’s case has been handed over to the prosecutor’s office in the eastern city of Changzhou, the statement said.

Xiang’s stint as head of the insurance regulator marked a period of rapid growth for the industry as he pushed for the liberalisation of investment rules, which allowed Chinese insurers to invest more of their assets at home and abroad.

But this led to regulatory headaches after several high-profile cases in which insurance companies used their financial holdings to fund risky acquisitions in real estate and unlisted equities.

The China Insurance Regulatory Commission and the China Banking Regulatory Commission was replaced by a banking and insurance regulatory commission after a major restructuring of government agencies in March.Washington (United States) (AFP) – US authorities issued an order Monday barring US exports of sensitive technology to Chinese telecom giant ZTE because of false statements made during an investigation into its illegal sale of goods to Iran and North Korea.

The company pleaded guilty in March 2017 to unlawful exports and was hit with $1.2 billion in fines, the largest criminal penalty in US history in an export control case.

ZTE pleaded guilty to conspiring to unlawfully export, obstruction of justice and making a false statement.

But Commerce Department investigators said the company made additional false statements multiple times about having taken actions against the employees responsible, when they had not.

“ZTE made false statements to the US Government when they were originally caught and … made false statements during the reprieve it was given, and made false statements again during its probation,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in a statement.

These false statements covered up the fact that ZTE paid full bonuses to employees that had engaged in illegal conduct, and failed to issue letters of reprimand.

“ZTE misled the Department of Commerce. Instead of reprimanding ZTE staff and senior management, ZTE rewarded them. This egregious behavior cannot be ignored,” Ross said.

A senior official told reporters the department suspended export privileges for ZTE, meaning it can no longer receive US components to incorporate into their products “to prevent them from furthering their illegal activities.”

The official said there is no “off ramp” for the company to seek a reversal of the blockade.

The five-year US government investigation into ZTE’s actions was first revealed in March 2016.

From January 2010 to March 2016, the company shipped $32 million in US cellular network equipment to Iran, and made 283 shipments of cell phones to North Korea, with the full knowledge of the highest levels of company management, officials said.

ZTE used third-party companies to hide the export of US components to the sanctioned countries, and then hid the information by “sanitizing databases” with information on the sales. It deleted emails of employees involved in the scrubbing of records, and required employees with information about the illegal exports to sign non-disclosure agreements.PHOENIX (AP) — Brandon Belt hit a checked-swing infield single with two outs in the eighth inning to end a no-hit bid by Arizona Diamondbacks left-hander Patrick Corbin.

The left-handed Belt pulled up on a pitch but still made contact for a slow roller to the left side. The infield was shifted toward first base, and shortstop Nick Ahmed dashed to get the ball and throw across his body to first. Belt beat the throw on a close play.

Corbin retired the first 10 batters he faced Tuesday night before walking Joe Panik with one out in the fourth inning. He had retired 13 straight before Belt reached, and he got Brandon Crawford to foul out to finish the eighth with 87 pitches.

With two outs in the seventh, the Giants’ Buster Posey turned around center fielder A.J. Pollock with a drive to deep center, but Pollock tracked down the ball and made a diving catch.

Diamondbacks third baseman Daniel Descalso made a diving stop from the right side of second base to rob Belt of a hit in the third inning.

The 28-year-old Corbin (2-0) struck out at least eight batters his first three starts of the season and had six through eight innings against the struggling Giants.

Corbin’s previous longest no-hit bid was 5 1/3 innings on June 17, 2013 against Florida.

___

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballBOSTON (AP) — Desiree Linden thought she did everything right to prepare for last year’s Boston Marathon: the training, the nutrition, the strategy, even how she slept.

She finished fourth.

And she didn’t know what she could have done better.

“Everyone is looking for that 1 percent. I did that last year,” Linden said Tuesday, a day after overcoming headwinds and an icy rain to become the first American woman to win the race in 33 years. “Apparently, my 1 percent was the weather.”

Slogging through a torrential downpour, with temperatures in the 30s and a near-gale gusts that blew the rain into the runners’ faces, Linden made up her mind to drop out after just a few miles. She abandoned her plan, skipping water stations — after all, she wouldn’t be out long enough to get dehydrated — and wasting energy by allowing her fellow Americans to draft off of her.

It was only miles later, when the two-time Olympian and 2011 Boston Marathon runner-up found herself still among the leaders, that she realized she was better suited for the conditions than anyone else on the course.

Better than the other Americans, like hometown favorite and reigning New York City Marathon champion Shalane Flanagan, who finished seventh in what she said would be her last competitive Boston race.

Better than the East Africans, who have dominated the race for the past three decades. Defending champions Geoffrey Kirui and Edna Kiplagat finished second and ninth but were the only Kenyans to crack the top 10 in their races — the country’s worst performance in decades.

“The conditions were made for me,” said Linden, a native Californian who lives in Michigan. “These are the conditions I train in.”

Linden, who finished second by 2 seconds in Boston in 2011, held on Monday to break the soggy tape on Boylston Street in 2 hours, 39 minutes, 54 seconds, the slowest women’s race in 40 years. Yuki Kawauchi of Japan won the men’s division in 2:15:58 — the slowest since Jack Fultz overcame temperatures near 100 degrees to win the 1976 race known as the “Run for the Hoses.”

“2018 might be ‘Run for Shelter,” race director Dave McGillivray said, also comparing it to the year after the finish line explosions. “I’ve always said the 2014 race was epic, and it was, for obvious reasons. But yesterday’s race was epic, too. Both were about perseverance, and turning a negative into positives.”

Despite the weather, race organizers didn’t see much of an uptick in no-shows or runners seeking medical attention. Only about 300 people who picked up their bibs over the weekend decided not to run; of the 27,042 showed up in Hopkinton, 25,822 made it to Copley Square — meaning 95.5 percent of those who started the race finished it, an average rate, McGillivray said.

“It should come as no surprise to anyone that people who fight that hard to get to the starting line will fight even harder on the day of the race,” said Tom Grilk, executive director of the Boston Athletic Association. “No matter what the conditions.”

There were 2,785 runners who sought medical attention, with 91 transported to hospitals (most directly from the course). Ten remained hospitalized on Tuesday morning.

Those numbers were all in line with what organizers have seen in other years, with normal weather.

Linden finished 18th in Boston in a nor’easter in 2007 and has two fourths and a fifth on the course. She was the ninth-fastest runner in Monday’s field, based on the personal best of 2:22:38 she ran in Boston in 2011.

“That’s why we race,” Linden said. “Otherwise we would go into a lab, submit our resumes and they would post the results.

“You stub a toe the night before, eat a bad piece of food, it could change everything,” she said. “That’s why we race.”INDEPENDENCE, Ohio (AP) — Kyle Korver is getting daily treatment on his bruised right foot and taking medication to fight off a “nasty little bug” that has made its way through Cleveland’s roster.

Only time can heal his broken heart.

As he begins chasing a championship, Korver is wrestling with the recent death of his younger brother, Kirk, who died at 27 from complications following a sudden illness.

Following Tuesday’s practice, Korver paused several times while discussing a “very complicated month” that has changed his life and split him in two. He’s walking an emotional balance beam.

“You come back from dealing with death and the family and you hold that in one hand and you hold the playoffs here in another hand and it’s interesting to kind of balance both of those at the same time and try to get yourself ready to play basketball,” he said. “And, I’ve been hurt. I feel like it’s been a very complicated month in my mind, but I feel like I’m in a good spot right now and I’m ready to play.”

Korver was on the floor for just four minutes in the 98-80 loss to Indiana in Game 1, but he’s feeling better and expects to have more of an impact as the Cavaliers try to even the series Wednesday night.

The 37-year-old swingman has been comforted by his wife, Juliet, his family and an overwhelming outpouring of support from teammates, opponents and many in the NBA community.

The words and flowers and text messages have brought some peace, but Korver remains conflicted on how to mourn, how to express his grief.

“You know that you don’t cry when you think about your brother? Is that good? I don’t think that’s good,” he said. “I feel like I’m trying to go through all the emotions and stages and waves that people tell me about. I understand that this is part of life and when you go through something like this, it’s amazing how many people come up to you and talk about their own stories that they’ve had. There have been so many.

“They’re hard and they’re hard to hear, but it’s also very comforting to know that you’re going through this with a lot of people and a lot of people care about you.”

Korver was also warmed by reaction to a video of him speaking at Kirk’s funeral . Flanked by his other brothers, Kyle and Klayton, he looked at his parents and said, “You will always have four sons.”

“I’m told a lot of people have watched it and it meant something to a lot of people,” Korver said. “I think if your brother has to die, you want something good to come of it. You know, it will take a long time to see the good that comes from that. I don’t really know if I have the head space right now to think about all that.

“It means a lot that people received that all well and commented. I’ve been told it’s been helpful.”

His job hasn’t provided much sanctuary, mainly because Korver has been injured. He hasn’t been able to move the way he normally does, cutting across the baseline or coming off a screen to knock down a 3-pointer.

“Whether it’s good or bad, I just want to play really hard,” he said. “But I couldn’t, I haven’t been able to just because of it. It’s good to have something now to kind of sink into, just for a little bit of every day kind of get lost in and try harder.”

Korver was starting before he left the team following a March 19 win over Milwaukee to be with his family in Iowa. Coach Tyronn Lue wanted him back with the first group for the playoffs, but couldn’t because of the foot injury so Rodney Hood started Game 1.

It’s possible Korver could start Game 2, with Lue considering a lineup change. Lue hinted he used what he thinks is his best lineup only for a brief stretch on Sunday “when Kyle was out there for three minutes.”

The Cavs need his shooting, and Korver wants to deliver.

There’s another game to play, some time to clear his mind and maybe for some 3-pointers to fall.

“I tried that the other night and I got taken out real quick,” he said with a smile. “It will be good. Hopefully there will be some opportunity for me tomorrow.”

___

More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketballANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Shohei Ohtani’s third start for the Los Angeles Angels has lasted only two innings.

The Angels pulled the Japanese two-way sensation early Tuesday night after he yielded three runs and four hits while struggling with his control against the AL-leading Boston Red Sox.

Ohtani gave up a leadoff homer to Boston’s Mookie Betts, and he couldn’t throw his formidable breaking pitches for consistent strikes. The Red Sox added two more runs in the second on Brock Holt’s RBI single and Andrew Benintendi’s sacrifice fly.

Ohtani needed 66 pitches to get through two innings. The Angels replaced him with Luke Bard for the third.

Ohtani won his first two big-league starts in impressive fashion against Oakland. His third straight was slated for Kansas City last Sunday, but the game was postponed.

___

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballSAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — Francisco Lindor homered in his native Puerto Rico, Corey Kluber allowed one run in 6 2/3 innings and the Cleveland Indians beat the Minnesota Twins 6-1 on Tuesday night.

Michael Brantley and Jose Ramirez each had three hits for Cleveland in the first regular-season game on the island commonwealth since 2010. Brantley and Ramirez hit consecutive homers in the sixth, and Yonder Alonso added a solo homer in the eighth for Cleveland.

Kluber (2-1) gave up five hits and struck out six, lowering his ERA to 1.52.

Brian Dozier had two hits for the Twins, including an RBI double in the seventh that chased a sweat-drenched Kluber after 104 pitches. Minnesota starter Jake Odorizzi (1-1) gave up six hits and four runs, all of them coming across on homers, in five-plus innings.

Twins starter Jake Odorizzi (1-1) gave up six hits and four runs, all of them scoring on homers, in five-plus innings.

Lindor and Minnesota’s Eddie Rosario were the Puerto Ricans in the lineup, and favorites of the sold-out crowd of 19,516. Fans at Hiram Bithorn Stadium will have more cheering options in Wednesday’s series finale, with the Twins sending right-hander Jose Berrios to the mound and the Indians set to start Roberto Perez at catcher.

Lindor finished 1 for 5, the homer flanked by a par of warning-track flyouts. Rosario was 1 for 4.

The series was scheduled before Hurricane Maria hit last September. The recovery from the catastrophic storm has been the focus of this trip for the Twins and Indians.

“These people need to cheer,” Lindor said.

So in the fifth, he made it happen.

No. 9 hitter Bradley Zimmer hit a two-out double and Lindor worked the count full. As horns blared, inflatable thundersticks clanged and fans screamed, he turned on an offering from Odorizzi and lofted a long fly to right.

It barely cleared the wall, but it was enough.

Lindor waved both arms at the crowd after crossing the plate, then came out for a curtain call as delirious fans shouted his name. That started the undoing for Odorizzi, who was cruising before giving up three homers in a span of 10 pitches — the last two by Ramirez and Brantley ending his night and giving the Indians a 4-0 lead.

Both teams were coming off long layoffs because of bad weather. Minnesota hadn’t taken the field since Thursday, Cleveland not since Friday.

TRAINER’S ROOM

Twins CF Byron Buxton, who was slated to start and bat eighth, was scratched about three hours before game time with a headache. Robbie Grossman took his spot and started in right, and Kepler slid over to center.

FESTIVITIES

San Juan’s Bernie Williams, a four-time World Series winner with the Yankees, performed “The Star-Spangled Banner” on his guitar. Carlos Beltran threw out the ceremonial first pitch, and fellow Puerto Ricans Roberto Alomar, Carlos Baerga, Javier Vazquez and Carlos Delgado were among those on the field for pregame events.

HOME COOKING

Indians coach Sandy Alomar Jr. spent most of the off day Monday at his family’s home, hanging with his parents, sister and niece. His mother cooked a staple — chicken, rice and beans. “Like old times,” he said.

NOT HOME COOKING

Twins manager Paul Molitor isn’t exactly thrilled that his club has two “home” games in San Juan, especially against an AL Central rival. Then again, the Indians are 10-1 in their last 11 games at Minneapolis.

BITHORN STATUE

The statue of Hiram Bithorn, Puerto Rico’s first big-leaguer, will be back, San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz said. The statue outside the front gates of the ballpark toppled in Maria’s winds. “It is a metaphor for what is happening, how resilient we’ve had to be and how things will get done,” Cruz said. “Perhaps not as fast as we want, but in San Juan, we will get them done.”

UP NEXT

The series ends Wednesday, when Indians RHP Carlos Carrasco (3-0, 3.48) starts against Berrios (2-1, 2.18).

___

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Mark Scheifele scored both goals for Winnipeg and Connor Hellebuyck made 30 saves for his seventh shutout this season, as the Jets beat the Minnesota Wild 2-0 on Tuesday night to take a 3-1 lead in the first-round playoff series.

Scheifele scored with 28 seconds left in the first period and tacked on an empty-netter with 11 seconds remaining, pushing the Wild to the brink of elimination.

Devan Dubnyk stopped 26 shots for the Wild, who played without star left wing Zach Parise because of a broken sternum suffered in Game 3. After a six-goal outburst in their last appearance, the Wild had trouble generating the same kind of relentless attack and simply couldn’t slide any pucks past Hellebuyck.

Now the series shifts back to Winnipeg, with Game 5 on Friday night.

After a tightly whistled game here Sunday night, there were only three penalties called. The Jets closed up the holes they gave the Wild through the neutral zone in Game 3. Hellebuyck, who was named earlier in the day one of the NHL’s three finalists for the Vezina Trophy that’s awarded annually to the best goalie in the league, bounced back in a big way from the previous game when he gave up six goals and was pulled after two periods.

The crowd, fired up about the opportunity the Wild had to even the series, produced plenty of collective groans after difficult saves by Hellebuyck after jeering him in Game 3 with the customary “Sieve! Sieve! Sieve!” chant. One of Hellebuyck’s most important stops came in the opening minutes of the second period, when a 3-on-1 rush by the Wild set up Matt Dumba for a wrist try denied with a sprawling glove stop.

Scheifele was part of the sandwich hit with Ben Chiarot late in the third period of Game 3 on Parise that led to a broken sternum for the Wild’s all-time postseason scoring leader, a stunning setback for the home team revealed about four hours before Game 4.

Jets coach Paul Maurice was upset by a collision initiated by Marcus Foligno with defenseman Tyler Myers that knocked his former Buffalo teammate to the ice in the second period and out for the remainder of Game 3 with an apparent injury to his leg.

So with these Central Division rivals squaring off in another high-stakes contest, the intensity was there to match. Jets defenseman Josh Morrissey delivered a cross-check to Eric Staal’s jaw that went unnoticed by the officials, drawing the ire of the fans and a red-faced Wild coach Bruce Boudreau.

The agitation in the arena spiked a little later in the first period, when the Jets kept the puck in the Wild zone after a failed clearing attempt and Kyle Connor fed Scheifele with a slick give-and-go pass for the 1-0 lead right before the first intermission.

NOTES: Tyler Ennis took Parise’s spot in the Minnesota lineup, skating with Matt Cullen and Charlie Coyle on the third line. Jason Zucker and Jordan Greenway joined Mikko Koivu, and Staal centered Nino Niederreiter and Mikael Granlund. … Rookie Tucker Poolman, a native of Iowa who played in college at North Dakota, replaced Myers on Winnipeg’s third blue line pairing with Chiarot. … Scheifele had a goal and five assists in four games against the Wild during the regular season.

___

For more AP NHL coverage: http://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockeyTORONTO (AP) — DeMar DeRozan’s big game put the Toronto Raptors in a place they’ve never been before: up 2-0 in a playoff series.

DeRozan matched his career playoff-high with 37 points, Jonas Valanciunas had 19 points and 14 rebounds and the Raptors beat the Washington Wizards 130-119 on Tuesday night as Toronto took a 2-0 lead in a playoff series for the first time in franchise history.

“I didn’t go out there planning to score 37 points, I went out there to be aggressive,” DeRozan said.

Kyle Lowry had 13 points and a career playoff-high 12 assists as Toronto set team playoff records for points in a quarter, a half, and a game.

C.J. Miles scored 18, Delon Wright had 11 and Serge Ibaka 10 for the Raptors, who snapped an NBA-worst 10-game losing streak in Game 1s with a 114-106 win on Saturday.

DeRozan, whose 37th point came on a friendly roll on a fourth quarter free throw, equalled his total from Game 3 of the second round against Cleveland last year. It was his 12th career 30-point game in the postseason. The Raptors are 9-3 in those games.

“I though DeMar was super on the offensive end,” Raptors coach Dwane Casey said. “We needed every point. He did an excellent job of reading what the defense was doing to him and making them pay.”

Lowry called DeRozan “an MVP-type caliber player.”

DeRozan missed his first two shots but connected on 14 of his final 21 attempts, including three of six from long range. He also converted a four-point play.

“When he’s making 3’s, he’s very tough to guard,” Washington’s John Wall said of DeRozan.

Toronto, which made a team playoff record 16 3-pointers Saturday, connected on 13 of 35 from long range in Game 2, making only two in the second half.

Wall scored 29 points, Mike Scott had a career playoff-high 20 and Ty Lawson 14 for the Wizards, who host Game 3 on Friday night.

“We’re the team that’s in the hole, we’re the team that’s desperate, but we have a lot of confidence,” Wall said. “We’re not down on ourselves at all.”

Wizards guard Bradley Beal missed eight of 11 shots and finished with nine points. Beal had more fouls in the first half (three) than made baskets (two).

“We need him,” Wizards coach Scott Brooks said. “We’re going to have trouble beating this team if he doesn’t play better.”

Trailing 100-90 to begin the fourth quarter, the Wizards cut it to 108-103 with 7:52 left on back-to-back 3-pointers by Scott and Lawson, and a pair of free throws from Wall.

Miles stopped the run with a long 3, Toronto’s first of the second half, and the Raptors put it away with a 17-4 spurt over the next four minutes. The sellout crowd roared when DeRozan forced a turnover and saved the ball from going out of bounds, then passed to Lowry who fed Wright for an alley-oop dunk with 3:38 left, putting Toronto up 125-107.

Raptors guard Fred VanVleet returned after sitting out Game 1 because of a bruised right shoulder, but looked rusty in three minutes of action at the start of the second quarter, airballing a shot and mishandling a pass before being replaced by Lowry. VanVleet did not play in the second half.

“He was tentative, he was just too tentative,” Casey said. “I felt like we had to get him out and let him rest a little bit more. He just wasn’t ready.”

Toronto set a team playoff record with 44 points in the first quarter, including 13 from DeRozan, and led 44-27 after one. All five starters made at least one 3-pointer as the Raptors shot 7 for 13 from long range.

“Seven 3s in a quarter, that got the momentum going,” Brooks said.

Brooks called two timeouts to try and slow Toronto, to little effect, while Wizards guards Wall and Beal each picked up two early fouls, forcing them to the bench.

“That kind of hurt us and they took full advantage of that,” Wall said.

Miles made three 3-pointers and scored 11 points in the second and DeRozan added seven as Toronto broke its playoff record for points in a half by taking a 76-58 lead at halftime.

Wall scored 14 points in the third while Toronto shot 0 for 7 from 3-point range, allowing the Wizards to cut it to 100-90 heading to the fourth.

TIP-INS

Wizards: Wall went 11 for 11 at the free throw line. … Ian Mahinmi was called for a flagrant foul on a driving Ibaka in the second. … Lawson made his Wizards debut in the first, replacing Wall.

Raptors: The Raptors used 13 players, including G-League MVP Lorenzo Brown. … Toronto’s previous high for points in a quarter of a playoff game was 39, set against Orlando in 2008. Their previous high for points in a half was 63, set against Miami in 2016. … The Raptors had 10 assists on 16 made baskets in the first. … Valanciunas had eight rebounds in the opening quarter. … The Raptors also took a double-digit lead in the first quarter of Game 1. … Coach Dwane Casey celebrated his 61st birthday.

VOTER FRAUD

Brooks had this to say about DeRozan and Lowry: “Both of those guards are All-Stars for a reason. Maybe next year I won’t vote for them.”

DOUBLE FEATURE

Valanciunas had 12 points and 12 rebounds in the first half. It was his 12th playoff double-double, matching Antonio Davis for the most in Raptors history.

EXPENSIVE SPILL

The game was briefly halted in the second after a vendor spilled several cans of beer along the sideline opposite Toronto’s bench.

UP NEXT

Game 3 is Friday night in Washington.

___

More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketballFlorida’s GOP-dominated bipartisan constitutional commission killed off a plan to put E-Verify on the November ballot — but did approve several ballots on minor issues, such as dog racing.

The 24-to-12 bipartisan win for business on April 16 was won by lobbyists for the state’s agriculture and construction industries, plus the Florida Chamber of Commerce. They flipped at least seven prior supporters of the E-Verify proposal, which would have required employers to use the federal E-Verify system to verify that prospective hires were allowed to work.

Business groups are worried that Americans’ wages are rising — and will rise faster if businesses can’t hire illegals via subcontractors for farming, construction, and tourist jobs.

Business advocates offered various reasons for their opposition to the proposal. A Chamber spokesman said the proposal “would have placed an ineffective federal government system into Florida’s foundational document.” One commissioner, who is a former top Democratic leader in the House, dismissed the popular proposal, saying “I don’t really see the teeth enough that this should be another paragraph on the ballot.”

Instead, the commission supported various ballots that would extend lobbying curbs on former legislators from two years to six years, and also to end greyhound racing by 2020.

The GOP’s business-first state leaders opposed the proposal even though it would spur GOP turnout in November. The Sun-Sentinel newspaper reported:

Commissioner Rich Newsome, who pushed for the verification system, said Monday the measure would solve a huge problem of undocumented workers “in a way that’s not callous.” “We don’t have to build a wall to help stop the problem of undocumented workers and of the nightmares that creates, not just for the workers, but the legal workers and the businesses that are trying to follow the law,” Newsome said. Newsome said the proposal would protect undocumented workers who do not have work or legal protections and would help legal workers who face “suppressed wages” because of undocumented immigrants who are willing to take less money. He also said the proposal “polls off the charts.”

Agricultural groups are promoting former Rep. Adam Putnam, now the state’s agriculture commissioner, in the GOP’s gubernatorial primary.

The E-Verify proposal was boosted by a volunteer pro-reform group, Floridians for E-Verify Now.

Despite the Florida defeat, reform advocates have made some progress is pushing E-Verify around the nation. More companies are using the system, and Florida’s Gov. Rick Scott required state employers to use the E-Verify system when hiring government workers.

According to the Federation for American Immigration Reform:

Twenty states have laws requiring at least some employers to use E-Verify. Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee mandate it for all employers. Florida Gov. Rick Scott, in 2011, signed an executive order directing state agencies and their contractors to use the system. Nationally, 2.4 million hiring sites were enrolled in the E-Verify program at the end of 2017. California, that famed sanctuary state, listed the most E-Verify-compliant hiring sites: 216,850. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services reported a record 9.1 million individual cases were processed during the last fiscal year. Notably, Florida ranked fourth in the country, with 454,100 E-Verify checks.

The push against immigration enforcement is echoed in other states, whether dominated by the GOP or by Democrats. For example, in Georgia, the GOP-run legislature just killed a proposal to alert federal enforcement authorities when illegal immigrants were detained in state jails. In California, in contrast, the Democrats have passed laws curbing cooperation between state officials and federal enforcement officials.On Tuesday’s broadcast of MSNBC’s “All In,” former Attorney General Eric Holder stated President Trump doesn’t believe in the rule of law and takes a “situational” approach where he wants to treat his supporters better than everyone else.

Holder said the president “believes in situational law and order. And there is no way that I think you can resolve the tension that you have you just described [Trump’s comments on former White House staffer Rob Porter and the Cohen raid, compared with his stances on executing drug dealers and immigration]. He is not a believer in, at base, in the rule of law. He wants to make sure that those people who he likes, the people who support him are treated in one way, and those other people, whoever those other people are, are treated in a different way.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettOn Tuesday’s broadcast of MSNBC’s “All In,” former Attorney General Eric Holder stated President Trump doesn’t believe in the rule of law and takes a “situational” approach where he wants to treat his supporters better than everyone else.

Holder said the president “believes in situational law and order. And there is no way that I think you can resolve the tension that you have you just described [Trump’s comments on former White House staffer Rob Porter and the Cohen raid, compared with his stances on executing drug dealers and immigration]. He is not a believer in, at base, in the rule of law. He wants to make sure that those people who he likes, the people who support him are treated in one way, and those other people, whoever those other people are, are treated in a different way.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettA Southwest Airlines flight from New York’s LaGuardia Airport to Dallas Love Field made an emergency landing Tuesday in Philadelphia after an engine suffered serious damage.

Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 landed safely at Philadelphia International Airport shortly before noon on Tuesday before it taxied to an area of the runway where passengers could be safely evacuated from the plane.

A video of the incident showed several firefighters and emergency vehicles surrounding the plane, which showed the blown-out engine and appeared to have at least one window missing.

Officials say one person was taken to the hospital in critical condition and seven had received treatment for minor injuries.

The plane reportedly depressurized mid-flight, to the point where one father of a female passenger said that her daughter was “partially sucked out” of the plane before her fellow passengers pulled her back in.

One passenger used Facebook Live to capture the scene as the plane lost pressure.

“Something is wrong with our plane! It appears we are going down! Emergency landing!! Southwest flight from NYC to Dallas!!” Facebook user Marty Martinez wrote. “We are bracing for landing!!”

The airline said in a statement that the plane had 143 passengers and five crewmembers on board and that it was “in the process of gathering more information.”

Update on Flight #1380: pic.twitter.com/JhwVlUBeia — Southwest Airlines (@SouthwestAir) April 17, 2018

“Safety is always our top priority at Southwest Airlines, and we are working diligently to support our Customers and Crews at this time,” the statement read.

Philadelphia Airport announced that passengers should expect delays even though flights are still departing and arriving at the airport.A Southwest Airlines flight from New York’s LaGuardia Airport to Dallas Love Field made an emergency landing Tuesday in Philadelphia after an engine suffered serious damage.

Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 landed safely at Philadelphia International Airport shortly before noon on Tuesday before it taxied to an area of the runway where passengers could be safely evacuated from the plane.

A video of the incident showed several firefighters and emergency vehicles surrounding the plane, which showed the blown-out engine and appeared to have at least one window missing.

Officials say one person was taken to the hospital in critical condition and seven had received treatment for minor injuries.

The plane reportedly depressurized mid-flight, to the point where one father of a female passenger said that her daughter was “partially sucked out” of the plane before her fellow passengers pulled her back in.

One passenger used Facebook Live to capture the scene as the plane lost pressure.

“Something is wrong with our plane! It appears we are going down! Emergency landing!! Southwest flight from NYC to Dallas!!” Facebook user Marty Martinez wrote. “We are bracing for landing!!”

The airline said in a statement that the plane had 143 passengers and five crewmembers on board and that it was “in the process of gathering more information.”

Update on Flight #1380: pic.twitter.com/JhwVlUBeia — Southwest Airlines (@SouthwestAir) April 17, 2018

“Safety is always our top priority at Southwest Airlines, and we are working diligently to support our Customers and Crews at this time,” the statement read.

Philadelphia Airport announced that passengers should expect delays even though flights are still departing and arriving at the airport.Former First Lady Barbara Bush passed away on Tuesday at the age of 92, two days after her family spokesman, Jim McGrath, announced that she would seek “comfort care” rather than additional medical treatment for her ailing health.

Bush, who was born Barbara Pierce, remains one of the most universally admired women to hold the title of First Lady. She married one man who later became president, and raised another, and brought a sharp wit, a matronly demeanor, and an air of gravitas to one of the most visible public roles in American political and social life.

In one infamous incident in 1992, Mrs. Bush filled in for her husband after he collapsed suddenly during a state dinner being given in his honor in Japan. After President Bush was rushed to the hospital, First Lady Barbara Bush remained behind to continue the evening’s toasts and speeches.

McGrath announced Mrs. Bush’s passing on Twitter:

Statement by the Office of @GeorgeHWBush on the passing of Barbara Pierce Bush this evening at the age of 92. pic.twitter.com/c6JU0xy6Vc — Jim McGrath (@jgm41) April 17, 2018

The statement read:

A former First Lady of the United States of America and relentless proponent of family literacy, Barbara Pierce Bush passed away April 17, 2018 at the age of 92. She is survived by her husband of 73 years, President George H. W. Bush; five children and their spouses; 17 grandchildren; seven great grandchildren; and her brother, Scott Pierce. She was preceded in death by her second child, Pauline Robinson “Robin” Bush, and her siblings Martha Rafferty and James R. Pierce.

McGrath had released a statement on Sunday: “It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others. She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving.”

Fox News medical correspondent Marc Siegel commented in the Wall Street Journal on Tuesday that “Barbara Bush … is facing death with fortitude, courage and realism. She should inspire everyone in the medical arena, doctors and patients alike. … It has taken me many years to accept that Mrs. Bush and those like her are the most courageous. I suspect millions of others would agree.”

During the 2016 campaign, Mrs. Bush was scathing in her criticism of then-candidate Donald Trump. “I don’t know how women can vote for” him, she told CBS News.

Nevertheless, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump issued a joint statement on Tuesday “celebrating the life of Barbara Bush.”

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4NzyjxqAFM — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.President Donald Trump issued a statement honoring former First Lady Barbara Bush, the wife of President George H.W. Bush, joining leaders around the world in remembering her life after she passed away on Tuesday.

“She will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well,” the statement read, offering president and First Lady Melania Trump’s thoughts and prayers for the Bush family.

Trump praised Bush for as an “advocate of the American family” and noted her effort to raise awareness of the importance of literacy.

Melania Trump issued a separate statement praising Bush for her “strength.”

“Throughout her life, she put family and country above all else,” she said. “Her dedicated service to the American people was matched only by her compassion and love of family.”

Bush announced on Monday that she was seeking “comfort care” for her illness, after suffering from congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

She spent Tuesday with family and friends and enjoyed a drink of bourbon before passing away later in the day.President Donald Trump issued a statement honoring former First Lady Barbara Bush, the wife of President George H.W. Bush, joining leaders around the world in remembering her life after she passed away on Tuesday.

“She will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well,” the statement read, offering president and First Lady Melania Trump’s thoughts and prayers for the Bush family.

Trump praised Bush for as an “advocate of the American family” and noted her effort to raise awareness of the importance of literacy.

Melania Trump issued a separate statement praising Bush for her “strength.”

“Throughout her life, she put family and country above all else,” she said. “Her dedicated service to the American people was matched only by her compassion and love of family.”

Bush announced on Monday that she was seeking “comfort care” for her illness, after suffering from congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

She spent Tuesday with family and friends and enjoyed a drink of bourbon before passing away later in the day.House of Cards star Michael Kelly says one area of political agreement can be found by admitting that “AR-15s are bad machines” and “we don’t need them in this country.”

Kelly told Variety that while he’s not ready to quit acting to pursue a political career, he’d love to support a third party candidate who could persuade Republicans and Democrats to vote for gun control.

“I’m not saying I want to do it, but found someone like that who had a personality, who could speak to people honestly and openly, and hear them all, and runs as an independent. Then they get to put bills forth and the Republicans and Democrats don’t have to vote their party line,” Kelly said. “I can say, or that person can say, ‘Vote from your heart on this issue.’

“We can all agree that AR-15s are bad machines and we don’t need them in this country. So just eliminate that,” Kelly explained, suggesting ridding America of the rifle as an example of the common ground both parties could rally around.

Kelly then summarized a conversation he had with gun control proponent Michael Bloomberg at a White House Correspondents’ Dinner after party:

I said, “Sir, would you run?” He said, “Why?” I said, “Because I think you’d make a great President, and I think you would be fiscally what a lot of people on the right want, and socially what a lot of people on the left want, and you could run as a true independent and pull the two sides together.” He said, “I think I’d be the first person to get one vote.” I was like, “No, you can do it.” I was like, “I’ll be your staffer.”

Ironically, AR-15s are not the guns most often used in high profile attacks. On April 3, 2018, Breitbart News reported that in 25 of the recent high profile firearm-based attacks, handguns were used 17 times, an AR-style rifle eight times, a shotgun four times, and an AK-47 once.

Elsewhere, Kelly suggested that President Donald Trump’s campaign mantra is “offensive” and only appeals to old white men nostalgic for 1950’s-era America.

“The youth proved with the marches after the shooting in Florida, the youth of this country I truly believe is going to save us,” the Emmy nominated actor said. “The old mentality of that whole ‘Make America Great Again’ thing, that was offensive to me. This is the greatest country in the world, and to say we’re going to make it great again, is what you’re saying, ‘Make the 1950s great again?’ Because that wasn’t great for all of us.”

Kelly, who has spent five years playing right-hand man Doug Stamper to Kevin Spacey’s Francis Underwood on the Netflix political drama, is back filming the six and final season of the award-winning after production was suspended after Spacey was accused by multiple men of sexual misconduct and assault.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.House of Cards star Michael Kelly says one area of political agreement can be found by admitting that “AR-15s are bad machines” and “we don’t need them in this country.”

Kelly told Variety that while he’s not ready to quit acting to pursue a political career, he’d love to support a third party candidate who could persuade Republicans and Democrats to vote for gun control.

“I’m not saying I want to do it, but found someone like that who had a personality, who could speak to people honestly and openly, and hear them all, and runs as an independent. Then they get to put bills forth and the Republicans and Democrats don’t have to vote their party line,” Kelly said. “I can say, or that person can say, ‘Vote from your heart on this issue.’

“We can all agree that AR-15s are bad machines and we don’t need them in this country. So just eliminate that,” Kelly explained, suggesting ridding America of the rifle as an example of the common ground both parties could rally around.

Kelly then summarized a conversation he had with gun control proponent Michael Bloomberg at a White House Correspondents’ Dinner after party:

I said, “Sir, would you run?” He said, “Why?” I said, “Because I think you’d make a great President, and I think you would be fiscally what a lot of people on the right want, and socially what a lot of people on the left want, and you could run as a true independent and pull the two sides together.” He said, “I think I’d be the first person to get one vote.” I was like, “No, you can do it.” I was like, “I’ll be your staffer.”

Ironically, AR-15s are not the guns most often used in high profile attacks. On April 3, 2018, Breitbart News reported that in 25 of the recent high profile firearm-based attacks, handguns were used 17 times, an AR-style rifle eight times, a shotgun four times, and an AK-47 once.

Elsewhere, Kelly suggested that President Donald Trump’s campaign mantra is “offensive” and only appeals to old white men nostalgic for 1950’s-era America.

“The youth proved with the marches after the shooting in Florida, the youth of this country I truly believe is going to save us,” the Emmy nominated actor said. “The old mentality of that whole ‘Make America Great Again’ thing, that was offensive to me. This is the greatest country in the world, and to say we’re going to make it great again, is what you’re saying, ‘Make the 1950s great again?’ Because that wasn’t great for all of us.”

Kelly, who has spent five years playing right-hand man Doug Stamper to Kevin Spacey’s Francis Underwood on the Netflix political drama, is back filming the six and final season of the award-winning after production was suspended after Spacey was accused by multiple men of sexual misconduct and assault.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Hollywood director-actor Jordan Peele teamed up with Buzzfeed to publish an edited fake news video of Peele-as-former President Barack Obama saying that United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson is “in the sunken place” — suggesting that Carson is a mindless tool under the president’s control.

“We’re entering an era in which our enemies make it look like anyone is saying anything at any point in time, even if they would never said those things,” Peele says in his Obama-impersonating voice, which he perfected for years on his Comedy Central show Key and Peele.

Peele’s fake Obama says that “Ben Carson is in the sunken place,” referring to his Oscar-winning movie Get Out. (In the film, the so-called sunken place is a where black people go after they are hypnotized and have their brains hijacked and put inside of old wealthy white people).

The video is published by Buzzfeed as a “public service announcement” and sees Peele call President Donald Trump a “complete and total dipshit.”

You won't believe what Obama says in this video 😉 pic.twitter.com/n2KloCdF2G — BuzzFeed (@BuzzFeed) April 17, 2018

As the video continues, the screen reveals that Peele is speaking, as facial technology mimics the comedian’s expressions in the video, not actually the former president, which should serve as a warning to Americans.

The fake Obama urges Americans to rely on “trusted news sources” before the country becomes a “fucked up dystopia.”

“Thank you, and stay woke bitches,” Peele concludes in his fake Obama voice.Hollywood director-actor Jordan Peele teamed up with Buzzfeed to publish an edited fake news video of Peele-as-former President Barack Obama saying that United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson is “in the sunken place” — suggesting that Carson is a mindless tool under the president’s control.

“We’re entering an era in which our enemies make it look like anyone is saying anything at any point in time, even if they would never said those things,” Peele says in his Obama-impersonating voice, which he perfected for years on his Comedy Central show Key and Peele.

Peele’s fake Obama says that “Ben Carson is in the sunken place,” referring to his Oscar-winning movie Get Out. (In the film, the so-called sunken place is a where black people go after they are hypnotized and have their brains hijacked and put inside of old wealthy white people).

The video is published by Buzzfeed as a “public service announcement” and sees Peele call President Donald Trump a “complete and total dipshit.”

You won't believe what Obama says in this video 😉 pic.twitter.com/n2KloCdF2G — BuzzFeed (@BuzzFeed) April 17, 2018

As the video continues, the screen reveals that Peele is speaking, as facial technology mimics the comedian’s expressions in the video, not actually the former president, which should serve as a warning to Americans.

The fake Obama urges Americans to rely on “trusted news sources” before the country becomes a “fucked up dystopia.”

“Thank you, and stay woke bitches,” Peele concludes in his fake Obama voice.Senator John McCain agreed after being diagnosed with brain cancer, to give HBO special access for a documentary on his life. Work has now begun on the television film, HBO announced on Monday.

Six-time Emmy award-winner Peter Kunhardt is set to produce and direct the documentary and is working with his Emmy-winning sons George and Teddy Kunhardt, according to Deadline.com.

The film, as of press time, is untitled and no premiere date has been set. Filmmakers are being given an exclusive look into McCain’s life both in Washington, D.C. and back home in Sedona, Arizona. The report listed family, friends, and political figures as those who will appear in interviews for the film.

McCain was diagnosed with a brain tumor, a glioblastoma last year. News broke of the tumor and its removal last July. HBO revealed that McCain agreed to the documentary shortly after the diagnosis. He has been resting at his home in Arizona for months while still holding his Senate seat and directing other Senators back in Washington. On Tuesday, McCain’s office revealed that he underwent surgery for an intestinal infection at the Mayo Clinic in Phoenix, Arizona.

Filmmaker Peter Kunhardt described McCain as an “American hero” and an example of “what government can and should look like.”

McCain has spent over three decades in Washington, D.C. between the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives and was the GOP Presidential nominee in 2008 alongside running mate and Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. His personal account of his time as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam was printed in U.S. News and World Report in May 1973.

The longtime elected Republican official from Arizona has faced criticism over his record in office. He has maintained close relationships with officials on the other side of the aisle and repeatedly involved himself in foreign affairs. One of his most recent votes created upheaval when he walked down the Senate floor and gestured a disapproving thumbs-down vote against a “skinny” version of Obama-care repeal and huddled up with Democrats on the Senate floor. McCain’s was the deciding vote to kill the bill.

The upcoming film will also feature home movies and photographs that have never been seen publicly before. Based on comments from the filmmakers, the documentary is likely to provide a favorable view of the controversial figure.

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaSenator John McCain agreed after being diagnosed with brain cancer, to give HBO special access for a documentary on his life. Work has now begun on the television film, HBO announced on Monday.

Six-time Emmy award-winner Peter Kunhardt is set to produce and direct the documentary and is working with his Emmy-winning sons George and Teddy Kunhardt, according to Deadline.com.

The film, as of press time, is untitled and no premiere date has been set. Filmmakers are being given an exclusive look into McCain’s life both in Washington, D.C. and back home in Sedona, Arizona. The report listed family, friends, and political figures as those who will appear in interviews for the film.

McCain was diagnosed with a brain tumor, a glioblastoma last year. News broke of the tumor and its removal last July. HBO revealed that McCain agreed to the documentary shortly after the diagnosis. He has been resting at his home in Arizona for months while still holding his Senate seat and directing other Senators back in Washington. On Tuesday, McCain’s office revealed that he underwent surgery for an intestinal infection at the Mayo Clinic in Phoenix, Arizona.

Filmmaker Peter Kunhardt described McCain as an “American hero” and an example of “what government can and should look like.”

McCain has spent over three decades in Washington, D.C. between the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives and was the GOP Presidential nominee in 2008 alongside running mate and Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. His personal account of his time as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam was printed in U.S. News and World Report in May 1973.

The longtime elected Republican official from Arizona has faced criticism over his record in office. He has maintained close relationships with officials on the other side of the aisle and repeatedly involved himself in foreign affairs. One of his most recent votes created upheaval when he walked down the Senate floor and gestured a disapproving thumbs-down vote against a “skinny” version of Obama-care repeal and huddled up with Democrats on the Senate floor. McCain’s was the deciding vote to kill the bill.

The upcoming film will also feature home movies and photographs that have never been seen publicly before. Based on comments from the filmmakers, the documentary is likely to provide a favorable view of the controversial figure.

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaThe Times of Israel reports: Pink Floyd co-founder Roger Waters denounced the White Helmets civil defense group in Syria as a “fake organization” that spreads propaganda for “jihadists and terrorists.”

Rogers made the comment Friday at a concert in Barcelona, when he said someone had wanted to speak to the audience on behalf of the group about the alleged chemical attack by the Syrian regime earlier this month.

“He is one voice. I personally think he is entirely wrong. I believe the organization that he purports to represents and who he supports — the White Helmets — are a fake organization that exists only to create propaganda for the jihadists and terrorists,” said Waters, who in recent years has become known for his vocal backing of a boycott of Israel.

Read more here.The Times of Israel reports: Pink Floyd co-founder Roger Waters denounced the White Helmets civil defense group in Syria as a “fake organization” that spreads propaganda for “jihadists and terrorists.”

Rogers made the comment Friday at a concert in Barcelona, when he said someone had wanted to speak to the audience on behalf of the group about the alleged chemical attack by the Syrian regime earlier this month.

“He is one voice. I personally think he is entirely wrong. I believe the organization that he purports to represents and who he supports — the White Helmets — are a fake organization that exists only to create propaganda for the jihadists and terrorists,” said Waters, who in recent years has become known for his vocal backing of a boycott of Israel.

Read more here.The legacy media have been trying to spin the narrative that young voters in favor of gun control and minorities opposed to President Donald Trump’s immigration policies will power the blue wave Resistance in November.

But a new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that young voters and people of color are not that enthusiastic about voting in November’s midterm elections.

Democrats have just a four-point advantage over Republicans in the new poll, down from a 12-point advantage in January. And the lack of enthusiasm among young voters and people of color could make it more difficult for Democrats to take back Congress.

The poll found that “although 58 percent of all adults say they are sure they will vote this year, that falls to fewer than 4 in 10 among adults younger than 30.”

In addition, just 54 percent of black Americans and 39 percent of Hispanic voters said they are “sure” to vote this November while 64 percent of white voters, a majority of whom favor Republican candidates, said they will surely vote in November.

Left-wing activists, perhaps aware of the enthusiasm gap among people of color and young voters, have been busy registering voters at anti-Trump rallies. At the most recent March for Our Lives gun-control rally in Washington, D.C., which was attended by mostly older white liberals, various left-wing groups, including prominent pro-amnesty organizations, worked together to register voters.

Republicans now have a 14-point advantage with white voters, up from a 5-point margin in January. Among whites without college degrees, Republicans have a 29-point edge over Democrats, up from an 18-point advantage in January, the poll found.

White voters with college degrees, though, could give Democrats a boost, as they are “14 points more likely to say they are certain to vote than whites with some college or less, a group that has increasingly favored Republicans and voted for Trump at record levels.”

Trump’s blue-collar base may not be as enthusiastic going into the midterms because Trump has waffled on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) deal, acted as the world’s policeman in Syria, signed an omnibus spending bill that ballooned the country’s deficit, and not started building border wall.

The poll was conducted April 8-11, and its margin of error is +/- 3.5 percentage points.The legacy media have been trying to spin the narrative that young voters in favor of gun control and minorities opposed to President Donald Trump’s immigration policies will power the blue wave Resistance in November.

But a new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that young voters and people of color are not that enthusiastic about voting in November’s midterm elections.

Democrats have just a four-point advantage over Republicans in the new poll, down from a 12-point advantage in January. And the lack of enthusiasm among young voters and people of color could make it more difficult for Democrats to take back Congress.

The poll found that “although 58 percent of all adults say they are sure they will vote this year, that falls to fewer than 4 in 10 among adults younger than 30.”

In addition, just 54 percent of black Americans and 39 percent of Hispanic voters said they are “sure” to vote this November while 64 percent of white voters, a majority of whom favor Republican candidates, said they will surely vote in November.

Left-wing activists, perhaps aware of the enthusiasm gap among people of color and young voters, have been busy registering voters at anti-Trump rallies. At the most recent March for Our Lives gun-control rally in Washington, D.C., which was attended by mostly older white liberals, various left-wing groups, including prominent pro-amnesty organizations, worked together to register voters.

Republicans now have a 14-point advantage with white voters, up from a 5-point margin in January. Among whites without college degrees, Republicans have a 29-point edge over Democrats, up from an 18-point advantage in January, the poll found.

White voters with college degrees, though, could give Democrats a boost, as they are “14 points more likely to say they are certain to vote than whites with some college or less, a group that has increasingly favored Republicans and voted for Trump at record levels.”

Trump’s blue-collar base may not be as enthusiastic going into the midterms because Trump has waffled on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) deal, acted as the world’s policeman in Syria, signed an omnibus spending bill that ballooned the country’s deficit, and not started building border wall.

The poll was conducted April 8-11, and its margin of error is +/- 3.5 percentage points.Harvard Law School Professor Emeritus Alan Dershowitz told Breitbart News Tonight during an interview with hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak on Monday that President Donald Trump has more to fear from the investigation of his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, than the Robert Mueller-led operation.

LISTEN:

Mansour asked Dershowitz, “It seems as if [the New York investigation] might be much more troublesome to President Trump in long run than any Mueller investigation which seems to be kind of winding down, but if they open up all of Michael Cohen’s files, his recordings, doesn’t that give them the ability to start fishing through the Trump Organization — old and past business deals — and digging up things there that could be problematic considering some of the people that they’ve been in business with have been kind of shady at times?”

Dershowitz replied, “About two months ago, I said and wrote that Trump doesn’t have anything to worry about, particularly on the Mueller investigation. There’s no evidence of collusion that I’ve seen. Obstruction of justice can’t be, in my view, directed against the president for simply exercising his constitutional authority.”

Dershowitz recalled the Ken Starr-led three-year investigation of Bill Clinton. He said, I always thought that the New York potential was greater, or the investigation of his business and his private life would be raising more questions, much like it did with President Clinton: Whitewater and then Paula Jones and then, ultimately, to the blue dress. I do think he has much more to worry about [with] his private lawyer.”

Dershowitz added, “Now I have no reason to believe he’s ever done anything wrong in his business life. I don’t want to presume that. I believe strongly in the presumption of innocence, but if he did, there would be no constitutional protection like there would be under Article II for obstruction of justice or collusion or any of the other things that relate to his authority as either president-elect or President of the United States.”

Dershowitz recommended that Attorney General Jeff Sessions withdraw his recusal from the Department of Justice’s investigation into Trump’s associates, at least as far as Cohen is concerned.

Dershowitz stated, “Sometimes, you should un-recuse yourself, and I think Attorney General Sessions should un-recuse himself when it comes to the New York investigation because it’s not part of the Russia investigation. He’s not a witness or a potential subject there. He’s the Attorney General of the United States. He ought to be in charge of supervising the New York investigation, not [Deputy Attorney General Rod] Rosenstein.”

Pollak asked Dershowitz if such an un-recusal from Sessions would lead to a pursuit of obstruction of justice charges against President Trump.

Dershowitz replied, “[Sessions] wouldn’t try to stop [the New York investigation]. He’d play the same role, presumably, that Rosenstein is playing. He’d be the one to sign off on the search warrant. He’d be the one to be supervising the U.S. attorney as the Attorney General of the United States always does. It’s just that he would replace Rosenstein. Rosenstein isn’t stopping the investigation. Presumably, neither would [Sessions], but he’d be the one in charge. There’s no reason why he should be recused from the New York investigation, unless the New York investigation is really just an extension of Mueller’s investigation, in which case, that raises other problems.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.Harvard Law School Professor Emeritus Alan Dershowitz told Breitbart News Tonight during an interview with hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak on Monday that President Donald Trump has more to fear from the investigation of his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, than the Robert Mueller-led operation.

LISTEN:

Mansour asked Dershowitz, “It seems as if [the New York investigation] might be much more troublesome to President Trump in long run than any Mueller investigation which seems to be kind of winding down, but if they open up all of Michael Cohen’s files, his recordings, doesn’t that give them the ability to start fishing through the Trump Organization — old and past business deals — and digging up things there that could be problematic considering some of the people that they’ve been in business with have been kind of shady at times?”

Dershowitz replied, “About two months ago, I said and wrote that Trump doesn’t have anything to worry about, particularly on the Mueller investigation. There’s no evidence of collusion that I’ve seen. Obstruction of justice can’t be, in my view, directed against the president for simply exercising his constitutional authority.”

Dershowitz recalled the Ken Starr-led three-year investigation of Bill Clinton. He said, I always thought that the New York potential was greater, or the investigation of his business and his private life would be raising more questions, much like it did with President Clinton: Whitewater and then Paula Jones and then, ultimately, to the blue dress. I do think he has much more to worry about [with] his private lawyer.”

Dershowitz added, “Now I have no reason to believe he’s ever done anything wrong in his business life. I don’t want to presume that. I believe strongly in the presumption of innocence, but if he did, there would be no constitutional protection like there would be under Article II for obstruction of justice or collusion or any of the other things that relate to his authority as either president-elect or President of the United States.”

Dershowitz recommended that Attorney General Jeff Sessions withdraw his recusal from the Department of Justice’s investigation into Trump’s associates, at least as far as Cohen is concerned.

Dershowitz stated, “Sometimes, you should un-recuse yourself, and I think Attorney General Sessions should un-recuse himself when it comes to the New York investigation because it’s not part of the Russia investigation. He’s not a witness or a potential subject there. He’s the Attorney General of the United States. He ought to be in charge of supervising the New York investigation, not [Deputy Attorney General Rod] Rosenstein.”

Pollak asked Dershowitz if such an un-recusal from Sessions would lead to a pursuit of obstruction of justice charges against President Trump.

Dershowitz replied, “[Sessions] wouldn’t try to stop [the New York investigation]. He’d play the same role, presumably, that Rosenstein is playing. He’d be the one to sign off on the search warrant. He’d be the one to be supervising the U.S. attorney as the Attorney General of the United States always does. It’s just that he would replace Rosenstein. Rosenstein isn’t stopping the investigation. Presumably, neither would [Sessions], but he’d be the one in charge. There’s no reason why he should be recused from the New York investigation, unless the New York investigation is really just an extension of Mueller’s investigation, in which case, that raises other problems.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.President Donald Trump has just pushed a never-Trump advisor out of the Vice President’s office, but he is still relying on a trio of establishment or never-Trump aides who failed to get immigration reforms or border-wall funding from Congress in 2017 and 2018.

Jon Lerner was hired and quickly dropped by Vice President Pence after Trump discovered that Lerner had run anti-Trump ads during the 2016 election for the never-Trump Club for Growth group. According to Axios:

Trump was furious when he learned Pence was bringing on Nikki Haley’s deputy Jon Lerner, according to three sources familiar with the events. The President believed Lerner was a card-carrying member of the “Never Trump” movement because Lerner crafted brutal attack ads for Club for Growth’s multimillion-dollar anti-Trump blitz during the Republican primaries.

“Why would Mike do that?” Trump wondered aloud about Pence’s decision, according to two sources briefed on the President’s private conversations.

On Sunday night, Lerner withdrew from the job but said he would keep his advisory job with U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley.

Lerner’s quick departure puts the spotlight back on Trump’s Capitol Hill liaison chief, Marc Short.

Short was also a prominent anti-Trump leader in 2016 – and he has played a prominent role in the White House’s failure to have Congress legislate or fund the President’s popular immigration agenda.

Prior to becoming the Director of Legislative Affairs for Trump, Short worked for Charles and David Koch, who loudly oppose Trump’s populist, wage-raising immigration reform proposals. During the 2016 campaign, Gov. Mike Pence hired Short as a communications aide, and then Short got the congressional liaison job in 2017. Short got the job instead of Rick Dearborn, the former chief of staff to Sen. Jeff Sessions.

Pence is a cheap-labor advocate and an ally of amnesty supporters, such as GOP Sen. Jeff Flake.

In 2017, Short pushed hard to get a tax cut but he failed to get any funding for Trump’s top-priority border wall in the May 2017 omnibus bill. Short got only $641 million for 50 miles of fencing in the March 2018 omnibus — and he failed to win much funding to hire more immigration personnel.

Before the February 2018 Senate defeat of Trump’s immigration reforms, Short was described as offering weak support for Trump immigration reforms. Politico reported:

In his first year as Trump’s top liaison to Congress, Republicans say Short has been more of a facilitator, rather than an arm-twister. That role will become particularly critical on immigration – an issue Congress has spectacularly failed to resolve in the past. “I don’t see him as the real deal-maker so much as the kind of go-between, the mediator,” said Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), who’s interacted with Short on a host of issues including health care, the opioid crisis and energy policy. “He doesn’t try to reshape our thoughts. He sort of takes it in, and then, I’m assuming, reports back to the White House.”

During the closed-door debates over the 2018 omnibus, Short apparently did not report much back to Trump, who was surprised to learn how GOP and Democratic leaders had united to shortchange his election-winning immigration reforms.

Sen. Lindsey Graham, who has consistently allied with Democrats to oppose Trump’s immigration policies and has consistently called for more wage-reducing imported labor, told Politico that “I think he does a good job.”

.@MarcShort45 is Never Trump, like Lerner–and he also effed up, in exactly the way you'd expect a NeverTrumper to eff up, shepherding disastrous omnibus bill that totally failed to achieve Trump goals (on immg) that GOP Estab. resists. Why is he still in WH? https://t.co/mND2lGS4wd — Mickey Kaus (@kausmickey) April 16, 2018

At least one of Short’s partners during the 2017 and 2018 closed-door budget talks had close ties to the never-Trump camp. According to the Washington Post:

The details of this spending package should not have been new to the president. Short, Jonathan Slemrod and Kathleen Kraninger — all administration aides — were involved in the negotiations in recent days that went until the wee hours of the morning with congressional appropriators, according to three people familiar with the talks.

Jonathan Slemrod has been the associate director for legislative affairs at the Office of Management and Budget since March 2017, even though he worked on Sen. Marco Rubio’s 2016 presidential campaign. In 2016, he was also an alternate delegate from the D.C. GOP.

But in 2015, he was hired by Sen. Marco Rubio as policy director for his 2016 presidential campaign. That campaign failed, in part, because Trump slammed Rubio’s pro-amnesty policies, which called for border control, more guest workers to keep wages low, plus amnesty for all illegals in the United States.

Before the OMB job, Slemrod also worked for Texas GOP Sen. John Cornyn. He also worked for Rubio in 2011 and 2012, and even for pro-migration Rep. Paul Ryan between August 2010 and February 2011.

Short also worked with Kathy Kraninger, who is “OMB program associate director for general government.”

From 2011 to March 2017, Kraninger worked for the House and Senate homeland-security appropriations committees, neither of which supported Trump’s policies in 2017 or 2018.

Kraninger was the majority clerk of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security before she joined the administration.

In the House, Kraninger was hired January 2011, under the chairmanship of Kentucky Republican Rep. Harold Rogers, who did little to oppose the pro-migration policies established by former President Barack Obama.

Before she worked at the House, Kraninger worked in President George W. Bush’s DHS for Gov. Tom Ridge, a business-first Republican who favors a cheap-labor immigration policy. According to a post from a DHS-focused consulting group, Catalyst Partners:

Kraninger also served as a Policy Advisor to DHS Secretary Ridge … There is arguably no person outside of the DHS front office with a broader or deeper understanding of DHS operations than Kraninger. Period. Full Stop.

Prior to the House job, Kraninger worked for a small DHS-focused consulting firm, the Sentinel HS Group.

White House officials declined to respond to messages from Breitbart News.Reps. Todd Rokita (R-IN) and Luke Messer (R-IN) clashed on Breitbart News Saturday this weekend over several issues – especially immigration – in back-to-back appearances on the program amid their bid to win the Indiana Senate Republican primary.

Congressmen Rokita and Messer, as well as businessman and former state Rep. Mike Braun, continue to vie for the Indiana Senate Republican nomination, hoping to challenge Democratic Sen. Joe Donnelly in the 2018 Indiana Senate midterm election in November. The three Republican heavy weights face the voters at the polls on May 8, just weeks away, in one of the first nominating contests in the country.

On Saturday’s Breitbart News Saturday program on SiriusXM 125 the Patriot Channel, Rokita and Messer traded barbs, at each other and at Braun, who himself has not accepted multiple invitations to come on the program–while laying out their visions for their Senate campaigns and attempting to out-flank one aother on the right on several core issues. The political arms race to the right was reminiscent of the 2016 GOP presidential primaries, where 17 candidates raced to the most conservative and hardest core positions on issues for a chance to win voters’ approval and represent the party in the general election that year.

And just like 2016, the issue of immigration was a particularly hot-button one on Saturday, with Rokita detailing how he supports English as the official language of the United States of America–and arguing that Messer is pro-amnesty. Messer fired back, arguing that he has never supported amnesty and that he has been an ally of President Donald Trump’s in the U.S. House of Representatives.

The three candidates are aiming to be the Republican nominee for U.S. Senate against vulnerable red-state Democrat Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-IN) in a state where President Trump trounced Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2016. Donnelly, one of the U.S. Senate’s most vulnerable Democrats up for re-election in the 2018 midterm elections, represents the state where Vice President Mike Pence–Trump’s 2016 running mate–served as governor before the president selected him to round out his ticket.

The Indiana race is a unique situation in a year in which Democrats are gaining momentum nationally. In Indiana, the heart of Trump country and the state where the president became the presumptive GOP nominee for president nearly two years ago, it’s the inverse of the national equation. With a three-way race to the right for the Republican nomination, and a red-state Democrat desperate to present himself as a moderate waiting for whomever wins in the general election in November, Indiana’s Senate race is defying the national political odds.

“There’s not going to be a blue wave in Indiana,” Messer said on the program on Saturday. “There’s a red wave coming. We’re not going to beat Joe Donnelly with another Joe Donnelly.”

“Competition is a good thing,” Rokita said in his appearance. “It’s only the establishment and the elites who wring their hands and say, ‘Oh there’s more than one guy running so we can’t coordinate everything.’ That’s absolutely ridiculous. The old biblical passage was something along the lines of ‘iron sharpens iron.’ That’s what’s happening here.”

Immigration

On the program, Rokita attacked Messer, arguing that he does not live in the state of Indiana and has served as a member of the House Gang of Eight, which supported amnesty for illegal immigrants. Rokita also hit Messer for missing his original hit time on the program, something Messer to his credit made up for by appearing later in the program after Rokita. Messer was originally scheduled to appear on the program before Rokita on Saturday, but switched to a time after Rokita’s appearance due to a scheduling mistake. Braun would not appear at all on Breitbart News Saturday this past weekend, despite numerous invitations–something Rokita hammered him on as well.

“One guy, maybe two guys, couldn’t get on the show–they’re not running organized campaigns–I know how to run an organized campaign, I’ve been Secretary of State for two terms, I’ve been on the ballot statewide, I’ve gotten more votes than Joe Donnelly, the guy we’re running against, who votes with Bernie Sanders 85 percent of the time,” Rokita said. “Mike Braun, the candidate who’s trying to buy the Senate Seat in Indiana, can’t get on your show, can’t call in. It’s absolutely ridiculous, and he’s going to buy millions of dollars worth of ads … Luke Messer does not even live in the state of Indiana, he has to get on a plane every time he wants to campaign. Perhaps that is the reason for his delay and ability to be on today. When you have a guy like Joe Donnelly, who votes with Bernie Sanders 85 percent of the time, who was part of the Gang of Eight, who wanted amnesty, and Luke Messer was on the House version of the Gang of Eight, we saw the power of one vote in a very terrible way a few months ago in the Senate with the president’s agenda. We were one vote away from getting Obamacare repealed and sent to the president’s desk, and we can blame John McCain all we want, and in fact he should be blamed, but in fact Joe Donnelly had the same vote. If you do not get these senators in their first term, then it is hard to get them. I have the record, I know the state, we are driving 400 miles before the day is out.”

Later on Breitbart News Saturday, during his rescheduled hit, Messer disputed the claim that he was a member of the House Gang of Eight, instead calling Rokita a Trump-like nickname: “Lyin’ Todd Rokita.”

“That guy in Indiana is known as ‘Lyin’ Todd Rokita,’” Messer fired back. “He was called out by PolitiFact in the last couple of days for running an ad campaign that’s mostly false. From what I understand, I wasn’t listening, but from what other people have told me, I have never been part of any Gang of Eight – that’s just simply not true. In fact, I’ve helped lead the fight with President Trump to get after illegal immigration. The legislation I put forward is an example working with President Trump, and Breitbart took a big lead on this, we were able to make major progress in ending tax credits for illegal immigrants. It’s crazy under the law, you can get a child tax credit as an illegal immigrant. My legislation is frankly tougher than where we ended up as a tax package, and there’s more to it in ending $7 billion in tax credits for illegal immigrants. But because of this president’s leadership, my leadership, and frankly the leadership of Breitbart, I was one of the first elected leaders last year that we already had the authorization to build a border wall, and I got criticized by CNN, and now we are making steps in the right direction. Of course, we want to do a lot more. My whole career I’ve been an authentic conservative. You are right, listen all of us have learned from President Trump, and we are getting even tougher on illegal immigration. But I will always start by telling you the truth and I think that’s important in any campaign.”

“If someone will lie to you if they are running for office, then guess what? They will lie to you when you are in office. I think most Hoosiers understand that,” Messer added of Rokita.

The Messer campaign also emphasized to Breitbart News that Messer opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants and shared a rating from Numbers USA, a pro-American immigration reform group, that confirms that Messer “opposes amnesty.”

Reps. Messer and Rokita have the same Numbers USA rating on immigration–83 percent–and Messer was not a part of the Gang of Eight, per the Messer campaign.

The Messer campaign added that it was Rokita who was one of the first congressmen to endorse Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) over Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign. Rubio was in fact one of the signature authors of the Senate Gang of Eight’s amnesty legislation. The Messer campaign highlighted for Breitbart News reports of Rokita having, during the 2016 primary, called Trump “vulgar, if not profane” and having said about Trump while campaigning for Rubio that “at some point, you have to be presidential.”

But Rokita made the point during his appearance on Breitbart News Saturday that he supports English as the official language of the United States–one of the strongest positions in favor of American sovereignty any politician can take.

“I’m the only one in this race that has the guts to come out and talk about English as the official language of this country,” Rokita said. “I’m a cosponsor of that bill. I don’t think there’s anything mean, I don’t think there’s anything wrong. I think there’s everything not politically correct [about this]. Common borders, language, culture, right? We want to build a wall not to just necessarily keep people out but so we can have a sovereign nation. There’s no nation worth living in that doesn’t have a wall or a wall system or an ability to keep people out and know who’s in–and to keep things out. Ninety percent of heroin comes in across the Southern border, and we have an opioid epidemic. Everybody wants to talk about this, that, and their hair’s on fire about the opioid epidemic. Well, let’s try keeping the stuff out of our country. And you got to, to have a sovereign nation, be able to do that. Part and parcel of that is having a common language. Part and parcel of being a unified nation is that you share the same language. That’s all that means. That doesn’t mean you can’t speak your native tongue in your own house, but in terms of the government, in terms of public speech, in terms of everything that we do as a nation, English is our language.”

Messer, meanwhile, walked through new legislation he has proposed targeting sanctuary cities using citizenship data collected during the upcoming Census.

“Sanctuary cities literally get a federal tax dollar bonus under current law–we need to stop it,” Messer said. “I was excited to hear the president’s proposal to ask the citizenship question on the Census. It’s amazing that the left has tried to make that controversial at all. What we want to do is give that information some teeth. Under current law, any total population calculation for federal funding actually includes illegal immigrants. It’s crazy. It needs to stop. As you know, one of President Trump’s most important campaign promises was to secure our borders and to defund sanctuary cities. This gives us a way to do that by basically saying if you’re going to receive federal dollars based on population, it should be the number of legal residents and citizens who are counted, not illegal immigrants.”

Syria

On Friday night, President Trump ordered precision missile strikes on Syria in reaction to Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad’s alleged use of chemical weapons.

In reaction to the news, Rokita told Breitbart News Saturday that he backs the president.

“I’m supportive of the president,” Rokita said. “I was supportive last time he did it, not only because it gives some immediate help to innocent civilians, but also buttresses our friend Israel. Finally, it again it sends another message more widespread to the rest of the world that, ‘Hey this is not the last guy, this is not the last guy who led from behind, this is a new sheriff in town. I think that approach and attitude already gave us some dividends in other parts of the world.”

Rokita argued that America needs to create a new authorization of military force (AUMF) to set the parameters of future military action in Syria.

“The current authorization is way overdue. I have a lot of questions. We have to get a new one in place, or we are at least going to have to debate how we’re going forward here, if things get worse going forward,” Rokita said. “The power to wage war lies squarely under Congress in the Constitution, and that needs to be maintained.”

Rokita continued, “The point is the world knows, that America is leading again. You need to be our ally to be on the right side of history, on the right side of facts and the right side of the moral things. That is good, that produces dividends. It will make dictators in North Korea rethink things, and Russia re-think things.”

On Syria, there was not much disagreement between the two candidates, as Messer agreed with Trump’s action as well.

“I support the president,” Messer said. “America is safe when America is strong. I think it was a smart and a closely tailored strike and appropriate under the circumstances.”

THE INDIANA SENATE RACE

Both Rokita and Messer, unsurprisingly, lit into Donnelly as a leftist who does not represent Indiana values.

But both also lit into their fellow GOP primary opponent, Braun, who has yet to agree to appear on Breitbart News radio on SiriusXM Patriot Channel 125.

“I’ve got one guy running in this race, Mike Braun, who says he’s an outsider, but if anything he’s outside the Republican Party,” Messer said of Braun. “He’s a 14-year office holder, much of that time voting in Democrat primaries–was a Democrat even until 2012 and never supported Republicans. He says he’s a Republican. He never supported Republicans. I’ve already talked to you a little about Todd Rokita. Look, it’s not enough to just put on a MAGA hat–you have to vote with the president. That’s important too.”

Of Braun, Rokita added his own jabs at the third competitor in the race accusing him of being a “millionaire” running for the Senate because “It’s on his bucket list of things to do.”

“Both Luke Messer and Mike Braun are responsible for a billion dollars of tax hikes when they were in the legislature,” Rokita said. “Mike Braun was 45-0, he was two years in the state legislature, he voted for 45 tax increases. He’s never voted no on a tax bill including the state’s largest tax increase, which was our gas tax. You mentioned infrastructure. Even at our committee at the federal level, we were able to get a billion dollars for Indiana and all other states got their cut too without raising taxes, without printing the money, and without borrowing it. And that was Washington. And so if you send Mike Braun to the Senate, it’s going to be terrible, because all he knows how to do is raise taxes–same with Messer.”

Rokita also argued that he is better prepared to take on Donnelly, in that he has run–and won–statewide campaigns in Indiana before, when he was Secretary of State.

“All I can tell you is what I’m doing on the ground in Indiana is what I’ve always done to be successful running statewide and in my congressional seat, and that is go straight to the voters,” Rokita said. “I drive 45,000 miles a year, no joke, and when I was Secretary of State, I went to every county–all 92 of them–at least once. No one else is doing that, except Donnelly. Donnelly, the incumbent Democrat–a liberal Democrat who hugs Hillary Clinton and did what President Obama told him to do, got the final vote of Nancy Pelosi’s House for Obamacare, votes with Bernie Sanders 85 percent of the time. Ok, that guy–is very retail. He is, and I give that to him. He does that the way I do it. That’s why you’re going to need a guy who’s known throughout the community and throughout the state–and the state knows him–who’s willing to work it, and who doesn’t live in McLean, Virginia.”

LISTEN TO INTERVIEWS WITH REPS. TODD ROKITA (R-IN) AND LUKE MESSER (R-IN):The latest polling from Rasmussen Reports (one of the most reliable in 2016) shows a huge slide in support for James Comey, the disgraced former head of the FBI. A plurality of 46 percent now want to see him prosecuted for leaking to the media.

While President Trump’s job approval rating continues to climb in both the Rasmussen daily tracking poll (49 percent approval) and in the Real Clear Politics poll of polls, in the wake of his public relations blitz, Comey’s numbers have taken a steep dive.

As far as the job he did as FBI director, Rasmussen discovered that “just 14% of Likely U.S. Voters believe that Comey was a better FBI director than most of those who held the job before him. Thirty-eight percent (38%) say he did a worse job this his predecessors, while nearly as many (35%) rate his job performance as about the same as theirs.”

Even those who “strongly disapprove” of Trump are not big fans of Comey, with only 21 percent of that particular group giving him credit as a better FBI director than his predecessors.

Comey has admitted to leaking details of his classified conversations with Trump to the media through an intermediary. Last June, only 41 percent wanted to see him prosecuted for this. That number has now jumped to a near-majority and clear plurality of 46 percent.

In worse news for Comey, his base of support among those who do not want to see him prosecuted has plummeted -13 points, from 47 percent in June to just 34 percent today.

In June, Comey was above water by six points on the issue of prosecution, 47 percent to 41 percent.

Today he is upside down -12 points, 34 percent to 46 percent — a stunning shift of 18 points against him.

The partisan breakdown should also worry Comey and his media allies.

While only 29 percent of Democrats want him prosecuted, a plurality of 46 percent of Independents agree, along with nearly two-thirds (65 percent) of Republicans.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.The release of former FBI Director James Comey’s memoir has opened old wounds with some of the Clinton family’s advisers, who blamed Comey for President Trump winning the presidency in 2016.

Hillary Clinton spokesman Nick Merrill unloaded on Comey in a series of tweets Monday, criticizing the former FBI director for making a “public spectacle” of the Clinton email investigation and accusing him of skewing the 2016 election in Trump’s favor.

He made a public spectacle of the conclusion of the email investigation, breaking with Department norms, calling into question the integrity of the process. It did nothing to quiet the Trump campaign from accusing the FBI of bias & did everything to make Americans feel uneasy. — Nick Merrill (@NickMerrill) April 16, 2018

Lanny Davis, who used to serve as special counsel under former President Bill Clinton, also scorched Comey and called him a “liar” in an op-ed for the Hill published Sunday.

“It is time — accurately — to call Comey a liar for this crucial, self-serving rationalization for his action that made Donald Trump president,” Davis wrote.

Davis wanted Comey to “admit the truth” about his October 28, 2016, to Congress which re-opened the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a personal email server.

“You wrote the letter not because you had to in order to fulfill a promise to Congress, but because you wanted to protect your political rear end from anti-Clinton Republican partisans. Period,” Davis wrote.

Davis claimed in an interview on Fox & Friends Sunday that the former FBI director had been “lying” in his television interviews promoting his book.

“He’s now lying on all his television interviews … when he says he was obligated to do so because he promised Congress,” he said.

Hillary Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon also took potshots at the former FBI director Sunday in a tweet for not being hard enough on Trump in the run-up to the election.

Accepting dinner invitations. Promising 'honest loyalty.' Assuring Trump he wasn't being investigated. Comey has a lot of tough words for Trump now, but while in the job, he sure did his best to avoid getting on Trump's bad side. — Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) April 16, 2018

“Accepting dinner invitations. Promising ‘honest loyalty.’ Assuring Trump he wasn’t being investigated. Comey has a lot of tough words for Trump now, but while in the job, he sure did his best to avoid getting on Trump’s bad side,” he wrote.

Comey has been hit with criticism on both sides of the aisle as his book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, hits bookstores on Tuesday.

Trump called Comey a “slippery” character and the “worst FBI director in history” in a series of tweets Sunday morning.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also ripped Comey’s book on Friday, saying it belongs “in the bargain bin of the fiction section.”

Fox News Channel’s Jeanine Pirro also slammed Comey’s book, saying that his book is self-serving and serves no “higher loyalty” to anyone but himself.The release of former FBI Director James Comey’s memoir has opened old wounds with some of the Clinton family’s advisers, who blamed Comey for President Trump winning the presidency in 2016.

Hillary Clinton spokesman Nick Merrill unloaded on Comey in a series of tweets Monday, criticizing the former FBI director for making a “public spectacle” of the Clinton email investigation and accusing him of skewing the 2016 election in Trump’s favor.

He made a public spectacle of the conclusion of the email investigation, breaking with Department norms, calling into question the integrity of the process. It did nothing to quiet the Trump campaign from accusing the FBI of bias & did everything to make Americans feel uneasy. — Nick Merrill (@NickMerrill) April 16, 2018

Lanny Davis, who used to serve as special counsel under former President Bill Clinton, also scorched Comey and called him a “liar” in an op-ed for the Hill published Sunday.

“It is time — accurately — to call Comey a liar for this crucial, self-serving rationalization for his action that made Donald Trump president,” Davis wrote.

Davis wanted Comey to “admit the truth” about his October 28, 2016, to Congress which re-opened the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a personal email server.

“You wrote the letter not because you had to in order to fulfill a promise to Congress, but because you wanted to protect your political rear end from anti-Clinton Republican partisans. Period,” Davis wrote.

Davis claimed in an interview on Fox & Friends Sunday that the former FBI director had been “lying” in his television interviews promoting his book.

“He’s now lying on all his television interviews … when he says he was obligated to do so because he promised Congress,” he said.

Hillary Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon also took potshots at the former FBI director Sunday in a tweet for not being hard enough on Trump in the run-up to the election.

Accepting dinner invitations. Promising 'honest loyalty.' Assuring Trump he wasn't being investigated. Comey has a lot of tough words for Trump now, but while in the job, he sure did his best to avoid getting on Trump's bad side. — Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) April 16, 2018

“Accepting dinner invitations. Promising ‘honest loyalty.’ Assuring Trump he wasn’t being investigated. Comey has a lot of tough words for Trump now, but while in the job, he sure did his best to avoid getting on Trump’s bad side,” he wrote.

Comey has been hit with criticism on both sides of the aisle as his book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, hits bookstores on Tuesday.

Trump called Comey a “slippery” character and the “worst FBI director in history” in a series of tweets Sunday morning.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also ripped Comey’s book on Friday, saying it belongs “in the bargain bin of the fiction section.”

Fox News Channel’s Jeanine Pirro also slammed Comey’s book, saying that his book is self-serving and serves no “higher loyalty” to anyone but himself.On Tuesday’s broadcast of CNN’s “Situation Room,” Representative Eric Swalwell (D-CA) stated he doesn’t want Democrats to “just scapegoat what happened in 2016 with what Director Comey did,” and that the party should focus on people they failed to connect with in 2016.

Swalwell said he wouldn’t “second-guess” Comey’s decisions during the 2016 election, and that prosecutors sometimes have to choose between options that no one will be happy with. He further stated that it’s important that the DOJ is independent.

Swalwell concluded, “And also, just as Democrats, frankly, Wolf, I don’t want us to miss some of the people who we did not connect with in 2016 and just scapegoat what happened in 2016 with what Director Comey did, whether it affected the election or not. There are people who we did not connect with, and there are a lot of people who have always been on our side who just stayed home.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettOn Tuesday’s broadcast of CNN’s “Situation Room,” Representative Eric Swalwell (D-CA) stated he doesn’t want Democrats to “just scapegoat what happened in 2016 with what Director Comey did,” and that the party should focus on people they failed to connect with in 2016.

Swalwell said he wouldn’t “second-guess” Comey’s decisions during the 2016 election, and that prosecutors sometimes have to choose between options that no one will be happy with. He further stated that it’s important that the DOJ is independent.

Swalwell concluded, “And also, just as Democrats, frankly, Wolf, I don’t want us to miss some of the people who we did not connect with in 2016 and just scapegoat what happened in 2016 with what Director Comey did, whether it affected the election or not. There are people who we did not connect with, and there are a lot of people who have always been on our side who just stayed home.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettTuesday on ABC’s “The View,” adult film star Stormy Daniels, accompanied by her lawyer Michael Avenatti, released a sketch of the man she claimed warned her to not give an interview about an alleged affair with President Donald Trump.

Daniels said in 2011 a man approached her in a parking lot and warned her to “leave Trump alone.”

When asked why she did not go to the police when she was threatened, Daniels said, “Two things, first of all, I was scared. That was expressly what he told me not to do. I went home and regrouped and I was going to because I always feel like you should stand up for yourself and you should report it. But the problem with that in this particular instance, I would have gone to the police and they would have gone, okay, a man approached me, this is what he said to me, told me to leave Mr. Trump alone and the very next question the detective would have asked me is why would they tell you to leave Mr. Trump alone?”

She added, “I would have had to answer that question which was not public at the time. I would have had to tell the whole police department I had sex with Donald Trump and then the whole world would have known. I was in the process of trying to quiet that or figure out what to do and honestly, I was just afraid and I didn’t want everyone to know. I didn’t want my family to find out that way. I didn’t want my life turned upside down.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENTuesday on ABC’s “The View,” adult film star Stormy Daniels, accompanied by her lawyer Michael Avenatti, released a sketch of the man she claimed warned her to not give an interview about an alleged affair with President Donald Trump.

Daniels said in 2011 a man approached her in a parking lot and warned her to “leave Trump alone.”

When asked why she did not go to the police when she was threatened, Daniels said, “Two things, first of all, I was scared. That was expressly what he told me not to do. I went home and regrouped and I was going to because I always feel like you should stand up for yourself and you should report it. But the problem with that in this particular instance, I would have gone to the police and they would have gone, okay, a man approached me, this is what he said to me, told me to leave Mr. Trump alone and the very next question the detective would have asked me is why would they tell you to leave Mr. Trump alone?”

She added, “I would have had to answer that question which was not public at the time. I would have had to tell the whole police department I had sex with Donald Trump and then the whole world would have known. I was in the process of trying to quiet that or figure out what to do and honestly, I was just afraid and I didn’t want everyone to know. I didn’t want my family to find out that way. I didn’t want my life turned upside down.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENA student at Binghamton University has been charged with second-degree murder in the stabbing death of 19-year-old student Joao Souza, marking the second homicide at the school in a five-week span.

The alleged perpetrator, 20-year-old Michael Roque of Long Island, was brought to Broome County Jail on Monday afternoon. Souza was stabbed on Sunday night in his dorm room around 10:30 p.m. Shortly after the stabbing, he was taken to a local hospital and pronounced dead.

B-ALERT: We are sad to report that a student has died due to a stabbing on campus that occurred at about 10:30 p.m. Sunday, April 15. The deceased is a male, age 19, in his first year at Binghamton University. — Binghamton University (@binghamtonu) April 16, 2018

B-ALERT: Michael M. Roque, 20, a Binghamton University student, was charged this evening with second degree murder in the stabbing death of 19-year-old freshman engineering student Joao Souza. Roque was taken to the Broome County Jail following the arraignment. — Binghamton University (@binghamtonu) April 17, 2018

This is the second homicide to take place at Binghamton University this semester. In March, 22-year-old Haley Anderson was found dead near campus. An investigation into her death pointed to Binghamton University student Orlando Tercero as the likely killer. Tercero fled to Nicaragua shortly after Anderson’s death.

In a statement to the community on Souza’s murder, Binghamton University President Harvey G. Stenger said that “violence is a part of society.”

As president, my top priority is keeping everyone in our campus community safe. I want to reaffirm to you Binghamton University’s commitment to providing a safe learning environment. Unfortunately, we live in a time where violence is part of society, and, as a campus of 17,000+ students and several thousand faculty and staff, there are occasions where violence will intrude on our campus. We will continue to focus on keeping ours a safe campus, with a fully-empowered state law enforcement agency that works closely with the residential communities to protect life and property.

Souza’s death marks the second homicide for Binghamton University in a five-week span. In a news conference, Stenger said that the violence has taken a toll on all members of the Binghamton University community.

“The last two months have been very, very difficult,” Stenger said. “You can understand how difficult it must be for parents and for friends. You want to do anything you can to help them through these times.”A student at Binghamton University has been charged with second-degree murder in the stabbing death of 19-year-old student Joao Souza, marking the second homicide at the school in a five-week span.

The alleged perpetrator, 20-year-old Michael Roque of Long Island, was brought to Broome County Jail on Monday afternoon. Souza was stabbed on Sunday night in his dorm room around 10:30 p.m. Shortly after the stabbing, he was taken to a local hospital and pronounced dead.

B-ALERT: We are sad to report that a student has died due to a stabbing on campus that occurred at about 10:30 p.m. Sunday, April 15. The deceased is a male, age 19, in his first year at Binghamton University. — Binghamton University (@binghamtonu) April 16, 2018

B-ALERT: Michael M. Roque, 20, a Binghamton University student, was charged this evening with second degree murder in the stabbing death of 19-year-old freshman engineering student Joao Souza. Roque was taken to the Broome County Jail following the arraignment. — Binghamton University (@binghamtonu) April 17, 2018

This is the second homicide to take place at Binghamton University this semester. In March, 22-year-old Haley Anderson was found dead near campus. An investigation into her death pointed to Binghamton University student Orlando Tercero as the likely killer. Tercero fled to Nicaragua shortly after Anderson’s death.

In a statement to the community on Souza’s murder, Binghamton University President Harvey G. Stenger said that “violence is a part of society.”

As president, my top priority is keeping everyone in our campus community safe. I want to reaffirm to you Binghamton University’s commitment to providing a safe learning environment. Unfortunately, we live in a time where violence is part of society, and, as a campus of 17,000+ students and several thousand faculty and staff, there are occasions where violence will intrude on our campus. We will continue to focus on keeping ours a safe campus, with a fully-empowered state law enforcement agency that works closely with the residential communities to protect life and property.

Souza’s death marks the second homicide for Binghamton University in a five-week span. In a news conference, Stenger said that the violence has taken a toll on all members of the Binghamton University community.

“The last two months have been very, very difficult,” Stenger said. “You can understand how difficult it must be for parents and for friends. You want to do anything you can to help them through these times.”April 16 (UPI) — Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., is recovering from surgery for an intestinal infection, his office confirmed Monday.

McCain was admitted to Mayo Clinic in Phoenix on Sunday and underwent the surgery, which was related to diverticulitis.

“Over the last few months, Sen. McCain has been participating in physical therapy at his home in Cornville, Ariz., as he recovers from the side effects of cancer treatment,” McCain’s office said in a statement.

McCain’s daughter, Meghan McCain, confirmed on Twitter that he was in stable condition.

“[H]e continues to inspire me everyday with his intense grit and determination,” she wrote. “Thank you to the doctors at Mayo Clinic in Phoenix and to everyone who is praying for him.”

McCain announced in July that he has brain cancer.

His office said Monday that he has “remained engaged on his work as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and has enjoyed frequent visits from his family, friends, staff and Senate colleagues.”

On Friday, McCain applauded President Donald Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes on Syria.

McCain has been a vocal proponent of U.S. military engagement in Syria for years and visited anti-Assad rebels in 2013 to show his support.April 16 (UPI) — Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., is recovering from surgery for an intestinal infection, his office confirmed Monday.

McCain was admitted to Mayo Clinic in Phoenix on Sunday and underwent the surgery, which was related to diverticulitis.

“Over the last few months, Sen. McCain has been participating in physical therapy at his home in Cornville, Ariz., as he recovers from the side effects of cancer treatment,” McCain’s office said in a statement.

McCain’s daughter, Meghan McCain, confirmed on Twitter that he was in stable condition.

“[H]e continues to inspire me everyday with his intense grit and determination,” she wrote. “Thank you to the doctors at Mayo Clinic in Phoenix and to everyone who is praying for him.”

McCain announced in July that he has brain cancer.

His office said Monday that he has “remained engaged on his work as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and has enjoyed frequent visits from his family, friends, staff and Senate colleagues.”

On Friday, McCain applauded President Donald Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes on Syria.

McCain has been a vocal proponent of U.S. military engagement in Syria for years and visited anti-Assad rebels in 2013 to show his support.Establishment and “Never Trump” Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA) announced on Tuesday he will retire in the coming weeks, rather than at the end of his congressional term.

Congressman Dent wrote in a press release Tuesday, “After discussions with my family & careful reflection, I have decided to leave Congress in the coming weeks. Serving the people of the 15th Congressional district has been a tremendous responsibility and the privilege of a lifetime”:

After discussions with my family & careful reflection, I have decided to leave Congress in the coming weeks. Serving the people of #PA15 has been a tremendous responsibility & the privilege of a lifetime. pic.twitter.com/p8mik6s8ix — Rep. Charlie Dent (@RepCharlieDent) April 17, 2018

Rep. Dent, amidst anger from the GOP base for his repeated attempts to block President Donald Trump’s agenda, announced last September he will not seek re-election in 2018.

Dent voted against Republican attempts to defund Planned Parenthood, stifled attempts to repeal Obamacare, and opposed Trump’s temporary travel ban prohibiting people from six high-risk countries from entering the United States.

Rep. Dent served as a co-chair of the moderate Tuesday Group.

Dent’s original decision to retire came after State Rep. Justin Simmons (R-PA), who spoke at a September rally, revealed he would challenge Dent in the Republican primary. Simmons branded Dent “the most liberal Republican in Congress.”

Dent joins several other prominent House Republicans who have also announced they will retire during or at the end of this congressional term.

House Speaker Paul Ryan announced last week he will retire at the end of his congressional term to spend more time with his family.

Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL) said last Wednesday he will not seek re-election.

In January, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) said he will not run for another term in office.

House Transportation Committee chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) said in January he will retire at the end of his congressional term to focus on passing a massive infrastructure project with President Trump.

Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), a Paul Ryan ally, announced last October he will retire as well.

“It is my intention to continue to aggressively advocate for responsible government and pragmatic solutions in the coming years,” Dent said.Establishment and “Never Trump” Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA) announced on Tuesday he will retire in the coming weeks, rather than at the end of his congressional term.

Congressman Dent wrote in a press release Tuesday, “After discussions with my family & careful reflection, I have decided to leave Congress in the coming weeks. Serving the people of the 15th Congressional district has been a tremendous responsibility and the privilege of a lifetime”:

After discussions with my family & careful reflection, I have decided to leave Congress in the coming weeks. Serving the people of #PA15 has been a tremendous responsibility & the privilege of a lifetime. pic.twitter.com/p8mik6s8ix — Rep. Charlie Dent (@RepCharlieDent) April 17, 2018

Rep. Dent, amidst anger from the GOP base for his repeated attempts to block President Donald Trump’s agenda, announced last September he will not seek re-election in 2018.

Dent voted against Republican attempts to defund Planned Parenthood, stifled attempts to repeal Obamacare, and opposed Trump’s temporary travel ban prohibiting people from six high-risk countries from entering the United States.

Rep. Dent served as a co-chair of the moderate Tuesday Group.

Dent’s original decision to retire came after State Rep. Justin Simmons (R-PA), who spoke at a September rally, revealed he would challenge Dent in the Republican primary. Simmons branded Dent “the most liberal Republican in Congress.”

Dent joins several other prominent House Republicans who have also announced they will retire during or at the end of this congressional term.

House Speaker Paul Ryan announced last week he will retire at the end of his congressional term to spend more time with his family.

Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL) said last Wednesday he will not seek re-election.

In January, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) said he will not run for another term in office.

House Transportation Committee chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) said in January he will retire at the end of his congressional term to focus on passing a massive infrastructure project with President Trump.

Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), a Paul Ryan ally, announced last October he will retire as well.

“It is my intention to continue to aggressively advocate for responsible government and pragmatic solutions in the coming years,” Dent said.Portions of the IRS online tax return system have gone down, creating delays before the Tuesday filing deadline.

“On my way over here this morning, I was told a number of systems are unavailable at the moment,” declared acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter. “We are working to resolve the issue, and taxpayers should continue to file as they normally would.”

Kautter also reassured taxpayers that they “would not be penalized because of a technical problem the IRS is having.”

According to Business Insider, “The IRS’ website for the Direct Pay option, which allows filers to pay taxes directly from a checking account to the agency, says that the option is ‘currently unavailable.’ Tuesday is the deadline for filers to make payments to the IRS for their 2017 federal taxes and the deadline for businesses and self-employed persons to file their taxes for the first quarter of 2018.”

Conservatives on Twitter used the news to mock the incompetence of the government.

Government, in a nutshell: IRS payment site fails on tax day https://t.co/89IAYHed2E — Katie Pavlich (@KatiePavlich) April 17, 2018

There's no greater example of government incompetence than the IRS e-file system and direct pay service being down on #TaxDay. pic.twitter.com/mWjypxnzPz — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) April 17, 2018

The IRS is so incompetent they can't even keep their website up on tax day. — Liz Wheeler (@Liz_Wheeler) April 17, 2018

However, Democrat Scott Dworkin attempted to spread a conspiracy theory that “the Russians” were actually behind the downed system.

I wonder if the IRS website being shut down has anything to do with the Russians. I’m not joking. Or Twitter shutting down earlier today mostly in the NE US, the UK and Japan-who Trump is meeting with today. If it is the Russians, just know, Trump will respond by doing nothing. — Scott Dworkin (@funder) April 17, 2018Portions of the IRS online tax return system have gone down, creating delays before the Tuesday filing deadline.

“On my way over here this morning, I was told a number of systems are unavailable at the moment,” declared acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter. “We are working to resolve the issue, and taxpayers should continue to file as they normally would.”

Kautter also reassured taxpayers that they “would not be penalized because of a technical problem the IRS is having.”

According to Business Insider, “The IRS’ website for the Direct Pay option, which allows filers to pay taxes directly from a checking account to the agency, says that the option is ‘currently unavailable.’ Tuesday is the deadline for filers to make payments to the IRS for their 2017 federal taxes and the deadline for businesses and self-employed persons to file their taxes for the first quarter of 2018.”

Conservatives on Twitter used the news to mock the incompetence of the government.

Government, in a nutshell: IRS payment site fails on tax day https://t.co/89IAYHed2E — Katie Pavlich (@KatiePavlich) April 17, 2018

There's no greater example of government incompetence than the IRS e-file system and direct pay service being down on #TaxDay. pic.twitter.com/mWjypxnzPz — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) April 17, 2018

The IRS is so incompetent they can't even keep their website up on tax day. — Liz Wheeler (@Liz_Wheeler) April 17, 2018

However, Democrat Scott Dworkin attempted to spread a conspiracy theory that “the Russians” were actually behind the downed system.

I wonder if the IRS website being shut down has anything to do with the Russians. I’m not joking. Or Twitter shutting down earlier today mostly in the NE US, the UK and Japan-who Trump is meeting with today. If it is the Russians, just know, Trump will respond by doing nothing. — Scott Dworkin (@funder) April 17, 2018Elon Musk’s electric car company Tesla has stopped production on their already delayed Model 3 sedan and has replaced their automated production robots with human workers.

Despite the long waiting list of customers and a host of other delays, Tesla has stopped production on the company’s Model 3 sedan according to the Verge. Tesla has claimed that this sudden halt in production is in fact to fix some of the issues that have caused many delays so far, one of which may be the companies decision to automate the final process of Model 3 production using robotic machinery. These machines have reportedly been replaced with human workers:

Yes, excessive automation at Tesla was a mistake. To be precise, my mistake. Humans are underrated. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) April 13, 2018

In an interview with CBS, Tesla CEO Elon Musk stated that automation had caused some of the production delays that the Model 3 has faced over recent months, saying, “Yes, they did….We had this crazy, complex network of conveyor belts….And it was not working, so we got rid of that whole thing.”

Model 3 production is set to be halted for 4 or 5 days at Tesla’s Fremont, California assembly plant. A Tesla spokesperson told The Verge, “Our Model 3 production plan includes periods of planned downtime in both Fremont and Gigafactory 1. These periods are used to improve automation and systematically address bottlenecks in order to increase production rates. This is not unusual and is in fact common in production ramps like this.”

Tesla has continued to fall short of expected production numbers, reaching a production rate of 2,000 Model 3’s per week in the first quarter, short of the company’s goal of 2,500 per week by the end of the quarter. The company is still optimistic though, setting a target of 5,000 cars per week by the end of the first half of this year. The company claims that halting production to fix bottleneck issues has worked in the past, nearly doubling Model 3 production rates.

Tesla recently recalled 123,000 Model S vehicles, stating that any of the vehicles built before April 2016 were affected by a power steering issue. Tesla previously recalled 90,000 Model S cars in 2015, and recalled 53,000 Model S and Model X cars in 2017 over a parking brake fault. This latest recall marked the largest recall Tesla has ever initiated. Tesla said in an email to customers that the company had “observed excessive corrosion in the power steering bolts,” but that the problem mainly occurred in colder climates where road salt is commonly used. “If the bolts fail, the driver is still able to steer the car, but increased force is required due to loss or reduction of power assist,” Tesla stated. “This primarily makes the car harder to drive at low speeds and for parallel parking, but does not materially affect control at high speed, where only small steering wheel force is needed.”

Tesla is also under investigation for a number of autopilot crashes that have occurred in their cars, in relation to the latest crash Tesla has placed the blame on the deceased driver of their vehicle. In a statement provided to Business Insider, Tesla said:

According to the family, Mr. Huang was well aware that Autopilot was not perfect and, specifically, he told them it was not reliable in that exact location, yet he nonetheless engaged Autopilot at that location. The crash happened on a clear day with several hundred feet of visibility ahead, which means that the only way for this accident to have occurred is if Mr. Huang was not paying attention to the road, despite the car providing multiple warnings to do so.Elon Musk’s electric car company Tesla has stopped production on their already delayed Model 3 sedan and has replaced their automated production robots with human workers.

Despite the long waiting list of customers and a host of other delays, Tesla has stopped production on the company’s Model 3 sedan according to the Verge. Tesla has claimed that this sudden halt in production is in fact to fix some of the issues that have caused many delays so far, one of which may be the companies decision to automate the final process of Model 3 production using robotic machinery. These machines have reportedly been replaced with human workers:

Yes, excessive automation at Tesla was a mistake. To be precise, my mistake. Humans are underrated. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) April 13, 2018

In an interview with CBS, Tesla CEO Elon Musk stated that automation had caused some of the production delays that the Model 3 has faced over recent months, saying, “Yes, they did….We had this crazy, complex network of conveyor belts….And it was not working, so we got rid of that whole thing.”

Model 3 production is set to be halted for 4 or 5 days at Tesla’s Fremont, California assembly plant. A Tesla spokesperson told The Verge, “Our Model 3 production plan includes periods of planned downtime in both Fremont and Gigafactory 1. These periods are used to improve automation and systematically address bottlenecks in order to increase production rates. This is not unusual and is in fact common in production ramps like this.”

Tesla has continued to fall short of expected production numbers, reaching a production rate of 2,000 Model 3’s per week in the first quarter, short of the company’s goal of 2,500 per week by the end of the quarter. The company is still optimistic though, setting a target of 5,000 cars per week by the end of the first half of this year. The company claims that halting production to fix bottleneck issues has worked in the past, nearly doubling Model 3 production rates.

Tesla recently recalled 123,000 Model S vehicles, stating that any of the vehicles built before April 2016 were affected by a power steering issue. Tesla previously recalled 90,000 Model S cars in 2015, and recalled 53,000 Model S and Model X cars in 2017 over a parking brake fault. This latest recall marked the largest recall Tesla has ever initiated. Tesla said in an email to customers that the company had “observed excessive corrosion in the power steering bolts,” but that the problem mainly occurred in colder climates where road salt is commonly used. “If the bolts fail, the driver is still able to steer the car, but increased force is required due to loss or reduction of power assist,” Tesla stated. “This primarily makes the car harder to drive at low speeds and for parallel parking, but does not materially affect control at high speed, where only small steering wheel force is needed.”

Tesla is also under investigation for a number of autopilot crashes that have occurred in their cars, in relation to the latest crash Tesla has placed the blame on the deceased driver of their vehicle. In a statement provided to Business Insider, Tesla said:

According to the family, Mr. Huang was well aware that Autopilot was not perfect and, specifically, he told them it was not reliable in that exact location, yet he nonetheless engaged Autopilot at that location. The crash happened on a clear day with several hundred feet of visibility ahead, which means that the only way for this accident to have occurred is if Mr. Huang was not paying attention to the road, despite the car providing multiple warnings to do so.A professor of education at Stanford University argues in a recent academic journal article that the tabletop game Dungeons & Dragons perpetuates white privilege.

Standford University Professor Antero Garcia argues in an academic journal article that the popular game Dungeons and Dragons perpetuates systems of privilege.

Focusing on how the tabletop role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons is built on a system of play that has grown and shifted over the course of 40 years, this study emphasizes the central role that systems play in mediating the experiences of participants. By focusing on depictions of gender, race, and power in Dungeons & Dragons — as a singular cultural practice — this study highlights how researchers must attend to cultural production both around and within systems.

Garcia argues that Dungeons and Dragons encourages a distrust of the “other.” It’s a weird focus for a Stanford scholar, especially since Garcia concedes that race in Dungeons & Dragons is not much like race in the real world. In the game, the characters are divided by their species. Some characters are elves, some are dwarves, and some are halfings, according to Garcia.

Professor Garcia doesn’t stop there. He bemoans the fact that Dungeons & Dragons began as a “white man’s” hobby. He argues that wargaming communities are “male-dominated,” even though the inventor of Dungeons & Dragons tested the tabletop game out by letting his daughter play.

Garcia’s 16-page article focuses on the representation of women in the game. According to Garica’s research, by 2014, more than half of the game’s depicted characters are female.

According to the article, Garcia’s ultimate wish is to see Dungeons & Dragons move beyond its problematic past into a more diverse and inclusive future.A professor of education at Stanford University argues in a recent academic journal article that the tabletop game Dungeons & Dragons perpetuates white privilege.

Standford University Professor Antero Garcia argues in an academic journal article that the popular game Dungeons and Dragons perpetuates systems of privilege.

Focusing on how the tabletop role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons is built on a system of play that has grown and shifted over the course of 40 years, this study emphasizes the central role that systems play in mediating the experiences of participants. By focusing on depictions of gender, race, and power in Dungeons & Dragons — as a singular cultural practice — this study highlights how researchers must attend to cultural production both around and within systems.

Garcia argues that Dungeons and Dragons encourages a distrust of the “other.” It’s a weird focus for a Stanford scholar, especially since Garcia concedes that race in Dungeons & Dragons is not much like race in the real world. In the game, the characters are divided by their species. Some characters are elves, some are dwarves, and some are halfings, according to Garcia.

Professor Garcia doesn’t stop there. He bemoans the fact that Dungeons & Dragons began as a “white man’s” hobby. He argues that wargaming communities are “male-dominated,” even though the inventor of Dungeons & Dragons tested the tabletop game out by letting his daughter play.

Garcia’s 16-page article focuses on the representation of women in the game. According to Garica’s research, by 2014, more than half of the game’s depicted characters are female.

According to the article, Garcia’s ultimate wish is to see Dungeons & Dragons move beyond its problematic past into a more diverse and inclusive future.Goldman Sachs joined a somewhat awkward club Tuesday morning, delivering better-than-expected quarterly earnings only to see its shares sink when the market opened.

The Wall Street firm reported earnings of $6.95 per share, compared with analyst expectations of $5.56. This was the third-best earnings-per-share ever for Goldman. Revenue of $10.4 billion topped estimates of 8.54 billion, a 25 percent increase from a year ago.

Yet investors were not in the mood to pop champagne corks. Goldman shares fell by 1.6 percent Tuesday morning even as the broader market moved up, with the S&P 500 rising by 1 percent. Year to date, shares of Goldman have barely moved at all.

This is a pattern now familiar to investors. When J.P. Morgan Chase reported better than expected earnings last week, its shares sank. The same thing happened at Bank of America and Citigroup.

One of thing that likely put Goldman shareholders in a sour mood: Goldman’s comments that it wouldn’t be buying back shares in the second quarter.

But that would not explain the broader pattern of punishing market movements following earnings and revenue beats. The explanation for that likely lies in how these Wall Street powerhouses beat expectations.

Goldman’s investment banking revenue came in at $1.8 billion, a 5 percent increase over the start last year. Compared with the last quarter of 2017, investment banking revenues fell. Revenues for advising on mergers and acquisitions crashed 22 percent compared with the year-ago period. Revenues from underwriting new debt and equity issuance grew. A fair assessment would be to see this as a business that is slowly growing, beating broad U.S. economic growth but dependent on markets that welcome new equity and debt.

Investment management was stronger. The firm reported $1.77 billion in revenue for the first quarter, 18 percent higher than a year ago and 6 percent higher than the fourth quarter of 2017. Goldman says it has $1.5 trillion of assets under supervision, an increase of $4 billion since the end of last year.

What really drove Goldman’s revenue growth this quarter, however, was trading. Goldman’s equity trading revenues rose 38 percent compared to a year ago, to $2.31 billion. Fixed income, currency and commodity trading rose 23 percent, to $2.07 billion. The market volatility that has worried so many investors this year has been good for Goldman Sachs.

Goldman also squeezed a huge amount of growth out of its “Investing & Lending” division, a black box of longer-term proprietary debt and equity investments that sit on the company’s balance sheet. Revenues here grew 43 percent to $2.09 billion. The equities share of that was $1.07 billion, up 34%, which the company attributed to gains from private equities rather than gains in publicly traded stocks. In fact, Goldman says its gains from publicly traded equities declined.

Translation from Wall Street speak: Goldman’s access to non-publicly traded shares more than made up for the falling gains on the part of the U.S. equity market that ordinary investors can touch.

The debt side of the Investing and Lending unit accounted for $1.02 billion of revenue, a 53 percent gain, which Goldman said was due to higher net interest income. Translation: the interest rates Goldman charged clients went up by more than the interest rates Goldman paid to its own creditors.

“Solid performance across our businesses produced strong returns in the first quarter,” CEO Lloyd Blankfein said.Goldman Sachs joined a somewhat awkward club Tuesday morning, delivering better-than-expected quarterly earnings only to see its shares sink when the market opened.

The Wall Street firm reported earnings of $6.95 per share, compared with analyst expectations of $5.56. This was the third-best earnings-per-share ever for Goldman. Revenue of $10.4 billion topped estimates of 8.54 billion, a 25 percent increase from a year ago.

Yet investors were not in the mood to pop champagne corks. Goldman shares fell by 1.6 percent Tuesday morning even as the broader market moved up, with the S&P 500 rising by 1 percent. Year to date, shares of Goldman have barely moved at all.

This is a pattern now familiar to investors. When J.P. Morgan Chase reported better than expected earnings last week, its shares sank. The same thing happened at Bank of America and Citigroup.

One of thing that likely put Goldman shareholders in a sour mood: Goldman’s comments that it wouldn’t be buying back shares in the second quarter.

But that would not explain the broader pattern of punishing market movements following earnings and revenue beats. The explanation for that likely lies in how these Wall Street powerhouses beat expectations.

Goldman’s investment banking revenue came in at $1.8 billion, a 5 percent increase over the start last year. Compared with the last quarter of 2017, investment banking revenues fell. Revenues for advising on mergers and acquisitions crashed 22 percent compared with the year-ago period. Revenues from underwriting new debt and equity issuance grew. A fair assessment would be to see this as a business that is slowly growing, beating broad U.S. economic growth but dependent on markets that welcome new equity and debt.

Investment management was stronger. The firm reported $1.77 billion in revenue for the first quarter, 18 percent higher than a year ago and 6 percent higher than the fourth quarter of 2017. Goldman says it has $1.5 trillion of assets under supervision, an increase of $4 billion since the end of last year.

What really drove Goldman’s revenue growth this quarter, however, was trading. Goldman’s equity trading revenues rose 38 percent compared to a year ago, to $2.31 billion. Fixed income, currency and commodity trading rose 23 percent, to $2.07 billion. The market volatility that has worried so many investors this year has been good for Goldman Sachs.

Goldman also squeezed a huge amount of growth out of its “Investing & Lending” division, a black box of longer-term proprietary debt and equity investments that sit on the company’s balance sheet. Revenues here grew 43 percent to $2.09 billion. The equities share of that was $1.07 billion, up 34%, which the company attributed to gains from private equities rather than gains in publicly traded stocks. In fact, Goldman says its gains from publicly traded equities declined.

Translation from Wall Street speak: Goldman’s access to non-publicly traded shares more than made up for the falling gains on the part of the U.S. equity market that ordinary investors can touch.

The debt side of the Investing and Lending unit accounted for $1.02 billion of revenue, a 53 percent gain, which Goldman said was due to higher net interest income. Translation: the interest rates Goldman charged clients went up by more than the interest rates Goldman paid to its own creditors.

“Solid performance across our businesses produced strong returns in the first quarter,” CEO Lloyd Blankfein said.Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley Sector continue to encounter and arrest sex offenders previously deported from the U.S. In the past week, they also arrested a previously deported killer.

Agents assigned to the Kingsville Station arrested a Mexican national near the Sarita Border Patrol Checkpoint on Monday. Agents conducted a biometric background investigation and learned that the Mexican man had previously been arrested and convicted in Nashville, Tennessee, on a charge of sexual battery without consent. He received a two-year prison sentence before being deported.

One day earlier, agents assigned to the McAllen Station apprehended a man who illegally crossed the border near Hidalgo, Texas. Agents learned the man, a Salvadoran national, received a 10-year prison sentence in Baltimore, Maryland, for a sexual offense against a child.

On Saturday, Rio Grande City Station agents arrested a Honduran man near the border community of Santa Elena. This previously deported illegal alien had been charged in Harris County (Houston) for “indecency with a child.” That same day, agents assigned to the McAllen Station arrested another Honduran male near Granjeno, Texas. This Honduran had a criminal history with the Port Isabel Police Department for sexual assault of a child.

Agents assigned to the Corpus Christi Station arrested another Honduran on Friday man near the coastal community of Rockport. This illegal immigrant had previously been sentenced to five years in state prison for indecency with a child–sexual contact. The arrest and conviction occurred in Kerrville, Texas. That same day, Weslaco Station agents arrested yet another Honduran illegal alien sex offender. Fairfax, Virginia, police arrested this illegal lien for carnal knowledge of a child 13- to 15-years-old.

Two days earlier, Kingsville Station agents arrested a Salvadoran national near Norias, Texas. This man received a 180-day jail sentence following a New Jersey conviction for sexual assault.

RGV Sector agents in McAllen arrested a Honduran national near Hidalgo, Texas on Monday, April 9. The foreign national had been arrested by Charlotte, North Carolina police for indecent liberties with a child and lewd and lascivious acts.

That same day, Weslaco agents arrested a Mexican national near Hidalgo. Texas Department of Public Safety troopers previously arrested the Mexican man for negligent homicide. He received a six-month prison sentence for the offense.

All of these previously deported criminal aliens could all face a new felony charge of aggravated re-entry after removal. If convicted, the aliens could all face up to 20 years in prison.Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley Sector continue to encounter and arrest sex offenders previously deported from the U.S. In the past week, they also arrested a previously deported killer.

Agents assigned to the Kingsville Station arrested a Mexican national near the Sarita Border Patrol Checkpoint on Monday. Agents conducted a biometric background investigation and learned that the Mexican man had previously been arrested and convicted in Nashville, Tennessee, on a charge of sexual battery without consent. He received a two-year prison sentence before being deported.

One day earlier, agents assigned to the McAllen Station apprehended a man who illegally crossed the border near Hidalgo, Texas. Agents learned the man, a Salvadoran national, received a 10-year prison sentence in Baltimore, Maryland, for a sexual offense against a child.

On Saturday, Rio Grande City Station agents arrested a Honduran man near the border community of Santa Elena. This previously deported illegal alien had been charged in Harris County (Houston) for “indecency with a child.” That same day, agents assigned to the McAllen Station arrested another Honduran male near Granjeno, Texas. This Honduran had a criminal history with the Port Isabel Police Department for sexual assault of a child.

Agents assigned to the Corpus Christi Station arrested another Honduran on Friday man near the coastal community of Rockport. This illegal immigrant had previously been sentenced to five years in state prison for indecency with a child–sexual contact. The arrest and conviction occurred in Kerrville, Texas. That same day, Weslaco Station agents arrested yet another Honduran illegal alien sex offender. Fairfax, Virginia, police arrested this illegal lien for carnal knowledge of a child 13- to 15-years-old.

Two days earlier, Kingsville Station agents arrested a Salvadoran national near Norias, Texas. This man received a 180-day jail sentence following a New Jersey conviction for sexual assault.

RGV Sector agents in McAllen arrested a Honduran national near Hidalgo, Texas on Monday, April 9. The foreign national had been arrested by Charlotte, North Carolina police for indecent liberties with a child and lewd and lascivious acts.

That same day, Weslaco agents arrested a Mexican national near Hidalgo. Texas Department of Public Safety troopers previously arrested the Mexican man for negligent homicide. He received a six-month prison sentence for the offense.

All of these previously deported criminal aliens could all face a new felony charge of aggravated re-entry after removal. If convicted, the aliens could all face up to 20 years in prison.An illegal alien was arrested and charged by police in Nebraska for allegedly crashing into a motorcyclist and then running over the victim in an attempt to flee the scene and escape arrest.

Luis Velasquez-Ortiz was arrested in Omaha, Nebraska, and slapped with a two million dollar bond after the courts deemed him a flight risk, the Daily Mail reported.

“The state would suggest that he’s a high flight risk,” said Douglas County attorney Jameson Cantwell during the court appearance. “He is here illegally, from Guatemala. He avoided police after this incident. When he was located and arrested, he was found with fraudulent state, federal and international identification documents.”

Police said the 42-year-old, who has been living in the U.S. illegally for 15 years, slammed his Ford Explorer into the motorcyclist on April 11 and then tried to drive away from the scene.

Velasquez-Ortiz reportedly dragged and then ran over the victim, 31-year-old Juan J. Moreno-Tamayo.

“The motorcycle and the victim ended up underneath the defendant’s Ford vehicle,” Cantwell said in court, adding, “The defendant then accelerated and drove over the victim and the motorcycle, fleeing the scene.”

The motorcyclist died at the scene from the injuries, police said. Moreno-Tamayo was a husband and father of four children.

Velasquez-Ortiz was arrested the next day at his home because a witness wrote down his license plate number and gave it to police.

The suspect has a criminal record, which includes a past conviction for drunk driving and various drug offenses.

Velasquez-Ortiz’s employer said he was not aware his employee was an illegal alien but insisted the company does check immigration status before hiring.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.An illegal alien was arrested and charged by police in Nebraska for allegedly crashing into a motorcyclist and then running over the victim in an attempt to flee the scene and escape arrest.

Luis Velasquez-Ortiz was arrested in Omaha, Nebraska, and slapped with a two million dollar bond after the courts deemed him a flight risk, the Daily Mail reported.

“The state would suggest that he’s a high flight risk,” said Douglas County attorney Jameson Cantwell during the court appearance. “He is here illegally, from Guatemala. He avoided police after this incident. When he was located and arrested, he was found with fraudulent state, federal and international identification documents.”

Police said the 42-year-old, who has been living in the U.S. illegally for 15 years, slammed his Ford Explorer into the motorcyclist on April 11 and then tried to drive away from the scene.

Velasquez-Ortiz reportedly dragged and then ran over the victim, 31-year-old Juan J. Moreno-Tamayo.

“The motorcycle and the victim ended up underneath the defendant’s Ford vehicle,” Cantwell said in court, adding, “The defendant then accelerated and drove over the victim and the motorcycle, fleeing the scene.”

The motorcyclist died at the scene from the injuries, police said. Moreno-Tamayo was a husband and father of four children.

Velasquez-Ortiz was arrested the next day at his home because a witness wrote down his license plate number and gave it to police.

The suspect has a criminal record, which includes a past conviction for drunk driving and various drug offenses.

Velasquez-Ortiz’s employer said he was not aware his employee was an illegal alien but insisted the company does check immigration status before hiring.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.An FBI agent testified that text messages and photos found on an alleged assailant’s cell phone detailed the steps reportedly taken on the night an Austin district court judge was shot. The messages also allegedly show the extent of planning and premeditation between gunman and conspirators.

A gunman shot Travis County District Court Judge Julie Kocurek outside her home on November 6, 2015, Breitbart Texas reported. A neighbor told police she heard “four pops” at the time. The gunshots left Judge Kocurek in critical condition for weeks. In September 2016, a federal grand jury returned indictments against three men for their alleged roles in the criminal conspiracy to kill the judge. The indictment alleges that Chimene Onyeri shot Judge Kocurek while Marcellus Burgin and Rasul Scott acted as lookouts. Police reportedly determined a motive of retaliation.

An FBI agent testified on Monday about text messages found in phones, KXAN reported.

The agent testified that Onyeri texted one of his conspirators that “God is good bro,” after learning they would be able to obtain the judges home address. The alleged assailant reportedly sent the text about a month before the shooting. Onyeri appeared in the judge’s courtroom shortly before the text and learned he was in danger of having his probation revoked by Judge Kocurek.

Another text stated, “dis b—- talking about 6 to 7 years, SMH,” the agent testified. The agent said the texts showed that Onyeri was deciding what he was going to do to the judge.

Pictures on the phone reportedly included images of the judge’s home phone number and address and cars similar to the one driven by the judge on the night of the shooting.

Photos taken on the evening of the shooting showed an area near the judge’s home, according to testimony. One of the photos reportedly featured stadium lights on where the judge’s son was playing football. The photo was taken as the judge and her family at a nearby restaurant, the agent testified.

At about 7:45 p.m., a photo of the stadium lights and scoreboard were taken as an indication of what time they judge could be expected to return home, according to the investigator. At the same time, an internet search about the judge’s son was made by the alleged assailant, the FBI noted.

Judge Kocurek arrived home at about 10:16 p.m. As she approached, she observed a trash can blocked her driveway. The driver of her car got out to move the object when the gunman allegedly opened fire.

The gunfire left the judge severely injured. Her face and arms were “riddled with red, open wounds” as she lay unconscious in a hospital bed for more than two weeks, the Austin NBC affiliate reported.

Dr. Patrick Combs testified he kept her in a medically-induced coma for three days as he fought an infection that could have taken her life. The doctor testified the judge was not released from the hospital until December 15, 2016–six weeks following her attack. “She had a lot of recovery still,” the doctor said. After two years, the doctor is still recovering from her injuries and has undergone a surgeon’s knife 20 times. She may require additional surgery, the doctor stated. She lost her index finger on one hand because of the attack and Dr. Combs said her hand “will never be 100 percent.”

Onyeri’s trial is now in its 13th day.

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX, GAB, and Facebook.An FBI agent testified that text messages and photos found on an alleged assailant’s cell phone detailed the steps reportedly taken on the night an Austin district court judge was shot. The messages also allegedly show the extent of planning and premeditation between gunman and conspirators.

A gunman shot Travis County District Court Judge Julie Kocurek outside her home on November 6, 2015, Breitbart Texas reported. A neighbor told police she heard “four pops” at the time. The gunshots left Judge Kocurek in critical condition for weeks. In September 2016, a federal grand jury returned indictments against three men for their alleged roles in the criminal conspiracy to kill the judge. The indictment alleges that Chimene Onyeri shot Judge Kocurek while Marcellus Burgin and Rasul Scott acted as lookouts. Police reportedly determined a motive of retaliation.

An FBI agent testified on Monday about text messages found in phones, KXAN reported.

The agent testified that Onyeri texted one of his conspirators that “God is good bro,” after learning they would be able to obtain the judges home address. The alleged assailant reportedly sent the text about a month before the shooting. Onyeri appeared in the judge’s courtroom shortly before the text and learned he was in danger of having his probation revoked by Judge Kocurek.

Another text stated, “dis b—- talking about 6 to 7 years, SMH,” the agent testified. The agent said the texts showed that Onyeri was deciding what he was going to do to the judge.

Pictures on the phone reportedly included images of the judge’s home phone number and address and cars similar to the one driven by the judge on the night of the shooting.

Photos taken on the evening of the shooting showed an area near the judge’s home, according to testimony. One of the photos reportedly featured stadium lights on where the judge’s son was playing football. The photo was taken as the judge and her family at a nearby restaurant, the agent testified.

At about 7:45 p.m., a photo of the stadium lights and scoreboard were taken as an indication of what time they judge could be expected to return home, according to the investigator. At the same time, an internet search about the judge’s son was made by the alleged assailant, the FBI noted.

Judge Kocurek arrived home at about 10:16 p.m. As she approached, she observed a trash can blocked her driveway. The driver of her car got out to move the object when the gunman allegedly opened fire.

The gunfire left the judge severely injured. Her face and arms were “riddled with red, open wounds” as she lay unconscious in a hospital bed for more than two weeks, the Austin NBC affiliate reported.

Dr. Patrick Combs testified he kept her in a medically-induced coma for three days as he fought an infection that could have taken her life. The doctor testified the judge was not released from the hospital until December 15, 2016–six weeks following her attack. “She had a lot of recovery still,” the doctor said. After two years, the doctor is still recovering from her injuries and has undergone a surgeon’s knife 20 times. She may require additional surgery, the doctor stated. She lost her index finger on one hand because of the attack and Dr. Combs said her hand “will never be 100 percent.”

Onyeri’s trial is now in its 13th day.

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX, GAB, and Facebook.Conservatives can be expected to disagree reasonably over Justice Neil Gorsuch’s opinion Tuesday in Sessions v. Dimaya, in which he concurred with the Court’s liberals and cast the deciding vote in a 5-4 ruling invalidating an immigrant’s deportation.

But it is not reasonable to claim that Justice Gorsuch has somehow sold out his principles to become the next David Souter. His opinion in Dimaya is actually a conservative one, based on an originalist reading of the Constitution.

The majority held that Section 16(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is unconstitutionally vague. The law, as written, provides a legal basis for the deportation of a legal immigrant who is convicted of “crime of violence,” defined as “any other offense that is a felony and that, by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense.”

The legal immigrant in question has been convicted twice of first-degree burglary in California. But the Court held, following the precdent in Johnson v. United States (2015), that the idea of “substantial risk” of physical violence was just too vague. Congress simply had not provided a precise enough definition of a “crime of violence.” That meant that the Fifth Amendment due process rights of a legal immigrant convicted of a crime could be violated by deportation.

Gorsuch’s concurring opinion begins:

Vague laws invite arbitrary power. Before the Revolu­tion, the crime of treason in English law was so capa­ ciously construed that the mere expression of disfavored opinions could invite transportation or death. The founders cited the crown’s abuse of “pretended” crimes like this as one of their reasons for revolution. See Declaration of Independence ¶21. Today’s vague laws may not be as invidious, but they can invite the exercise of arbitrary power all the same—by leaving the people in the dark about what the law demands and allowing prosecutors and courts to make it up.

In other words, Gorsuch is not concerned with the welfare of this immigrant or any other. Rather, he is concerned about the federal government potentially abusing its power by exploiting vague language in the law.

He goes on to point out that “burglary” includes “everyone from armed home intruders to door-to-door salesmen peddling shady products,” leaving the courts in the dark about how to determined a “substantial risk” of force.

Gorsuch also addresses the question of whether invalidating a statute for vagueness is itself constitutional — a question raised by Justice Clarence Thomas in his own dissenting opinion — and applies originalist arguments to that subject as well, citing precedent and principle in 18th century English law.

The main dissenting opinion, written by Chief Justice Roberts, disagrees that the law is unconstitutionally vague, distinguishing the Dimaya case from the Johnson precedent and saying that the courts were merely called upon to make a “commonsense inquiry” about the risks of violence. And Thomas questions the “vagueness” doctrine itself.

Gorsuch’s opinion is not a case of yet another Republican appointee to the Supreme Court going liberal. Rather, it is analogous to Justice Antonin Scalia’s dissent in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld (2004), in which the original originalist voted against President George W. Bush because he believed that the Constitution forbade the government from holding an American citizen — even one accused of fighting alongside our terrorist enemies — without charge.

These cases both remind us that originalists will sometimes disagree in their conclusions, even if they agree in their methods.

And in this case, there is a clear remedy: Congress can simply amend the statute to clarify “crimes of violence.”

Far from violating the trust under which he was appointed, Gorsuch is fulfilling his commitment to originalism.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.California Governor Jerry Brown blamed “low-life politicians” for a growing backlash against the “sanctuary state” policies he has enacted in his state during an appearance at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, on Tuesday.

Brown spoke as a revolt continues to spread throughout Southern California against the state’s sanctuary laws in the wake of a Department of Justice lawsuit filed last month against the Golden State’s “sanctuary” laws.

The lawsuit seeks to invalidate three state laws — the Immigrant Worker Protection Act (HB 450), the Inspection and Review of Facilities Housing Federal Detainees law (AB 103); and the California Values Act (SB 54) — under the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

Roughly a dozen local governments have joined the revolt, and many more are considering joining the lawsuit, with three new cities climbing aboard last week.

But Brown dismissed the grass-roots backlash against the “sanctuary state” laws as the political machinations of the Republican Party.

Fox News reports:

… Brown defended the state law, suggesting Republicans are exploiting it for political reasons. “The Republican Party has this little, narrow group of … people that think that somehow they’re going to get elected” on the issue, Brown said of the recently enacted state law that helps protect illegal immigrants from deportation. … “It’s an inflammatory football that very low-life politicians are trying to exploit,” Brown said of the conservative-led backlash.

Also on Tuesday, President Donald Trump criticized Brown on Twitter for failing to reach an agreement to send National Guard troops to the border:

Looks like Jerry Brown and California are not looking for safety and security along their very porous Border. He cannot come to terms for the National Guard to patrol and protect the Border. The high crime rate will only get higher. Much wanted Wall in San Diego already started! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 17, 2018

Brown reportedly told the National Press Club, however, that an agreement was within reach, and that he does care about border security.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.California Governor Jerry Brown blamed “low-life politicians” for a growing backlash against the “sanctuary state” policies he has enacted in his state during an appearance at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, on Tuesday.

Brown spoke as a revolt continues to spread throughout Southern California against the state’s sanctuary laws in the wake of a Department of Justice lawsuit filed last month against the Golden State’s “sanctuary” laws.

The lawsuit seeks to invalidate three state laws — the Immigrant Worker Protection Act (HB 450), the Inspection and Review of Facilities Housing Federal Detainees law (AB 103); and the California Values Act (SB 54) — under the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

Roughly a dozen local governments have joined the revolt, and many more are considering joining the lawsuit, with three new cities climbing aboard last week.

But Brown dismissed the grass-roots backlash against the “sanctuary state” laws as the political machinations of the Republican Party.

Fox News reports:

… Brown defended the state law, suggesting Republicans are exploiting it for political reasons. “The Republican Party has this little, narrow group of … people that think that somehow they’re going to get elected” on the issue, Brown said of the recently enacted state law that helps protect illegal immigrants from deportation. … “It’s an inflammatory football that very low-life politicians are trying to exploit,” Brown said of the conservative-led backlash.

Also on Tuesday, President Donald Trump criticized Brown on Twitter for failing to reach an agreement to send National Guard troops to the border:

Looks like Jerry Brown and California are not looking for safety and security along their very porous Border. He cannot come to terms for the National Guard to patrol and protect the Border. The high crime rate will only get higher. Much wanted Wall in San Diego already started! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 17, 2018

Brown reportedly told the National Press Club, however, that an agreement was within reach, and that he does care about border security.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.From what we know so far, conservative talker Sean Hannity had a limited business relationship with Michael Cohen, who is also President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, and who just had his offices, home, and hotel room raided by the FBI. Because Hannity is a commentator with four hours to fill every day, he has a lot to say about the raid.

But now that a partisan judge (to say the least — the swamp is deep, my friends) has forced Cohen to reveal that Hannity is a client, everyone in the establishment media (read those with much lower ratings than Hannity) have the knives out because Hannity did not reveal this potential conflict of interest.

So desperate are they to bloody Hannity, the media have just done a very good thing with the creation of what we will call the “Sean Hannity Standard,” a standard that demands commentators and reporters disclose any and all potential conflicts-of-interest pertaining to the story or person they are reporting on.

What a wonderful idea!

Over at the far-left Politico, Michael Calderone writes, that Hannity “should have disclosed that he’s a client of Cohen’s.”

What a wonderful idea!

Kathleen Bartzen Culver, director of the Center for Journalism Ethics at the University of Wisconsin, told Politico, “commentators should still be expected to maintain independence from subjects they covering and disclose relevant ties.”

What a wonderful idea!

CNN, Media Matters, MSNBC… Everyone agrees with this wonderful idea!

And I could not agree more.

It is long past time for the media to pour sunshine on any and all potential conflicts-of-interest.

And the timing could not be more perfect. Good grief, less than 24 hours before the creation of the “Sean Hannity Standard,” former-President Bill Clinton’s very own press secretary George Stephanopoulos interviewed James Comey, the disgraced former chief of the FBI, about his decision not to prosecute Bill Clinton’s wife Hillary over her countless email crimes.

Naturally, neither ABC or Stephanopoulos bothered to disclose this.

But thanks to the “Sean Hannity Standard” this will never happen again.

Right?

What’s more, how many so-called journalists who downplayed reported on Hillary Clinton’s scandals are friendly with Bill and Hillary, or members of their inner circle?

Now that we are entering the era of the “Sean Hannity Standard,” we will finally be enlightened with full disclosures from every political journalist/commentator about their personal relationships with Democrat politicians and their respective handlers.

I am especially eager to hear from Andrea Mitchell, Maggie Haberman, and Joe Scarborough.

How many dinners, dinner parties, coffees, baby showers, wedding showers?

How many lunches, drinks, cocktail parties?

If you recall, Comey allowed Cheryl Mills to pretend to be Hillary’s attorney when the FBI questioned Hillary about her rogue email server (it was all a show — Comey had already written Hillary’s exoneration). At long last we are about to find out how many of those who reported on this particular story are palsy walsy with Hillary’s attorney. With former Attorney General Loretta Lynch! With Comey!

DC is an incestuous pit. What a relief, then, that we will now be told in advance if a commentator or reporter has ever shared a lawyer, literary rep, children’s prep school, public relations firm, investment manager, or agent, with the public figures they report on.

Jake Tapper’s wife was a regional field manager for the abortion mill Planned Parenthood.

Chuck Todd’s wife is a Democrat activist.

CNN regularly reports on Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ). Thank heaven the public will now be informed that CNN chief Jeff Zucker’s 14-year-old son was awarded stock options potentially worth millions from Booker.

Claire Shipman, a senior national correspondent at ABC News, is married to no other than Jay Carney, who was Obama’s White House Press Secretary.

Virginia Moseley, a CNN Vice President and Washington Bureau Chief is married to Tom Nides, who was a Deputy Secretary of State under Barack Obama.

CBS News president David Rhodes is the brother of Ben Rhodes, a top foreign policy adviser to Obama — the man behind the Benghazi cover-up and the disastrous Iran deal.

Barack Obama attended the wedding of Marth Raddadtz, a senior correspondent at ABC news who moderated the 2012 vice presidential debate.

How exciting that these glaring conflicts-of-interest will no longer remain hidden.

What’s more, if attorney-client privilege is no longer sacred under the “Sean Hannity Standard,” that can only mean that we will finally say goodbye to confidential and unnamed sources. Not all of them. Just those with a conflict-of-interest, those whose leaks further their own agenda — which pretty much means all of them.

Welcome to a whole new era of transparency in journalism.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.Facebook could reportedly face billions of dollars in fines over their facial recognition features due to an Illinois law relating to the collection of biometric data.

A federal judge has ruled that a class action lawsuit including millions of Facebook users can proceed with their claims that the social media firm violated an Illinois law relating to the collection and storage of biometric data without users consent, according to Bloomberg. Millions of social media users could potentially sue Facebook for violations of the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act of 2008 (BIPA) which holds a fine of $1,000 to $5,000 each time a user’s photo is used without permission. This could result in Facebook paying out billions of dollars.

Facebook has regularly encouraged users to tag themselves, friends and family members in uploaded photos and has then stored this information, the social media company then uses a program called DeepFace to match this with other photos of the tagged person. Judge James Donato wrote in a court order:

A class action is clearly superior to individual proceedings here. While not trivial, BIPA’s statutory damages are not enough to incentivize individual plaintiffs given the high costs of pursuing discovery on Facebook’s software and code base and Facebook’s willingness to litigate the case…Facebook seems to believe that a class action is not superior because statutory damages could amount to billions of dollars.

Shawn Williams, the lawyer representing users worried about Facebook’s collection of their biometric data wrote:

As more people become aware of the scope of Facebook’s data collection and as consequences begin to attach to that data collection, whether economic or regulatory, Facebook will have to take a long look at its privacy practices and make changes consistent with user expectations and regulatory requirements.

Facebook has stated that they are reviewing the ruling saying, “We continue to believe the case has no merit and will defend ourselves vigorously.” Facebook argued that the lawsuit should be pursued by individuals and not as a class-action as “damages could amount to billions of dollars,” the company also argued that each user could be “aggrieved” differently and should be forced to prove that they were negatively affected by Facebook’s collection of the data. Judge Donato ruled that “substantial damages are not a reason to decline class certification.”

Judge Donato approved the class of users in the suit in June 2011. A court ruling from December reads:

Although many individuals may not have had enough tagged photos to generate a face template in Facebook’s database, in January 2011 (i.e., before Facebook implemented tag suggestions for all users) the average user was tagged in 53 photos, far more than the 10 needed to generate a face template.

Judge Donato has ruled that the Illinois privacy act is clear and that Facebook collected a “wealth of data on its users, including self-reported residency and IP addresses.” The case is In re Facebook Biometric Information Privacy Litigation, 15-cv-03747, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco.)Facebook could reportedly face billions of dollars in fines over their facial recognition features due to an Illinois law relating to the collection of biometric data.

A federal judge has ruled that a class action lawsuit including millions of Facebook users can proceed with their claims that the social media firm violated an Illinois law relating to the collection and storage of biometric data without users consent, according to Bloomberg. Millions of social media users could potentially sue Facebook for violations of the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act of 2008 (BIPA) which holds a fine of $1,000 to $5,000 each time a user’s photo is used without permission. This could result in Facebook paying out billions of dollars.

Facebook has regularly encouraged users to tag themselves, friends and family members in uploaded photos and has then stored this information, the social media company then uses a program called DeepFace to match this with other photos of the tagged person. Judge James Donato wrote in a court order:

A class action is clearly superior to individual proceedings here. While not trivial, BIPA’s statutory damages are not enough to incentivize individual plaintiffs given the high costs of pursuing discovery on Facebook’s software and code base and Facebook’s willingness to litigate the case…Facebook seems to believe that a class action is not superior because statutory damages could amount to billions of dollars.

Shawn Williams, the lawyer representing users worried about Facebook’s collection of their biometric data wrote:

As more people become aware of the scope of Facebook’s data collection and as consequences begin to attach to that data collection, whether economic or regulatory, Facebook will have to take a long look at its privacy practices and make changes consistent with user expectations and regulatory requirements.

Facebook has stated that they are reviewing the ruling saying, “We continue to believe the case has no merit and will defend ourselves vigorously.” Facebook argued that the lawsuit should be pursued by individuals and not as a class-action as “damages could amount to billions of dollars,” the company also argued that each user could be “aggrieved” differently and should be forced to prove that they were negatively affected by Facebook’s collection of the data. Judge Donato ruled that “substantial damages are not a reason to decline class certification.”

Judge Donato approved the class of users in the suit in June 2011. A court ruling from December reads:

Although many individuals may not have had enough tagged photos to generate a face template in Facebook’s database, in January 2011 (i.e., before Facebook implemented tag suggestions for all users) the average user was tagged in 53 photos, far more than the 10 needed to generate a face template.

Judge Donato has ruled that the Illinois privacy act is clear and that Facebook collected a “wealth of data on its users, including self-reported residency and IP addresses.” The case is In re Facebook Biometric Information Privacy Litigation, 15-cv-03747, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco.)Media Research Center Founder and President Brent Bozell discussed the MRC’s report, “CENSORED! How Online Media Companies Are Suppressing Conservative Speech,” on Monday’s “Ingraham Angle” on the Fox News Channel.

Bozell said, “This is the emerging of the greatest censorship of free speech worldwide in the history of man. Now, let me explain this, the left is on a jihad against conservative thought. It’s happening in academia, entertainment, business, religion, everywhere.” ‘

“Now, they’re going to the social media giants,” he continued. “These social media giants have audiences in the billions. And what we’ve shown in this massive report, is whether it’s Facebook, or Twitter, or Google, or YouTube, they’re all employing different tactics to go against conservatives.”

Follow Breitbart.tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideoMedia Research Center Founder and President Brent Bozell discussed the MRC’s report, “CENSORED! How Online Media Companies Are Suppressing Conservative Speech,” on Monday’s “Ingraham Angle” on the Fox News Channel.

Bozell said, “This is the emerging of the greatest censorship of free speech worldwide in the history of man. Now, let me explain this, the left is on a jihad against conservative thought. It’s happening in academia, entertainment, business, religion, everywhere.” ‘

“Now, they’re going to the social media giants,” he continued. “These social media giants have audiences in the billions. And what we’ve shown in this massive report, is whether it’s Facebook, or Twitter, or Google, or YouTube, they’re all employing different tactics to go against conservatives.”

Follow Breitbart.tv on Twitter @BreitbartVideoCNN has defended Facebook in an article discussing the alleged limiting of YouTube stars Diamond and Silk’s Facebook page — while benefiting from the sites recently changed News Feed algorithm.

In a recent article titled “Led by Fox News, pro-Trump Media Fuels False Narrative to Accuse Facebook of Censorship,” CNN claims that conservative media had stated that YouTube stars Diamond and Silk were banned from Facebook. The article states; “Hardaway and Richardson, who are sisters from North Carolina, were at one point earlier this month erroneously told by Facebook that their content had been deemed ‘unsafe for the community,’ but the Diamond & Silk page was never banned. It was never taken down. It was never censored. Data from an analytics firm owned by Facebook shows it has not lost a significant amount of its influence on the social network.”

However, it should be noted that Breitbart News never claimed that Diamond and Silk were banned, Breitbart News reported that Diamond and Silk claimed that their reach to their Facebook fans was being limited and included a comment from a Facebook spokesperson who stated that their content was “unsafe to the community.” When Breitbart News reached out to Facebook for comment a spokesperson simply stated; “We are aware of this issue. We are reaching out to the creators of Diamond & Silk to try and resolve this matter.”

What is quite interesting is that CNN has rushed to Facebook’s defense in this case, shortly after the social media site altered their News Feed algorithm in a manner which has greatly benefited CNN in recent months. Newswhip reports that between February and April, CNN saw a 30.1 percent increase in interactions, a jump of approximately 11 million more interactions than in previous months. This increase comes shortly after Facebook altered their newsfeed to focus on posts from friends and family and introduced a “Trusted Sources” feature for news publishers.

Newswhip reports:

While the site did have some very popular stories (66 of 5,597 stories published in March saw over 100,000 Facebook interactions), there seems to have also been a general lift in interactions for stories further down the chain. CNN’s average engagement per article in March was 7,010, up from 4,982 in February. The site’s most engaging stories of the month encompassed a broad range of themes, largely related to breaking news. CNN isn’t the only mainstream news publisher to have benefitted from an engagement increase in March. NBC and Fox News also consolidated their positions in second and third place, with increases of a few million interactions.

The analytics site also notes that other mainstream news outlets such as the New York Times, the BBC, the Washington Post, and the Guardian also saw large increases in their interactions following the News Feed algorithm update.

As for the case of Diamond and Silk, the duo told CNN; “We’ve made contact with Facebook and are looking forward to getting this matter resolved.” Further details on Diamond and Silk’s Facebook page and allegations of limiting are still unclear.CNN has defended Facebook in an article discussing the alleged limiting of YouTube stars Diamond and Silk’s Facebook page — while benefiting from the sites recently changed News Feed algorithm.

In a recent article titled “Led by Fox News, pro-Trump Media Fuels False Narrative to Accuse Facebook of Censorship,” CNN claims that conservative media had stated that YouTube stars Diamond and Silk were banned from Facebook. The article states; “Hardaway and Richardson, who are sisters from North Carolina, were at one point earlier this month erroneously told by Facebook that their content had been deemed ‘unsafe for the community,’ but the Diamond & Silk page was never banned. It was never taken down. It was never censored. Data from an analytics firm owned by Facebook shows it has not lost a significant amount of its influence on the social network.”

However, it should be noted that Breitbart News never claimed that Diamond and Silk were banned, Breitbart News reported that Diamond and Silk claimed that their reach to their Facebook fans was being limited and included a comment from a Facebook spokesperson who stated that their content was “unsafe to the community.” When Breitbart News reached out to Facebook for comment a spokesperson simply stated; “We are aware of this issue. We are reaching out to the creators of Diamond & Silk to try and resolve this matter.”

What is quite interesting is that CNN has rushed to Facebook’s defense in this case, shortly after the social media site altered their News Feed algorithm in a manner which has greatly benefited CNN in recent months. Newswhip reports that between February and April, CNN saw a 30.1 percent increase in interactions, a jump of approximately 11 million more interactions than in previous months. This increase comes shortly after Facebook altered their newsfeed to focus on posts from friends and family and introduced a “Trusted Sources” feature for news publishers.

Newswhip reports:

While the site did have some very popular stories (66 of 5,597 stories published in March saw over 100,000 Facebook interactions), there seems to have also been a general lift in interactions for stories further down the chain. CNN’s average engagement per article in March was 7,010, up from 4,982 in February. The site’s most engaging stories of the month encompassed a broad range of themes, largely related to breaking news. CNN isn’t the only mainstream news publisher to have benefitted from an engagement increase in March. NBC and Fox News also consolidated their positions in second and third place, with increases of a few million interactions.

The analytics site also notes that other mainstream news outlets such as the New York Times, the BBC, the Washington Post, and the Guardian also saw large increases in their interactions following the News Feed algorithm update.

As for the case of Diamond and Silk, the duo told CNN; “We’ve made contact with Facebook and are looking forward to getting this matter resolved.” Further details on Diamond and Silk’s Facebook page and allegations of limiting are still unclear.Canadian columnist and host of the Glazov Gang, Jamie Glazov, was suspended from Facebook after he posted screenshots of abuse he received for criticising Islam.

Canadian conservative columnist and editor of Frontpage Magazine, Jamie Glazov, has found his Facebook account suspended after he posted screenshots of threats and abuse he received from a commenter angry that Glazov had criticised Islam. In an article on his website, Glazov posted screenshots of an exchange he had with another Facebook user named Muhammad Irfan Ayoub. Glazov claims that Ayoub began “rebuking him for daring to bring attention to the persecution of women and girls under Sharia and telling Jamie to convert to Islam.”

In one exchange, Ayoub reportedly told Glazov that “Allah will defeat you,” Glazov replied; “Allah will defeat us? I thought Islam was a religion of peace?” Ayoub replied; “Peace for those who obey Allah and His Prophet. but those who oppose them their [there] is no peace for them.” A screenshot of the exchange can be seen below.

In another exchange, Ayoub said to Glazov; “I will break your mouth,”

Glazov then made two posts to his own Facebook page featuring screenshots of his exchange with Ayoub. According to Glazov the two posts were about “(1) asking Mark Zuckerberg if Ayoub’s threat is unsafe to the community and (2) pointing out that if a kafir (Islam’s secret dirty word for the unbeliever) said this to Ayoub on Facebook that there would be a lifelong ban and police would be at the kafir’s door within 12 hours.”

The two posts can be seen below:

Glazov then states that he was suspended from Facebook for seven days, receiving the following error when he attempted to post to his profile:

Glazov sent a message to Facebook which reads; “I was threatened on Facebook by Muhammad Irfan Ayoub – he said he would “break my mouth.” I made a post of this with a screenshot. Now you have banned me for complaining about being threatened.” Facebook has yet to respond to Glazov. Breitbart News also reached out to Facebook for comment on the issue but has yet to receive a reply at the time of this writing.

Glazov’s situation seems quite similar to that of conservative actress Mindy Robinson who also found herself suspended briefly from Facebook after posting screenshots of abuse she had received. “The page is up, I’m on a 30-day ban from using it though. There is, of course, the looming threat that they will just unpublish the page and I’ll lose all 136k followers,” said Robinson. “Personally I’m tired of getting constant unsolicited threats from ‘tolerant’ liberals. I wanted to show people what they say when they think they can’t be held accountable. I even blocked out his last name so that I wouldn’t be accused of harassment.”

Breitbart News received no reply to a request for comment from Facebook but following our outreach to the platform along with emails from Robinson’s fans and other concerned conservatives, the right-wing actress has had her posting rights reinstated. In a post to her page, Robinson stated “Well look at that, there’s absolutely no way this would have happened if you guys hadn’t garnered so much support around me for my malicious Facebook ban. This is proof we cannot be silenced if we stand together…. #MAGA”Canadian columnist and host of the Glazov Gang, Jamie Glazov, was suspended from Facebook after he posted screenshots of abuse he received for criticising Islam.

Canadian conservative columnist and editor of Frontpage Magazine, Jamie Glazov, has found his Facebook account suspended after he posted screenshots of threats and abuse he received from a commenter angry that Glazov had criticised Islam. In an article on his website, Glazov posted screenshots of an exchange he had with another Facebook user named Muhammad Irfan Ayoub. Glazov claims that Ayoub began “rebuking him for daring to bring attention to the persecution of women and girls under Sharia and telling Jamie to convert to Islam.”

In one exchange, Ayoub reportedly told Glazov that “Allah will defeat you,” Glazov replied; “Allah will defeat us? I thought Islam was a religion of peace?” Ayoub replied; “Peace for those who obey Allah and His Prophet. but those who oppose them their [there] is no peace for them.” A screenshot of the exchange can be seen below.

In another exchange, Ayoub said to Glazov; “I will break your mouth,”

Glazov then made two posts to his own Facebook page featuring screenshots of his exchange with Ayoub. According to Glazov the two posts were about “(1) asking Mark Zuckerberg if Ayoub’s threat is unsafe to the community and (2) pointing out that if a kafir (Islam’s secret dirty word for the unbeliever) said this to Ayoub on Facebook that there would be a lifelong ban and police would be at the kafir’s door within 12 hours.”

The two posts can be seen below:

Glazov then states that he was suspended from Facebook for seven days, receiving the following error when he attempted to post to his profile:

Glazov sent a message to Facebook which reads; “I was threatened on Facebook by Muhammad Irfan Ayoub – he said he would “break my mouth.” I made a post of this with a screenshot. Now you have banned me for complaining about being threatened.” Facebook has yet to respond to Glazov. Breitbart News also reached out to Facebook for comment on the issue but has yet to receive a reply at the time of this writing.

Glazov’s situation seems quite similar to that of conservative actress Mindy Robinson who also found herself suspended briefly from Facebook after posting screenshots of abuse she had received. “The page is up, I’m on a 30-day ban from using it though. There is, of course, the looming threat that they will just unpublish the page and I’ll lose all 136k followers,” said Robinson. “Personally I’m tired of getting constant unsolicited threats from ‘tolerant’ liberals. I wanted to show people what they say when they think they can’t be held accountable. I even blocked out his last name so that I wouldn’t be accused of harassment.”

Breitbart News received no reply to a request for comment from Facebook but following our outreach to the platform along with emails from Robinson’s fans and other concerned conservatives, the right-wing actress has had her posting rights reinstated. In a post to her page, Robinson stated “Well look at that, there’s absolutely no way this would have happened if you guys hadn’t garnered so much support around me for my malicious Facebook ban. This is proof we cannot be silenced if we stand together…. #MAGA”A campaign led by anti-gun activist David Hogg aimed at the advertisers of Laura Ingraham’s Fox News show The Ingraham Angle appears to have backfired, as her ratings have reportedly risen by over 20 percent.

“Since Ingraham returned from vacation on April 9, total viewership of her program has averaged about 2.7 million (Monday through Thursday; Friday’s numbers are not available),” Newsbusters reported.

“Compare that to the ratings from March 26 through March 29, the Monday through Thursday just prior to the boycott: That week, Ingraham’s total viewership averaged 2.23 million,” it continued. “The increase in her ratings since the boycott began is more than 20 percent.”

The rise in ratings follows a campaign led by student activist David Hogg, who began targeting Ingraham’s advertisers after she made derogatory comments about Hogg’s failure to get into certain colleges – an action for which she later apologized.

However, Hogg pressed on with the campaign, urging companies to boycott The Ingraham Angle, denouncing the apology as an “effort just to save your advertisers.”

Around 27 companies including Office Depot, Jenny Craig, Hulu, TripAdvisor, Expedia, Wayfair, StitchFix, Nestle, Johnson & Johnson, Atlantis Paradise Island, and Liberty Mutual agreed to pull advertising, although other companies have refused.

Despite the campaign, Fox News have expressed their support for Ingraham, warning that they “will not allow voices to be censored by agenda-driven intimidation efforts.”

Advertisers that refused to boycott the show, such as pillow company MyPillow, have also seen “strong” sales in recent weeks, despite a boycott campaign led by Hogg’s supporters over the company’s refusal to bow to their wishes.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comA campaign led by anti-gun activist David Hogg aimed at the advertisers of Laura Ingraham’s Fox News show The Ingraham Angle appears to have backfired, as her ratings have reportedly risen by over 20 percent.

“Since Ingraham returned from vacation on April 9, total viewership of her program has averaged about 2.7 million (Monday through Thursday; Friday’s numbers are not available),” Newsbusters reported.

“Compare that to the ratings from March 26 through March 29, the Monday through Thursday just prior to the boycott: That week, Ingraham’s total viewership averaged 2.23 million,” it continued. “The increase in her ratings since the boycott began is more than 20 percent.”

The rise in ratings follows a campaign led by student activist David Hogg, who began targeting Ingraham’s advertisers after she made derogatory comments about Hogg’s failure to get into certain colleges – an action for which she later apologized.

However, Hogg pressed on with the campaign, urging companies to boycott The Ingraham Angle, denouncing the apology as an “effort just to save your advertisers.”

Around 27 companies including Office Depot, Jenny Craig, Hulu, TripAdvisor, Expedia, Wayfair, StitchFix, Nestle, Johnson & Johnson, Atlantis Paradise Island, and Liberty Mutual agreed to pull advertising, although other companies have refused.

Despite the campaign, Fox News have expressed their support for Ingraham, warning that they “will not allow voices to be censored by agenda-driven intimidation efforts.”

Advertisers that refused to boycott the show, such as pillow company MyPillow, have also seen “strong” sales in recent weeks, despite a boycott campaign led by Hogg’s supporters over the company’s refusal to bow to their wishes.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comThe following post is sponsored by Free Our Internet.

After weeks of dodging responsibility and avoiding answers on crucial questions related to user data and censorship of conservatives, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appeared at two Congressional hearings last week. Unfortunately, a lot of important questions remained unanswered. Specifically, it’s still unclear why companies like Facebook and Google continue to block and censor conservatives under the guise of preventing “hate speech.”

Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) said it best in response to two pro-Trump vloggers who were flagged by Facebook as “unsafe for the community:” “Diamond and Silk is not hate speech,” Rep. Blackburn told Zuckerberg.

Blackburn was right. Does this look unsafe to you?

Why do Silicon Valley elites think conservative speech is hate speech? For years, companies like Google and Facebook have been banning, blocking, and censoring anything that goes against their worldview.

Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) pinned Zuckerberg down on how Facebook recently banned an advertisement from a Catholic organization on Easter Sunday because it contained a crucifix.

McMorris Rodgers was right. Conservative speech is not hate speech.

Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) also pointed out the double standard towards conservative speech online in an exchange with Zuckerberg, grilling him on the company’s political bias. Take a look:

CRUZ: Let me — let me ask this question: Are you aware of any ad or page that has been taken down from Planned Parenthood? ZUCKERBERG: Senator, I’m not. But let me just … CRUZ: How about moveon.org? ZUCKERBERG: Sorry. CRUZ: How about moveon.org? ZUCKERBERG: I’m not specifically aware of those … CRUZ: How about any Democratic candidate for office? ZUCKERBERG: I’m not specifically aware. I mean, I’m not sure.

Sen. Cruz was right. Conservatives face a double standard.

Congressman Frank Upton (R-MI) questioned Zuckerberg on a recent case of a conservative political candidate’s ad being taken down and marked as “shocking and disrespectful.” Not surprisingly, Zuckerberg was conveniently unaware of this case and unable to give concrete solutions on how to avoid it again.

Upton was right. Does this look shocking and disrespectful to you?

We’ve long known that Silicon Valley monopolies like Google and Facebook have been using their gatekeeper positions to censor conservatives. They claim to be a neutral platform, but they serve as a vehicle for advancing speech that only fits a liberal agenda. It’s up to the public to stand up to these giants and help maintain free speech online, which is where our society communicates in the 21st century.

Learn more about how companies like Google and Facebook are abusing your privacy, censoring conservatives, and abdicating their responsibilities as self-described open platforms by visiting FreeOurInternet.org.The following post is sponsored by Free Our Internet.

After weeks of dodging responsibility and avoiding answers on crucial questions related to user data and censorship of conservatives, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appeared at two Congressional hearings last week. Unfortunately, a lot of important questions remained unanswered. Specifically, it’s still unclear why companies like Facebook and Google continue to block and censor conservatives under the guise of preventing “hate speech.”

Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) said it best in response to two pro-Trump vloggers who were flagged by Facebook as “unsafe for the community:” “Diamond and Silk is not hate speech,” Rep. Blackburn told Zuckerberg.

Blackburn was right. Does this look unsafe to you?

Why do Silicon Valley elites think conservative speech is hate speech? For years, companies like Google and Facebook have been banning, blocking, and censoring anything that goes against their worldview.

Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) pinned Zuckerberg down on how Facebook recently banned an advertisement from a Catholic organization on Easter Sunday because it contained a crucifix.

McMorris Rodgers was right. Conservative speech is not hate speech.

Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) also pointed out the double standard towards conservative speech online in an exchange with Zuckerberg, grilling him on the company’s political bias. Take a look:

CRUZ: Let me — let me ask this question: Are you aware of any ad or page that has been taken down from Planned Parenthood? ZUCKERBERG: Senator, I’m not. But let me just … CRUZ: How about moveon.org? ZUCKERBERG: Sorry. CRUZ: How about moveon.org? ZUCKERBERG: I’m not specifically aware of those … CRUZ: How about any Democratic candidate for office? ZUCKERBERG: I’m not specifically aware. I mean, I’m not sure.

Sen. Cruz was right. Conservatives face a double standard.

Congressman Frank Upton (R-MI) questioned Zuckerberg on a recent case of a conservative political candidate’s ad being taken down and marked as “shocking and disrespectful.” Not surprisingly, Zuckerberg was conveniently unaware of this case and unable to give concrete solutions on how to avoid it again.

Upton was right. Does this look shocking and disrespectful to you?

We’ve long known that Silicon Valley monopolies like Google and Facebook have been using their gatekeeper positions to censor conservatives. They claim to be a neutral platform, but they serve as a vehicle for advancing speech that only fits a liberal agenda. It’s up to the public to stand up to these giants and help maintain free speech online, which is where our society communicates in the 21st century.

Learn more about how companies like Google and Facebook are abusing your privacy, censoring conservatives, and abdicating their responsibilities as self-described open platforms by visiting FreeOurInternet.org.Monday on his Fox News Channel program, Sean Hannity dismissed the relevance of his relationship with Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who is under heightened scrutiny after his law offices were raided by the FBI last week.

Hannity opened his remarks by noting the media hyperfocus on that news.

“All right, there’s been all kinds of wild speculation from mainstream media about me and President Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen, after my name was mentioned in court proceedings today,” Hannity said. “Now, predictably, without knowing all — or any — of the facts, the media went absolutely insane — wall-to-wall, hour-to-hour coverage of yours truly.”

After a montage of reporters mentioning his name regarding Cohen, he said his association with Cohen was based on his real estate dealings.

“Is it my surprise about any of this? No, of course not because that is what the media in this country does,” he continued. “Let me set record straight: Michael Cohen never represented me in any legal matter. I never retained his services. I never received an invoice. I never paid Michael Cohen for legal fees. I did have occasional brief conversations with Michael Cohen – he’s a great attorney – about legal questions I had, or I was looking for input and perspective. My discussions with Michael Cohen never rose to any level that I needed to tell anyone that I was asking him questions.”

“And to be absolutely clear, they never involved any matter — sorry to disappoint so many — any matter between me, a third party, a third group at all. My questions almost exclusively focused on real estate. I said many times on my radio show, ‘I hate the stock market, I prefer real estate.’ Michael knows real estate. So in response to all the wild speculation, I want to set the record straight here tonight: I never asked Michael Cohen to bring this proceeding on my behalf. I have no personal interest in this legal matter. That’s all there is. Nothing more.”

He went on to suggest the media should have their focus elsewhere.

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poorMonday on his Fox News Channel program, Sean Hannity dismissed the relevance of his relationship with Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who is under heightened scrutiny after his law offices were raided by the FBI last week.

Hannity opened his remarks by noting the media hyperfocus on that news.

“All right, there’s been all kinds of wild speculation from mainstream media about me and President Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen, after my name was mentioned in court proceedings today,” Hannity said. “Now, predictably, without knowing all — or any — of the facts, the media went absolutely insane — wall-to-wall, hour-to-hour coverage of yours truly.”

After a montage of reporters mentioning his name regarding Cohen, he said his association with Cohen was based on his real estate dealings.

“Is it my surprise about any of this? No, of course not because that is what the media in this country does,” he continued. “Let me set record straight: Michael Cohen never represented me in any legal matter. I never retained his services. I never received an invoice. I never paid Michael Cohen for legal fees. I did have occasional brief conversations with Michael Cohen – he’s a great attorney – about legal questions I had, or I was looking for input and perspective. My discussions with Michael Cohen never rose to any level that I needed to tell anyone that I was asking him questions.”

“And to be absolutely clear, they never involved any matter — sorry to disappoint so many — any matter between me, a third party, a third group at all. My questions almost exclusively focused on real estate. I said many times on my radio show, ‘I hate the stock market, I prefer real estate.’ Michael knows real estate. So in response to all the wild speculation, I want to set the record straight here tonight: I never asked Michael Cohen to bring this proceeding on my behalf. I have no personal interest in this legal matter. That’s all there is. Nothing more.”

He went on to suggest the media should have their focus elsewhere.

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poorDuring a Tuesday interview with “Good Morning America,” former FBI Director praised Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James, saying he learned a lot about leadership from the future Hall of Fame.

“I admire LeBron James, and he’s probably about to find out I used to talk about him all over the FBI and say he illustrates what the endless pursuit of excellence looks like,” Comey told host George Stephanopoulos.

He continued, “Every offseason, I’ve read, he tries to find a part of his game to make better — which is crazy, because he’s already better than everybody else. It’s because he measures himself up not against the others, but against himself.”

Comey went on to say that he used that example with the FBI to make the “great organization” even better.

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentDuring a Tuesday interview with “Good Morning America,” former FBI Director praised Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James, saying he learned a lot about leadership from the future Hall of Fame.

“I admire LeBron James, and he’s probably about to find out I used to talk about him all over the FBI and say he illustrates what the endless pursuit of excellence looks like,” Comey told host George Stephanopoulos.

He continued, “Every offseason, I’ve read, he tries to find a part of his game to make better — which is crazy, because he’s already better than everybody else. It’s because he measures himself up not against the others, but against himself.”

Comey went on to say that he used that example with the FBI to make the “great organization” even better.

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentIn the broadcast of its interview with former FBI Director James Comey, ABC News did not air Comey’s strong criticism of President Obama for twice publically stating that Hillary Clinton’s private email server did not endanger national security despite an ongoing investigation.

In the unaired remarks, Comey went so far as to describe Obama’s comments as creating the impression that the Justice Department was biased with regard to Clinton. He charged Obama’s remarks “created this drumbeat that the Obama Justice Department, the fix is in because the president has told them what result they should reach.”

Referring to Obama’s public comments, Comey said that Obama “shouldn’t have done it. It was inappropriate.”

Yet none of those statements made the cut for ABC’s broadcast edition of its exclusive interview with Comey conducted by host George Stephanopoulos that aired Sunday night.

The network took the unusual step of releasing the transcript of Stephanopoulos’s full conversation with Comey, which reportedly lasted about five hours.

ABC News President James Goldston touted the move to release the transcript as an important example of transparency. The disclosure, however, may raise immediate questions about the decision-making process when it came to which material to include in the broadcast interview.

The nine minute and ten second segment on the FBI’s investigation of Clinton’s private email server did include one exchange in which Comey assured viewers that the Obama Justice Department was independent and was not compromised. However, that part was edited of the mere mention that people inside the government may have worked to protect Clinton.

Here is the official full transcript of that section of the interview (emphasis added):

“Can you assure people today– can you assure them that the Obama Justice Department was not protecting Hillary Clinton?” asked Stephanopoulos. “Yes,” replied Comey. “And if there were people who were secretly trying to protect Hillary Clinton, we didn’t know about it. The FBI drove this investigation and we did it in a competent and independent way. I would bet my life on that.”

Here is a transcript of the version that aired, with Comey’s statement about not being aware of any “people who were secretly trying to protect Hillary Clinton” removed, and the question by Stephanopolous slightly different:

“Can you assure people that the Obama Justice Department was not protecting Hillary Clinton?” asked Stephanopoulos. “Yes,” replied Comey. “The FBI drove this investigation and we did it in a competent and independent way. I would bet my life on that.”

Entirely missing from the ABC broadcast was a significant portion of the interview in which Comey responded to a question from Stephanopoulos, who asked him to explain why Attorney General Loretta Lynch “could not credibly announce the results of this investigation?”

Part of Comey’s explanation involved criticism over Obama’s actions.

The conversation was focused on Comey’s decision to infamously violate FBI tradition and bypass the Justice Department to unilaterally make public pronouncements about Clinton’s email case. Comey did this at a news conference on July 5, 2016 at which he criticized Clinton’s private email server as “extremely careless” before finally stating that “no charges are appropriate in this case.”

Here is the transcript of that portion of the interview in which Comey suggested Obama tainted the public perception of the Justice Department:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Dig into that. Why could the attorney general not credibly announce the results of this investigation? JAMES COMEY: Well, for a bunch of reasons. And it sort of built over the course of the investigation. First of all, we had the problem that President Obama had twice publicly basically said, “There’s no there, there.” In an interview with– on Fox, an interview on 60 Minutes I think, both times he said that. So that’s his Justice Department. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did that surprise you? JAMES COMEY: It really did surprise me. He’s a very smart man and a lawyer. And so it surprised me. He shouldn’t have done it. It was inappropriate– GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did you think he was trying to color the case? JAMES COMEY: I don’t know. I don’t think so. He didn’t have any insight into the case, at least as far as I know, more than anybody reading the newspaper did, which was zero ’cause there were no leaks. I think he felt a pressure in the political environment because he wanted Hillary Clinton to be elected, to give her a shot in the arm. And so he spoke about an investigation. And he shouldn’t have done that. But that, as you can imagine, created this drumbeat that the Obama Justice Department, the fix is in because the president has told them what result they should reach.

Comey was referring to two interviews that Obama gave to the news media. Obama told “60 Minutes” in October 2015 that although Clinton made a “mistake” by using a private email server and she “could have handled the original decision better,” the email use did not damage national security. In a second interview, Obama told “Fox News Sunday” in April 2016 that Clinton would never “intentionally” jeopardize national security and that, “I continue to believe that she has not jeopardized America’s national security” with her email use.

While ABC News did not air Comey’s criticism of Obama and how the president’s statements may have impacted public confidence in the Justice Department, the network spent four other full segments airing the portions of Stephanopoulos’s interview with the former FBI chief about Trump.

A significant chunk of the broadcast interview was dedicated to the largely discredited, Democrat-funded anti-Trump dossier, especially to the questionable document’s most salacious accusation that Trump had Russian prostitutes perform a “golden shower” romp in the presidential suite at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Moscow in 2013

During the interview, Comey went so far as to claim “it’s possible” that the Russians possess compromising information on Trump.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

Written with additional research by Joshua Klein.In the broadcast of its interview with former FBI Director James Comey, ABC News did not air Comey’s strong criticism of President Obama for twice publically stating that Hillary Clinton’s private email server did not endanger national security despite an ongoing investigation.

In the unaired remarks, Comey went so far as to describe Obama’s comments as creating the impression that the Justice Department was biased with regard to Clinton. He charged Obama’s remarks “created this drumbeat that the Obama Justice Department, the fix is in because the president has told them what result they should reach.”

Referring to Obama’s public comments, Comey said that Obama “shouldn’t have done it. It was inappropriate.”

Yet none of those statements made the cut for ABC’s broadcast edition of its exclusive interview with Comey conducted by host George Stephanopoulos that aired Sunday night.

The network took the unusual step of releasing the transcript of Stephanopoulos’s full conversation with Comey, which reportedly lasted about five hours.

ABC News President James Goldston touted the move to release the transcript as an important example of transparency. The disclosure, however, may raise immediate questions about the decision-making process when it came to which material to include in the broadcast interview.

The nine minute and ten second segment on the FBI’s investigation of Clinton’s private email server did include one exchange in which Comey assured viewers that the Obama Justice Department was independent and was not compromised. However, that part was edited of the mere mention that people inside the government may have worked to protect Clinton.

Here is the official full transcript of that section of the interview (emphasis added):

“Can you assure people today– can you assure them that the Obama Justice Department was not protecting Hillary Clinton?” asked Stephanopoulos. “Yes,” replied Comey. “And if there were people who were secretly trying to protect Hillary Clinton, we didn’t know about it. The FBI drove this investigation and we did it in a competent and independent way. I would bet my life on that.”

Here is a transcript of the version that aired, with Comey’s statement about not being aware of any “people who were secretly trying to protect Hillary Clinton” removed, and the question by Stephanopolous slightly different:

“Can you assure people that the Obama Justice Department was not protecting Hillary Clinton?” asked Stephanopoulos. “Yes,” replied Comey. “The FBI drove this investigation and we did it in a competent and independent way. I would bet my life on that.”

Entirely missing from the ABC broadcast was a significant portion of the interview in which Comey responded to a question from Stephanopoulos, who asked him to explain why Attorney General Loretta Lynch “could not credibly announce the results of this investigation?”

Part of Comey’s explanation involved criticism over Obama’s actions.

The conversation was focused on Comey’s decision to infamously violate FBI tradition and bypass the Justice Department to unilaterally make public pronouncements about Clinton’s email case. Comey did this at a news conference on July 5, 2016 at which he criticized Clinton’s private email server as “extremely careless” before finally stating that “no charges are appropriate in this case.”

Here is the transcript of that portion of the interview in which Comey suggested Obama tainted the public perception of the Justice Department:

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Dig into that. Why could the attorney general not credibly announce the results of this investigation? JAMES COMEY: Well, for a bunch of reasons. And it sort of built over the course of the investigation. First of all, we had the problem that President Obama had twice publicly basically said, “There’s no there, there.” In an interview with– on Fox, an interview on 60 Minutes I think, both times he said that. So that’s his Justice Department. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did that surprise you? JAMES COMEY: It really did surprise me. He’s a very smart man and a lawyer. And so it surprised me. He shouldn’t have done it. It was inappropriate– GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Did you think he was trying to color the case? JAMES COMEY: I don’t know. I don’t think so. He didn’t have any insight into the case, at least as far as I know, more than anybody reading the newspaper did, which was zero ’cause there were no leaks. I think he felt a pressure in the political environment because he wanted Hillary Clinton to be elected, to give her a shot in the arm. And so he spoke about an investigation. And he shouldn’t have done that. But that, as you can imagine, created this drumbeat that the Obama Justice Department, the fix is in because the president has told them what result they should reach.

Comey was referring to two interviews that Obama gave to the news media. Obama told “60 Minutes” in October 2015 that although Clinton made a “mistake” by using a private email server and she “could have handled the original decision better,” the email use did not damage national security. In a second interview, Obama told “Fox News Sunday” in April 2016 that Clinton would never “intentionally” jeopardize national security and that, “I continue to believe that she has not jeopardized America’s national security” with her email use.

While ABC News did not air Comey’s criticism of Obama and how the president’s statements may have impacted public confidence in the Justice Department, the network spent four other full segments airing the portions of Stephanopoulos’s interview with the former FBI chief about Trump.

A significant chunk of the broadcast interview was dedicated to the largely discredited, Democrat-funded anti-Trump dossier, especially to the questionable document’s most salacious accusation that Trump had Russian prostitutes perform a “golden shower” romp in the presidential suite at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Moscow in 2013

During the interview, Comey went so far as to claim “it’s possible” that the Russians possess compromising information on Trump.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

Written with additional research by Joshua Klein.A deadly April in Chihuahua has so far left six police officers dead and eight wounded in at least seven attacks.

The events required the State to deploy additional personnel to affected areas to quell cartel violence, according to local media.

On April 14, three separate attacks were recorded with the first occurring at 8:30 am in Valle de Zaragoza. Two ministerial police commanders of the State Attorney General’s Office (PGE) were ambushed on the Parral-Chihuahua highway while heading to training exercises. The two victims, identified as Commander Salvador Bárcenas Saavedra and Deputy Commander Ricardo Ruvalcaba González, were both assigned to the municipality of Parral.

According to media reports, the two police commanders attempted to repel the attack then flee but were outnumbered. During an ensuing chase, the two were murdered and their police vehicle torched.

The second attack occurred in Jiménez where a convoy of state police searching for the gunmen responsible for the earlier attack was shot at on the Parral-Jiménez highway. The head of security for State Security Commissioner Óscar Aparicio Avendaño was wounded.

The third event occurred in Álvaro Obregón in the municipality of Cuauhtémoc when cartel gunmen attacked municipal police officers outside the Pollo Bronco Restaurant. Local media reported that one officer was wounded a second died from his injuries. A cell phone video was later posted online, capturing the aftermath of the attack with one wounded police officer lying in the street and what appeared to be a long rifle abandoned several feet from him. The second officer appeared next to a marked police vehicle which had been parked in front of the restaurant.

Earlier in the week on April 9, ministerial police commander Rodrigo Ibarra Hernández and agent Omar Alejandro Sotelo Álvarez of Ojinaga were ambushed and killed at a food stand near kilometer 25 of the Chihuahua-Aldama highway as reported by the Heraldo.

On Saturday, April 7, cartel gunmen attacked the security detail of Governor Javier Corral, who was standing post outside a golf course in Chihuahua. A total of three were wounded.

On April 4, police protecting the state attorney general were attacked outside his residence, resulting in the death of one officer and wounding another.

On April 2, two state police were wounded after conducting a traffic stop when the driver opened fire on them. The driver and passenger were later arrested, as reported in La Opcion.

According to government sources, the attacks against law and security enforcement officers are being attributed “La Línea,” the armed wing of the Juarez Cartel which is in a turf war against the Sinaloa Cartel and affiliated gangs.

Robert Arce is a retired Phoenix Police detective with extensive experience working Mexican organized crime and street gangs. Arce has worked in the Balkans, Iraq, Haiti, and recently completed a three-year assignment in Monterrey, Mexico, working out of the Consulate for the United States Department of State, International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Program, where he was the Regional Program Manager for Northeast Mexico (Coahuila, Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Durango, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas.)A deadly April in Chihuahua has so far left six police officers dead and eight wounded in at least seven attacks.

The events required the State to deploy additional personnel to affected areas to quell cartel violence, according to local media.

On April 14, three separate attacks were recorded with the first occurring at 8:30 am in Valle de Zaragoza. Two ministerial police commanders of the State Attorney General’s Office (PGE) were ambushed on the Parral-Chihuahua highway while heading to training exercises. The two victims, identified as Commander Salvador Bárcenas Saavedra and Deputy Commander Ricardo Ruvalcaba González, were both assigned to the municipality of Parral.

According to media reports, the two police commanders attempted to repel the attack then flee but were outnumbered. During an ensuing chase, the two were murdered and their police vehicle torched.

The second attack occurred in Jiménez where a convoy of state police searching for the gunmen responsible for the earlier attack was shot at on the Parral-Jiménez highway. The head of security for State Security Commissioner Óscar Aparicio Avendaño was wounded.

The third event occurred in Álvaro Obregón in the municipality of Cuauhtémoc when cartel gunmen attacked municipal police officers outside the Pollo Bronco Restaurant. Local media reported that one officer was wounded a second died from his injuries. A cell phone video was later posted online, capturing the aftermath of the attack with one wounded police officer lying in the street and what appeared to be a long rifle abandoned several feet from him. The second officer appeared next to a marked police vehicle which had been parked in front of the restaurant.

Earlier in the week on April 9, ministerial police commander Rodrigo Ibarra Hernández and agent Omar Alejandro Sotelo Álvarez of Ojinaga were ambushed and killed at a food stand near kilometer 25 of the Chihuahua-Aldama highway as reported by the Heraldo.

On Saturday, April 7, cartel gunmen attacked the security detail of Governor Javier Corral, who was standing post outside a golf course in Chihuahua. A total of three were wounded.

On April 4, police protecting the state attorney general were attacked outside his residence, resulting in the death of one officer and wounding another.

On April 2, two state police were wounded after conducting a traffic stop when the driver opened fire on them. The driver and passenger were later arrested, as reported in La Opcion.

According to government sources, the attacks against law and security enforcement officers are being attributed “La Línea,” the armed wing of the Juarez Cartel which is in a turf war against the Sinaloa Cartel and affiliated gangs.

Robert Arce is a retired Phoenix Police detective with extensive experience working Mexican organized crime and street gangs. Arce has worked in the Balkans, Iraq, Haiti, and recently completed a three-year assignment in Monterrey, Mexico, working out of the Consulate for the United States Department of State, International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Program, where he was the Regional Program Manager for Northeast Mexico (Coahuila, Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Durango, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas.)ALTAMIRA, Tamaulipas — An anonymous text message from a man believed to be a remorseful cartel gunman led Mexican authorities to a clandestine gravesite with two bodies near the port city of Altamira, Tamaulipas. However, the message indicates that as many as 70 victims were buried in the spot.

The discovery began when agents with Mexico’s Federal Police received a text message from an anonymous individual who appeared to be a remorseful cartel gunman.

“I have three years without being able to sleep, peace has not reached my life and I can’t take it anymore, go to the old road to Medrano where a pipe points you will see some white markings, go there,” the anonymous text leaked to Breitbart Texas revealed. “Dig three meters and you will find 70 bodies that were buried, I left one uncovered for you to see. May they rest in peace and I will be able to go in peace.”

The location given by the sender led authorities to an area near the rural community of Medrano, not far from the coastal city of Altamira, on the southern part of Tamaulipas.

Federal and state officials went to the location and found the remains of two bodies–one male, one female. Investigators are working to come up with a time frame of how long the victims have been dead. The Tamaulipas Attorney General’s Office is carrying out various searches in the area where they spotted multiple white markings made by throwing lime on the graves to mask odors.



Authorities deployed cadaver dogs and scanning equipment to locate more graves. The area is not far from various cartel stash houses raided years ago. They are believed to have been used to hold illegal immigrants kidnapped by cartel gunmen to extort their relatives.

Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities. The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “Francisco Morales” from Tamaulipas.ALTAMIRA, Tamaulipas — An anonymous text message from a man believed to be a remorseful cartel gunman led Mexican authorities to a clandestine gravesite with two bodies near the port city of Altamira, Tamaulipas. However, the message indicates that as many as 70 victims were buried in the spot.

The discovery began when agents with Mexico’s Federal Police received a text message from an anonymous individual who appeared to be a remorseful cartel gunman.

“I have three years without being able to sleep, peace has not reached my life and I can’t take it anymore, go to the old road to Medrano where a pipe points you will see some white markings, go there,” the anonymous text leaked to Breitbart Texas revealed. “Dig three meters and you will find 70 bodies that were buried, I left one uncovered for you to see. May they rest in peace and I will be able to go in peace.”

The location given by the sender led authorities to an area near the rural community of Medrano, not far from the coastal city of Altamira, on the southern part of Tamaulipas.

Federal and state officials went to the location and found the remains of two bodies–one male, one female. Investigators are working to come up with a time frame of how long the victims have been dead. The Tamaulipas Attorney General’s Office is carrying out various searches in the area where they spotted multiple white markings made by throwing lime on the graves to mask odors.



Authorities deployed cadaver dogs and scanning equipment to locate more graves. The area is not far from various cartel stash houses raided years ago. They are believed to have been used to hold illegal immigrants kidnapped by cartel gunmen to extort their relatives.

Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities. The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “Francisco Morales” from Tamaulipas.Days after California Governor Jerry Brown accepted President Donald Trump’s offer of additional National Guard troops to secure the U.S. southern border, uncertainty remains as to what the troops would be doing when and if they are deployed.

Reports began emerging Monday afternoon that California had rejected initial federal government plans for what National Guard troops — sent under the president’s direction, and in coordination with the governor — would be doing in California.

President Trump declared on April 6 that he would send troops to the U.S. southern border in four states, but would work with the four border-state governors to do so. Last Week, Brown became the fourth to accept National Guard troops — but was very specific about not wanting them to patrol communities and enforce federal immigration law.

On Monday, the Associated Press reported that California had “rejected the federal government’s initial plans for National Guard troops to the border.”

State and federal officials sent conflicting messages.

Department of Homeland Security Press Secretary Tyler Houlton wrote Monday afternoon:

Governor Brown has stated publicly that he shares our interest in securing our southern border. DHS and our federal partners are committed to working with the Governor to mobilize the California National Guard to assist DHS’ frontline personnel in our vital missions.

Acting Deputy Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Ron Vitiello told Breitbart News in a joint CBP-Department of Defense-National Guard Bureau briefing that same afternoon that the troops were offered to California to support the El Centro and San Diego Border Patrol sectors.

The three officials holding the briefing were asked about the AP report.

Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense Integration and Robert Salesses said that the Department of Defense was supporting the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and CBP. He then clarified that the California National Guard had indicated that it would not perform certain missions that the Border Patrol requested, as they “know them to be right now.” The request involved about 237 Guard members going to the El Centro and San Diego border sectors with specific missions. Salesses said that the California Guard would not perform those missions.

“We are in continuing dialogue, discussion with the California National Guard and we’ll work closely with Chief Vitiello to see if there’s other kinds of responses willing to accept — California would accept…” said Salesses.

Salesses said that the activities that Border Patrol had wanted the National Guard troops to participate in had involved operational support, including: “motor transport maintenance, radio communications, heavy equipment operations, some planning administrative, clerical kinds of responsibilities, and then operating some surveillance camera operators.”

Vitiello added that these activities were similar to those requested of National Guard troops in the other three border states. He said that federal authorities were grateful for the support that they have ,and that they would continue the discussion with California for future phases of the operation to “see if those fit better with sort of the results as we know them now.”

Brown’s office told Breitbart News later that afternoon that the Associated Press report was “inaccurate.” An update to that report introduced a statement from Lt. Colonel Tom Keegan that “the federal government has not yet responded and added that the next step is for the federal government to respond by signing the Memorandum of Agreement.”

Salesses was clear that the troops deployed to the border states “would not perform law enforcement functions” and would “not be placed in direct contact with personnel coming to the border.”

Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau Lt. General Daniel Hokanson reinforced Salesses’s message.

Officials holding the afternoon briefing stated that there are currently 900 National Guard troops deployed to the southern border between three states: Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. According to the three officials, there are not yet any troops on the southern border in California.

Vitiello later said that currently “the Governor has determined that what we’ve asked for so far is unsupportable,” but that they would look toward future iterations of the operation.

“We’ve got a signal from the governor that he’s not participating,” Vitiello said.

He mentioned adding capacity in CBP air and marine operations besides what the Guard would bring in aviation support. CBP is also looking for support at ports of entry.

While California may not participate in the current “level one” operation, Vitiello explained that the state may be interested in subsequent levels.

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaDays after California Governor Jerry Brown accepted President Donald Trump’s offer of additional National Guard troops to secure the U.S. southern border, uncertainty remains as to what the troops would be doing when and if they are deployed.

Reports began emerging Monday afternoon that California had rejected initial federal government plans for what National Guard troops — sent under the president’s direction, and in coordination with the governor — would be doing in California.

President Trump declared on April 6 that he would send troops to the U.S. southern border in four states, but would work with the four border-state governors to do so. Last Week, Brown became the fourth to accept National Guard troops — but was very specific about not wanting them to patrol communities and enforce federal immigration law.

On Monday, the Associated Press reported that California had “rejected the federal government’s initial plans for National Guard troops to the border.”

State and federal officials sent conflicting messages.

Department of Homeland Security Press Secretary Tyler Houlton wrote Monday afternoon:

Governor Brown has stated publicly that he shares our interest in securing our southern border. DHS and our federal partners are committed to working with the Governor to mobilize the California National Guard to assist DHS’ frontline personnel in our vital missions.

Acting Deputy Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Ron Vitiello told Breitbart News in a joint CBP-Department of Defense-National Guard Bureau briefing that same afternoon that the troops were offered to California to support the El Centro and San Diego Border Patrol sectors.

The three officials holding the briefing were asked about the AP report.

Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense Integration and Robert Salesses said that the Department of Defense was supporting the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and CBP. He then clarified that the California National Guard had indicated that it would not perform certain missions that the Border Patrol requested, as they “know them to be right now.” The request involved about 237 Guard members going to the El Centro and San Diego border sectors with specific missions. Salesses said that the California Guard would not perform those missions.

“We are in continuing dialogue, discussion with the California National Guard and we’ll work closely with Chief Vitiello to see if there’s other kinds of responses willing to accept — California would accept…” said Salesses.

Salesses said that the activities that Border Patrol had wanted the National Guard troops to participate in had involved operational support, including: “motor transport maintenance, radio communications, heavy equipment operations, some planning administrative, clerical kinds of responsibilities, and then operating some surveillance camera operators.”

Vitiello added that these activities were similar to those requested of National Guard troops in the other three border states. He said that federal authorities were grateful for the support that they have ,and that they would continue the discussion with California for future phases of the operation to “see if those fit better with sort of the results as we know them now.”

Brown’s office told Breitbart News later that afternoon that the Associated Press report was “inaccurate.” An update to that report introduced a statement from Lt. Colonel Tom Keegan that “the federal government has not yet responded and added that the next step is for the federal government to respond by signing the Memorandum of Agreement.”

Salesses was clear that the troops deployed to the border states “would not perform law enforcement functions” and would “not be placed in direct contact with personnel coming to the border.”

Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau Lt. General Daniel Hokanson reinforced Salesses’s message.

Officials holding the afternoon briefing stated that there are currently 900 National Guard troops deployed to the southern border between three states: Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. According to the three officials, there are not yet any troops on the southern border in California.

Vitiello later said that currently “the Governor has determined that what we’ve asked for so far is unsupportable,” but that they would look toward future iterations of the operation.

“We’ve got a signal from the governor that he’s not participating,” Vitiello said.

He mentioned adding capacity in CBP air and marine operations besides what the Guard would bring in aviation support. CBP is also looking for support at ports of entry.

While California may not participate in the current “level one” operation, Vitiello explained that the state may be interested in subsequent levels.

Follow Michelle Moons on Twitter @MichelleDianaRepresentative Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) is pushing legislation to require licenses for handgun owners throughout the United States.

The legislation, HR 5490, is titled the “Handgun Purchaser Licensing Act.”

HR 5490 would not only require licenses but would also provide federal grants to help states cover the expense of a licensing program.

The bill is based on the inaccurate claim that “33,000 Americans were killed by guns” in 2013. Hillary Clinton made this claim again and again during her failed 2016 campaign, and Breitbart News showed that her claims actually exaggerated “gun violence” deaths by 66 percent.

In reality, the number of accidental deaths was 505, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported the number of deaths due to actual “gun violence” was 11,208. The number of suicides was 21,175. When Clinton spoke, she would combine homicides, accidental deaths, and suicides as if all were the result of “gun violence” and present a death toll of 33,000. Rep. Esty is doing the same thing.

Esty’s legislation would authorize the “Attorney General … to award grants to States, units of local government, and Indian tribes for the development, implementation, and evaluation of handgun purchaser licensing requirements.” And it stipulates that such a license would only be good for five years, after which, the gun owner would have to go through a re-licensing process in order to retain his or her ability to own a handgun.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Representative Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) is pushing legislation to require licenses for handgun owners throughout the United States.

The legislation, HR 5490, is titled the “Handgun Purchaser Licensing Act.”

HR 5490 would not only require licenses but would also provide federal grants to help states cover the expense of a licensing program.

The bill is based on the inaccurate claim that “33,000 Americans were killed by guns” in 2013. Hillary Clinton made this claim again and again during her failed 2016 campaign, and Breitbart News showed that her claims actually exaggerated “gun violence” deaths by 66 percent.

In reality, the number of accidental deaths was 505, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported the number of deaths due to actual “gun violence” was 11,208. The number of suicides was 21,175. When Clinton spoke, she would combine homicides, accidental deaths, and suicides as if all were the result of “gun violence” and present a death toll of 33,000. Rep. Esty is doing the same thing.

Esty’s legislation would authorize the “Attorney General … to award grants to States, units of local government, and Indian tribes for the development, implementation, and evaluation of handgun purchaser licensing requirements.” And it stipulates that such a license would only be good for five years, after which, the gun owner would have to go through a re-licensing process in order to retain his or her ability to own a handgun.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Just months after Gov. Jerry Brown (D) signed a bill barring K-12 teachers from being armed for self-defense, Assemblyman Jim Cooper (D-9) is pushing a tax on firearms to pay for school security.

His bill, AB 2497, would also tax ammunition to help fund security at schools.

The text of AB 2497 proposes that there be a tax “for the privilege of selling a firearm at retail” beginning January 1, 2019. The monies accrued from that tax would be used to fund school security. In the same way, a tax would be imposed “for the privilege of selling ammunition at retail.” Those monies would also go toward school security.

On October 15, 2017, Breitbart News reported that Gov. Brown signed legislation guaranteeing teachers would not be able to shoot back if attacked. That legislation, AB 424, was sponsored by Assemblyman Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento).

McCarty defended his push to disarm teachers by saying, “A safe learning environment is essential for our children to be successful in the classroom. That’s not possible if a school district allows armed civilians to roam California school campuses.”

At the time, Kern High School District, Kingsburg Joint Union High School District, Folsom Cordova Unified School District, Anderson Union High School District, and Palo Cedro’s North Cow Creek School District had chosen to allow certain teachers with concealed carry licenses to carry. McCarty did not cite a single incident in which one of those teachers acted inappropriately with their firearm nor could he point to a time when a student gained access to the teacher’s firearm.

Now Assemblyman Cooper wants to tax firearm and ammunition purchases to fund security for schools.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Just months after Gov. Jerry Brown (D) signed a bill barring K-12 teachers from being armed for self-defense, Assemblyman Jim Cooper (D-9) is pushing a tax on firearms to pay for school security.

His bill, AB 2497, would also tax ammunition to help fund security at schools.

The text of AB 2497 proposes that there be a tax “for the privilege of selling a firearm at retail” beginning January 1, 2019. The monies accrued from that tax would be used to fund school security. In the same way, a tax would be imposed “for the privilege of selling ammunition at retail.” Those monies would also go toward school security.

On October 15, 2017, Breitbart News reported that Gov. Brown signed legislation guaranteeing teachers would not be able to shoot back if attacked. That legislation, AB 424, was sponsored by Assemblyman Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento).

McCarty defended his push to disarm teachers by saying, “A safe learning environment is essential for our children to be successful in the classroom. That’s not possible if a school district allows armed civilians to roam California school campuses.”

At the time, Kern High School District, Kingsburg Joint Union High School District, Folsom Cordova Unified School District, Anderson Union High School District, and Palo Cedro’s North Cow Creek School District had chosen to allow certain teachers with concealed carry licenses to carry. McCarty did not cite a single incident in which one of those teachers acted inappropriately with their firearm nor could he point to a time when a student gained access to the teacher’s firearm.

Now Assemblyman Cooper wants to tax firearm and ammunition purchases to fund security for schools.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.High school student turned anti-gun activist David Hogg deleted tweets about Friday’s second National School Walkout stating that the event — taking place on the anniversary of the 1999 attack at Columbine High School in Colorado that resulted in the deaths of 12 people — would include more than just students pressing for gun control.

“It’s been just over 2 months,” David Hogg, a student at the Parkland, Florida, high school where 17 people died after a former student shot them, said in a now-deleted tweet. “We have walked out of school and now, on 4/20, we walk out everywhere. No matter where you are — if it’s home, school, or work — walk out. Gun violence can happen anywhere at anytime.”

After learning of a letter written by from current principal Scott Christy and former principal Frank DeAngelis expressing the hope that Friday’s anniversary would be about honoring the victims instead of protesting, Hogg took to Twitter to post another tweet and apologize, posting the letter with it.

“I’m sorry for my miscommunication yesterday I said that we should all walk out of wherever you are on 4/20 that was a mistake on my end and is no longer the case,” Hogg said in a now-deleted tweet. “This is what the Columbine community would like to see on 4/20. #DayOfService.”

Some students at Columbine did take part in the first National School Walkout.

After deleting his tweets, Hogg on Monday issued two more:

“We are still walking out however the Columbine community will be committing 4/20 to volunteering. Once again we are still walking out. We are still walking out. We are still walking out. We are still walking out @schoolwalkoutUS has been working incredibly hard on this,” Hogg tweeted.

We are still walking out however the Columbine community will be committing 4/20 to volunteering

Once again we are still walking out

We are still walking out

We are still walking out

We are still walking out @schoolwalkoutUS has been working incredibly hard on this — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 16, 2018

“Again the walkout is still on however the Columbine community will be committing their day to community service in remembrance of those they lost,” Hogg tweeted.

Again the walkout is still on however the Columbine community will be committing their day to community service in remembrance of those they lost — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 16, 2018

Jason E. Glass, superintendent of Jeffco public schools, posted a letter on the school district’s website about Columbine’s anniversary and the walkout:

Dear Team Jeffco (Public Schools),

On March 14, our schools successfully, and respectfully, navigated the student walkouts supporting the students, families, and staff who were so devastatingly impacted by the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. At that time, I also shared our desire and commitment, as a district, to meaningfully engage our entire community in the topic of school safety. As a first step, we hosted a community safety forum on March 20 at Lakewood High School, part of which included soliciting volunteers for a community safety task force. I will continue to keep you updated on the progress and recommendations of this group. Given our own shared experiences, the events in Parkland, Florida certainly struck close to our heart. We are quickly approaching April 20, the 19th anniversary of the Columbine tragedy. Though we offer our heartfelt support to Florida, on this date, most of us thoughtfully reflect on our own history. In Jeffco, we have marked this time of year with positive acts – Columbine High School students participate in a day of service, doing volunteer work for a variety of community organizations and the entire district supports Day Without Hate, with events that promote inclusion and acceptance. While the folks in Florida encouraged a demonstration of unified, national support through student walkouts, I request our schools and students consider honoring the memory of Columbine by following the lead of the Columbine community, which believes firmly in the motto, “A Time to Remember, a Time to Hope.” Coming together, giving back, and having a collective positive impact on our community has been a Jeffco tradition, and I hope we continue that tradition. My hope is if our students and staff feel the need to recognize the anniversary of the Columbine tragedy during the school day, it will be with acts of kindness and service in honor of the memory of those we have lost. I know school violence elicits strong emotions, but our organizational commitment to educating the children in our community is paramount. As a district, we have a responsibility to acknowledge the political aspects school violence, to help our students learn about current events, and respectfully discuss issues. However, we also have a responsibility to be objective and refrain from taking a position on issues that may cause divisiveness in our community. I know this is a difficult balance, but I have faith we can be a voice of reason in Jeffco.

The National School Walkout website states:

National School Walkout is a movement powered and led by students across the country. We’re protesting congressional, state, and local failures to take action to prevent gun violence. America is the only country in the world where so many people are killed by guns, and yet our leaders do nothing about it. In many states, it’s more difficult to register to vote than it is to buy a rifle. Apparently to some politicians, a vote is scarier than a gun.

The National School Walkout website is planned for 10 a.m. Friday. The website shows walkouts taking place at hundreds of schools across the country.

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterHigh school student turned anti-gun activist David Hogg deleted tweets about Friday’s second National School Walkout stating that the event — taking place on the anniversary of the 1999 attack at Columbine High School in Colorado that resulted in the deaths of 12 people — would include more than just students pressing for gun control.

“It’s been just over 2 months,” David Hogg, a student at the Parkland, Florida, high school where 17 people died after a former student shot them, said in a now-deleted tweet. “We have walked out of school and now, on 4/20, we walk out everywhere. No matter where you are — if it’s home, school, or work — walk out. Gun violence can happen anywhere at anytime.”

After learning of a letter written by from current principal Scott Christy and former principal Frank DeAngelis expressing the hope that Friday’s anniversary would be about honoring the victims instead of protesting, Hogg took to Twitter to post another tweet and apologize, posting the letter with it.

“I’m sorry for my miscommunication yesterday I said that we should all walk out of wherever you are on 4/20 that was a mistake on my end and is no longer the case,” Hogg said in a now-deleted tweet. “This is what the Columbine community would like to see on 4/20. #DayOfService.”

Some students at Columbine did take part in the first National School Walkout.

After deleting his tweets, Hogg on Monday issued two more:

“We are still walking out however the Columbine community will be committing 4/20 to volunteering. Once again we are still walking out. We are still walking out. We are still walking out. We are still walking out @schoolwalkoutUS has been working incredibly hard on this,” Hogg tweeted.

We are still walking out however the Columbine community will be committing 4/20 to volunteering

Once again we are still walking out

We are still walking out

We are still walking out

We are still walking out @schoolwalkoutUS has been working incredibly hard on this — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 16, 2018

“Again the walkout is still on however the Columbine community will be committing their day to community service in remembrance of those they lost,” Hogg tweeted.

Again the walkout is still on however the Columbine community will be committing their day to community service in remembrance of those they lost — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 16, 2018

Jason E. Glass, superintendent of Jeffco public schools, posted a letter on the school district’s website about Columbine’s anniversary and the walkout:

Dear Team Jeffco (Public Schools),

On March 14, our schools successfully, and respectfully, navigated the student walkouts supporting the students, families, and staff who were so devastatingly impacted by the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. At that time, I also shared our desire and commitment, as a district, to meaningfully engage our entire community in the topic of school safety. As a first step, we hosted a community safety forum on March 20 at Lakewood High School, part of which included soliciting volunteers for a community safety task force. I will continue to keep you updated on the progress and recommendations of this group. Given our own shared experiences, the events in Parkland, Florida certainly struck close to our heart. We are quickly approaching April 20, the 19th anniversary of the Columbine tragedy. Though we offer our heartfelt support to Florida, on this date, most of us thoughtfully reflect on our own history. In Jeffco, we have marked this time of year with positive acts – Columbine High School students participate in a day of service, doing volunteer work for a variety of community organizations and the entire district supports Day Without Hate, with events that promote inclusion and acceptance. While the folks in Florida encouraged a demonstration of unified, national support through student walkouts, I request our schools and students consider honoring the memory of Columbine by following the lead of the Columbine community, which believes firmly in the motto, “A Time to Remember, a Time to Hope.” Coming together, giving back, and having a collective positive impact on our community has been a Jeffco tradition, and I hope we continue that tradition. My hope is if our students and staff feel the need to recognize the anniversary of the Columbine tragedy during the school day, it will be with acts of kindness and service in honor of the memory of those we have lost. I know school violence elicits strong emotions, but our organizational commitment to educating the children in our community is paramount. As a district, we have a responsibility to acknowledge the political aspects school violence, to help our students learn about current events, and respectfully discuss issues. However, we also have a responsibility to be objective and refrain from taking a position on issues that may cause divisiveness in our community. I know this is a difficult balance, but I have faith we can be a voice of reason in Jeffco.

The National School Walkout website states:

National School Walkout is a movement powered and led by students across the country. We’re protesting congressional, state, and local failures to take action to prevent gun violence. America is the only country in the world where so many people are killed by guns, and yet our leaders do nothing about it. In many states, it’s more difficult to register to vote than it is to buy a rifle. Apparently to some politicians, a vote is scarier than a gun.

The National School Walkout website is planned for 10 a.m. Friday. The website shows walkouts taking place at hundreds of schools across the country.

Follow Penny Starr on TwitterHarvard Law School professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz told Breitbart News Tonight on Monday that Attorney General Jeff Sessions should withdraw his recusal from the Department of Justice’s investigation into Trump associates — at least as far as it considers President Donald Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen.

Dershowitz offered his remarks during a Monday interview on SiriusXM’s Breitbart News Tonight with hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak.

Dershowitz said, “Sometimes you should un-recuse yourself, and I think Attorney General Sessions should un-recuse himself when it comes to the New York investigation because it’s not part of the Russia investigation. He’s not a witness or a potential subject there. He’s the attorney general of the United States. He ought to be in charge of supervising the New York investigation, not Rosenstein.”

LISTEN:



Pollak asked Dershowitz if such an un-recusal from Sessions would lead to a pursuit of obstruction of justice charges against President Donald Trump.

Dershowitz replied, “[Jeff Sessions] wouldn’t try to stop [the New York investigation]. He’d play the same role, presumably, that [Deputy Attorney General Rod] Rosenstein is playing. He’d be one to sign off on the search warrant. He’d be the one to be supervising the U.S. attorney as the Attorney General of the United States always does. It’s just that he would replace Rosenstein. Rosenstein isn’t stopping the investigation. Presumably neither would [Sessions], but he’d be the one in charge. There’s no reason why he should be recused from the New York investigation, unless the New York investigation is really just an extension of Mueller’s investigation, in which case that raises other problems.”

Pollak then described Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s supervision of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s operation as unusual given his dual role as both a supervisor and potential witness.

Pollak stated, “There’s a lot of questions arising about Rod Rosenstein, who signed off on the decision to go after Michael Cohen. The curious thing about him is he’s technically in charge of Mueller and the whole special counsel investigation, but he’s also a witness in that investigation because he’s the person who wrote the memo directing that James Comey be fired. I don’t understand how you can have someone who’s a witness, potentially, in an investigation also supervising the investigation. From the start this seems weird.”

Dershowitz concurred with Pollak’s assessment.

He said, “I’ve been making this point for three months. He should have recused himself. He’s more recusable, even than Sessions, and he clearly will be called as a witness if there’s any obstruction of justice charges against the president because the first witness you’re going to want is the guy who signed the letter justifying it.

“So I don’t understand how he stays on. Even if technically he doesn’t have to recuse himself, when you’re going after the president, again, you have to be ‘Caesar’s wife’ and you have to lean over backwards and make sure that you don’t give your enemies any ammunition. The idea that a witness is going to be this person supervising the prosecution just defies common sense.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.In yet another personal attack against President Trump, CNN’s Jake Tapper spread the false claim that Lewis “Scooter” Libby leaked the name of CIA agent Valerie Plame.

While Tapper’s fan-base on the far left are celebrating Tapper’s spreading of this fake news, those who still hold journalistic integrity in high regard are telling the truth.

Back in 2005, Libby, then chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney, was wrongfully prosecuted by special counsel Patrick Fitzgerald, the man looking into who leaked the name of CIA operative Valerie Plame Wilson (who has since revealed herself to be an anti-Semite).

The belief was that her name was leaked in political retaliation for her husband Joe Wilson’s criticism of the Bush administration’s war in Iraq.

The name of the true leaker was Richard Armitage, then our deputy secretary of state, a Deep Stater who forever disgraced himself by not coming forward as the two-year scandal engulfed the Bush administration and innocent men like Libby. To prove just how corrupt and partisan this entire Deep State exercise was (Cheney was the true target), Armitage was never penalized.

Libby, however, was convicted of four process crimes: obstruction of justice, making a false statement, and two counts of perjury. He was then sentenced to 30 months in prison, and to his own disgrace, rather than give Libby the full pardon he deserved, then President George W. Bush only commuted the prison sentence. Libby found himself a convicted felon, which means he lost his law license.

In his piece titled “Trump Is Right to Pardon Scooter Libby,” Bloomberg’s Eli Lake explains why Libby was innocent of all charges:

Libby ended up being convicted of obstructing justice and perjury. He was asked whether he discussed Plame with other journalists. Libby claimed he did not. Other journalists claimed he did. Even this case is shakier than the partisans would have you believe. Libby’s defense was not allowed to bring in memory experts, who could explain why Libby and other journalists like the late Tim Russert would have conflicting accounts of a phone conversation. Part of the prosecution’s case rested on the testimony of former New York Times reporter Judith Miller. In her 2015 memoir, Miller wrote that she was compelled eventually to testify falsely against Libby because the prosecutor, Patrick Fitzgerald, withheld an important detail from her, as well as the defense.

So, Libby was not only not convicted of leaking Plame’s name, he was also innocent of the process crimes he was convicted of. These objective truths, however, did not stop the far-left Jake Tapper from continuing to spread fake news about Libby.

On Friday, Trump responded to the attacks against him coming from James Comey, the disgraced former head of the FBI. In a tweet, Trump called Comey a “proven LEAKER & Liar.”

James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR. Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired. He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and….. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

Tapper, who remains under the impression that “sick Twitter burnzzz” are a vital part of professional journalism, responded directly to Trump with this misinformation about Libby.

“Calling @Comey a “proven LEAKER & LIAR” while you’re about to pardon Scooter Libby, who leaked the identity of a covert CIA employee and was convicted for lying about it to the FBI — well, that’s quite a thing,” Tapper wrote.

Calling @Comey a “proven LEAKER & LIAR” while you’re about to pardon Scooter Libby, who leaked the identity of a covert CIA employee and was convicted for lying about it to the FBI — well, that’s quite a thing. — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 13, 2018

There is one outright falsehood in Tapper’s tweet. The claim that Libby “leaked the identity of a covert CIA employee” is simply not true. And while Tapper is correct that Libby was “convicted for lying about it to the FBI,” we now know this was a false conviction.

Incredibly, even though Judith Miller recanted her testimony (which resulted in Libby getting his law license back from the D.C. Bar’s Office of Disciplinary Counsel — no easy task), Tapper still used Miller to double down on his fake news:

5/ "On or about July 12, 2003, in the late afternoon, LIBBY spoke by telephone with Judith Miller of the New York Times and discussed Wilson’s wife, and that she worked at the CIA." — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 13, 2018

With his reputation in tatters and his ratings in the basement, you would think Tapper would at least try to conceal his anti-Trump activism, or at least not spread provable falsehoods in his sick Twitter burnzzz. Friday again revealed all the worst aspects of a so-called journalist who once enjoyed a sterling reputation on the right and left: his burning hatred for Trump, his self-righteous childishness, and, most of all, his ongoing serial dishonesty.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.In yet another personal attack against President Trump, CNN’s Jake Tapper spread the false claim that Lewis “Scooter” Libby leaked the name of CIA agent Valerie Plame.

While Tapper’s fan-base on the far left are celebrating Tapper’s spreading of this fake news, those who still hold journalistic integrity in high regard are telling the truth.

Back in 2005, Libby, then chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney, was wrongfully prosecuted by special counsel Patrick Fitzgerald, the man looking into who leaked the name of CIA operative Valerie Plame Wilson (who has since revealed herself to be an anti-Semite).

The belief was that her name was leaked in political retaliation for her husband Joe Wilson’s criticism of the Bush administration’s war in Iraq.

The name of the true leaker was Richard Armitage, then our deputy secretary of state, a Deep Stater who forever disgraced himself by not coming forward as the two-year scandal engulfed the Bush administration and innocent men like Libby. To prove just how corrupt and partisan this entire Deep State exercise was (Cheney was the true target), Armitage was never penalized.

Libby, however, was convicted of four process crimes: obstruction of justice, making a false statement, and two counts of perjury. He was then sentenced to 30 months in prison, and to his own disgrace, rather than give Libby the full pardon he deserved, then President George W. Bush only commuted the prison sentence. Libby found himself a convicted felon, which means he lost his law license.

In his piece titled “Trump Is Right to Pardon Scooter Libby,” Bloomberg’s Eli Lake explains why Libby was innocent of all charges:

Libby ended up being convicted of obstructing justice and perjury. He was asked whether he discussed Plame with other journalists. Libby claimed he did not. Other journalists claimed he did. Even this case is shakier than the partisans would have you believe. Libby’s defense was not allowed to bring in memory experts, who could explain why Libby and other journalists like the late Tim Russert would have conflicting accounts of a phone conversation. Part of the prosecution’s case rested on the testimony of former New York Times reporter Judith Miller. In her 2015 memoir, Miller wrote that she was compelled eventually to testify falsely against Libby because the prosecutor, Patrick Fitzgerald, withheld an important detail from her, as well as the defense.

So, Libby was not only not convicted of leaking Plame’s name, he was also innocent of the process crimes he was convicted of. These objective truths, however, did not stop the far-left Jake Tapper from continuing to spread fake news about Libby.

On Friday, Trump responded to the attacks against him coming from James Comey, the disgraced former head of the FBI. In a tweet, Trump called Comey a “proven LEAKER & Liar.”

James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR. Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired. He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and….. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

Tapper, who remains under the impression that “sick Twitter burnzzz” are a vital part of professional journalism, responded directly to Trump with this misinformation about Libby.

“Calling @Comey a “proven LEAKER & LIAR” while you’re about to pardon Scooter Libby, who leaked the identity of a covert CIA employee and was convicted for lying about it to the FBI — well, that’s quite a thing,” Tapper wrote.

Calling @Comey a “proven LEAKER & LIAR” while you’re about to pardon Scooter Libby, who leaked the identity of a covert CIA employee and was convicted for lying about it to the FBI — well, that’s quite a thing. — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 13, 2018

There is one outright falsehood in Tapper’s tweet. The claim that Libby “leaked the identity of a covert CIA employee” is simply not true. And while Tapper is correct that Libby was “convicted for lying about it to the FBI,” we now know this was a false conviction.

Incredibly, even though Judith Miller recanted her testimony (which resulted in Libby getting his law license back from the D.C. Bar’s Office of Disciplinary Counsel — no easy task), Tapper still used Miller to double down on his fake news:

5/ "On or about July 12, 2003, in the late afternoon, LIBBY spoke by telephone with Judith Miller of the New York Times and discussed Wilson’s wife, and that she worked at the CIA." — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) April 13, 2018

With his reputation in tatters and his ratings in the basement, you would think Tapper would at least try to conceal his anti-Trump activism, or at least not spread provable falsehoods in his sick Twitter burnzzz. Friday again revealed all the worst aspects of a so-called journalist who once enjoyed a sterling reputation on the right and left: his burning hatred for Trump, his self-righteous childishness, and, most of all, his ongoing serial dishonesty.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.A federal judge in Washington State has declared that all civic groups nationwide must accept people of both sexes into their single-sex spaces and activities, or else be stigmatized and sued by the federal government.

In legal jargon, Judge Marsha Pechman declared in a lawsuit against the Pentagon’s “transgender” policy that the federal government must use its powers to champion people who want to live as members of the sex, either inside the military or outside, just as it must use federal powers to suppress racism:

Today, the Court concludes that transgender people constitute a suspect class. Transgender people have long been forced to live in silence, or to come out and face the threat of overwhelming discrimination. Therefore, the Court grants summary judgment in Plaintiffs’ and Washington’s favor as to the applicable level of scrutiny. The Ban specifically targets one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and must satisfy strict scrutiny if it is to survive.

In this context, the term “strict scrutiny” means that people who say they are transgender must be treated as members of the opposite sex by all federal or state agencies, universities, schools and civic groups that accept federal dollars, except in rare circumstances. Judges would approve exceptions in rare circumstances that are absolutely necessary and also narrowly tailored to achieve an important goal.

In practice, the judge is telling all civic groups that they will lose nearly all lawsuits if women try to exclude men from showers and bathrooms, athletic competitions, victims’ shelters, girls’ schools, civic competitions, or any single-sex civic group or practice.

The judge’s decision, if accepted by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and by Supreme Court in 2020, would order the government to suppress and stigmatize any public recognition of any biological distinctions between the two different, equal and complementary sexes in a heterosexual society of women, men and children.

The judge is a feminist who would likely object to men who demand that women stay silent when their sexual privacy is violated and would object to the elimination of women’s athletics. But many feminists have embraced the transgender ideology because it blurs the civic distinctions between the two equal, different and complementary sexes. That blurring is sought by feminists who wish to compete for status and income against men in the workplace.

The transgender ideology says a person’s sex is determined only his or her feelings of “gender identity,” not by their biology. The ideology says the government agencies, such as the Pentagon, must force Americans to accept the wishes of men who deem themselves to be women and of the women who declare themselves to be men, even if those men and women decline any opposite-sex clothing or hormones, or cosmetic surgery.

Conservatives point out that men and women, teenage boys and teenage girls are very different, and prosper in a society which recognizes and accepts their equal, complementary and different priorities and capabilities.

Feminists say that pro-transgender policies will erase the concept of women — and of women’s rights — because men will be women.

“The Court also rules that, because transgender people have long been subjected to systemic oppression and forced to live in silence, they are a protected class.” ^^^ This is a legal gem from tonight’s ruling. The court ruled that transgender people are a protected class. — Lambda Legal (@LambdaLegal) April 14, 2018

The judge’s legal decision was made April 13 in a lawsuit against the Pentagon’s transgender policies, which excludes people from military service if they want to be treated as members of the other sex. The Pentagon policies reject the vague guidelines pushed by transgender activists about who should be classified as male or female, and instead reaffirmed the normal biology-based distinction between male and female as the fairest way to describe people’s sex:

The concept of gender transition is so nebulous, however, that drawing any line — except perhaps at a full sex reassignment surgery — would be arbitrary, not to mention at odds with current medical practice, which allows for a wide range of individualized treatment. In any event, [national] rates for genital surgery are exceedingly low — 2% of [female] transgender men and 10% of [male] transgender women. Only up to 25% of surveyed transgender persons report having had some form of transition-related surgery [such as breast reduction or facial cosmetic surgery]. The RAND study estimated that such rates “are typically only around 20 percent, with the exception of chest surgery among female-to-male transgender individuals” … Low rates of full sex reassignment surgery and the otherwise wide variation of transition-related treatment, with all the challenges that entails for privacy, fairness, and safety, weigh in favor of maintaining a bright line based on biological sex — not gender identity … After all, a person’s biological sex is generally ascertainable through objective means. Moreover, this approach will ensure that biologically-based standards will be applied uniformly to all Service members of the same biological sex. Standards that are clear, coherent, objective, consistent, predictable, and uniformly applied enhance good order, discipline, steady leadership, and unit cohesion, which in turn, ensure military effectiveness and lethality.

Pechman’s 33-page announcement does not include any mention of the Pentagon’s “bright line” phrase, which was embraced by the Pentagon when President Donald Trump ordered the military to end the pro-transgender policies pushed by former President Barack Obama. The judge suggested that biological sex is meaningless by putting quote marks around the term:

Requiring transgender people to serve in their “biological sex” does not constitute “open” service in any meaningful way, and cannot reasonably be considered an “exception” to the Ban.

But the judge seems to embrace the transgender ideology, and uses the “gender identity” term without quote marks, despite the inability of biologists to identify and measure a “gender identity’:

The term ‘transgender’ is used to describe someone who experiences any significant degree of misalignment between their gender identity and their assigned sex at birth … Experts agree that gender identity has a “biological component,” and there is a “medical consensus that gender identity is deep-seated, set early in life, and impervious to external influences.”

The judge also argues that her government-enforced redesign of the nation’s civic culture rests upon a claim that is only “widely understood,” but not actually confirmed by science or recognized by voters’ common sense:

The Court notes that the [Pentagon’s] Implementation Plan uses the term “biological sex,” apparently to refer to the sex one is assigned at birth. This is somewhat misleading, as the record indicates that gender identity—“a person’s internalized, inherent sense of who they are as a particular gender (i.e., male or female)”—is also widely understood to have a “biological component.”

These claims ignore the scientific evidence that the vast majority of children who claim an opposite-sex feeling of “gender identity” do drop that claim after puberty. Many adults also drop that claim after trying to live as members of the opposite sex, sharply weakening the claims that “transgender” people comprise a confirmable and permanent group.

Very few Americans claim to be transgender, but that rarity means they deserve maximum protection, says the judge:

While the exact number is unknown, transgender people make up less than 1 percent of the nation’s adult population … There are no openly transgender members of the United States Congress or the federal judiciary, and only one out of more than 7,000 state legislators is openly transgender.

People trying to live as members of the other sex deserve protection because of the harm they suffer, the judge said, even though she also disregarded the harm that would be caused by official suppression of sexual differences, such as the loss of sexual privacy in bathrooms or the health damage caused by “transgender” medical treatment of children. For example, training manual prepared by the Pentagon in 2016 said naked female soldiers must give “dignity and respect” to men who join them in their shared shower rooms.

According to the judge, the harms suffered by the Pentagon’s exclusion of people who want to change sex include:

For example, Karnoski has explained that the Ban has caused him “great distress, discomfort, and pain.” (Dkt. No. 130 at ¶ 21.) Schmid has explained that the Ban’s “abrupt change in policy and implicit commentary on [her] value to the military and competency to serve has caused [her] to feel tremendous anguish,” and that since it was announced, she has lost sleep and suffered “an immense amount of anxiety.” (Dkt. No. 131 at ¶¶ 23-24, 26.) Muller has explained that the Ban was “devastating” and “wounded [her] more than any combat injury could.” (Dkt. No. 133 at ¶¶ 30-31.) Doe has explained that the Ban precludes her from expressing her authentic gender identity, and that as a result, she has not come out.

The Pentagon and the public strongly support the recognition and celebration of heterosexual differences, but that popular support is portrayed as “systematic oppression” by the judge, who wrote:

The Court also rules that, because transgender people have long been subjected to systemic oppression and forced to live in silence, they are a protected class … This means that before [Pentagon] Defendants can implement the Ban, they must show that it was sincerely motivated by compelling interests, rather than by prejudice or stereotype, and that it is narrowly tailored to achieve those interests…

The judge also suggested that recognition of sexual differences in a two-sex society of male and female humans is similar to racism, arguing:

Indeed, the Court notes that Defendants’ claimed justifications for the Ban—to promote “military lethality and readiness” and avoid “disrupt[ing] unit cohesion, or tax[ing] military resources”— are strikingly similar to justifications offered in the past to support the military’s exclusion and segregation of African American service members.

In her one concession to the Pentagon, the judge said she was willing to consider if the Pentagon’s unique circumstances, expertise, and standing could justify the exclusion of people who want to live as members of the other sex:

Having carefully considered the [Pentagon] Implementation Plan—including the content of the DoD’s “Report and Recommendations on Military Service by Transgender Persons”—the Court concludes that whether the Ban is entitled to deference raises an unresolved question of fact … On the present record, the Court cannot determine whether the DoD’s deliberative process—including the timing and thoroughness of its study and the soundness of the medical and other evidence it relied upon—is of the type to which Courts typically should defer.

This court case is one of four being applied against the Pentagon by pro-transgender activists. Each win provides more courtroom evidence and pressure on other judges to endorse the same gender-identity-trumps-sex claim. However, the decision will be made by the Supreme Court, perhaps in 2020, unless Congress uses its constitutional power to restrict the legal and political authority of the pro-transgender judges.

The transgender ideology is deeply unpopular, especially among women and parents. In 2017, Obama told NPR that his promotion of the transgender ideology made it easier for Donald Trump to win the presidency.

Multiple polls show that most Americans wish to help and comfort people who think they are a member of the opposite sex, even as they also reject the transgender ideology’s claim that a person’s legal sex is determined by their feeling of “gender identity,” not by biology.

Despite the huge expense, conflict, and damage to young people, the gender ideology is rapidly gaining power, aided by huge donations from wealthy individuals and medical companies. In Ohio, for example, in February, a judge forced parents of a teenage girl to give up custody so she can begin a lifetime of drug treatments and surgery that will allow her to appear as a male.

The progressive push to bend Americans’ attitudes and their male-and-female civic society around the idea of “gender identity” has already attacked and cracked many of the popular social rules which help Americans manage the cooperation and competition among and between complementary, different and equal men and women.

These pro-gender claims have an impact on different-sex bathrooms, shelters for battered women, sports leagues for girls, hiking groups for boys, K-12 curricula, university speech codes, religious freedoms, free speech, the social status of women, parents’ rights in childrearing, practices to help teenagers, health outcomes, women’s expectations of beauty, culture and civic society, scientific research, prison safety, civic ceremonies, school rules, men’s sense of masculinity, law enforcement, and children’s sexual privacy.A federal judge in Washington State has declared that all civic groups nationwide must accept people of both sexes into their single-sex spaces and activities, or else be stigmatized and sued by the federal government.

In legal jargon, Judge Marsha Pechman declared in a lawsuit against the Pentagon’s “transgender” policy that the federal government must use its powers to champion people who want to live as members of the sex, either inside the military or outside, just as it must use federal powers to suppress racism:

Today, the Court concludes that transgender people constitute a suspect class. Transgender people have long been forced to live in silence, or to come out and face the threat of overwhelming discrimination. Therefore, the Court grants summary judgment in Plaintiffs’ and Washington’s favor as to the applicable level of scrutiny. The Ban specifically targets one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and must satisfy strict scrutiny if it is to survive.

In this context, the term “strict scrutiny” means that people who say they are transgender must be treated as members of the opposite sex by all federal or state agencies, universities, schools and civic groups that accept federal dollars, except in rare circumstances. Judges would approve exceptions in rare circumstances that are absolutely necessary and also narrowly tailored to achieve an important goal.

In practice, the judge is telling all civic groups that they will lose nearly all lawsuits if women try to exclude men from showers and bathrooms, athletic competitions, victims’ shelters, girls’ schools, civic competitions, or any single-sex civic group or practice.

The judge’s decision, if accepted by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and by Supreme Court in 2020, would order the government to suppress and stigmatize any public recognition of any biological distinctions between the two different, equal and complementary sexes in a heterosexual society of women, men and children.

The judge is a feminist who would likely object to men who demand that women stay silent when their sexual privacy is violated and would object to the elimination of women’s athletics. But many feminists have embraced the transgender ideology because it blurs the civic distinctions between the two equal, different and complementary sexes. That blurring is sought by feminists who wish to compete for status and income against men in the workplace.

The transgender ideology says a person’s sex is determined only his or her feelings of “gender identity,” not by their biology. The ideology says the government agencies, such as the Pentagon, must force Americans to accept the wishes of men who deem themselves to be women and of the women who declare themselves to be men, even if those men and women decline any opposite-sex clothing or hormones, or cosmetic surgery.

Conservatives point out that men and women, teenage boys and teenage girls are very different, and prosper in a society which recognizes and accepts their equal, complementary and different priorities and capabilities.

Feminists say that pro-transgender policies will erase the concept of women — and of women’s rights — because men will be women.

“The Court also rules that, because transgender people have long been subjected to systemic oppression and forced to live in silence, they are a protected class.” ^^^ This is a legal gem from tonight’s ruling. The court ruled that transgender people are a protected class. — Lambda Legal (@LambdaLegal) April 14, 2018

The judge’s legal decision was made April 13 in a lawsuit against the Pentagon’s transgender policies, which excludes people from military service if they want to be treated as members of the other sex. The Pentagon policies reject the vague guidelines pushed by transgender activists about who should be classified as male or female, and instead reaffirmed the normal biology-based distinction between male and female as the fairest way to describe people’s sex:

The concept of gender transition is so nebulous, however, that drawing any line — except perhaps at a full sex reassignment surgery — would be arbitrary, not to mention at odds with current medical practice, which allows for a wide range of individualized treatment. In any event, [national] rates for genital surgery are exceedingly low — 2% of [female] transgender men and 10% of [male] transgender women. Only up to 25% of surveyed transgender persons report having had some form of transition-related surgery [such as breast reduction or facial cosmetic surgery]. The RAND study estimated that such rates “are typically only around 20 percent, with the exception of chest surgery among female-to-male transgender individuals” … Low rates of full sex reassignment surgery and the otherwise wide variation of transition-related treatment, with all the challenges that entails for privacy, fairness, and safety, weigh in favor of maintaining a bright line based on biological sex — not gender identity … After all, a person’s biological sex is generally ascertainable through objective means. Moreover, this approach will ensure that biologically-based standards will be applied uniformly to all Service members of the same biological sex. Standards that are clear, coherent, objective, consistent, predictable, and uniformly applied enhance good order, discipline, steady leadership, and unit cohesion, which in turn, ensure military effectiveness and lethality.

Pechman’s 33-page announcement does not include any mention of the Pentagon’s “bright line” phrase, which was embraced by the Pentagon when President Donald Trump ordered the military to end the pro-transgender policies pushed by former President Barack Obama. The judge suggested that biological sex is meaningless by putting quote marks around the term:

Requiring transgender people to serve in their “biological sex” does not constitute “open” service in any meaningful way, and cannot reasonably be considered an “exception” to the Ban.

But the judge seems to embrace the transgender ideology, and uses the “gender identity” term without quote marks, despite the inability of biologists to identify and measure a “gender identity’:

The term ‘transgender’ is used to describe someone who experiences any significant degree of misalignment between their gender identity and their assigned sex at birth … Experts agree that gender identity has a “biological component,” and there is a “medical consensus that gender identity is deep-seated, set early in life, and impervious to external influences.”

The judge also argues that her government-enforced redesign of the nation’s civic culture rests upon a claim that is only “widely understood,” but not actually confirmed by science or recognized by voters’ common sense:

The Court notes that the [Pentagon’s] Implementation Plan uses the term “biological sex,” apparently to refer to the sex one is assigned at birth. This is somewhat misleading, as the record indicates that gender identity—“a person’s internalized, inherent sense of who they are as a particular gender (i.e., male or female)”—is also widely understood to have a “biological component.”

These claims ignore the scientific evidence that the vast majority of children who claim an opposite-sex feeling of “gender identity” do drop that claim after puberty. Many adults also drop that claim after trying to live as members of the opposite sex, sharply weakening the claims that “transgender” people comprise a confirmable and permanent group.

Very few Americans claim to be transgender, but that rarity means they deserve maximum protection, says the judge:

While the exact number is unknown, transgender people make up less than 1 percent of the nation’s adult population … There are no openly transgender members of the United States Congress or the federal judiciary, and only one out of more than 7,000 state legislators is openly transgender.

People trying to live as members of the other sex deserve protection because of the harm they suffer, the judge said, even though she also disregarded the harm that would be caused by official suppression of sexual differences, such as the loss of sexual privacy in bathrooms or the health damage caused by “transgender” medical treatment of children. For example, training manual prepared by the Pentagon in 2016 said naked female soldiers must give “dignity and respect” to men who join them in their shared shower rooms.

According to the judge, the harms suffered by the Pentagon’s exclusion of people who want to change sex include:

For example, Karnoski has explained that the Ban has caused him “great distress, discomfort, and pain.” (Dkt. No. 130 at ¶ 21.) Schmid has explained that the Ban’s “abrupt change in policy and implicit commentary on [her] value to the military and competency to serve has caused [her] to feel tremendous anguish,” and that since it was announced, she has lost sleep and suffered “an immense amount of anxiety.” (Dkt. No. 131 at ¶¶ 23-24, 26.) Muller has explained that the Ban was “devastating” and “wounded [her] more than any combat injury could.” (Dkt. No. 133 at ¶¶ 30-31.) Doe has explained that the Ban precludes her from expressing her authentic gender identity, and that as a result, she has not come out.

The Pentagon and the public strongly support the recognition and celebration of heterosexual differences, but that popular support is portrayed as “systematic oppression” by the judge, who wrote:

The Court also rules that, because transgender people have long been subjected to systemic oppression and forced to live in silence, they are a protected class … This means that before [Pentagon] Defendants can implement the Ban, they must show that it was sincerely motivated by compelling interests, rather than by prejudice or stereotype, and that it is narrowly tailored to achieve those interests…

The judge also suggested that recognition of sexual differences in a two-sex society of male and female humans is similar to racism, arguing:

Indeed, the Court notes that Defendants’ claimed justifications for the Ban—to promote “military lethality and readiness” and avoid “disrupt[ing] unit cohesion, or tax[ing] military resources”— are strikingly similar to justifications offered in the past to support the military’s exclusion and segregation of African American service members.

In her one concession to the Pentagon, the judge said she was willing to consider if the Pentagon’s unique circumstances, expertise, and standing could justify the exclusion of people who want to live as members of the other sex:

Having carefully considered the [Pentagon] Implementation Plan—including the content of the DoD’s “Report and Recommendations on Military Service by Transgender Persons”—the Court concludes that whether the Ban is entitled to deference raises an unresolved question of fact … On the present record, the Court cannot determine whether the DoD’s deliberative process—including the timing and thoroughness of its study and the soundness of the medical and other evidence it relied upon—is of the type to which Courts typically should defer.

This court case is one of four being applied against the Pentagon by pro-transgender activists. Each win provides more courtroom evidence and pressure on other judges to endorse the same gender-identity-trumps-sex claim. However, the decision will be made by the Supreme Court, perhaps in 2020, unless Congress uses its constitutional power to restrict the legal and political authority of the pro-transgender judges.

The transgender ideology is deeply unpopular, especially among women and parents. In 2017, Obama told NPR that his promotion of the transgender ideology made it easier for Donald Trump to win the presidency.

Multiple polls show that most Americans wish to help and comfort people who think they are a member of the opposite sex, even as they also reject the transgender ideology’s claim that a person’s legal sex is determined by their feeling of “gender identity,” not by biology.

Despite the huge expense, conflict, and damage to young people, the gender ideology is rapidly gaining power, aided by huge donations from wealthy individuals and medical companies. In Ohio, for example, in February, a judge forced parents of a teenage girl to give up custody so she can begin a lifetime of drug treatments and surgery that will allow her to appear as a male.

The progressive push to bend Americans’ attitudes and their male-and-female civic society around the idea of “gender identity” has already attacked and cracked many of the popular social rules which help Americans manage the cooperation and competition among and between complementary, different and equal men and women.

These pro-gender claims have an impact on different-sex bathrooms, shelters for battered women, sports leagues for girls, hiking groups for boys, K-12 curricula, university speech codes, religious freedoms, free speech, the social status of women, parents’ rights in childrearing, practices to help teenagers, health outcomes, women’s expectations of beauty, culture and civic society, scientific research, prison safety, civic ceremonies, school rules, men’s sense of masculinity, law enforcement, and children’s sexual privacy.First Lady Melania Trump visited the “Prescribed to Death” memorial this week for Americans who have died in the opioid crisis.

Mrs. Trump kept her ensemble colorful in a pale pink Max Mara coat, similar to a Jil Sander coat she has previously worn, and a yellow-green dress that perfectly matched a pair of yellow-green, suede Christian Louboutins.

The chilly Spring has kept Mrs. Trump in a series of suits, coats, and pants, though she has celebrated the season in bright colors. Mrs. Trump wore a similar color palette last month in a coral Emilio Pucci suit and yellow sweater.

Mrs. Trump has dedicated herself to visiting sites that work to help families of those struggling with addiction.

“As you know, the opioid epidemic and how it affects children and families has been one of the issue areas Mrs. Trump is focused on, so going to the memorial was something she wanted to do as soon as it was announced,” the first lady’s spokesperson said on Monday.

“Very moving visit today – ‘Prescribed to Death’ Opioid Memorial on the Ellipse is a worthwhile partnership between @WhiteHouse, @usinterior, & @nationalparkservice,” Mrs. Trump captioned one Instagram post, adding the hashtag, “#StopEveryDayKillers.”First Lady Melania Trump visited the “Prescribed to Death” memorial this week for Americans who have died in the opioid crisis.

Mrs. Trump kept her ensemble colorful in a pale pink Max Mara coat, similar to a Jil Sander coat she has previously worn, and a yellow-green dress that perfectly matched a pair of yellow-green, suede Christian Louboutins.

The chilly Spring has kept Mrs. Trump in a series of suits, coats, and pants, though she has celebrated the season in bright colors. Mrs. Trump wore a similar color palette last month in a coral Emilio Pucci suit and yellow sweater.

Mrs. Trump has dedicated herself to visiting sites that work to help families of those struggling with addiction.

“As you know, the opioid epidemic and how it affects children and families has been one of the issue areas Mrs. Trump is focused on, so going to the memorial was something she wanted to do as soon as it was announced,” the first lady’s spokesperson said on Monday.

“Very moving visit today – ‘Prescribed to Death’ Opioid Memorial on the Ellipse is a worthwhile partnership between @WhiteHouse, @usinterior, & @nationalparkservice,” Mrs. Trump captioned one Instagram post, adding the hashtag, “#StopEveryDayKillers.”President Donald Trump celebrated the end of the old system of filing taxes on Tax Day and touted the benefits of reform.

“So many people are seeing the benefits of the Tax Cut Bill,” Trump wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. “Everyone is talking, really nice to see! Employment is up, Taxes are DOWN. Enjoy!”

On Monday, the president hosted an event with Hispanic business leaders in Florida, who explained how the tax bill was already helping them.

“This is the last time you’re going to fill up that long, complicated, horrible return,” Trump told the audience.

He pointed out that in 2019, filing taxes would be easier, as most people would be able to file a one-page tax return.

“Very importantly, you’re going to have a lot of money left over from what you have,” Trump said.

The president reminded the audience that lower taxes for businesses would help bring more companies back into the United States to help produce more jobs.

“Companies are moving back into our country now,” Trump said. “We have billions of dollars, and even trillions of dollars, going to be coming back in.”

So many people are seeing the benefits of the Tax Cut Bill. Everyone is talking, really nice to see! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 17, 2018President Donald Trump celebrated the end of the old system of filing taxes on Tax Day and touted the benefits of reform.

“So many people are seeing the benefits of the Tax Cut Bill,” Trump wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. “Everyone is talking, really nice to see! Employment is up, Taxes are DOWN. Enjoy!”

On Monday, the president hosted an event with Hispanic business leaders in Florida, who explained how the tax bill was already helping them.

“This is the last time you’re going to fill up that long, complicated, horrible return,” Trump told the audience.

He pointed out that in 2019, filing taxes would be easier, as most people would be able to file a one-page tax return.

“Very importantly, you’re going to have a lot of money left over from what you have,” Trump said.

The president reminded the audience that lower taxes for businesses would help bring more companies back into the United States to help produce more jobs.

“Companies are moving back into our country now,” Trump said. “We have billions of dollars, and even trillions of dollars, going to be coming back in.”

So many people are seeing the benefits of the Tax Cut Bill. Everyone is talking, really nice to see! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 17, 2018WASHINGTON (AP) — The Supreme Court says Justice Sonia Sotomayor broke her left shoulder in a fall at her Washington home.

The court says the 63-year-old Sotomayor will wear a sling for several weeks and undergo physical therapy. She is not expected to miss any time on the bench. The justices are hearing arguments this week and next.

The court says the fall occurred Monday morning and that a doctor confirmed the break in the afternoon. Sotomayor was in court Monday and did not appear to be in pain.

In January, emergency medical personnel treated her at home for symptoms of low blood sugar. Sotomayor is diabetic.

___

This story has been corrected to show that the court now says Sotomayor broke her left shoulder.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Supreme Court says Justice Sonia Sotomayor broke her left shoulder in a fall at her Washington home.

The court says the 63-year-old Sotomayor will wear a sling for several weeks and undergo physical therapy. She is not expected to miss any time on the bench. The justices are hearing arguments this week and next.

The court says the fall occurred Monday morning and that a doctor confirmed the break in the afternoon. Sotomayor was in court Monday and did not appear to be in pain.

In January, emergency medical personnel treated her at home for symptoms of low blood sugar. Sotomayor is diabetic.

___

This story has been corrected to show that the court now says Sotomayor broke her left shoulder.The more time and distance we get from the Roseanne premiere, the more we find out just how dominant the opening act of the show’s redux truly was.

Roseanne beat all of its network competition in the delayed viewer ratings for week 27 of the 2017-2018 broadcast season. However, the updated numbers paint a picture of historic and staggering success for the show.

According to Variety:

As previously reported, the one-hour premiere on March 27 rose to 27.3 million viewers in Live+7, an increase of 8.8 million viewers over the Live+Same Day haul of 18.5 million. That is the largest-ever seven-day lift for any show on any network, topping the previous record of 7.9 million set by the debut of fellow ABC show “The Good Doctor” back in September. In addition, “Roseanne” rose to an 8.1 rating in adults 18-49, an increase of 2.9 rating points over the Live+Same Day rating of a 5.2. Now, with the full week’s numbers in, it is clear just how badly “Roseanne” beat its broadcast competitors. It’s nearest competition in total viewers was fellow ABC series “The Good Doctor,” which grew by 6.3 million to 15.8 million total. That means “Roseanne” held an advantage of just under 12 million viewers after seven days of playback. In the demo, “The Big Bang Theory” grew by a 1.7 rating to a 4.2, meaning “Roseanne” nearly doubled “Big Bang” in that measure.

To give the numbers more context, Roseanne finished with 2.7 million more viewers in the critical 18-49 demographic than the Big Bang Theory, which finished second. Roseanne also finished with 3.5 million 18-49 viewers than the Good Doctor, which came in third.

With numbers like these, it’s no surprise why the show, which prides itself on irreverent humor, blue-collar sensibilities, and the willingness to openly support President Trump, has already been green-lit for another season.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnThe more time and distance we get from the Roseanne premiere, the more we find out just how dominant the opening act of the show’s redux truly was.

Roseanne beat all of its network competition in the delayed viewer ratings for week 27 of the 2017-2018 broadcast season. However, the updated numbers paint a picture of historic and staggering success for the show.

According to Variety:

As previously reported, the one-hour premiere on March 27 rose to 27.3 million viewers in Live+7, an increase of 8.8 million viewers over the Live+Same Day haul of 18.5 million. That is the largest-ever seven-day lift for any show on any network, topping the previous record of 7.9 million set by the debut of fellow ABC show “The Good Doctor” back in September. In addition, “Roseanne” rose to an 8.1 rating in adults 18-49, an increase of 2.9 rating points over the Live+Same Day rating of a 5.2. Now, with the full week’s numbers in, it is clear just how badly “Roseanne” beat its broadcast competitors. It’s nearest competition in total viewers was fellow ABC series “The Good Doctor,” which grew by 6.3 million to 15.8 million total. That means “Roseanne” held an advantage of just under 12 million viewers after seven days of playback. In the demo, “The Big Bang Theory” grew by a 1.7 rating to a 4.2, meaning “Roseanne” nearly doubled “Big Bang” in that measure.

To give the numbers more context, Roseanne finished with 2.7 million more viewers in the critical 18-49 demographic than the Big Bang Theory, which finished second. Roseanne also finished with 3.5 million 18-49 viewers than the Good Doctor, which came in third.

With numbers like these, it’s no surprise why the show, which prides itself on irreverent humor, blue-collar sensibilities, and the willingness to openly support President Trump, has already been green-lit for another season.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnApril 17 (UPI) — Comedian Maria Bamford filed a request for a restraining order against President Donald Trump because of his nuclear war threats, but said she was denied pending another hearing.

Bamford, who kicks off a new tour Tuesday in Houston, first brought up the idea of filing a restraining order against Trump on Twitter on April 7.

“Does anyone know how to file a restraining order against The President of the United States? I have bought the filing paperwork for $39,” she wrote.

On Friday, she went to her local courthouse and filed the paperwork.

“Ok! Going to local courthouse to file restraining order against Donald Trump. I’ll let you know what happens. It may just be rejected after a long wait in line,” Bamford tweeted.

Among the documents Bamford presented to make her case were printed out version of Trump’s Jan. 2 tweet where he said his nuclear button is “bigger & more powerful” than North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s supposed nuclear button.

The court accepted Bamford’s paperwork for review, but on Monday, she said her request was denied until another hearing in May. However, she says she might not follow through with the effort.

“I may stop here because it’s getting weird,” she tweeted. “I think that sometimes comedic premises are rejected as legitimate democratic action. And so I thought I’d follow through.”April 17 (UPI) — Comedian Maria Bamford filed a request for a restraining order against President Donald Trump because of his nuclear war threats, but said she was denied pending another hearing.

Bamford, who kicks off a new tour Tuesday in Houston, first brought up the idea of filing a restraining order against Trump on Twitter on April 7.

“Does anyone know how to file a restraining order against The President of the United States? I have bought the filing paperwork for $39,” she wrote.

On Friday, she went to her local courthouse and filed the paperwork.

“Ok! Going to local courthouse to file restraining order against Donald Trump. I’ll let you know what happens. It may just be rejected after a long wait in line,” Bamford tweeted.

Among the documents Bamford presented to make her case were printed out version of Trump’s Jan. 2 tweet where he said his nuclear button is “bigger & more powerful” than North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s supposed nuclear button.

The court accepted Bamford’s paperwork for review, but on Monday, she said her request was denied until another hearing in May. However, she says she might not follow through with the effort.

“I may stop here because it’s getting weird,” she tweeted. “I think that sometimes comedic premises are rejected as legitimate democratic action. And so I thought I’d follow through.”Actress-comedian Amy Schumer groused in a recent interview with Time that the election of Donald Trump has been a “nightmare,” for her comedy career if nothing else.

“I’ve been doing less standup, just because it’s not funny,” Schumer says of the country’s current political climate, as “tears come to her eyes,” according to Time.

The 36-year-old, who supported Hillary Clinton’s 2016 White House bid, has long-despised politics while gradually increasing her participation in it.

A year and a half after revealing that her vow to “move to Spain or somewhere” if Trump were elected was a joke, Schumer has become an outspoken advocate for gun control, DACA illegals, and the anti-sexual harassment campaign Time’s Up.

To be sure, Schumer admits that she’s aware of how her politics attracts detractors — last May, her Netflix special, The Leather Special, debuted to hundreds of one-star reviews from Netflix members. Schumer blamed right-wing Internet trolls for flooding the zone with negative reviews.

“There will be a movement on Reddit to try and get the movie voted down, to actually hurt me,” she says of her latest comedy, I Feel Pretty, which faced backlash from women who accused the film of body shaming weeks before its April 20 theatrical release. “But I’m not going to let that slow me down.”

Its PG-13 rating notwithstanding, I Feel Pretty is reportedly on track to open behind Schumer’s last two big-screen comedies, Trainwreck and Snatched (which both carried an R-rating). Schumer confesses the film has its flaws.

“It’s not a perfect movie,” she admits about the film which follows a fat woman (Schumer) who falls off an exercise bike, hits her head, and wakes up feeling like she has supermodel looks. “It would be great if my role had been played by a woman of color and there were more trans people in it, more people with disabilities. But it’s a step in the right direction, I hope.”

I Feel Pretty, which stars Schumer, Michelle Williams, Emily Ratajkowski, Rory Scovel, and Busy Philipps, opens everywhere on April 20.

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudsonActress-comedian Amy Schumer groused in a recent interview with Time that the election of Donald Trump has been a “nightmare,” for her comedy career if nothing else.

“I’ve been doing less standup, just because it’s not funny,” Schumer says of the country’s current political climate, as “tears come to her eyes,” according to Time.

The 36-year-old, who supported Hillary Clinton’s 2016 White House bid, has long-despised politics while gradually increasing her participation in it.

A year and a half after revealing that her vow to “move to Spain or somewhere” if Trump were elected was a joke, Schumer has become an outspoken advocate for gun control, DACA illegals, and the anti-sexual harassment campaign Time’s Up.

To be sure, Schumer admits that she’s aware of how her politics attracts detractors — last May, her Netflix special, The Leather Special, debuted to hundreds of one-star reviews from Netflix members. Schumer blamed right-wing Internet trolls for flooding the zone with negative reviews.

“There will be a movement on Reddit to try and get the movie voted down, to actually hurt me,” she says of her latest comedy, I Feel Pretty, which faced backlash from women who accused the film of body shaming weeks before its April 20 theatrical release. “But I’m not going to let that slow me down.”

Its PG-13 rating notwithstanding, I Feel Pretty is reportedly on track to open behind Schumer’s last two big-screen comedies, Trainwreck and Snatched (which both carried an R-rating). Schumer confesses the film has its flaws.

“It’s not a perfect movie,” she admits about the film which follows a fat woman (Schumer) who falls off an exercise bike, hits her head, and wakes up feeling like she has supermodel looks. “It would be great if my role had been played by a woman of color and there were more trans people in it, more people with disabilities. But it’s a step in the right direction, I hope.”

I Feel Pretty, which stars Schumer, Michelle Williams, Emily Ratajkowski, Rory Scovel, and Busy Philipps, opens everywhere on April 20.

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter @jeromeehudsonHarry Anderson, the actor best known for playing an off-the-wall judge working the night shift of a Manhattan court room in the television comedy series “Night Court,” was found dead in his North Carolina home Monday.

Anderson was 65.

A statement from the Asheville Police Department said officers responded to a call from Anderson’s home early Monday and found him dead. The statement said foul play is not suspected.

On “Night Court,” Anderson played Judge Harry T. Stone, a young jurist who professed his love for singer Mel Torme, actress Jean Harlow, magic tricks and his collection of art-deco ties.

He also starred in the series “Dave’s World” and appeared on “Cheers” as con man Harry “The Hat” Gittes.

Anderson prided himself on being a magician as well as actor.

“I got into magic when I was a child,” he told The Associated Press in 1987. “Unlike most kids, I stayed with it. My high school teachers were always asking me what I was going to do. It made me what I am today — available for weekend employment, parties and bar mitzvahs.”

Anderson, was born in Newport, Rhode Island, on Oct. 14, 1952. He grew up in New York and moved to Oregon when he was a teenager and said that’s where he became a hippie.

“The Shakespeare Festival at Ashland, Oregon, seemed like a good place to open a magic store,” he said. “At 18, I was ready for retirement. It didn’t last long, but I was established as the magician. I worked the streets in San Francisco and I did magic and special effects at the festival.”

Anderson learned the ropes as a street performer in San Francisco, New Orleans, and Austin, Texas, among other cities. When he made his first appearance on “Saturday Night Live,” he was right off the street.

“‘Cheers’ was my first acting job, but it was basically the character I had developed on the street,” he said. “That’s how I made my living, hustling drinks in bars and quarters on the street.”

“Night Court” ran on NBC from 1984 until 1992, and Anderson received three lead comedy actor Emmy nominations for his role. After the show ended, he was cast in the lead role in the CBS sitcom “Dave’s World,” which was based on the life of Pulitzer Prize-winning humor columnist Dave Barry. That series ran from 1993 until 1997.

A People magazine story in 2002 said Anderson disappeared from Hollywood and resurfaced as the owner of a New Orleans magic shop.

“I am richer than Davy Crockett,” Anderson said in the story. “I can settle back and do what I want to do. And what I want to do is card tricks and magic.′ That includes magic shows for corporate clients (“Fifty-five minutes with applause,” says Anderson) at $20,000 a pop.

According to the story, Anderson was disenchanted by the prospect of chasing acting roles into middle age. “I don’t understand why guys have that Don Knotts syndrome of having to be out there.” He sold his home in Pasadena, California, and moved back to New Orleans, where he had lived in the 1970s.

Following the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, he moved to Asheville.

Anderson had two children from his first marriage to Leslie Pollack. His second wife, Elizabeth Morgan, is among his survivors. There was no immediate word on funeral arrangements Monday night.Harry Anderson, the actor best known for playing an off-the-wall judge working the night shift of a Manhattan court room in the television comedy series “Night Court,” was found dead in his North Carolina home Monday.

Anderson was 65.

A statement from the Asheville Police Department said officers responded to a call from Anderson’s home early Monday and found him dead. The statement said foul play is not suspected.

On “Night Court,” Anderson played Judge Harry T. Stone, a young jurist who professed his love for singer Mel Torme, actress Jean Harlow, magic tricks and his collection of art-deco ties.

He also starred in the series “Dave’s World” and appeared on “Cheers” as con man Harry “The Hat” Gittes.

Anderson prided himself on being a magician as well as actor.

“I got into magic when I was a child,” he told The Associated Press in 1987. “Unlike most kids, I stayed with it. My high school teachers were always asking me what I was going to do. It made me what I am today — available for weekend employment, parties and bar mitzvahs.”

Anderson, was born in Newport, Rhode Island, on Oct. 14, 1952. He grew up in New York and moved to Oregon when he was a teenager and said that’s where he became a hippie.

“The Shakespeare Festival at Ashland, Oregon, seemed like a good place to open a magic store,” he said. “At 18, I was ready for retirement. It didn’t last long, but I was established as the magician. I worked the streets in San Francisco and I did magic and special effects at the festival.”

Anderson learned the ropes as a street performer in San Francisco, New Orleans, and Austin, Texas, among other cities. When he made his first appearance on “Saturday Night Live,” he was right off the street.

“‘Cheers’ was my first acting job, but it was basically the character I had developed on the street,” he said. “That’s how I made my living, hustling drinks in bars and quarters on the street.”

“Night Court” ran on NBC from 1984 until 1992, and Anderson received three lead comedy actor Emmy nominations for his role. After the show ended, he was cast in the lead role in the CBS sitcom “Dave’s World,” which was based on the life of Pulitzer Prize-winning humor columnist Dave Barry. That series ran from 1993 until 1997.

A People magazine story in 2002 said Anderson disappeared from Hollywood and resurfaced as the owner of a New Orleans magic shop.

“I am richer than Davy Crockett,” Anderson said in the story. “I can settle back and do what I want to do. And what I want to do is card tricks and magic.′ That includes magic shows for corporate clients (“Fifty-five minutes with applause,” says Anderson) at $20,000 a pop.

According to the story, Anderson was disenchanted by the prospect of chasing acting roles into middle age. “I don’t understand why guys have that Don Knotts syndrome of having to be out there.” He sold his home in Pasadena, California, and moved back to New Orleans, where he had lived in the 1970s.

Following the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, he moved to Asheville.

Anderson had two children from his first marriage to Leslie Pollack. His second wife, Elizabeth Morgan, is among his survivors. There was no immediate word on funeral arrangements Monday night.San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich is no stranger to the media with his near weekly, hate-filled rants about President Trump. However, the attacks have been going on so long and are so virulent that many fans are simply waking away from the team.

One fan, for instance, noted that once coach Popovich started his constant attacks on President Trump, she filled a garbage bag full of her Spurs memorabilia and fan wear and tossed it in the garbage. The fan, Cassandra Casanova, then just stopped going to games and won’t follow the team otherwise.

“I am completely turned off. After all those years supporting the team, and now I just have no interest,” Casanova told the Washington Post this week. “Popovich really messed up.”

Casanova was not the only fan to have dumped the Spurs. Bob Mulherin, a Spurs fan for 25 years, also told the paper that he was done with the team due to Popovich’s political vitriol.

“I often curse Pop for doing what he did,” Mulherin said. “He insulted more than half of the Spurs’ fan base, and no sign whatsoever of an apology.

“It is sad that Pop basically told my wife and my son and me for that matter that we were fools for supporting Donald Trump. What happens when someone calls you a fool? You avoid them,” Mulherin added.

The Post went on to note that a local sports reporter has heard from many fans who have turned their back on the Spurs. On his ESPN radio show, Jason Minnix says that he hears from infuriated Spurs fans quite often.

The paper also quoted several other fans who are fed up with Popovich’s political explosions with one saying that she just wished that the team could get a coach who “doesn’t feel the need t talk politics.”

Meanwhile, according to the San Antonio Business Journal, the team’s local TV ratings have cratered and national ratings are down 43 percent.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich is no stranger to the media with his near weekly, hate-filled rants about President Trump. However, the attacks have been going on so long and are so virulent that many fans are simply waking away from the team.

One fan, for instance, noted that once coach Popovich started his constant attacks on President Trump, she filled a garbage bag full of her Spurs memorabilia and fan wear and tossed it in the garbage. The fan, Cassandra Casanova, then just stopped going to games and won’t follow the team otherwise.

“I am completely turned off. After all those years supporting the team, and now I just have no interest,” Casanova told the Washington Post this week. “Popovich really messed up.”

Casanova was not the only fan to have dumped the Spurs. Bob Mulherin, a Spurs fan for 25 years, also told the paper that he was done with the team due to Popovich’s political vitriol.

“I often curse Pop for doing what he did,” Mulherin said. “He insulted more than half of the Spurs’ fan base, and no sign whatsoever of an apology.

“It is sad that Pop basically told my wife and my son and me for that matter that we were fools for supporting Donald Trump. What happens when someone calls you a fool? You avoid them,” Mulherin added.

The Post went on to note that a local sports reporter has heard from many fans who have turned their back on the Spurs. On his ESPN radio show, Jason Minnix says that he hears from infuriated Spurs fans quite often.

The paper also quoted several other fans who are fed up with Popovich’s political explosions with one saying that she just wished that the team could get a coach who “doesn’t feel the need t talk politics.”

Meanwhile, according to the San Antonio Business Journal, the team’s local TV ratings have cratered and national ratings are down 43 percent.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Some might find it odd for a person to travel the country with his legal team to depose the NFL commissioner, while seeking a job in the NFL.

However, this does not seem to bother Colin Kaepernick at all.

TMZ cameras caught the NFL’s most famous anthem protester as he and his high-powered lawyers entered the league offices in New York.

“I’m doing great,” Kaepernick said. the former 49er added, “I love y’all and we gonna keep going!”

According to TMZ, “Our NFL sources tell us … Colin and the team are at HQ to depose Goodell as part of Colin’s collusion case against the NFL — in which he claims league officials like Goodell conspired with team owners to blackball him because of his kneeling protest during the national anthem.

“We know Kaep’s team has already deposed Houston Texans owner Bob McNair — and there are reports Cowboys owner Jerry Jones and NFL executive vice president Troy Vincent were grilled this past week.”

Interestingly, a member of Kaepernick’s entourage was carrying an Adidas bag. The shoe and athletic apparel giant made headlines on Tuesday, by announcing that they would sign Kaepernick to an endorsement deal if he got picked up by an NFL team.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnSome might find it odd for a person to travel the country with his legal team to depose the NFL commissioner, while seeking a job in the NFL.

However, this does not seem to bother Colin Kaepernick at all.

TMZ cameras caught the NFL’s most famous anthem protester as he and his high-powered lawyers entered the league offices in New York.

“I’m doing great,” Kaepernick said. the former 49er added, “I love y’all and we gonna keep going!”

According to TMZ, “Our NFL sources tell us … Colin and the team are at HQ to depose Goodell as part of Colin’s collusion case against the NFL — in which he claims league officials like Goodell conspired with team owners to blackball him because of his kneeling protest during the national anthem.

“We know Kaep’s team has already deposed Houston Texans owner Bob McNair — and there are reports Cowboys owner Jerry Jones and NFL executive vice president Troy Vincent were grilled this past week.”

Interestingly, a member of Kaepernick’s entourage was carrying an Adidas bag. The shoe and athletic apparel giant made headlines on Tuesday, by announcing that they would sign Kaepernick to an endorsement deal if he got picked up by an NFL team.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnWeeks after LeBron James claimed that Nick Saban and the Alabama Crimson Tide had stolen his idea for a barbershop-themed talk show. James finds himself in the cross-hairs of a lawsuit which claims that he, stole the idea of a barbershop-themed show.

Adventure Enterprise has filed a suit against the NBA superstar, claiming that it had previously proposed a show called “Shop Talk” to UNINTERRUPTED, LeBron James’ multimedia company, before being cut out of production.

According to the Sporting News via TMZ, “the lawsuit alleges Adventure Enterprise engaged in “numerous talks” with UNINTERRUPTED over two years in order to ‘flesh out the idea and figure out a strategy for pitching it to various networks.’

“TMZ noted that lawsuit is seeking an injunction that would cease the production of future episodes of “The Shop” in addition to “serious” monetary compensation.

“Earlier this month, James and UNINTERRUPTED sent Alabama a letter addressing their concerns about copyright infringement after the Crimson Tide football program released a trailer for “Shop Talk,” which features former player Julio Jones and coach Nick Saban at a barber shop discussing a variety of topics.”

So, in short, after accusing Saban of stealing his barbershop idea, the people who came up with LeBron’s barbershop idea are now saying he stole it from them.

I thoroughly recognize the irony of me, as a bald man, pointing this out. But I cannot refrain from pointing out the irony of LeBron James, a player with the most famous receding hairline in all of sports, being caught in the middle of a three-way legal fight over a show which takes place in a barbershop.

However, ironies aside, the story is beyond ridiculous. Barbershop’s have been the setting for numerous television shows and movies throughout the years.

Coming to America, the classic 1988 movie with Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall, had a couple great barbershop scenes. Should Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall sue Nick Saban and LeBron James?

Ice Cube starred in a movie called Barbershop when LeBron was in high school. Does LeBron owe Ice Cube for that?

Sure, there are more complex legalities involved here. But saying that someone stole my idea for a show that takes place in a barbershop, is like saying someone stole my idea for a show where the bad boy falls in love with the good girl.

It’s been done and overdone, dozens of times. LeBron needs to get over himself.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnWeeks after LeBron James claimed that Nick Saban and the Alabama Crimson Tide had stolen his idea for a barbershop-themed talk show. James finds himself in the cross-hairs of a lawsuit which claims that he, stole the idea of a barbershop-themed show.

Adventure Enterprise has filed a suit against the NBA superstar, claiming that it had previously proposed a show called “Shop Talk” to UNINTERRUPTED, LeBron James’ multimedia company, before being cut out of production.

According to the Sporting News via TMZ, “the lawsuit alleges Adventure Enterprise engaged in “numerous talks” with UNINTERRUPTED over two years in order to ‘flesh out the idea and figure out a strategy for pitching it to various networks.’

“TMZ noted that lawsuit is seeking an injunction that would cease the production of future episodes of “The Shop” in addition to “serious” monetary compensation.

“Earlier this month, James and UNINTERRUPTED sent Alabama a letter addressing their concerns about copyright infringement after the Crimson Tide football program released a trailer for “Shop Talk,” which features former player Julio Jones and coach Nick Saban at a barber shop discussing a variety of topics.”

So, in short, after accusing Saban of stealing his barbershop idea, the people who came up with LeBron’s barbershop idea are now saying he stole it from them.

I thoroughly recognize the irony of me, as a bald man, pointing this out. But I cannot refrain from pointing out the irony of LeBron James, a player with the most famous receding hairline in all of sports, being caught in the middle of a three-way legal fight over a show which takes place in a barbershop.

However, ironies aside, the story is beyond ridiculous. Barbershop’s have been the setting for numerous television shows and movies throughout the years.

Coming to America, the classic 1988 movie with Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall, had a couple great barbershop scenes. Should Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall sue Nick Saban and LeBron James?

Ice Cube starred in a movie called Barbershop when LeBron was in high school. Does LeBron owe Ice Cube for that?

Sure, there are more complex legalities involved here. But saying that someone stole my idea for a show that takes place in a barbershop, is like saying someone stole my idea for a show where the bad boy falls in love with the good girl.

It’s been done and overdone, dozens of times. LeBron needs to get over himself.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnHundreds of police were deployed after residents rioted and torched cars in Toulouse following a police stop of a woman wearing an illegal full-face Islamic veil.

The incident that allegedly sparked the riots took place Sunday after 5 pm when local police stopped a woman in the Toulouse district of Bellefontaine who was wearing a full-face Islamic veil, which is illegal in France.

Police asked the woman for identification and when she presented a poor photocopy of her government identification, they ordered her to remove her veil, broadcaster Franceinfo reports.

The woman refused to lift her veil and is said to have started screaming for help. She was then arrested and placed in the police vehicle.

Shortly after, around 30 locals arrived and attacked the police with projectiles, injuring one officer. The officers retreated and discharged their weapons, including a tear gas launcher, 18 times before they could escape the mob.

Just a bit of 'playful' car burning, surely? https://t.co/x9krKgCUfs — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 3, 2018

Police believe there may have been a link between the incident and the riots in Bellefontaine and the neighbouring district of Reynerie which erupted at around 8 pm.

Around 15 cars were torched by the rioters and 200 police mobilised during the riots which lasted several hours with some 300 tear gas grenades fired until calm was restored at around midnight.

Firefighters were not able to reach the scene until after 10:30 pm due to residents lighting fires on the road. The police station in Bellefontaine was also targetted by rioters.

“The clashes were extremely violent,” said Didier Martinez of the peacekeeping union. “My colleagues were very shocked, the events were very complicated to manage but they showed a lot of composure.”

While some link the niqab incident to the riots, other sources have speculated that the apparent suicide of a prisoner on Saturday at the Seysses prison near Toulouse may have also sparked the violence.

Car burnings are a common occurrence in some of the more troubled suburbs of France and are especially common in the suburbs around the French capital of Paris. Zone urbaine sensible, ZUS, better known as No Go Zones in English are a long-understood phenomenon that nonetheless are only now being recognised by establishment powers as actually existing.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently admitted that No Go Zones do exist in her country, only shortly after they were exposed in Breitbart London Editor-in-Chief Raheem Kassam’s groundbreaking book No Go Zones: How Sharia Law is Coming to a Neighborhood Near You.

On New Year’s Eve in 2016, police estimated that over 1,000 cars were torched across the country and several months later during the Bastille Day celebrations another 897 cars were set on fire in Paris’s heavily migrant populated suburbs.Hundreds of police were deployed after residents rioted and torched cars in Toulouse following a police stop of a woman wearing an illegal full-face Islamic veil.

The incident that allegedly sparked the riots took place Sunday after 5 pm when local police stopped a woman in the Toulouse district of Bellefontaine who was wearing a full-face Islamic veil, which is illegal in France.

Police asked the woman for identification and when she presented a poor photocopy of her government identification, they ordered her to remove her veil, broadcaster Franceinfo reports.

The woman refused to lift her veil and is said to have started screaming for help. She was then arrested and placed in the police vehicle.

Shortly after, around 30 locals arrived and attacked the police with projectiles, injuring one officer. The officers retreated and discharged their weapons, including a tear gas launcher, 18 times before they could escape the mob.

Just a bit of 'playful' car burning, surely? https://t.co/x9krKgCUfs — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 3, 2018

Police believe there may have been a link between the incident and the riots in Bellefontaine and the neighbouring district of Reynerie which erupted at around 8 pm.

Around 15 cars were torched by the rioters and 200 police mobilised during the riots which lasted several hours with some 300 tear gas grenades fired until calm was restored at around midnight.

Firefighters were not able to reach the scene until after 10:30 pm due to residents lighting fires on the road. The police station in Bellefontaine was also targetted by rioters.

“The clashes were extremely violent,” said Didier Martinez of the peacekeeping union. “My colleagues were very shocked, the events were very complicated to manage but they showed a lot of composure.”

While some link the niqab incident to the riots, other sources have speculated that the apparent suicide of a prisoner on Saturday at the Seysses prison near Toulouse may have also sparked the violence.

Car burnings are a common occurrence in some of the more troubled suburbs of France and are especially common in the suburbs around the French capital of Paris. Zone urbaine sensible, ZUS, better known as No Go Zones in English are a long-understood phenomenon that nonetheless are only now being recognised by establishment powers as actually existing.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently admitted that No Go Zones do exist in her country, only shortly after they were exposed in Breitbart London Editor-in-Chief Raheem Kassam’s groundbreaking book No Go Zones: How Sharia Law is Coming to a Neighborhood Near You.

On New Year’s Eve in 2016, police estimated that over 1,000 cars were torched across the country and several months later during the Bastille Day celebrations another 897 cars were set on fire in Paris’s heavily migrant populated suburbs.An 18-year-old university student was stabbed to death overnight Monday in Forest Gate, east London, the latest fatality in an apparent crime wave sweeping London which has seen over 35 people murdered with knives in 2018.

Police and the London Air Ambulance were called to Forest Gate in East London around 2250 Monday evening to reports of a teenager having been stabbed, who died at the scene. No arrests have yet been made.

Witnesses said the victim was attacked by men who came out of two cars, a silver BMW and a “dark” Vauxhall Corsa, and that he was stabbed in the back before the men took back to their vehicles and drove away.

Two fatal stabbings in 30 minutes https://t.co/Ps6ABObP5N — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) April 16, 2018

The 18-year-old victim was identified Sami Sidhom, a Queen Mary University student by London newspaper the Evening Standard, who said he was studying law with a view to qualifying as a lawyer and had been a high performing student at his “prestigious” 6th form college.

The killing is the third in just three days in London, which is presently undergoing unprecedented surges in almost all measures of violent crime. In total, 60 people have been killed or murdered in London so far this year, a rate of violence which has seen London pull ahead of New York City crime rates for the first time since the 19th century.

Sh*thole Watch: Air Ambulance Called to More Stabbings and Shootings than Road Accidents in Sadiq Khan’s London https://t.co/2IpMFzfZgA — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) March 17, 2018

The number of murders appears to be one that will fast overtake the 2017 total, which stood at 116 all year.

London Mayor Sadiq Khan, the elected politician responsible for law and order in the city, has consistently refused to take responsibility for the rises in crime, instead pointing the finger of blame at the national government for a surge in murders that remains concentrated in his city. Prominent Tory backbencher Jacob Rees-Mogg has urged the mayor to take responsibility for his own work, however.

Speaking out on Monday on London radio, Rees-Mogg said: “He is standing on the deck now… The person on the deck always has to take some responsibility because he is clearly not changing policies to make things happen differently.”An 18-year-old university student was stabbed to death overnight Monday in Forest Gate, east London, the latest fatality in an apparent crime wave sweeping London which has seen over 35 people murdered with knives in 2018.

Police and the London Air Ambulance were called to Forest Gate in East London around 2250 Monday evening to reports of a teenager having been stabbed, who died at the scene. No arrests have yet been made.

Witnesses said the victim was attacked by men who came out of two cars, a silver BMW and a “dark” Vauxhall Corsa, and that he was stabbed in the back before the men took back to their vehicles and drove away.

Two fatal stabbings in 30 minutes https://t.co/Ps6ABObP5N — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) April 16, 2018

The 18-year-old victim was identified Sami Sidhom, a Queen Mary University student by London newspaper the Evening Standard, who said he was studying law with a view to qualifying as a lawyer and had been a high performing student at his “prestigious” 6th form college.

The killing is the third in just three days in London, which is presently undergoing unprecedented surges in almost all measures of violent crime. In total, 60 people have been killed or murdered in London so far this year, a rate of violence which has seen London pull ahead of New York City crime rates for the first time since the 19th century.

Sh*thole Watch: Air Ambulance Called to More Stabbings and Shootings than Road Accidents in Sadiq Khan’s London https://t.co/2IpMFzfZgA — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) March 17, 2018

The number of murders appears to be one that will fast overtake the 2017 total, which stood at 116 all year.

London Mayor Sadiq Khan, the elected politician responsible for law and order in the city, has consistently refused to take responsibility for the rises in crime, instead pointing the finger of blame at the national government for a surge in murders that remains concentrated in his city. Prominent Tory backbencher Jacob Rees-Mogg has urged the mayor to take responsibility for his own work, however.

Speaking out on Monday on London radio, Rees-Mogg said: “He is standing on the deck now… The person on the deck always has to take some responsibility because he is clearly not changing policies to make things happen differently.”Prominent backbench Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg has slammed London Mayor Sadiq Khan, saying he must “take responsibility” for the violent crime wave sweeping the city, driving its murder rate above that of New York City.

Knife crime has surged by more than 30 per cent in London under the leadership of Mr. Khan, who has repeatedly deflected blame on to central government and what he calls “Tory cuts”.

Burglary, rape, and gang-related acid attacks have also surged dramatically, rising fastest in the capital, despite the Mayor claiming the crime wave is a nation-wide problem.

On Sunday night, two more young people were killed, both stabbed by people known to them, and a teenager was stabbed to death on Monday night in east London, police said.

Khan Responds to Knife Crime Surge, Blames Tories https://t.co/1NEpKbdFRb — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) April 4, 2018

“He is standing on the deck now,” Mr. Rees-Mogg blasted on LBC radio. “The person on the deck always has to take some responsibility because he is clearly not changing policies to make things happen differently.

“But you cannot blame him for the trend that had started before he got in. It is his primary responsibility to be responding. That is where his responsibility lies.”

Mr. Rees-Mogg also defended Theresa May’s role as Home Secretary before she became Prime Minister, after she slashed the use of the stop and search, claiming the police tactic unfairly targeted ethnic minorities.

Mr. Khan also promised to cut the use of such searches, before reversing his stance as violence began to surge in London.

Mr. Rees-Mogg said: “I think the police have the powers they need for stop and search, and it’s how they use them. It is really important that stop and search powers are used in a race-blind way.

“We do not want a group of people from ethnic minority communities feeling that the police are not on their side.”

London Mayor Flips on ‘Stop and Search’ After Breitbart Exposé of Capital Crime Epidemic https://t.co/fLsM8XvF51 — Raheem (@RaheemKassam) January 11, 2018

The MP also revealed that he had himself once been subject to a police search.

“They used these powers to stop me when I was driving a couple of my children along Pall Mall,” he said.

“I was hauled into Waterloo Place. When they saw the boot piled full of children’s clothes etc, they rather recoiled and went away.

“It was because I was in Pall Mall, close to where my mother lives and at that point, they had the ability to stop anyone they felt like for anything in these specified zones around sensitive government areas.”Prominent backbench Tory MP Jacob Rees-Mogg has slammed London Mayor Sadiq Khan, saying he must “take responsibility” for the violent crime wave sweeping the city, driving its murder rate above that of New York City.

Knife crime has surged by more than 30 per cent in London under the leadership of Mr. Khan, who has repeatedly deflected blame on to central government and what he calls “Tory cuts”.

Burglary, rape, and gang-related acid attacks have also surged dramatically, rising fastest in the capital, despite the Mayor claiming the crime wave is a nation-wide problem.

On Sunday night, two more young people were killed, both stabbed by people known to them, and a teenager was stabbed to death on Monday night in east London, police said.

Khan Responds to Knife Crime Surge, Blames Tories https://t.co/1NEpKbdFRb — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) April 4, 2018

“He is standing on the deck now,” Mr. Rees-Mogg blasted on LBC radio. “The person on the deck always has to take some responsibility because he is clearly not changing policies to make things happen differently.

“But you cannot blame him for the trend that had started before he got in. It is his primary responsibility to be responding. That is where his responsibility lies.”

Mr. Rees-Mogg also defended Theresa May’s role as Home Secretary before she became Prime Minister, after she slashed the use of the stop and search, claiming the police tactic unfairly targeted ethnic minorities.

Mr. Khan also promised to cut the use of such searches, before reversing his stance as violence began to surge in London.

Mr. Rees-Mogg said: “I think the police have the powers they need for stop and search, and it’s how they use them. It is really important that stop and search powers are used in a race-blind way.

“We do not want a group of people from ethnic minority communities feeling that the police are not on their side.”

London Mayor Flips on ‘Stop and Search’ After Breitbart Exposé of Capital Crime Epidemic https://t.co/fLsM8XvF51 — Raheem (@RaheemKassam) January 11, 2018

The MP also revealed that he had himself once been subject to a police search.

“They used these powers to stop me when I was driving a couple of my children along Pall Mall,” he said.

“I was hauled into Waterloo Place. When they saw the boot piled full of children’s clothes etc, they rather recoiled and went away.

“It was because I was in Pall Mall, close to where my mother lives and at that point, they had the ability to stop anyone they felt like for anything in these specified zones around sensitive government areas.”The European Commission has announced plans to make biometric ID cards compulsory across the bloc which will allow authorities to bar “terrorists and criminals” from accessing money and other services.

Plans to introduce mandatory ID cards across all 28 EU member states — including Britain — have been in development for more than two years in Brussels as part of the Commission’s goal of building an effective “security union”, Die Welt reports.

Set to be equipped with data including the holder’s fingerprint, the cards would be designed to tackle identity fraud and make it harder to falsify documents, according to Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos.

“We have to tighten the screws until there is no room left for terrorists or criminals and no more means for them to carry out attacks,” he told the German newspaper on Monday.

“This means that they must be barred from accessing money, counterfeit documents, weapons and explosives, and at the same time prevented from being able to cross our borders undetected.”

Mass migration is central to "EU values" https://t.co/IyYjEJ30mh — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 25, 2018

Speaking in Brussels last month, the Greek commissioner declared that Europeans will continue to be massacred in terror attacks on their own soil “for years to come”.

“Brussels cannot erect physical barriers to protect your public squares. The Commission cannot tell you how to protect stadiums and concert halls,” he stated, before assuring mayors from across Europe that EU funds will be made available for the task of redesigning and reinforcing structures to be more resilient in the face of terror attacks.

In December, Avramopoulos — who has denied there is any connection between terror attacks in Europe and mass migration, and claims that the “biggest threat” to the continent is “the rise of populism, nationalism and xenophobia” — insisted that Europeans must accept mass migration from the third world as the “new norm”, in a piece warning no part of the continent can remain “homogenous and migration-free”.

Having claimed that Europe requires more than 70 million migrants from the world’s poorest countries in the coming years, the former mayor of Athens has previously pledged that Brussels remains “committed” to opening the continent’s borders to 75 million Turkish citizens “as soon as possible”, and announced the creation of migration centres for shipping Africans into EU nations.The European Commission has announced plans to make biometric ID cards compulsory across the bloc which will allow authorities to bar “terrorists and criminals” from accessing money and other services.

Plans to introduce mandatory ID cards across all 28 EU member states — including Britain — have been in development for more than two years in Brussels as part of the Commission’s goal of building an effective “security union”, Die Welt reports.

Set to be equipped with data including the holder’s fingerprint, the cards would be designed to tackle identity fraud and make it harder to falsify documents, according to Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos.

“We have to tighten the screws until there is no room left for terrorists or criminals and no more means for them to carry out attacks,” he told the German newspaper on Monday.

“This means that they must be barred from accessing money, counterfeit documents, weapons and explosives, and at the same time prevented from being able to cross our borders undetected.”

Mass migration is central to "EU values" https://t.co/IyYjEJ30mh — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 25, 2018

Speaking in Brussels last month, the Greek commissioner declared that Europeans will continue to be massacred in terror attacks on their own soil “for years to come”.

“Brussels cannot erect physical barriers to protect your public squares. The Commission cannot tell you how to protect stadiums and concert halls,” he stated, before assuring mayors from across Europe that EU funds will be made available for the task of redesigning and reinforcing structures to be more resilient in the face of terror attacks.

In December, Avramopoulos — who has denied there is any connection between terror attacks in Europe and mass migration, and claims that the “biggest threat” to the continent is “the rise of populism, nationalism and xenophobia” — insisted that Europeans must accept mass migration from the third world as the “new norm”, in a piece warning no part of the continent can remain “homogenous and migration-free”.

Having claimed that Europe requires more than 70 million migrants from the world’s poorest countries in the coming years, the former mayor of Athens has previously pledged that Brussels remains “committed” to opening the continent’s borders to 75 million Turkish citizens “as soon as possible”, and announced the creation of migration centres for shipping Africans into EU nations.European nations are recruiting hundreds of customs officers to conduct border checks, as suspicions grow the UK could break free of the bloc, in less than a year, without a trade deal.

The revelation comes as the next round of Brexit talks get underway this week, with numerous seemingly intractable issues still to resolve in the negotiations, which will conclude in the Autumn.

Citizens’ rights, as well as the tens-of-billions Brexit ‘divorce bill’, have been agreed, but both sides continue to hold irreconcilable positions and “red lines” on the Northern Ireland border issue and others.

Now, according to the Evening Standard, in Holland, customs authorities are hiring hundreds of inspectors and building new checkpoints.

The Dutch aim to make Europe’s largest port, in Rotterdam, ready for the possibility of bringing in customs checks and trading with the UK on World Trade Organization (WTO) rules after Brexit in March 2019.

UK Government Prepares for Brexit ‘No Deal’ https://t.co/YJVNGUigUY — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 2, 2018

Mark Dijk, the port’s external affairs manager, said they are “preparing for the worst, hoping for the best”, when speaking to a cross-party group of EU parliamentarians last week.

“We go to the basic scenario for us, which is the WTO scenario,” he added.

“It’s dependent, of course, on how the Dutch customs is going to handle it – and that’s also, of course, dependent on Europe, how they’re going to decide how those regulations should be interpreted in this period.”

Many Brexit supporters are comfortable with leaving the bloc without a deal, claiming it will mean the UK is not tied to any EU rules and regulations in the future. Critically, the UK will be sure to take back control of its borders and trade policy.

However, other say the impediment done to trade by new border checks and tariffs will harm the economy more than the benefits brought to the UK by striking new deals with non-European nations after Brexit.

The UK is Holland’s third most important trading partner, and the Netherlands and many other EU nations are also worried about the harm a “no deal” will do to their economies.

At the beginning of this year, a leaked EU dossier has revealed the bloc’s growing concern and said Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Ireland would be worst affected.European nations are recruiting hundreds of customs officers to conduct border checks, as suspicions grow the UK could break free of the bloc, in less than a year, without a trade deal.

The revelation comes as the next round of Brexit talks get underway this week, with numerous seemingly intractable issues still to resolve in the negotiations, which will conclude in the Autumn.

Citizens’ rights, as well as the tens-of-billions Brexit ‘divorce bill’, have been agreed, but both sides continue to hold irreconcilable positions and “red lines” on the Northern Ireland border issue and others.

Now, according to the Evening Standard, in Holland, customs authorities are hiring hundreds of inspectors and building new checkpoints.

The Dutch aim to make Europe’s largest port, in Rotterdam, ready for the possibility of bringing in customs checks and trading with the UK on World Trade Organization (WTO) rules after Brexit in March 2019.

UK Government Prepares for Brexit ‘No Deal’ https://t.co/YJVNGUigUY — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 2, 2018

Mark Dijk, the port’s external affairs manager, said they are “preparing for the worst, hoping for the best”, when speaking to a cross-party group of EU parliamentarians last week.

“We go to the basic scenario for us, which is the WTO scenario,” he added.

“It’s dependent, of course, on how the Dutch customs is going to handle it – and that’s also, of course, dependent on Europe, how they’re going to decide how those regulations should be interpreted in this period.”

Many Brexit supporters are comfortable with leaving the bloc without a deal, claiming it will mean the UK is not tied to any EU rules and regulations in the future. Critically, the UK will be sure to take back control of its borders and trade policy.

However, other say the impediment done to trade by new border checks and tariffs will harm the economy more than the benefits brought to the UK by striking new deals with non-European nations after Brexit.

The UK is Holland’s third most important trading partner, and the Netherlands and many other EU nations are also worried about the harm a “no deal” will do to their economies.

At the beginning of this year, a leaked EU dossier has revealed the bloc’s growing concern and said Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Ireland would be worst affected.‘Bombshell’ population growth in Africa means Europe is entering an “unprecedented” age of mass migration, Emmanuel Macron has said, asserting that the two continents’ destinies are “bound”.

“The migratory phenomenon we are facing will be historic,” declared the French president in a television appearance Sunday night, when he announced that “great poverty”, “climate change”, and “geopolitical conflicts” will see Africans flooding into Europe “for many years to come”.

To back up his point, Macron pointed to “bombshell” population gr0wth across the third world continent, which he added has been “tremendously well described” by French-American journalist and professor Stephen Smith in a recent book.

“[Africans] are mostly turning to Europe because the continent [of Europe] is not an island, because of our location, and because Europe has its destiny bound with Africa,” stated the vehemently pro-EU French figure during a two-hour long interview.

Smith, the Africa expert to whom Macron referred during his appearance on BFMTV, estimates that the number of Africans living in Europe will grow from nine million to between 150 million and 200 million within the next 30 years.

EU President: Without Millions of African Migrants, Europe Will Be Lost https://t.co/i1snO2NoOk — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 28, 2017

In The Rush to Europe, the Duke University professor describes a massive, unprecedented population transfer still in its infancy, which he explains will — “paradoxically” — be triggered largely as a result 0f Western aid money financing would-be migrants’ journeys from Africa.

Asserting he set out to provide a “dispassionate” expert view on how Africa’s demographic explosion will affect Europe, Smith in his book has outlined a number of different scenarios he believes could emerge from the situation.

“The most optimistic” of these — according to Le Figaro — is “Eurafrica”, which would see mass migration create a ‘welcoming’, multicultural Europe, which “would fully embrace being a ‘mixed-race land of immigration and interbreeding’”.

This scenario would see the end of welfare states in Europe however, Smith said, pointing to the incompatibility of large-scale immigration and generous social programmes.

Another possible scenario, ‘Fortress Europe’, is one which involves “a battle generally considered unwinnable, or even shameful” but which Smith points to as the case which strongly “has its reasons and its chances to succeed”, noting the effectiveness of EU deals with Libya and Turkey in stopping the influx.‘Bombshell’ population growth in Africa means Europe is entering an “unprecedented” age of mass migration, Emmanuel Macron has said, asserting that the two continents’ destinies are “bound”.

“The migratory phenomenon we are facing will be historic,” declared the French president in a television appearance Sunday night, when he announced that “great poverty”, “climate change”, and “geopolitical conflicts” will see Africans flooding into Europe “for many years to come”.

To back up his point, Macron pointed to “bombshell” population gr0wth across the third world continent, which he added has been “tremendously well described” by French-American journalist and professor Stephen Smith in a recent book.

“[Africans] are mostly turning to Europe because the continent [of Europe] is not an island, because of our location, and because Europe has its destiny bound with Africa,” stated the vehemently pro-EU French figure during a two-hour long interview.

Smith, the Africa expert to whom Macron referred during his appearance on BFMTV, estimates that the number of Africans living in Europe will grow from nine million to between 150 million and 200 million within the next 30 years.

EU President: Without Millions of African Migrants, Europe Will Be Lost https://t.co/i1snO2NoOk — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 28, 2017

In The Rush to Europe, the Duke University professor describes a massive, unprecedented population transfer still in its infancy, which he explains will — “paradoxically” — be triggered largely as a result 0f Western aid money financing would-be migrants’ journeys from Africa.

Asserting he set out to provide a “dispassionate” expert view on how Africa’s demographic explosion will affect Europe, Smith in his book has outlined a number of different scenarios he believes could emerge from the situation.

“The most optimistic” of these — according to Le Figaro — is “Eurafrica”, which would see mass migration create a ‘welcoming’, multicultural Europe, which “would fully embrace being a ‘mixed-race land of immigration and interbreeding’”.

This scenario would see the end of welfare states in Europe however, Smith said, pointing to the incompatibility of large-scale immigration and generous social programmes.

Another possible scenario, ‘Fortress Europe’, is one which involves “a battle generally considered unwinnable, or even shameful” but which Smith points to as the case which strongly “has its reasons and its chances to succeed”, noting the effectiveness of EU deals with Libya and Turkey in stopping the influx.London (AFP) – Europe’s stock markets rose Tuesday on China-driven global economic optimism, while the pound zoomed to its highest dollar level since the 2016 Brexit referendum on strengthening UK interest rate hike hopes and solid data.

Frankfurt equities rallied, despite a key survey which showed that German investor confidence hit its lowest level since 2012 in April as geopolitical and US trade war fears dogged Europe’s top economy.

“Equity markets in Europe are slightly higher with traders cautiously optimistic,” said CMC Markets analyst David Madden.

“The concerns about geopolitical tensions in relation to Syria and Russian sanctions have faded a little.

“The broadly positive economic data out of China overnight left traders slightly more hopeful about the state of the global economy,” Madden added.

However, many Asian markets ran out of steam as simmering trade and geopolitical tensions — in the wake of recent US-led Syria strikes — eclipsed upbeat official data showing that China’s economy grew more than expected in the first three months of 2018.

– Pound races higher –

The British pound rallied to $1.4377, the highest dollar level since just after Britain’s shock EU exit referendum in June 2016, buoyed by expectations of Bank of England (BoE) interest rate hikes.

Sterling was handed a boost from official data which showed that average UK wage growth is outpacing inflation for the first time in a year and the unemployment rate remaining at a 43-year low.

“Real wages are still on the rise and this will boost consumer spending and economic growth over the medium term,” said analyst Miles Eakers at foreign exchange trading firm Centtrip.

“The Bank of England will also be mindful of the inflationary effect this could have, increasing the prospects of another interest rate hike — on top of the one widely expected in May.”

Economists expect the BoE to raise its key interest rate next month from the current level of 0.50 percent.

Back in Asia, Hong Kong and China stock markets finished in the red, after fluctuating on data showing the world’s number two economy expanded in January-March at the same rate as the previous three months.

The 6.8-percent reading was slightly more than tipped in an AFP survey and came despite a brewing trade dispute with the United States, a drive to address the country’s troubling debt mountain and a war on pollution that saw factory production cut.

– ZTE halts trading –

Markets in Asia had fallen Monday after a US-led attack on alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria, in response to what the Western allies say was a toxic gas attack by the Russia-backed regime.

But Wall Street climbed on relief that the strikes did not escalate despite Russian warnings.

However, dealers are keeping a close watch on events, while the trade row with China remains in focus after the Wall Street Journal reported the US is considering measures over Beijing’s restrictions on tech devices.

That came just after Washington banned exports of sensitive technology to Chinese giant ZTE for seven years over the way it handled a probe into the illegal sale of goods to Iran and North Korea.

ZTE halted trading of its shares in Hong Kong and Shenzhen following the announcement, saying it was “assessing the possible impact of the incident”.

– Key figures around 1030 GMT –

London – FTSE 100: UP 0.3 percent at 7,217 points

Frankfurt – DAX 30: UP 1.0 percent at 12,508.88

Paris – CAC 40: UP 0.5 percent at 5,341.07

EURO STOXX 50: UP 0.7 percent at 3,465.85

Tokyo – Nikkei 225: UP 0.1 percent at 21,847.59 (close)

Hong Kong – Hang Seng: DOWN 0.8 percent at 30,062.75 (close)

Shanghai – Composite: DOWN 1.4 percent at 3,066.80 (close)

New York – Dow: UP 0.9 percent at 24,573.04 (close)

Euro/dollar: UP at $1.2388 from $1.2380 at 2100 GMT

Dollar/yen: DOWN at 106.96 yen from 107.12

Pound/dollar: DOWN at $1.4333 from $1.4339

Oil – Brent North Sea: UP 15 cents at $71.57 per barrel

Oil – West Texas Intermediate: UP 11 cents at $66.33

burs-rfj/rlLondon (AFP) – Europe’s stock markets rose Tuesday on China-driven global economic optimism, while the pound zoomed to its highest dollar level since the 2016 Brexit referendum on strengthening UK interest rate hike hopes and solid data.

Frankfurt equities rallied, despite a key survey which showed that German investor confidence hit its lowest level since 2012 in April as geopolitical and US trade war fears dogged Europe’s top economy.

“Equity markets in Europe are slightly higher with traders cautiously optimistic,” said CMC Markets analyst David Madden.

“The concerns about geopolitical tensions in relation to Syria and Russian sanctions have faded a little.

“The broadly positive economic data out of China overnight left traders slightly more hopeful about the state of the global economy,” Madden added.

However, many Asian markets ran out of steam as simmering trade and geopolitical tensions — in the wake of recent US-led Syria strikes — eclipsed upbeat official data showing that China’s economy grew more than expected in the first three months of 2018.

– Pound races higher –

The British pound rallied to $1.4377, the highest dollar level since just after Britain’s shock EU exit referendum in June 2016, buoyed by expectations of Bank of England (BoE) interest rate hikes.

Sterling was handed a boost from official data which showed that average UK wage growth is outpacing inflation for the first time in a year and the unemployment rate remaining at a 43-year low.

“Real wages are still on the rise and this will boost consumer spending and economic growth over the medium term,” said analyst Miles Eakers at foreign exchange trading firm Centtrip.

“The Bank of England will also be mindful of the inflationary effect this could have, increasing the prospects of another interest rate hike — on top of the one widely expected in May.”

Economists expect the BoE to raise its key interest rate next month from the current level of 0.50 percent.

Back in Asia, Hong Kong and China stock markets finished in the red, after fluctuating on data showing the world’s number two economy expanded in January-March at the same rate as the previous three months.

The 6.8-percent reading was slightly more than tipped in an AFP survey and came despite a brewing trade dispute with the United States, a drive to address the country’s troubling debt mountain and a war on pollution that saw factory production cut.

– ZTE halts trading –

Markets in Asia had fallen Monday after a US-led attack on alleged chemical weapons facilities in Syria, in response to what the Western allies say was a toxic gas attack by the Russia-backed regime.

But Wall Street climbed on relief that the strikes did not escalate despite Russian warnings.

However, dealers are keeping a close watch on events, while the trade row with China remains in focus after the Wall Street Journal reported the US is considering measures over Beijing’s restrictions on tech devices.

That came just after Washington banned exports of sensitive technology to Chinese giant ZTE for seven years over the way it handled a probe into the illegal sale of goods to Iran and North Korea.

ZTE halted trading of its shares in Hong Kong and Shenzhen following the announcement, saying it was “assessing the possible impact of the incident”.

– Key figures around 1030 GMT –

London – FTSE 100: UP 0.3 percent at 7,217 points

Frankfurt – DAX 30: UP 1.0 percent at 12,508.88

Paris – CAC 40: UP 0.5 percent at 5,341.07

EURO STOXX 50: UP 0.7 percent at 3,465.85

Tokyo – Nikkei 225: UP 0.1 percent at 21,847.59 (close)

Hong Kong – Hang Seng: DOWN 0.8 percent at 30,062.75 (close)

Shanghai – Composite: DOWN 1.4 percent at 3,066.80 (close)

New York – Dow: UP 0.9 percent at 24,573.04 (close)

Euro/dollar: UP at $1.2388 from $1.2380 at 2100 GMT

Dollar/yen: DOWN at 106.96 yen from 107.12

Pound/dollar: DOWN at $1.4333 from $1.4339

Oil – Brent North Sea: UP 15 cents at $71.57 per barrel

Oil – West Texas Intermediate: UP 11 cents at $66.33

burs-rfj/rlLondon (AFP) – Britain’s economy has won a lift with wage growth outpacing inflation for the first time in a year and the unemployment rate remaining at a 43-year low, data showed Tuesday.

The official jobless rate stood at 4.2 percent in the three months to the end of February, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said in a statement.

That was slightly down from 4.3 percent in the quarter through to the end of January.

“Latest estimates… show that the number of unemployed people in the UK fell by 16,000, leading to a fall of the unemployment rate by 0.1 percentage points,” the ONS said.

Analysts said Tuesday’s data, showing also that average wages grew by 2.8 percent in the reporting period, increased the likelihood of an interest rate hike by the Bank of England next month.

“Wages are now rising ever so slightly faster than inflation –- which on the face of it, implies that the household squeeze has come to an end,” noted ING economist James Smith.

He cautioned however that a further rate hike in late 2018 remained uncertain owing to uncertainty surrounding Brexit talks.

Britain’s annual inflation rate stood at 2.7 percent in February. The March reading is scheduled for publication on Wednesday.London (AFP) – Britain’s economy has won a lift with wage growth outpacing inflation for the first time in a year and the unemployment rate remaining at a 43-year low, data showed Tuesday.

The official jobless rate stood at 4.2 percent in the three months to the end of February, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said in a statement.

That was slightly down from 4.3 percent in the quarter through to the end of January.

“Latest estimates… show that the number of unemployed people in the UK fell by 16,000, leading to a fall of the unemployment rate by 0.1 percentage points,” the ONS said.

Analysts said Tuesday’s data, showing also that average wages grew by 2.8 percent in the reporting period, increased the likelihood of an interest rate hike by the Bank of England next month.

“Wages are now rising ever so slightly faster than inflation –- which on the face of it, implies that the household squeeze has come to an end,” noted ING economist James Smith.

He cautioned however that a further rate hike in late 2018 remained uncertain owing to uncertainty surrounding Brexit talks.

Britain’s annual inflation rate stood at 2.7 percent in February. The March reading is scheduled for publication on Wednesday.General Motors (GM) will soon be laying off up to 1,500 American workers who currently work at the auto company’s Lordstown, Ohio manufacturing plant, while the company’s Mexico plant remains unaffected.

GM announced the U.S. job-cutting plan that they say is due to the poor sales of the sedan version of the Chevrolet Cruze which, between 2014 and 2017, have decreased by more than 30 percent, CNN reports.

In total, the poor sales of the sedan Cruze will leave 1,500 American workers laid off, which is about half of workers currently working at the plant.

Meanwhile, the corporation’s Mexico plant will be unaffected by the lack of sales. In Mexico, GM manufactures the hatchback version of the car. GM employs about 15,000 workers in Mexico, jobs that could be relocated to the U.S. to provide work to Americans.

Last year, Trump blasted GM for manufacturing their cars in Mexico, Breitbart News reported.

General Motors is sending Mexican made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers-tax free across border. Make in U.S.A.or pay big border tax! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 3, 2017

The layoff of American workers at GM is just the latest round, as the corporation laid off nearly 2,000 Americans in 2016 at their Lordstown, Ohio, and Lansing, Michigan assembly plants. During those layoffs, GM’s Mexico operation was unaffected.

In fact, that same year, GM announced they were investing $800 million into a Mexico manufacturing plant where the Chevy Equinox sports utility vehicle is made.General Motors (GM) will soon be laying off up to 1,500 American workers who currently work at the auto company’s Lordstown, Ohio manufacturing plant, while the company’s Mexico plant remains unaffected.

GM announced the U.S. job-cutting plan that they say is due to the poor sales of the sedan version of the Chevrolet Cruze which, between 2014 and 2017, have decreased by more than 30 percent, CNN reports.

In total, the poor sales of the sedan Cruze will leave 1,500 American workers laid off, which is about half of workers currently working at the plant.

Meanwhile, the corporation’s Mexico plant will be unaffected by the lack of sales. In Mexico, GM manufactures the hatchback version of the car. GM employs about 15,000 workers in Mexico, jobs that could be relocated to the U.S. to provide work to Americans.

Last year, Trump blasted GM for manufacturing their cars in Mexico, Breitbart News reported.

General Motors is sending Mexican made model of Chevy Cruze to U.S. car dealers-tax free across border. Make in U.S.A.or pay big border tax! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 3, 2017

The layoff of American workers at GM is just the latest round, as the corporation laid off nearly 2,000 Americans in 2016 at their Lordstown, Ohio, and Lansing, Michigan assembly plants. During those layoffs, GM’s Mexico operation was unaffected.

In fact, that same year, GM announced they were investing $800 million into a Mexico manufacturing plant where the Chevy Equinox sports utility vehicle is made.President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum are a vital “part of national security” designed to counter China’s dumping of cheap, subsidized steel into the United States – which is “an attack on American jobs,” a representative with the United Steelworkers labor union says.

During a Monday roundtable by the AFL-CIO, United Steelworkers Pennsylvania President Kameen Thompson praised Trump’s 25 percent tariff on imported steel and 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum as necessary to not only save Americans’ jobs from being shipped overseas by free trade but also to keep America safe in the face of war.

“[The tariffs are] part of national security and part of job creation,” Thompson said.

Thompson continued:

I would say, we are at war. We are at war on American jobs. Just to think that China can produce more steel in one month than the U.S. can in one year, it’s phenomenal, it’s something that’s unheard of and that’s an attack on American jobs. Yes, we are at war. But it’s not a trade war, it’s a war on American jobs that are being lost. That’s something that we have to take care of here with these tariffs that are being put in place. [Emphasis added]

Economic Policy Institute Senior Economist Robert Scott praised Trump’s tariffs, saying they “address a critical problem that’s been building up for at least the last two decades.”

“And that problem is massive amounts of overcapacity in steel and aluminum, centered in China and a handful of other countries such as Russia and Vietnam and Korea,” Scott said. “These tariffs are an important opportunity to build a wall, if you would, around that unfairly traded metal that’s distorting global trade and it’s costing us tens of thousands of jobs in the U.S.”

Thomspon said the claims from the mainstream media and the political establishment — both of which are aligned in promoting an agenda of endless free trade — that prices for consumers will skyrocket are overblown and not supported by data.

Thomspon said:

As for a regular consumer, who I deal with on a regular basis, we don’t go out and buy steel by the ton. We don’t go out like we buy like cheese. For a regular consumer to say ‘Well, you know [the price of steel] is going to go up.’ Yes, steel is going to go up in prices because you’re getting a better-made product instead of a product that’s made overseas. [Emphasis added] If steel went up then that means the cost of maybe auto will go up. But see, since I would say since 2008 steel has been down. So in that case then, if steel is down, then the car prices should be down. As steel fluctuates up, steel fluctuates down, car prices still say the same. So the car price is still going to be $30,000. You know you’re not going to get a discount on the car. [Emphasis added]

When Trump announced his fair trade tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, American workers from across the country thanked the president in a series of videos in which they detailed how free trade had wiped out their jobs and livelihood.

President Trump is set to release a package of $50 billion worth of tariffs and restrictions on Chinese investments, while the U.S. goods trade deficit with China remains at $29.3 billion.

Since 2001, free trade with China has cost millions of Americans their jobs. For example, in a report by the Economic Policy Institute, between 2001 and 2015, about 3.4 million U.S. jobs, were lost due to the country’s trade deficit with China.

Of the 3.4 million U.S. jobs lost in that time period, about 2.6 million were lost in the crippled manufacturing industry, making up about three-fourths of the loss of jobs from the U.S.-Chinese trade deficit.

Free trade, like immigration, is an issue that has come at the expense of American workers. With free trade, foreign markets have been readily opened to multinational corporations, allowing them to offshore American jobs while easily exporting their products back into the U.S.

The Rust Belt has been one of the hardest regions hit because of U.S. free trade with Mexico. In total, about 700,000 U.S. have been displaced, including:

14,500 American workers displaced in Wisconsin

43,600 American workers displaced in Michigan

2,600 American workers displaced in West Virginia

26,300 American workers displaced in Pennsylvania

34,900 American workers displaced in Ohio

34,300 American workers displaced in New York

6,500 American workers displaced in Iowa

24,400 American workers displaced in Indiana

34,700 American workers displaced in Illinois

Meanwhile, since the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) took effect in the 1990s, at least one million net U.S. jobs have been lost because of the free trade deal. Between 2000 and 2014, there have been about five million manufacturing jobs lost across the country as trade deficits continue soaring.

One former steel town in West Virginia lost 94 percent of its steel jobs because of NAFTA, with nearly 10,000 workers in the town being displaced from the steel industry.

John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum are a vital “part of national security” designed to counter China’s dumping of cheap, subsidized steel into the United States – which is “an attack on American jobs,” a representative with the United Steelworkers labor union says.

During a Monday roundtable by the AFL-CIO, United Steelworkers Pennsylvania President Kameen Thompson praised Trump’s 25 percent tariff on imported steel and 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum as necessary to not only save Americans’ jobs from being shipped overseas by free trade but also to keep America safe in the face of war.

“[The tariffs are] part of national security and part of job creation,” Thompson said.

Thompson continued:

I would say, we are at war. We are at war on American jobs. Just to think that China can produce more steel in one month than the U.S. can in one year, it’s phenomenal, it’s something that’s unheard of and that’s an attack on American jobs. Yes, we are at war. But it’s not a trade war, it’s a war on American jobs that are being lost. That’s something that we have to take care of here with these tariffs that are being put in place. [Emphasis added]

Economic Policy Institute Senior Economist Robert Scott praised Trump’s tariffs, saying they “address a critical problem that’s been building up for at least the last two decades.”

“And that problem is massive amounts of overcapacity in steel and aluminum, centered in China and a handful of other countries such as Russia and Vietnam and Korea,” Scott said. “These tariffs are an important opportunity to build a wall, if you would, around that unfairly traded metal that’s distorting global trade and it’s costing us tens of thousands of jobs in the U.S.”

Thomspon said the claims from the mainstream media and the political establishment — both of which are aligned in promoting an agenda of endless free trade — that prices for consumers will skyrocket are overblown and not supported by data.

Thomspon said:

As for a regular consumer, who I deal with on a regular basis, we don’t go out and buy steel by the ton. We don’t go out like we buy like cheese. For a regular consumer to say ‘Well, you know [the price of steel] is going to go up.’ Yes, steel is going to go up in prices because you’re getting a better-made product instead of a product that’s made overseas. [Emphasis added] If steel went up then that means the cost of maybe auto will go up. But see, since I would say since 2008 steel has been down. So in that case then, if steel is down, then the car prices should be down. As steel fluctuates up, steel fluctuates down, car prices still say the same. So the car price is still going to be $30,000. You know you’re not going to get a discount on the car. [Emphasis added]

When Trump announced his fair trade tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, American workers from across the country thanked the president in a series of videos in which they detailed how free trade had wiped out their jobs and livelihood.

President Trump is set to release a package of $50 billion worth of tariffs and restrictions on Chinese investments, while the U.S. goods trade deficit with China remains at $29.3 billion.

Since 2001, free trade with China has cost millions of Americans their jobs. For example, in a report by the Economic Policy Institute, between 2001 and 2015, about 3.4 million U.S. jobs, were lost due to the country’s trade deficit with China.

Of the 3.4 million U.S. jobs lost in that time period, about 2.6 million were lost in the crippled manufacturing industry, making up about three-fourths of the loss of jobs from the U.S.-Chinese trade deficit.

Free trade, like immigration, is an issue that has come at the expense of American workers. With free trade, foreign markets have been readily opened to multinational corporations, allowing them to offshore American jobs while easily exporting their products back into the U.S.

The Rust Belt has been one of the hardest regions hit because of U.S. free trade with Mexico. In total, about 700,000 U.S. have been displaced, including:

14,500 American workers displaced in Wisconsin

43,600 American workers displaced in Michigan

2,600 American workers displaced in West Virginia

26,300 American workers displaced in Pennsylvania

34,900 American workers displaced in Ohio

34,300 American workers displaced in New York

6,500 American workers displaced in Iowa

24,400 American workers displaced in Indiana

34,700 American workers displaced in Illinois

Meanwhile, since the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) took effect in the 1990s, at least one million net U.S. jobs have been lost because of the free trade deal. Between 2000 and 2014, there have been about five million manufacturing jobs lost across the country as trade deficits continue soaring.

One former steel town in West Virginia lost 94 percent of its steel jobs because of NAFTA, with nearly 10,000 workers in the town being displaced from the steel industry.

John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.The unprecedented U.S.-led air campaign against the Taliban’s economic engine, opium and heroin, has destroyed 73 drug labs and deprived the narco-jihadist group of $42 million in proceeds since President Donald Trump authorized the operations in November.

“It’s the first time we’ve used air power to … strike and put pressure on Taliban revenue in the 17 years of the war,” U.S. Air Force Brig. Gen. Lance Bunch, the chief of air operations targeting insurgent revenues, told USA Today, referring to the authority granted by President Trump last year.

“The new authority allowed us to strike in areas where previously the Taliban felt like they were completely safe,” added the general.

Referring to the air campaign, USA Today notes:

It also minimizes the impact that corruption had on previous efforts to target drug operations. For example, police or Afghan army officials could be bribed to delay or abort a drug raid. Airstrikes are centrally controlled, and decisions are largely independent of local officials.

President Trump’s decision to expand the U.S. air campaign to target the Taliban’s drug activities came amid the historic production of opium, the main ingredient in heroin.

Following a dramatic drop in counternarcotics activity authorized by former President Barack Obama, the cultivation area and overall production of opium skyrocketed, providing the Taliban with more funding to continue waging its terror campaign as the U.S. troops withdrew from Afghanistan.

The dramatic increase in opium cultivation coincided with a Taliban resurgence.

According to the U.S. government, the Taliban generates at least 65 percent of its funding, estimated at $300 million to $500 million annually, from the production and smuggling of opium and heroin.

“The Taliban gets between $300 million and $500 million a year as their total budget,” Gen. Bunch told reporters in December 2017. “Sixty-percent of that, or almost $200 million, comes from the narco-processing trade.”

Although opium generates most of its narcotics-linked funding, Taliban terrorists are also reportedly involved in trafficking other illicit drugs.

USA Today acknowledges:

Officials say it is still too early to measure the impact of the strikes on the Taliban’s operations. The Taliban generally reduces its combat operations during the winter months when many areas remain impassable. A new fighting season is just getting underway. The air campaign won’t eliminate the massive drug trade in Afghanistan but is designed to have an impact on Taliban operations as they gear up for another fighting season, said David Sedney, a senior associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and former top Pentagon official.

The U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), a watchdog agency, has questioned the effectiveness of the air campaign, noting that the costs may outweigh the outcome.

Citing the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), SIGAR estimated early this year that are “as many as 400–500 active [drug production] facilities [in Afghanistan at any given time.”

Reuters learned from unnamed Afghans familiar with the drug industry in their country that “it would only take three or four days to replace a lab, which generally has a low sunk-cost.”

SIGAR noted that, by contrast, it costs tens of thousands of dollars per hour to operate the aircraft used to carry the anti-opium operations.

The opium trade is worth about $3 billion, estimated the watchdog agency.

In 2014, it reported:

While occupying less than 3% of land under cultivation, opium is Afghanistan’s most valuable cash crop, and opiates — opium, morphine, and heroin — are its largest export, with an estimated value of $3 billion at border prices. Furthermore, the opium economy directly provides up to 411,000 full-time-equivalent jobs — more than the entire Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) — and supports additional secondary-effect jobs in the licit economy.

Despite more than $8.5 billion in American taxpayer funds devoted to counternarcotics activity in Afghanistan, the country remains the world’s top supplier of opium and heroin.

Although the DEA asserts that only a small portion of Afghan heroin makes it onto American soil, some U.S. officials have questioned whether the production of the drug in Afghanistan is fueling the unprecedented heroin overdose crisis gripping America.

Under President Trump, the U.S. military has intensified its overall air operations in Afghanistan.

Munitions dropped on terrorists in Afghanistan under Trump (about 5,208) have exceeded those launched during the three years preceding his inauguration (2014, 2015, 2016) combined, U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) data shows.

In February 2018 alone, the U.S. military launched 469 airstrikes, a record high since 2012 — second only to the 653 dropped in October of last year.The unprecedented U.S.-led air campaign against the Taliban’s economic engine, opium and heroin, has destroyed 73 drug labs and deprived the narco-jihadist group of $42 million in proceeds since President Donald Trump authorized the operations in November.

“It’s the first time we’ve used air power to … strike and put pressure on Taliban revenue in the 17 years of the war,” U.S. Air Force Brig. Gen. Lance Bunch, the chief of air operations targeting insurgent revenues, told USA Today, referring to the authority granted by President Trump last year.

“The new authority allowed us to strike in areas where previously the Taliban felt like they were completely safe,” added the general.

Referring to the air campaign, USA Today notes:

It also minimizes the impact that corruption had on previous efforts to target drug operations. For example, police or Afghan army officials could be bribed to delay or abort a drug raid. Airstrikes are centrally controlled, and decisions are largely independent of local officials.

President Trump’s decision to expand the U.S. air campaign to target the Taliban’s drug activities came amid the historic production of opium, the main ingredient in heroin.

Following a dramatic drop in counternarcotics activity authorized by former President Barack Obama, the cultivation area and overall production of opium skyrocketed, providing the Taliban with more funding to continue waging its terror campaign as the U.S. troops withdrew from Afghanistan.

The dramatic increase in opium cultivation coincided with a Taliban resurgence.

According to the U.S. government, the Taliban generates at least 65 percent of its funding, estimated at $300 million to $500 million annually, from the production and smuggling of opium and heroin.

“The Taliban gets between $300 million and $500 million a year as their total budget,” Gen. Bunch told reporters in December 2017. “Sixty-percent of that, or almost $200 million, comes from the narco-processing trade.”

Although opium generates most of its narcotics-linked funding, Taliban terrorists are also reportedly involved in trafficking other illicit drugs.

USA Today acknowledges:

Officials say it is still too early to measure the impact of the strikes on the Taliban’s operations. The Taliban generally reduces its combat operations during the winter months when many areas remain impassable. A new fighting season is just getting underway. The air campaign won’t eliminate the massive drug trade in Afghanistan but is designed to have an impact on Taliban operations as they gear up for another fighting season, said David Sedney, a senior associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and former top Pentagon official.

The U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), a watchdog agency, has questioned the effectiveness of the air campaign, noting that the costs may outweigh the outcome.

Citing the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), SIGAR estimated early this year that are “as many as 400–500 active [drug production] facilities [in Afghanistan at any given time.”

Reuters learned from unnamed Afghans familiar with the drug industry in their country that “it would only take three or four days to replace a lab, which generally has a low sunk-cost.”

SIGAR noted that, by contrast, it costs tens of thousands of dollars per hour to operate the aircraft used to carry the anti-opium operations.

The opium trade is worth about $3 billion, estimated the watchdog agency.

In 2014, it reported:

While occupying less than 3% of land under cultivation, opium is Afghanistan’s most valuable cash crop, and opiates — opium, morphine, and heroin — are its largest export, with an estimated value of $3 billion at border prices. Furthermore, the opium economy directly provides up to 411,000 full-time-equivalent jobs — more than the entire Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) — and supports additional secondary-effect jobs in the licit economy.

Despite more than $8.5 billion in American taxpayer funds devoted to counternarcotics activity in Afghanistan, the country remains the world’s top supplier of opium and heroin.

Although the DEA asserts that only a small portion of Afghan heroin makes it onto American soil, some U.S. officials have questioned whether the production of the drug in Afghanistan is fueling the unprecedented heroin overdose crisis gripping America.

Under President Trump, the U.S. military has intensified its overall air operations in Afghanistan.

Munitions dropped on terrorists in Afghanistan under Trump (about 5,208) have exceeded those launched during the three years preceding his inauguration (2014, 2015, 2016) combined, U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) data shows.

In February 2018 alone, the U.S. military launched 469 airstrikes, a record high since 2012 — second only to the 653 dropped in October of last year.The Jerusalem Post reports: Iranian Army Ground Forces commander Brig.-Gen. Kiumars Heidari has warned that Israel can no longer threaten the Islamic Republic.

As tensions continue to rise along Israel’s northern border, Heidari said Iran’s armed forces “are much more powerful than before” and that “the date has been set” for Israel’s destruction, according to official news agency Mehr. He was speaking in Tehran ahead of Iran’s Army Day.

Israeli officials have repeatedly voiced concerns over the growing Iranian entrenchment on its borders and the smuggling of sophisticated weaponry to Hezbollah, from Tehran to Lebanon via Syria, stressing that both are redlines for the Jewish state. Iran’s Army Day is marked on April 18, the same day on which Israel will celebrate its 70th Independence Day.

Read more here.The Jerusalem Post reports: Iranian Army Ground Forces commander Brig.-Gen. Kiumars Heidari has warned that Israel can no longer threaten the Islamic Republic.

As tensions continue to rise along Israel’s northern border, Heidari said Iran’s armed forces “are much more powerful than before” and that “the date has been set” for Israel’s destruction, according to official news agency Mehr. He was speaking in Tehran ahead of Iran’s Army Day.

Israeli officials have repeatedly voiced concerns over the growing Iranian entrenchment on its borders and the smuggling of sophisticated weaponry to Hezbollah, from Tehran to Lebanon via Syria, stressing that both are redlines for the Jewish state. Iran’s Army Day is marked on April 18, the same day on which Israel will celebrate its 70th Independence Day.

Read more here.The Times of Israel reports: Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman on Monday told the army’s top brass to prepare for an Iran-led threat coalescing on Israel’s northern border, which he said includes the Lebanese Armed Forces.

“A new reality is coming together against us: the Lebanese army, in cooperation with Hezbollah, the Syrian army, the Shiite militias in Syria and, above it all, Iran — all of them coming together into one front against the State of Israel, the northern front,” Liberman told the generals.

Though Israeli officials have repeatedly warned of an increasingly symbiotic relationship between the Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorist group and the Lebanese government, including the military, it is rare for Beirut itself to be included in the list of the Iranian axis’s members.

Read more here.The Times of Israel reports: Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman on Monday told the army’s top brass to prepare for an Iran-led threat coalescing on Israel’s northern border, which he said includes the Lebanese Armed Forces.

“A new reality is coming together against us: the Lebanese army, in cooperation with Hezbollah, the Syrian army, the Shiite militias in Syria and, above it all, Iran — all of them coming together into one front against the State of Israel, the northern front,” Liberman told the generals.

Though Israeli officials have repeatedly warned of an increasingly symbiotic relationship between the Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorist group and the Lebanese government, including the military, it is rare for Beirut itself to be included in the list of the Iranian axis’s members.

Read more here.According to the latest Washington Post/ABC News poll, what was a +12 point lead for Democrats in the congressional generic ballot is down to just a four point lead.

When asked three months ago if they would vote for a Republican or Democrat if the election for the U.S. House of Representatives were held today, by a margin of 51 percent to 39 percent, voters chose Democrats.

Back in November, Democrats enjoyed a +10 point lead.

Today, though, the margin is just four points, or 47 percent to 43 percent.

Of those certain to vote, the margin is 49 percent to 44 percent, or a five point advantage for Democrats.

Pollsters explained the minus-eight-point slide towards the GOP as a “sign of waning engagement; consolidation among Republicans of their base; and better results for the GOP among less-educated Americans generally, and non-college-educated white women in particular.”

The polling sample also favors Democrats by seven points. Those polled breaks down to 32 percent Democrat, 25 percent Republican, 35 percent Independent.

Trump’s job approval rating in another ABC News/Washington Post poll is also a fairly healthy 44 percent among registered voters.

The Real Clear Politics (RCP) poll of polls shows Democrats with a six-point lead on the congressional ballot.

Oddly enough, as counterintuitive as it may seem, along with Trump’s steadily improving job approval number (RCP average 43 percent), the Republican Party’s 2018 prospects appear to be improving even as Democrats, special counsel Robert Mueller, and their allies in the corporate media attempt to personally and professionally destroy Trump in a series of coordinated attacks unlike any we have ever seen.

Judging by all of this polling, the voting public is keeping their eye on things that matter — peace and prosperity, as opposed to the nonsense of CNN’s obsession over porn and alleged 12-year-old affairs, and an increasingly desperate special counsel stooping to stunts like indicting Russians that will never see the inside of a courtroom and office raids.

Through these unprecedented and increasingly hysterical attacks, Trump has wisely kept his eye on the ball of doing his job. With the economy booming and a series of foreign policy successes (China blinking on trade, North Korea eager to talk, ISIS nearly destroyed, border crossings down), the public seems increasingly disinterested in the sound and fury coming from Trump’s flailing enemies.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.According to the latest Washington Post/ABC News poll, what was a +12 point lead for Democrats in the congressional generic ballot is down to just a four point lead.

When asked three months ago if they would vote for a Republican or Democrat if the election for the U.S. House of Representatives were held today, by a margin of 51 percent to 39 percent, voters chose Democrats.

Back in November, Democrats enjoyed a +10 point lead.

Today, though, the margin is just four points, or 47 percent to 43 percent.

Of those certain to vote, the margin is 49 percent to 44 percent, or a five point advantage for Democrats.

Pollsters explained the minus-eight-point slide towards the GOP as a “sign of waning engagement; consolidation among Republicans of their base; and better results for the GOP among less-educated Americans generally, and non-college-educated white women in particular.”

The polling sample also favors Democrats by seven points. Those polled breaks down to 32 percent Democrat, 25 percent Republican, 35 percent Independent.

Trump’s job approval rating in another ABC News/Washington Post poll is also a fairly healthy 44 percent among registered voters.

The Real Clear Politics (RCP) poll of polls shows Democrats with a six-point lead on the congressional ballot.

Oddly enough, as counterintuitive as it may seem, along with Trump’s steadily improving job approval number (RCP average 43 percent), the Republican Party’s 2018 prospects appear to be improving even as Democrats, special counsel Robert Mueller, and their allies in the corporate media attempt to personally and professionally destroy Trump in a series of coordinated attacks unlike any we have ever seen.

Judging by all of this polling, the voting public is keeping their eye on things that matter — peace and prosperity, as opposed to the nonsense of CNN’s obsession over porn and alleged 12-year-old affairs, and an increasingly desperate special counsel stooping to stunts like indicting Russians that will never see the inside of a courtroom and office raids.

Through these unprecedented and increasingly hysterical attacks, Trump has wisely kept his eye on the ball of doing his job. With the economy booming and a series of foreign policy successes (China blinking on trade, North Korea eager to talk, ISIS nearly destroyed, border crossings down), the public seems increasingly disinterested in the sound and fury coming from Trump’s flailing enemies.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.President Trump’s campaign for re-election in 2020 raked in $10 million for the first quarter of 2018, bringing the campaign’s total fundraising haul to $28 million, the campaign announced Sunday.

Trump’s campaign had $22 million cash on hand by the end of 2017 and spent $3.9 million during the first quarter of 2018, Reuters reported.

The president is also working with the Republican National Committee to raise money for GOP congressional candidates for the 2018 midterm elections.

The National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) hauled in a record $85 million in campaign cash in the off-year election cycle ahead of the 2018 midterms. The NRCC had a fundraising dinner featuring Trump in March of that year that raised $30 million.

Trump, unlike his predecessors, chose to begin fundraising for his campaign the day of his inauguration to build his fundraising base among the small donors who propelled him to victory in 2016.

He filed with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) on January 20, 2017, but stressed that the “[paperwork] does not constitute a formal announcement” for his candidacy.

In addition to beefing up his fundraising efforts, Trump announced that his re-election campaign slogan would be “Keep America Great!”President Trump’s campaign for re-election in 2020 raked in $10 million for the first quarter of 2018, bringing the campaign’s total fundraising haul to $28 million, the campaign announced Sunday.

Trump’s campaign had $22 million cash on hand by the end of 2017 and spent $3.9 million during the first quarter of 2018, Reuters reported.

The president is also working with the Republican National Committee to raise money for GOP congressional candidates for the 2018 midterm elections.

The National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) hauled in a record $85 million in campaign cash in the off-year election cycle ahead of the 2018 midterms. The NRCC had a fundraising dinner featuring Trump in March of that year that raised $30 million.

Trump, unlike his predecessors, chose to begin fundraising for his campaign the day of his inauguration to build his fundraising base among the small donors who propelled him to victory in 2016.

He filed with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) on January 20, 2017, but stressed that the “[paperwork] does not constitute a formal announcement” for his candidacy.

In addition to beefing up his fundraising efforts, Trump announced that his re-election campaign slogan would be “Keep America Great!”Dictator Bashar al-Assad’s government claims that “tens of thousands of Syrians” took to the streets in Damascus on Monday to celebrate Syrian Independence Day and mark the regime’s “victory” over this weekend’s airstrikes launched by the U.S. and its allies, suggesting the attack failed to dent the country’s chemical weapons program.

Citing a live broadcast of the demonstration by state TV, the Associated Press (AP), which estimated that only hundreds participated in the gathering, notes that attendees shouted “Allah, Syria, and only Bashar!”

Referring to the same rally, the state-controlled Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) reports:

Tens of thousands of Syrians gathered at the Umayyad Square in Damascus on Monday to mark the 72nd anniversary of Evacuation Day (Syrian Independence Day, which marks the evacuation of French occupation forces from the country in 1946) and the victories of the Syrian Army on terrorism and the recent tripartite US-British-French aggression on Syria.

On Saturday, pro-Assad Syrians in the United States showed support for the dictator at an independence rally in Allentown, Pennsylvania, home to one of the largest Syrian communities in America.

Those who attended the U.S.-based demonstration expressed anger towards the strikes against the Assad regime, but “others in Allentown’s Old Syria neighborhood who did not attend the flag-raising say there is fear and a sense of betrayal among some in the Syrian community,” points out AP, adding:

Syrian-Americans have expressed anger at the missile strike on their homeland as they celebrated their country’s independence day at a rally in Pennsylvania. The Morning Call of Allentown reports about 50 Syrians chanted in Arabic and sang the Syrian national anthem at the annual event. They also sang the “Star-Spangled Banner.”

An April 7 chemical weapons attack that killed more than 40 people, injured dozens of others, and the Pentagon has attributed to the Assad regime, spurred the United States and its allies to launch more than 100 missiles at Syria last Friday.

Although President Donald Trump described the operation as “an enormous success,” the Assad regime is reportedly interpreting the move as a win for Assad, arguing that the limited scope of the strikes — targeting scientific research centers in Damascus — suggest Western nations do not plan to challenge the dictator’s rule.

The extent to which the strikes impacted Assad’s ability to launch more chemical attacks remains unclear.

Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., the joint staff director, conceded that the attack did not target all of the facilities involved in making chemical weapons for Assad, explaining, “There’s still a residual element of Syrian program that’s out there. I believe that we took the heart of it out with the attacks that we accomplished last night [Friday].”

Moscow claims that Soviet-era weapons shot down about 70 percent (71) of the 103 missiles fired by the United States and its allies, prompting Assad to declare that the strikes demonstrate Russian weapons are superior to the United States ones.

The Pentagon denies Moscow’s claim.

Support from Iran and Syria propped up the Assad regime at a time when it had suffered significant setbacks.

Now, Assad controls more territory than during any other time since the start of the Syrian civil war in March 2011, courtesy of the support he gets from Russia and Iran.Dictator Bashar al-Assad’s government claims that “tens of thousands of Syrians” took to the streets in Damascus on Monday to celebrate Syrian Independence Day and mark the regime’s “victory” over this weekend’s airstrikes launched by the U.S. and its allies, suggesting the attack failed to dent the country’s chemical weapons program.

Citing a live broadcast of the demonstration by state TV, the Associated Press (AP), which estimated that only hundreds participated in the gathering, notes that attendees shouted “Allah, Syria, and only Bashar!”

Referring to the same rally, the state-controlled Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) reports:

Tens of thousands of Syrians gathered at the Umayyad Square in Damascus on Monday to mark the 72nd anniversary of Evacuation Day (Syrian Independence Day, which marks the evacuation of French occupation forces from the country in 1946) and the victories of the Syrian Army on terrorism and the recent tripartite US-British-French aggression on Syria.

On Saturday, pro-Assad Syrians in the United States showed support for the dictator at an independence rally in Allentown, Pennsylvania, home to one of the largest Syrian communities in America.

Those who attended the U.S.-based demonstration expressed anger towards the strikes against the Assad regime, but “others in Allentown’s Old Syria neighborhood who did not attend the flag-raising say there is fear and a sense of betrayal among some in the Syrian community,” points out AP, adding:

Syrian-Americans have expressed anger at the missile strike on their homeland as they celebrated their country’s independence day at a rally in Pennsylvania. The Morning Call of Allentown reports about 50 Syrians chanted in Arabic and sang the Syrian national anthem at the annual event. They also sang the “Star-Spangled Banner.”

An April 7 chemical weapons attack that killed more than 40 people, injured dozens of others, and the Pentagon has attributed to the Assad regime, spurred the United States and its allies to launch more than 100 missiles at Syria last Friday.

Although President Donald Trump described the operation as “an enormous success,” the Assad regime is reportedly interpreting the move as a win for Assad, arguing that the limited scope of the strikes — targeting scientific research centers in Damascus — suggest Western nations do not plan to challenge the dictator’s rule.

The extent to which the strikes impacted Assad’s ability to launch more chemical attacks remains unclear.

Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., the joint staff director, conceded that the attack did not target all of the facilities involved in making chemical weapons for Assad, explaining, “There’s still a residual element of Syrian program that’s out there. I believe that we took the heart of it out with the attacks that we accomplished last night [Friday].”

Moscow claims that Soviet-era weapons shot down about 70 percent (71) of the 103 missiles fired by the United States and its allies, prompting Assad to declare that the strikes demonstrate Russian weapons are superior to the United States ones.

The Pentagon denies Moscow’s claim.

Support from Iran and Syria propped up the Assad regime at a time when it had suffered significant setbacks.

Now, Assad controls more territory than during any other time since the start of the Syrian civil war in March 2011, courtesy of the support he gets from Russia and Iran.Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) joined SiriusXM hosts Matt Boyle and Amanda House on Breitbart News Sunday and defended the president on his decision to strike Syria.

Trump’s decision to order strikes against the Bashar Assad regime on Friday in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack was “the right thing to do,” he said.

“It was proportional, targeted. … The battle damage assessments looked like they hit what they were going for, and I think it’s obviously the right thing to do,” he said.

Trump ordered the firing of 105 missiles, which targeted three chemical weapons facilities, in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on April 7 by the regime that killed several dozens and wounded hundreds more.

The president was reportedly moved by the images of children and women who were affected by the attack.

“You can’t see those images of children gasping for breath and not have your heart broken, that a guy like Assad is so cold-blooded, so cruel, so heartless, that he would do that to his own people,” Conaway said.

“Not combatants, not guys who’ve tried to kill him – innocent young children that are being treated like tha, so it was the right thing to do, and I agree with the president,” he said.Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) joined SiriusXM hosts Matt Boyle and Amanda House on Breitbart News Sunday and defended the president on his decision to strike Syria.

Trump’s decision to order strikes against the Bashar Assad regime on Friday in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack was “the right thing to do,” he said.

“It was proportional, targeted. … The battle damage assessments looked like they hit what they were going for, and I think it’s obviously the right thing to do,” he said.

Trump ordered the firing of 105 missiles, which targeted three chemical weapons facilities, in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack on April 7 by the regime that killed several dozens and wounded hundreds more.

The president was reportedly moved by the images of children and women who were affected by the attack.

“You can’t see those images of children gasping for breath and not have your heart broken, that a guy like Assad is so cold-blooded, so cruel, so heartless, that he would do that to his own people,” Conaway said.

“Not combatants, not guys who’ve tried to kill him – innocent young children that are being treated like tha, so it was the right thing to do, and I agree with the president,” he said.Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) told radio host Hugh Hewitt Monday that President Donald Trump’s controversial airstrikes on Syrian government targets last week were a “missed opportunity” and that he would have liked to see more robust American intervention.

“Missed opportunity. Didn’t lay a glove on Assad’s capabilities to wage war,” Graham told Hewitt when asked for his assessment. “[T]he military strike itself was a tactical response well short of what I thought was justified.”

Graham slammed the administration’s defense leadership, particularly Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis and his top military officer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joseph Dunford, for its refusal to adopt a no-fly zone over conflict areas and allowing the Iranian-Russian-Syrian alliance to prevail as the Islamic State (ISIS) is driven into extinction:

[H]ere’s my problem with the Pentagon, with Mattis and Dunford. They have resisted for years a no-fly, no-drive zone to check Iran and Russia expansion. They don’t want a big power conflict. And basically, Syria is now in the hands of the Russians, the Iranians, and [Syrian President Bashar al-]Assad. There’s no credible force left. So I’m very disappointed in the Pentagon. And I, get new generals. Get new generals who understand that giving Syria to the Iranians is a nightmare for us in the region.

Later, Graham offered his own vision of future American involvement in Syria. Addressing President Trump, he said:

I’m not asking you to invade Syria. I’m asking you to stick it out, to make sure ISIS doesn’t come back, create no-fly zones inside of Syria so that the people there can regroup, go to Geneva and get a peace agreement after Assad feels some military pressure. Train up some Syrians to go after him. Tell the Russians and the Iranians if you cross these lines, we’ll shoot you down. But we’re on course now to leave Syria and turn the place over to the Iranians and Russia, and that is a nightmare for Syria and the entire region.

The limited American intervention, according to Graham, will cause serious problems for American regional allies. “Our military position regarding Russia and Iran is to give Syria to them,” he said. “That’s a nightmare for Israel. That’ll be a nightmare for Lebanon and Jordan.”

Graham explained he feared a larger war would be sparked when Israel intervenes to prevent the flow of Iranian weapons to its allies in Lebanon, including terror group Hezbollah. “[T]he real fight to come is when Israel has to go deeper into Syria more often to stop the weapon flows from Syria down to Lebanon. The spark that will start the war is going to come from South Lebanon,” he said.

Graham’s support for greater military action has created tension between him and the president, against whom he briefly ran for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination, since the beginning of this administration. As Trump has taken a more interventionist tack in the Middle East, Graham has praised the president, calling him, for example, “one hell of a good commander-in-chief” last month.

The South Carolina senator, however, has been consistent in his calls for greater American intervention in the now seven-year-old Syrian Civil War, raising similar concerns as he did with Hewitt over the future of the region and the security of Israel absent the American military adopting a broader “anti-Iran” strategy.Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) told radio host Hugh Hewitt Monday that President Donald Trump’s controversial airstrikes on Syrian government targets last week were a “missed opportunity” and that he would have liked to see more robust American intervention.

“Missed opportunity. Didn’t lay a glove on Assad’s capabilities to wage war,” Graham told Hewitt when asked for his assessment. “[T]he military strike itself was a tactical response well short of what I thought was justified.”

Graham slammed the administration’s defense leadership, particularly Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis and his top military officer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joseph Dunford, for its refusal to adopt a no-fly zone over conflict areas and allowing the Iranian-Russian-Syrian alliance to prevail as the Islamic State (ISIS) is driven into extinction:

[H]ere’s my problem with the Pentagon, with Mattis and Dunford. They have resisted for years a no-fly, no-drive zone to check Iran and Russia expansion. They don’t want a big power conflict. And basically, Syria is now in the hands of the Russians, the Iranians, and [Syrian President Bashar al-]Assad. There’s no credible force left. So I’m very disappointed in the Pentagon. And I, get new generals. Get new generals who understand that giving Syria to the Iranians is a nightmare for us in the region.

Later, Graham offered his own vision of future American involvement in Syria. Addressing President Trump, he said:

I’m not asking you to invade Syria. I’m asking you to stick it out, to make sure ISIS doesn’t come back, create no-fly zones inside of Syria so that the people there can regroup, go to Geneva and get a peace agreement after Assad feels some military pressure. Train up some Syrians to go after him. Tell the Russians and the Iranians if you cross these lines, we’ll shoot you down. But we’re on course now to leave Syria and turn the place over to the Iranians and Russia, and that is a nightmare for Syria and the entire region.

The limited American intervention, according to Graham, will cause serious problems for American regional allies. “Our military position regarding Russia and Iran is to give Syria to them,” he said. “That’s a nightmare for Israel. That’ll be a nightmare for Lebanon and Jordan.”

Graham explained he feared a larger war would be sparked when Israel intervenes to prevent the flow of Iranian weapons to its allies in Lebanon, including terror group Hezbollah. “[T]he real fight to come is when Israel has to go deeper into Syria more often to stop the weapon flows from Syria down to Lebanon. The spark that will start the war is going to come from South Lebanon,” he said.

Graham’s support for greater military action has created tension between him and the president, against whom he briefly ran for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination, since the beginning of this administration. As Trump has taken a more interventionist tack in the Middle East, Graham has praised the president, calling him, for example, “one hell of a good commander-in-chief” last month.

The South Carolina senator, however, has been consistent in his calls for greater American intervention in the now seven-year-old Syrian Civil War, raising similar concerns as he did with Hewitt over the future of the region and the security of Israel absent the American military adopting a broader “anti-Iran” strategy.The United States, United Kingdom, and France joined in a combined operation on April 14 that used “precision” strikes against Syria’s chemical weapons infrastructure. The following are key points about the raid.

1. Operationally, the strike showed the U.S. has the capacity to conduct airstrikes with allies, against significant targets, with minimal lead time.

It took less than a week for the U.S. and its allies to organize and position the air and naval platforms they used to carry out the missile assault. Indeed, according to the Wall Street Journal, Secretary of Defense James Mattis delayed the strikes twice, despite operational readiness.

This demonstration of operational speed and competence tells us two things. First, President Donald Trump is respected by U.S. allies. French President Emmanuel Macron and British Prime Minister Theresa May trusted Trump’s seriousness of purpose enough to join him in launching the missile strikes with little to no diplomatic jockeying.

In 2013, when then-president Barack Obama geared up to attack Syrian regime targets after Syrian President Bashar Assad killed 1,400 people in a sarin gas attack on East Ghouta, the British parliament refused to authorize British forces to participate in the planned strike.

The French, for their part, were left in a lurch by Obama. French bomber pilots were in their cockpits waiting to take off when they were informed that Obama had called off the airstrikes at the last minute.

In addition, Saturday’s strike showed that the U.S. has the capacity to degrade and destroy high value targets through indirect fire. U.S. pilots did not have to fly over their targets to bomb them. By the same token, if it chooses to do so, the U.S. can destroy the vast majority of Iran’s nuclear installations from a safe distance with Tomahawk and other precision guided weapons.

2. The operational success of the missile strike does not infer either tactical or strategic gains.

Tactically, US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley is correct that by bombing chemical weapons targets, the U.S. and its allies “set [the Syrians’] chemical weapons program back years.”

At the same time, the advance warning the U.S. provided the Syrians regarding the impending strike gave the Syrians the opportunity to remove significant assets and manpower from bases and installations before they were attacked.

As a consequence, high value materials and personnel were probably not at the installations when they were attacked on Saturday morning.

Haley said on CBS News’ Face the Nation that the U.S. was not interested in “killing anyone” in the attack. That is fine in and of itself. But by providing advance warning of the impending strike, the U.S. diminished the tactical losses that Syria incurred. This is doubly true given that according to Mattis and Marine General James Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the installations attacked were engaged in developing sarin gas. To date, the U.S. and its allies have said that they lack conclusive evidence that the April 7 chemical attack involved sarin. According to Mattis, they have only been able to determine conclusively that the Assad regime used chlorine gas in the attack. In other words, Syria’s ability to carry out further chlorine attacks was apparently not diminished on Saturday morning.

3. From a strategic perspective, it is difficult to know whether the strike was meaningful, largely because the Trump administration has given contradictory statements about its actual goals in Syria.

Officially, the Trump administration’s goal in Syria is the same goal that the Obama administration articulated: defeating the “Islamic State,” or ISIS. Mattis has been assiduous in opposing the expansion of that strategic goal. His insistence on preserving Obama’s strategy in place in Syria has confounded observers, who note that the purpose of Obama’s campaign against Islamic State was to protect the Assad regime to placate Iran in the hopes of developing a strategic alliance with Teheran. Obama’s keenness to align U.S. policy with Iranian interests made him blind to the threat that Teheran’s expansionism and nuclear proliferation constituted to the U.S. and its allies.

On Saturday, Mattis told reporters the missile strike was a “one-time shot.” Last Thursday, Mattis told Congress, “Our role in Syria is the defeat of ISIS. We are not going to engage in the civil war itself.”

Following Saturday’s strike, chief Pentagon spokesperson Dana White said, “This operation does not represent a change in U.S. policy nor was it an attempt to depose the Syria regime.”

But then, it isn’t clear the degree to which Mattis speaks for President Trump.

Last week, the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump pushed Mattis and his generals to expand the range of the attack to punish Iran and Russia for enabling the regime’s use of chemical weapons. Trump was reportedly “unhappy with the more limited options they… presented to him.” The same report indicated that Mattis said that “anything other than a ‘show strike’ risked broader escalation with the Russians in particular.”

With former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson gone, the Journal report claimed that Mattis was the lone voice calling for the U.S. to take no strategically significant action. Haley, along with new National Security Advisor John Bolton and Acting Secretary of State John Sullivan, all supported a more expansive effort.

In her interview on Face the Nation, Haley contradicted Mattis’s position that Obama’s strategy in Syria must be preserved. Haley indicated that the U.S. goals in Syria extend beyond defeating ISIS. Haley said the US has three goals it needs to achieve before it can withdraw its military forces from the country. First, she said, the US needs to ensure that there can be no “chemical weapons usage anywhere.” Second, she said that ISIS needs to be fully defeated. Third, Haley said, “We want to make sure that the influence of Iran doesn’t take over the area. They continue to cause problems throughout the region and we want to make sure that there is a hold.”

Haley added, “The president has asked the allies to step up and do more when it comes to Syria.” Apparently, they are.

On Saturday night, the Syrian media reported loud explosions at an Iranian base south of Aleppo. According to reports – which were contradictory – unidentified aircraft executed the strike. Some reports alleged that the aircraft were Israeli. If Israel did strike the Iranian base, it would be the second Iranian position Israel has been accused of bombing in the past week.

Speaking to his cabinet Sunday morning, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said, “The element that is undermining the Middle East more than any other is Iran, and … President Assad must understand that when he allows Iran and its proxies to establish its military presence in Syria, he is endangering Syria and the stability of the entire region.”

4. The U.S.-led attack signaled that at least for now, the U.S. has made its peace with Russian power in Syria and the wider Mediterranean basin.

Mattis succeeded in blocking any action against Russian interests in Syria. As Dunford noted, the Pentagon was in close contact with the Russians to ensure that there was no conflict between U.S. and Russian forces in Syria. Mattis’s explicitly stated concern with avoiding conflict with Russia indicated that at least as far as the Pentagon is concerned, the U.S. must not challenge Russia’s entrenchment in Syria.

Regardless of the actual policy adopted regarding Russia, objectively, Russia’s presence in Syria is a problem for the U.S. for three main reasons. First, Russia views its deployment in Syria first and foremost as a means to restore Russia’s superpower status by challenging U.S. power. In other words, Russia’s main goal in Syria is to weaken the U.S.

Second, U.S. allies Israel and Saudi Arabia are no match for Russia. So long as Russia remains in Syria, it facilitates and protects Iran’s entrenchment in the country. Since neither Israel nor Saudi Arabia can contend with Russia, they cannot prevent Iran from effectively taking over the country both directly and through its Syrian and Hezbollah proxies. In other words, dealing with Russia is a job the U.S. cannot subcontract to its regional allies and they cannot achieve their regional goals so long as Russia remains unchallenged.

Finally, the Russian presence in Syria is a problem for the U.S. because it expands Russia’s influence over Turkey at America’s expense. It is true that Turkey has not been a credible U.S. ally for several years. But it is also true that the more Putin pushes Turkey away from the U.S., the more damage the U.S. will suffer to its strategic interests in the region.

The U.S. may very well lack good options for challenging Russia. Obama’s acquiescence to Russia’s entrenchment in Syria destroyed U.S. dominance in the Middle East in one fell swoop. Haley claimed Sunday that the U.S. intends to punish Russia for its facilitation of Assad’s war crimes by implementing new sanctions against Russian “companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons use.”

It remains to be seen how those sanctions will impact Putin’s cost-benefit analysis. But it is hard to see that sanctions, however harsh, will outweigh what Putin perceives as the benefits of maintaining Russia’s presence in Syria.

5. Saturday’s strike showed that the U.S. is again a force to be reckoned with in Syria.

Despite the limited if not altogether nonexistent immediate tactical and strategic significance of the strike, by undertaking it, Trump took another important step towards restoring U.S. credibility and power in the region. This is a necessary precursor to any tactically and strategically significant operation in the future. Since the administration is clearly revisiting its strategic posture and goals in Syria, this is an altogether positive achievement.

Obama wrecked U.S. credibility in the Middle East, and arguably worldwide, in 2013, when at the last moment he failed to enforce the red line he drew regarding chemical weapons attacks. It is not clear that his red line, according to which the U.S. would respond to chemical weapons attacks, was a reasonable one. By saying the U.S. would respond to chemical attacks, Obama signaled that conventional killing methods were fine by him. Assad, who used conventional munitions to kill nearly half a million people, understood the message and continued killing.

But whether or not Obama’s red line was rational is beside the point. Once Obama drew a line in the sand, and then failed to maintain it when it was challenged, he weakened America in a fundamental way.

As a consequence, Trump has to defend Obama’s red line to restore American power and credibility. By retaliating against Assad’s April 7 chemical attack in Douma — and doing so with Britain and France – Trump communicated clearly that the U.S. demands respect. This message was a necessary precondition for successfully implementing whatever strategic goal the president and his team adopt regarding Syria and its Iranian and Russia sponsors.

Caroline Glick is a world-renowned journalist and commentator on the Middle East and U.S. foreign policy, and the author of The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East. Read more at www.CarolineGlick.com.The United States, United Kingdom, and France joined in a combined operation on April 14 that used “precision” strikes against Syria’s chemical weapons infrastructure. The following are key points about the raid.

1. Operationally, the strike showed the U.S. has the capacity to conduct airstrikes with allies, against significant targets, with minimal lead time.

It took less than a week for the U.S. and its allies to organize and position the air and naval platforms they used to carry out the missile assault. Indeed, according to the Wall Street Journal, Secretary of Defense James Mattis delayed the strikes twice, despite operational readiness.

This demonstration of operational speed and competence tells us two things. First, President Donald Trump is respected by U.S. allies. French President Emmanuel Macron and British Prime Minister Theresa May trusted Trump’s seriousness of purpose enough to join him in launching the missile strikes with little to no diplomatic jockeying.

In 2013, when then-president Barack Obama geared up to attack Syrian regime targets after Syrian President Bashar Assad killed 1,400 people in a sarin gas attack on East Ghouta, the British parliament refused to authorize British forces to participate in the planned strike.

The French, for their part, were left in a lurch by Obama. French bomber pilots were in their cockpits waiting to take off when they were informed that Obama had called off the airstrikes at the last minute.

In addition, Saturday’s strike showed that the U.S. has the capacity to degrade and destroy high value targets through indirect fire. U.S. pilots did not have to fly over their targets to bomb them. By the same token, if it chooses to do so, the U.S. can destroy the vast majority of Iran’s nuclear installations from a safe distance with Tomahawk and other precision guided weapons.

2. The operational success of the missile strike does not infer either tactical or strategic gains.

Tactically, US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley is correct that by bombing chemical weapons targets, the U.S. and its allies “set [the Syrians’] chemical weapons program back years.”

At the same time, the advance warning the U.S. provided the Syrians regarding the impending strike gave the Syrians the opportunity to remove significant assets and manpower from bases and installations before they were attacked.

As a consequence, high value materials and personnel were probably not at the installations when they were attacked on Saturday morning.

Haley said on CBS News’ Face the Nation that the U.S. was not interested in “killing anyone” in the attack. That is fine in and of itself. But by providing advance warning of the impending strike, the U.S. diminished the tactical losses that Syria incurred. This is doubly true given that according to Mattis and Marine General James Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the installations attacked were engaged in developing sarin gas. To date, the U.S. and its allies have said that they lack conclusive evidence that the April 7 chemical attack involved sarin. According to Mattis, they have only been able to determine conclusively that the Assad regime used chlorine gas in the attack. In other words, Syria’s ability to carry out further chlorine attacks was apparently not diminished on Saturday morning.

3. From a strategic perspective, it is difficult to know whether the strike was meaningful, largely because the Trump administration has given contradictory statements about its actual goals in Syria.

Officially, the Trump administration’s goal in Syria is the same goal that the Obama administration articulated: defeating the “Islamic State,” or ISIS. Mattis has been assiduous in opposing the expansion of that strategic goal. His insistence on preserving Obama’s strategy in place in Syria has confounded observers, who note that the purpose of Obama’s campaign against Islamic State was to protect the Assad regime to placate Iran in the hopes of developing a strategic alliance with Teheran. Obama’s keenness to align U.S. policy with Iranian interests made him blind to the threat that Teheran’s expansionism and nuclear proliferation constituted to the U.S. and its allies.

On Saturday, Mattis told reporters the missile strike was a “one-time shot.” Last Thursday, Mattis told Congress, “Our role in Syria is the defeat of ISIS. We are not going to engage in the civil war itself.”

Following Saturday’s strike, chief Pentagon spokesperson Dana White said, “This operation does not represent a change in U.S. policy nor was it an attempt to depose the Syria regime.”

But then, it isn’t clear the degree to which Mattis speaks for President Trump.

Last week, the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump pushed Mattis and his generals to expand the range of the attack to punish Iran and Russia for enabling the regime’s use of chemical weapons. Trump was reportedly “unhappy with the more limited options they… presented to him.” The same report indicated that Mattis said that “anything other than a ‘show strike’ risked broader escalation with the Russians in particular.”

With former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson gone, the Journal report claimed that Mattis was the lone voice calling for the U.S. to take no strategically significant action. Haley, along with new National Security Advisor John Bolton and Acting Secretary of State John Sullivan, all supported a more expansive effort.

In her interview on Face the Nation, Haley contradicted Mattis’s position that Obama’s strategy in Syria must be preserved. Haley indicated that the U.S. goals in Syria extend beyond defeating ISIS. Haley said the US has three goals it needs to achieve before it can withdraw its military forces from the country. First, she said, the US needs to ensure that there can be no “chemical weapons usage anywhere.” Second, she said that ISIS needs to be fully defeated. Third, Haley said, “We want to make sure that the influence of Iran doesn’t take over the area. They continue to cause problems throughout the region and we want to make sure that there is a hold.”

Haley added, “The president has asked the allies to step up and do more when it comes to Syria.” Apparently, they are.

On Saturday night, the Syrian media reported loud explosions at an Iranian base south of Aleppo. According to reports – which were contradictory – unidentified aircraft executed the strike. Some reports alleged that the aircraft were Israeli. If Israel did strike the Iranian base, it would be the second Iranian position Israel has been accused of bombing in the past week.

Speaking to his cabinet Sunday morning, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said, “The element that is undermining the Middle East more than any other is Iran, and … President Assad must understand that when he allows Iran and its proxies to establish its military presence in Syria, he is endangering Syria and the stability of the entire region.”

4. The U.S.-led attack signaled that at least for now, the U.S. has made its peace with Russian power in Syria and the wider Mediterranean basin.

Mattis succeeded in blocking any action against Russian interests in Syria. As Dunford noted, the Pentagon was in close contact with the Russians to ensure that there was no conflict between U.S. and Russian forces in Syria. Mattis’s explicitly stated concern with avoiding conflict with Russia indicated that at least as far as the Pentagon is concerned, the U.S. must not challenge Russia’s entrenchment in Syria.

Regardless of the actual policy adopted regarding Russia, objectively, Russia’s presence in Syria is a problem for the U.S. for three main reasons. First, Russia views its deployment in Syria first and foremost as a means to restore Russia’s superpower status by challenging U.S. power. In other words, Russia’s main goal in Syria is to weaken the U.S.

Second, U.S. allies Israel and Saudi Arabia are no match for Russia. So long as Russia remains in Syria, it facilitates and protects Iran’s entrenchment in the country. Since neither Israel nor Saudi Arabia can contend with Russia, they cannot prevent Iran from effectively taking over the country both directly and through its Syrian and Hezbollah proxies. In other words, dealing with Russia is a job the U.S. cannot subcontract to its regional allies and they cannot achieve their regional goals so long as Russia remains unchallenged.

Finally, the Russian presence in Syria is a problem for the U.S. because it expands Russia’s influence over Turkey at America’s expense. It is true that Turkey has not been a credible U.S. ally for several years. But it is also true that the more Putin pushes Turkey away from the U.S., the more damage the U.S. will suffer to its strategic interests in the region.

The U.S. may very well lack good options for challenging Russia. Obama’s acquiescence to Russia’s entrenchment in Syria destroyed U.S. dominance in the Middle East in one fell swoop. Haley claimed Sunday that the U.S. intends to punish Russia for its facilitation of Assad’s war crimes by implementing new sanctions against Russian “companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons use.”

It remains to be seen how those sanctions will impact Putin’s cost-benefit analysis. But it is hard to see that sanctions, however harsh, will outweigh what Putin perceives as the benefits of maintaining Russia’s presence in Syria.

5. Saturday’s strike showed that the U.S. is again a force to be reckoned with in Syria.

Despite the limited if not altogether nonexistent immediate tactical and strategic significance of the strike, by undertaking it, Trump took another important step towards restoring U.S. credibility and power in the region. This is a necessary precursor to any tactically and strategically significant operation in the future. Since the administration is clearly revisiting its strategic posture and goals in Syria, this is an altogether positive achievement.

Obama wrecked U.S. credibility in the Middle East, and arguably worldwide, in 2013, when at the last moment he failed to enforce the red line he drew regarding chemical weapons attacks. It is not clear that his red line, according to which the U.S. would respond to chemical weapons attacks, was a reasonable one. By saying the U.S. would respond to chemical attacks, Obama signaled that conventional killing methods were fine by him. Assad, who used conventional munitions to kill nearly half a million people, understood the message and continued killing.

But whether or not Obama’s red line was rational is beside the point. Once Obama drew a line in the sand, and then failed to maintain it when it was challenged, he weakened America in a fundamental way.

As a consequence, Trump has to defend Obama’s red line to restore American power and credibility. By retaliating against Assad’s April 7 chemical attack in Douma — and doing so with Britain and France – Trump communicated clearly that the U.S. demands respect. This message was a necessary precondition for successfully implementing whatever strategic goal the president and his team adopt regarding Syria and its Iranian and Russia sponsors.

Caroline Glick is a world-renowned journalist and commentator on the Middle East and U.S. foreign policy, and the author of The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East. Read more at www.CarolineGlick.com.A federal judge on Monday ruled against allowing President Trump and his attorneys to review records the FBI seized last week from his personal lawyer Michael Cohen’s home and office before allowing federal prosecutors to review them.

Instead, Judge Kimba Wood ordered federal prosecutors to assemble and index the seized records and give copies to all parties in the case, according to USA Today.

Wood issued the ruling after hearing arguments from Trump’s lawyers, Cohen’s lawyers, the Trump Organization, and the Department of Justice over what can be used in court, given attorney-client privilege, or the protection of material between an attorney and his or her client.

Trump’s lawyers argued that Trump should be able to review the records and decide what falls under attorney-client privilege.

“He is objecting that anyone other than himself” be able to make that determination, Trump attorney Joanna Hendon told the court.

Wood also denied Hendon’s request for a temporary restraining order that would block federal prosecutors from reviewing the records for their criminal investigation.

The Justice Department said it wanted a group of its own attorneys — known as a “taint team” — not conducting a criminal investigation of Cohen to review the records and decide which ones cannot be used due to attorney-client privilege.

Attorneys for Cohen suggested appointing an impartial special master to decide. Wood asked the lawyers of the opposing parties to submit a joint proposal with four names for a potential special master, who could determine what was privileged.

Wood also allowed prosecutors to electronically search the seized material to see how often names, businesses, and events appear in the records, over Hendon’s objection.

Cohen’s attorneys had filed a letter with the court that provided information about his legal work, but withheld the name of one of his three law clients. However, Wood ordered them to reveal the identity of the client, who turned out to be Sean Hannity.

Hannity later said on his radio show and on Twitter that he has only occasionally sought advice from Cohen – “almost exclusively” on real estate – and has never been represented by him or retained him for any legal matter.

Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

“I’ve known Michael a long, long time. And let me be very clear to the media: Michael has never represented me in any matter. I’ve never been a client in the traditional sense,” he said on his radio show Monday.

Hannity had not previously disclosed his relationship with Cohen, although he attacked the FBI raid on his home and office last week.

The third Cohen client is Elliott Broidy, a prominent Republican fundraiser. Cohen helped arrange a $1.6 million payment to a Playboy model who Broidy allegedly impregnated.

Stormy Daniels, the porn star who claims to have had a one-time affair with Trump in 2006, showed up in the court room. Cohen has acknowledged paying her $130,000 in the weeks before the 2016 election, as part of a non-disclosure agreement.

The FBI raided Cohen’s home, office, and the hotel room in which he was staying during renovations to his home, last Monday. Investigators were reportedly looking for information related to his payment to Daniels and another former Playboy model, Karen McDougal.

Investigators were also reportedly looking for information on bank fraud and campaign violations.

Special Counsel Robert Mueller had made the referral — with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s permission — to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which sought a warrant for the raid.

The raid prompted speculation that Mueller, or Rosenstein, would soon be fired for overstepping the bounds of the special counsel investigation — which is investigating Russian meddling and any potential collusion by the Trump campaign.A federal judge on Monday ruled against allowing President Trump and his attorneys to review records the FBI seized last week from his personal lawyer Michael Cohen’s home and office before allowing federal prosecutors to review them.

Instead, Judge Kimba Wood ordered federal prosecutors to assemble and index the seized records and give copies to all parties in the case, according to USA Today.

Wood issued the ruling after hearing arguments from Trump’s lawyers, Cohen’s lawyers, the Trump Organization, and the Department of Justice over what can be used in court, given attorney-client privilege, or the protection of material between an attorney and his or her client.

Trump’s lawyers argued that Trump should be able to review the records and decide what falls under attorney-client privilege.

“He is objecting that anyone other than himself” be able to make that determination, Trump attorney Joanna Hendon told the court.

Wood also denied Hendon’s request for a temporary restraining order that would block federal prosecutors from reviewing the records for their criminal investigation.

The Justice Department said it wanted a group of its own attorneys — known as a “taint team” — not conducting a criminal investigation of Cohen to review the records and decide which ones cannot be used due to attorney-client privilege.

Attorneys for Cohen suggested appointing an impartial special master to decide. Wood asked the lawyers of the opposing parties to submit a joint proposal with four names for a potential special master, who could determine what was privileged.

Wood also allowed prosecutors to electronically search the seized material to see how often names, businesses, and events appear in the records, over Hendon’s objection.

Cohen’s attorneys had filed a letter with the court that provided information about his legal work, but withheld the name of one of his three law clients. However, Wood ordered them to reveal the identity of the client, who turned out to be Sean Hannity.

Hannity later said on his radio show and on Twitter that he has only occasionally sought advice from Cohen – “almost exclusively” on real estate – and has never been represented by him or retained him for any legal matter.

Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

“I’ve known Michael a long, long time. And let me be very clear to the media: Michael has never represented me in any matter. I’ve never been a client in the traditional sense,” he said on his radio show Monday.

Hannity had not previously disclosed his relationship with Cohen, although he attacked the FBI raid on his home and office last week.

The third Cohen client is Elliott Broidy, a prominent Republican fundraiser. Cohen helped arrange a $1.6 million payment to a Playboy model who Broidy allegedly impregnated.

Stormy Daniels, the porn star who claims to have had a one-time affair with Trump in 2006, showed up in the court room. Cohen has acknowledged paying her $130,000 in the weeks before the 2016 election, as part of a non-disclosure agreement.

The FBI raided Cohen’s home, office, and the hotel room in which he was staying during renovations to his home, last Monday. Investigators were reportedly looking for information related to his payment to Daniels and another former Playboy model, Karen McDougal.

Investigators were also reportedly looking for information on bank fraud and campaign violations.

Special Counsel Robert Mueller had made the referral — with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s permission — to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which sought a warrant for the raid.

The raid prompted speculation that Mueller, or Rosenstein, would soon be fired for overstepping the bounds of the special counsel investigation — which is investigating Russian meddling and any potential collusion by the Trump campaign.Call it a pole-dancing standoff between the Siren Stripper and the Leakin’ Lyin’ Nasty Giraffe, code-named “Slimeball” by the highest levels of the United States government.

As Stormy Daniels jiggled her way through West Palm Beach this weekend collecting bills stuffed in her bikini pants, ex-FBI director Jim Comey was similarly shaking his moneymaker on camera, desperately trying to gin up attention and shakedown some loot after being spectacularly fired last year by the president.

As many Americans know, losing your job and being out of work for a year can be both financially devastating and emotionally torturous.

“Slimeball” has coped the best he could, writing self-affirmation verses such as “A Higher Loyalty: Truth Lies and Leadership.”

But now he’s got to make some money. So, like Stormy Daniels, he is taking his show on the road.

Miss Daniels titled hers the “Make America Horny Again” tour. Tickets start at $25.

“Slimeball” is commanding $1,000 a ticket, according to reports, to hear him hawk his book of self-adulation.

He quotes private conversations with ex-President Barack Obama, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and others supposedly heaping enormous praise on the sacked G-man.

This, after “Slimeball” was widely blamed by both sides of the political spectrum for disastrously inserting the FBI into the 2016 presidential election.

First, he made a devastating case for prosecuting Hillary Clinton for her reckless disregard for national secrets using her illegal bathroom email server. Yet, in the same press conference, announced he was giving her a pass on all of her crimes.

We have since learned that he and the entire cabal of Clinton cronies at the FBI and Department of Justice rigged not only that investigation but also the separate investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

Remember, the Clinton Foundation investigation centered on compelling evidence that the Clinton Cartel was using the foundation for a global shakedown and extortion racket. They were raking in hundreds of millions in “speaking fees” and other donations in exchange for favors that could be performed far into the future — assuming, of course, that Hillary Clinton was a shoo-in for the White House.

“Slimeball” struck again when, just days before the election, he inserted his FBI once again into the presidential race by announcing he was reopening the investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s email scandal.

But screwing multiple people at the same time is not the only similarity between Stormy Daniels and “Slimeball” Comey.

Actually, the list of multiple people screwed by “Slimeball” is significantly longer than the list of multiple people screwed by Miss Daniels.

For Miss Daniels, you have to check out her movie credits. WARNING: NSFW. Or, not safe anyplace, really.

For Mr. Comey, it’s literally in the millions.

You have Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton (ewww), Barack Obama, Donald Trump and Loretta Lynch — that last screwing was a highly intricate act that involved the use of the underside of a bus.

But then, there are also the millions of Democratic voters and Republican voters also simultaneously screwed by “Slimeball.”

In addition, Mr. Comey also screwed all the good, hardworking men and women of the FBI and DOJ whose reputations have been left in tatters by his monstrous, egomaniacal public nymphomania.

In the end, Jim “Lyin’ Leakin’ Nasty Giraffe” Comey — code-named “Slimeball” — is nothing more than a stripper without a pole. He is a porn star, minus the talent or the looks.

I really do hate to denigrate strippers and porn stars by comparing any of them to Jim Comey. But there really is no other way to describe the political peep show going on in America right now.

Actually, come to think of it, has anyone ever actually seen Stormy Daniels and Jim Comey in the same place at the same time? Do we really know for sure that they are not, in fact, one and the same person?

• Charles Hurt can be reached at churt@washingtontimes.com; follow him on Twitter via @charleshurt.Call it a pole-dancing standoff between the Siren Stripper and the Leakin’ Lyin’ Nasty Giraffe, code-named “Slimeball” by the highest levels of the United States government.

As Stormy Daniels jiggled her way through West Palm Beach this weekend collecting bills stuffed in her bikini pants, ex-FBI director Jim Comey was similarly shaking his moneymaker on camera, desperately trying to gin up attention and shakedown some loot after being spectacularly fired last year by the president.

As many Americans know, losing your job and being out of work for a year can be both financially devastating and emotionally torturous.

“Slimeball” has coped the best he could, writing self-affirmation verses such as “A Higher Loyalty: Truth Lies and Leadership.”

But now he’s got to make some money. So, like Stormy Daniels, he is taking his show on the road.

Miss Daniels titled hers the “Make America Horny Again” tour. Tickets start at $25.

“Slimeball” is commanding $1,000 a ticket, according to reports, to hear him hawk his book of self-adulation.

He quotes private conversations with ex-President Barack Obama, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and others supposedly heaping enormous praise on the sacked G-man.

This, after “Slimeball” was widely blamed by both sides of the political spectrum for disastrously inserting the FBI into the 2016 presidential election.

First, he made a devastating case for prosecuting Hillary Clinton for her reckless disregard for national secrets using her illegal bathroom email server. Yet, in the same press conference, announced he was giving her a pass on all of her crimes.

We have since learned that he and the entire cabal of Clinton cronies at the FBI and Department of Justice rigged not only that investigation but also the separate investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

Remember, the Clinton Foundation investigation centered on compelling evidence that the Clinton Cartel was using the foundation for a global shakedown and extortion racket. They were raking in hundreds of millions in “speaking fees” and other donations in exchange for favors that could be performed far into the future — assuming, of course, that Hillary Clinton was a shoo-in for the White House.

“Slimeball” struck again when, just days before the election, he inserted his FBI once again into the presidential race by announcing he was reopening the investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s email scandal.

But screwing multiple people at the same time is not the only similarity between Stormy Daniels and “Slimeball” Comey.

Actually, the list of multiple people screwed by “Slimeball” is significantly longer than the list of multiple people screwed by Miss Daniels.

For Miss Daniels, you have to check out her movie credits. WARNING: NSFW. Or, not safe anyplace, really.

For Mr. Comey, it’s literally in the millions.

You have Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton (ewww), Barack Obama, Donald Trump and Loretta Lynch — that last screwing was a highly intricate act that involved the use of the underside of a bus.

But then, there are also the millions of Democratic voters and Republican voters also simultaneously screwed by “Slimeball.”

In addition, Mr. Comey also screwed all the good, hardworking men and women of the FBI and DOJ whose reputations have been left in tatters by his monstrous, egomaniacal public nymphomania.

In the end, Jim “Lyin’ Leakin’ Nasty Giraffe” Comey — code-named “Slimeball” — is nothing more than a stripper without a pole. He is a porn star, minus the talent or the looks.

I really do hate to denigrate strippers and porn stars by comparing any of them to Jim Comey. But there really is no other way to describe the political peep show going on in America right now.

Actually, come to think of it, has anyone ever actually seen Stormy Daniels and Jim Comey in the same place at the same time? Do we really know for sure that they are not, in fact, one and the same person?

• Charles Hurt can be reached at churt@washingtontimes.com; follow him on Twitter via @charleshurt.Monday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” political analyst John Heilemann said former FBI Director James Comey’s interview with ABC’s “20/20” was an attempt to cast himself as “the hero of the resistance” to President Donald Trump.

Heilemann said, “The interesting thing about that is that Comey comes into this moment as sort of a man without a country, right? Democrats are unhappy in 2016 for having supposedly taken the election away from Hillary Clinton. Republicans are now unhappy with him. He doesn’t have a natural constituency.”

He added, “What I want to say about Comey is that he’s now in the business of selling books. That’s what he’s doing. He’s going out to sell a book that’s going to be number one on ‘The New York Times’ bestseller list. He wants to sell a million books. He’s in the book marketing business. And if you’re Jim Comey and know you don’t have a natural constituency with either the liberals or the conservatives, I feel like he made a choice. He’s going out, and he’s basically decided I’m going to decide I’m going to be the hero of the resistance. I’m going to attack Trump in this language you’re talking about. I’m going to have my wife on ABC last night provided video of how she was at the Women’s March, and he talked about his wife and daughter being supporters of the Hillary Clinton. He tried to cast himself last night — if he had to make a choice, he wanted to say, ‘Here is why what I did to Hillary Clinton wasn’t so bad, guys. Trust me, my wife and daughter are big fans of Hillary Clinton. I’m going to basically rhetorically put myself in a position where I got to claim a country. The country I’ll be on is the anti-Trump liberal side of the aisle. That’s who I’ll try to sell these books to.”

(h/t Grabien)

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENMonday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” political analyst John Heilemann said former FBI Director James Comey’s interview with ABC’s “20/20” was an attempt to cast himself as “the hero of the resistance” to President Donald Trump.

Heilemann said, “The interesting thing about that is that Comey comes into this moment as sort of a man without a country, right? Democrats are unhappy in 2016 for having supposedly taken the election away from Hillary Clinton. Republicans are now unhappy with him. He doesn’t have a natural constituency.”

He added, “What I want to say about Comey is that he’s now in the business of selling books. That’s what he’s doing. He’s going out to sell a book that’s going to be number one on ‘The New York Times’ bestseller list. He wants to sell a million books. He’s in the book marketing business. And if you’re Jim Comey and know you don’t have a natural constituency with either the liberals or the conservatives, I feel like he made a choice. He’s going out, and he’s basically decided I’m going to decide I’m going to be the hero of the resistance. I’m going to attack Trump in this language you’re talking about. I’m going to have my wife on ABC last night provided video of how she was at the Women’s March, and he talked about his wife and daughter being supporters of the Hillary Clinton. He tried to cast himself last night — if he had to make a choice, he wanted to say, ‘Here is why what I did to Hillary Clinton wasn’t so bad, guys. Trust me, my wife and daughter are big fans of Hillary Clinton. I’m going to basically rhetorically put myself in a position where I got to claim a country. The country I’ll be on is the anti-Trump liberal side of the aisle. That’s who I’ll try to sell these books to.”

(h/t Grabien)

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN"I think that's very feasible ... that's what they specialize in." - Rep. Jackie Speier on the possibility the Russians have compromising material - "Kompromat" - on President Trump https://t.co/GmAZNXOuBY pic.twitter.com/9fe31YqR5J

On Monday’s broadcast of CNN’s “OutFront,” Representative Jackie Speier (D-CA) said that it is “very plausible” that Russia has compromising information on President Trump.

Anchor Erin Burnett asked, “Do you have any reason to believe the Russians actually have material that could compromise or blackmail President Trump?”

Speier answered, “I think that’s very feasible. I mean, that’s what they specialize in. When US businessmen and women go to Russia, they are observed during their entire visits, they are looking for Kompromat. Now, the fact that Michael Flynn and Jared Kushner, both very close to the president, early on in the administration, were trying to create a back-channel with Russia, suggests to me that there’s something going on here that we still haven’t gotten to the bottom of.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett"I think that's very feasible ... that's what they specialize in." - Rep. Jackie Speier on the possibility the Russians have compromising material - "Kompromat" - on President Trump https://t.co/GmAZNXOuBY pic.twitter.com/9fe31YqR5J

On Monday’s broadcast of CNN’s “OutFront,” Representative Jackie Speier (D-CA) said that it is “very plausible” that Russia has compromising information on President Trump.

Anchor Erin Burnett asked, “Do you have any reason to believe the Russians actually have material that could compromise or blackmail President Trump?”

Speier answered, “I think that’s very feasible. I mean, that’s what they specialize in. When US businessmen and women go to Russia, they are observed during their entire visits, they are looking for Kompromat. Now, the fact that Michael Flynn and Jared Kushner, both very close to the president, early on in the administration, were trying to create a back-channel with Russia, suggests to me that there’s something going on here that we still haven’t gotten to the bottom of.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettNOTE FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT:

Nobody had more respect and admiration for Dennis Miller than Andrew Breitbart. One of Andrew’s great joys was filling in as a guest host on the Dennis Miller radio show on Westwood One. They were connected by humor, insight, and the shared belief that conservative ideas can be advanced through culture. We are excited that things have come full circle and we welcome Dennis to Breitbart News.

****

As we begin to establish a firm yet flimsy foothold in the Second Year A.D. (After Donald) of the Mueller Investigation (Doesn’t Hold Watergate), I think we should take stock (stalk?) and think of possible endgames. All right, enough Rounded Brackets for a while.

I realize that half the country, or even a little more, get up each morning to check the satchel of overnight dispatch-leaks from Team Mueller. I know they’re hoping that President Trump either retires, is un-hired, or expires. I get that. I concede it readily… and I obviously don’t think that all the folks who sign up for that are stupid or bad.

I’m just not sure that the other side in this growing national spat is willing to make that conciliatory concession. I think they now view the conservative side as malevolent hayseed bumpkins who just won’t get it.

Let me elaborate on what they should know before rendering that judgment. We don’t believe Trump and the Russians arranged (sorry but I’m “colluded” out) to shift the vote in a few key Rust Belt and Southern states to deliver him an appreciable Electoral College victory. Yes, we do believe in the Electoral College and are also able to simultaneously juggle the thought that Trump University might not have been Oxford. We’re past the point in history where the slap-ass nature of that online salon can matter that much. If Professor Trump owes any of his former students money, he should pay them posthaste.

Next, we do believe that The Smartest Girl in the Room was at best dangerously sloppy with her E-mails and, at worst, cunning. I know all 33K deleted missives were about yoga, but to be honest I think the Downward Dog in Hillary’s life is her Old Man.

We also believe that both Clinton and Trump hit everything that moved or didn’t move fast enough during their public tenures. “The horny wheel on the bus goes round and round. “ Jack Warner begat Teddy Kennedy and Teddy begat Bubba and Bu… Needless to say, the long Women’s Rights March from Chappaquidick to Chappaqua was talked and not walked.

And that’s pretty much it. All the pertinent cards on the table. So where do we go from here?

Well, to be accurate, Clinton did have articles of impeachment brought against him. The reason was not for laying hands on body parts but rather for laying hands on a Bible and lying about laying hands on body parts. Granted, in a dissipating societal order, we shouldn’t ask much of the man who is right behind the AG as the chief law enforcement officer, but lying under oath should at least exact a mild twitch above the weak eye of the perjurer.

Anyhoo, Clinton skated. He always skates. He’s Eric Heiden with an extra ripple in the unitard. I’m not sure Bill Clinton will ever suffer comeuppance until he eventually kicks in a Las Vegas hotel room door to collect his bobbleheads.

So that’s where we are, and now I’d like to make a Modest Proposal, fully realizing my detractors think of me as anything but swift. I think President Trump should demand those same Articles of Impeachment be lodged against him tomorrow.

Let’s face it, this country couldn’t be more Polarized if Jaruzelski was at the North Pole and Walesa had just set up camp at the hemline of Antarctica. I know, I know. That’s a longer way to go for that joke than either of those destinations.

The Left thinks Trump is Adolf Hitler on bad days and Satan on good days. The brilliant writer Salena Zito said it best: “The press takes him literally, but not seriously; his supporters take him seriously, but not literally.” Newly discovered Radium was not as distilled down and illuminating as that observation.

But playtime should be over now. The constant sturm and drang of the Russia thing is slowly croaking the host organism, that being the country that half of us hold dear… and half of us would hold dear if it was recreated in unsettling exactitude to perfectly mirror the precise image of it that they so unstintingly hold in their brilliant minds.

Start the impeachment process NOW. Time to commence to tusslin’! I know the Left wants to wait until Olde Blink 183 reassumes her Speaker of the House duties after the midterm elections, but I’m not sure as a citizenry we have all that much time to waste. Things are approaching surly critical mass. To the Never Trumpers, if you truly love your country you should begin your effort to dismantle it ASAP!

Whichever of the two reasons you deem Trump should be impeached for — the sex with the Porn Star and the attendant payoff OR the Kremlin’s insertion of Trump into our system via a Soviet front private school a half-century ago, decades then spent becoming the quintessential egomaniacal capitalist billionaire, all just to lay in wait until two years ago when Putin flipped the Red Queen on him and activated the Ghost in the Machine — let’s do it!

Flip a Bitcoin and pick one during business hours this week as it’s now Go Time. Bring him down or pipe down, because the status quo is a really bad look for the country.