Washington (AFP) – CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s nomination to be US secretary of state ran into trouble Wednesday, even as it emerged he had secretly met with North Korea’s Kim Jong Un on Donald Trump’s behalf.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee appeared poised to vote to reject Pompeo after the top Democrat on the panel announced his opposition.

Republicans said they would take the nomination to a vote by the entire Senate anyway in a rarely used maneuver they predict would result in approval of the president’s choice for top diplomat.

“Whatever happens in that committee, Mike Pompeo will be confirmed in the Senate next week,” Republican Senator Tom Cotton told journalists.

Cotton warned a rejection would send a “a very bad sign” to other countries, especially North Korea, and “possibly set back the preparations, perhaps even the results” of the Trump-Kim summit being planned for May or June.

The US president himself lavished praise on his nominee — hours after confirming Pompeo’s trip early this month to meet the reclusive Kim, the latest in a series of revelations that have raised hopes of a breakthrough in the nuclear standoff.

“I think Mike Pompeo is extraordinary,” Trump said. “I think he will go down as a great secretary of state.

The president was equally effusive about Pompeo’s outreach to North Korea, saying he “had a great meeting with Kim Jong Un and got along with him really well, really great.”

“He is that kind of guy, he is really smart but he gets along with people.”

But a week after Pompeo underwent a five-hour grilling by Senate committee, the unofficial vote count was 10-9 against him Wednesday, with one Republican, Senator Rand Paul, breaking with his party to oppose the nominee.

One Democrat and one Republican senator remained undecided.

“I will cast a NO vote for Director Mike Pompeo to be Secretary of State,” the panel’s senior Democrat Bob Menendez announced.

In his confirmation hearing, Menendez said, “Director Pompeo did little to assuage my concerns about the administration’s deafening lack of strategic vision for any of our major global challenges.”

Menendez also cited Pompeo’s personal record, mentioning his “preference for military action” over diplomacy, and allegedly “egregious” statements against Muslims and equality for women and members of the LGBTQ community.

“I believe our nation’s top diplomat must be forthright, and, more critically, his past sentiments do not reflect our nation’s values, and are not acceptable for our nation’s top diplomat. The American people deserve better,” he said.

– Replacing Tillerson –

Trump tapped the 54-year-old Pompeo to become secretary of state after firing Rex Tillerson — with whom the president was frequently at odds.

Pompeo, meanwhile, has used his one year as the country’s top spy to build a close relationship with Trump.

Critics, however, say Pompeo has tailored intelligence reports to please the president — rather than give him a straightforward picture of US security issues.

They also say Pompeo’s past statements show a preference for military action over diplomacy.

Cotton rejected that, citing Pompeo’s trip to Pyongyang.

“Now that he has actually sat down with Kim Jong Un, I think that is the best evidence that he is committed to diplomacy.”

Passing the nomination in a full Senate vote is not assured, however, and Pompeo himself was on Capitol Hill Wednesday to lobby for support from Democrats.

Republicans have a slight edge over Democrats in the Senate, 51 to 49.

But with Rand Paul opposed to Pompeo, and Senator John McCain hospitalized in a battle with brain cancer and possibly unable to vote, the Republicans would need some Democratic support.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders urged Democrats Wednesday to “put politics aside, acknowledge our national security is too important, and confirm Mike Pompeo.”LOS ANGELES (AP) — The largest manufacturer of bump stocks, which allow semi-automatic weapons to fire rapidly like automatic firearms, announced Wednesday that it will stop taking orders and shut down its website next month.

The announcement comes about a month after President Donald Trump said his administration would “ban” bump stocks, which he said “turn legal weapons into illegal machines.”

The devices became a focal point of the national gun control debate when they were used in October when a man carried out the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.

About a dozen bump stocks were found among the weapons used by Stephen Paddock when he unleashed a hail of bullets from his high-rise Las Vegas hotel suite, killing 58 people and leaving more than 800 others injured.

Slide Fire Solutions, which is based in Moran, Texas, posted a message on its website saying the company will stop taking orders at midnight on May 20.

There was no immediate response to a request for comment sent through Slide Fire’s website and the company’s founder and CEO, Jeremiah Cottle, did not immediately respond to a LinkedIn message seeking comment.

The Brady Center for Gun Violence filed a lawsuit against Slide Fire after the Las Vegas mass shooting and alleged that the company “provided a product that turned a semi-automatic gun into the functional equivalent of a machine gun, thereby evading longstanding federal law.”

Mimi Carter, a spokeswoman for the Brady Center, did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment Wednesday.

The Justice Department said last month that it had started the process to amend federal firearms regulations to clarify that federal law defines bump stocks as machine guns.

That would reverse a 2010 decision by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives that found bump stocks did not amount to machine guns and could not be regulated unless Congress amended existing firearms law or passed a new one.

Some states have also sought their own restrictions. Last week, Vermont Gov. Phil Scott, a Republican, signed a package of bills that included a ban on bump stocks. A far-reaching school safety bill signed last month by Florida Gov. Rick Scott, also a Republican, included a bump stocks ban and was immediately met with a lawsuit by the National Rifle Association.

___

Associated Press Business Writer Matt Ott in Washington contributed to this report.WARSAW, Poland (AP) — Marian Kalwary can still hear the faint chant of a thin little girl trying to sell insoles to people on a street of the Warsaw ghetto and get food. No one bought them and some days later the girl vanished from the street.

“Maybe she was too weak to come, or maybe she just died” of hunger, says Kalwary who spent two years in the ghetto as a boy before he was daringly led out in 1942, several months before the occupying Nazi Germans liquidated the ghetto, killing or sending its residents to a death camp.

On Thursday, the 87-year-old Kalwary will take part in daylong 75th anniversary observances honoring the fighters of the Warsaw ghetto uprising who took up arms to oppose the German troops as they were moving in to end the ghetto’s existence.

The uprising broke out April 19, 1943, when about 750 young Jewish fighters armed with just pistols and other light arms attacked a German force more than three times its size. In their last testaments they said they knew they were doomed but wanted to die at a time and place of their own choosing.

Only a few dozen of the fighters survived, most killed when the Germans crushed the revolt, and of those, most are either no longer living or are no longer strong enough to attend the observances in Warsaw.

Kalwary recalled his own escape from the ghetto.

One July day in 1942, he was alone in the tiny room he had occupied with his mother in the ghetto and someone knocked on the door. It was a messenger from a nearby court, with a fake summons for him as a witness.

“Are you Marian Kalwary?” he asked. “Yes” the 11-year-old boy replied.

“There is a summons for you as a witness from the court, get dressed right away and go because they are waiting for you there,” he recalled the messenger saying.

He was then led by a bribed court guard through a labyrinth of narrow corridors to the Aryan side where a Polish friend of the family was waiting for him, and immediately took him to a hairdresser to have his black curly hair shaved off, a precaution to make him less likely to be perceived as Jewish.

He then went through an odyssey of moving among various hiding places, and he and his mother survived the war.

Looking back to his time in the ghetto, the horror of dead bodies lying in the street and sad-faced children begging, Kalwary says he is horrified to see violence in the world today and what he asserts is the rise in Poland of the same ideas that drove Nazi Germany into starting World War II and the Holocaust — notions that had long been condemned and seemed banished.

“I am terrified by the rebirth of fascism and nationalism and I can see nationalism being glorified and put on a pedestal as something noble,” Kalwary told The Associated Press. “Nationalism is being confused with patriotism.”

He gave as an example the recent veneration of some right-wing wartime resistance groups that killed civilians, including Jews, for political reasons.

He said he finds no explanation for that other than “stupidity and lack of empathy” and an upbringing in some families in Poland, where he contends that some say under their breath that Hitler was guilty of evil things but that he also “‘freed us from the Jews.'”

“I cannot understand that,” he said.

Before the war, about 10 percent of Poland’s population of around 35 million were Jews, the largest Jewish population in Europe. No one knows the exact number of survivors, but only 30,000 registered after the war with Jewish organizations.

Looking at the conflicts in the world today, Kalwary said sadly “We are living in nasty times. History is repeating itself.”SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — An island-wide blackout hit Puerto Rico on Wednesday as the U.S. territory struggles to repair an increasingly unstable power grid nearly seven months after Hurricane Maria. Officials said an excavator accidentally downed a transmission line.

Officials said it could take 24 to 36 hours to fully restore power to more than 1.4 million customers as outrage grew across the island about the state of Puerto Rico’s Electric Power Authority. It is the second major outage in less than a week, with the previous one affecting some 840,000 customers.

“This is too much,” said Luis Oscar Rivera, a 42-year-old computer technician who just got normal power back at his house less than two months ago. “It’s like the first day of Maria all over again.”

Several large power outages have hit Puerto Rico in recent months, but Wednesday was the first time since the Category 4 storm struck on Sept. 20 that the U.S. territory has experienced a full island-wide blackout. It snarled traffic across the island, interrupted classes and work and forced dozens of businesses to temporarily close, including the island’s largest mall and popular tourist attractions like a 16th-century fort in the historic part of Puerto Rico’s capital.

Backup generators roared to life at the island’s largest public hospital and at its main international airport, where officials reported no cancellations or delays. Meanwhile, the power company said its own customer service center was out of service and asked people to go online or use the phone.

Officials said restoring power to hospitals, airports, banking centers and water pumping systems was their priority. Following that would be businesses and then homes.

Carmen Yulin Cruz, mayor of the capital of San Juan, said the outage would not interrupt the last of a two-game series between the Cleveland Indians and Minnesota Twins, which is being played on the island. She said all emergency systems at Hiram Bithorn stadium are functioning and that tower lights and additional security will be placed at the stadium’s parking lot.

Justo Gonzalez, the power company’s executive sub-director, told reporters that a private contractor removing a collapsed tower during unrelated power restoration efforts near the south coast hit the transmission line on Wednesday with an excavator.

“We are working in areas that are quite crowded with high voltage lines,” he said.

It is the second such incident in less than a week. On Thursday, a tree fell on a power line as the same private contractor cleared land in central Puerto Rico, leading to a widespread power outage. A backup line that was supposed to prevent that outage failed.

Fredyson Martinez, vice president of a union that represents power company workers in Puerto Rico, told The Associated Press that he was concerned about the two back-to-back incidents.

“That is not normal,” he said.

Government officials said that a company hired by Cobra Energy known as Dgrimm was involved in both incidents that led to the power outages. Dgrimm had been asked to change its security protocols after the first incident, and it has since been terminated, said William Rios, power generation director.

“This is unacceptable for us,” he said, adding that government attorneys are meeting with officials at Cobra Energy, a Mammoth Energy subsidiary hired by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to help with power restoration efforts.

Angel Figueroa, president of the power workers’ union, told reporters workers are investigating why a backup breaker at a main power station in the island’s southern region did not function when the outage occurred, causing the entire electrical grid to shut down to protect itself. He noted it was the same problem that caused a 2016 power outage that affected the entire island.

Geraldo Quinones, a power company spokesman, said in a phone interview that crews are investigating why the breaker failed.

Rivera said he worries that such serious power outages are still occurring as the new Atlantic hurricane season, which starts on June 1, approaches.

“If there’s a slight storm, we’re going to be worse off than we are right now,” he said.

Federal officials who testified before Congress last week said they expect to have a plan by June on how to strengthen and stabilize the island’s power grid, noting that up to 75 percent of distribution lines were damaged by high winds and flooding. Meanwhile, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which is overseeing the federal power restoration efforts, said they hope to have the entire island fully energized by May. Some 40,000 power customers still remain without normal electrical service as a result of the hurricane.

The new blackout occurred as Puerto Rico legislators debate a bill that would privatize the island’s power company, which is $14 billion in debt and relies on infrastructure nearly three times older than the industry average.PEORIA, Ariz. (AP) — Arizona teachers voting Wednesday on whether to launch an unprecedented strike to demand more school funding weighed the potential pitfalls of walking off the job with the desire for change in the education system.

Some teachers say enough is enough, and a walkout will help show that their mission isn’t just to secure a raise for some of the nation’s lowest-paid educators but to get more money for students.

“I think we wouldn’t be, at this point, even considering a walkout if things weren’t so bad in the first place,” said Andrew Brothers, a music teacher at Paseo Verde Elementary School in the Phoenix suburb of Peoria.

He was among about two dozen teachers gathered as part of demonstrations held at schools statewide. Teachers waved signs and wore red to support their grass-roots #RedforEd campaign that’s prompted weeks of protests as well as vote on whether to strike.

The vote that stretches through Thursday comes after Republican Gov. Doug Ducey offered teachers a 20 percent raise by 2020. A grass-roots group that’s mobilized tens of thousands of teachers says Ducey’s plan doesn’t address other needs, including raises for support staff and a return to pre-Great Recession school funding levels.

Arizona has followed Republican-dominant states in demanding higher pay. The movement started in West Virginia, where a strike garnered a raise, and spread to Oklahoma, Kentucky and most recently Colorado.

But the potential for educators to walk out in Arizona is causing confusion about what the repercussions could be in this right-to-work state, where unions do not collectively bargain with school districts and representation is not mandatory.

A 1971 Arizona attorney general opinion said a statewide strike would be illegal under common law and participants could lose their teaching credentials. The Arizona Education Association, the largest teacher membership group, said the opinion led it to inform its 20,000 members of the risks of a walkout.

Chelsea Chitwood, a history teacher at Apollo High School in Glendale, Arizona, said teachers were still protesting because they want to provide more for their students. But she had yet to vote Wednesday morning.

“I think that’s our last card to play,” she said. “So it needs to be at the perfect time. We’ll see.”

Ashley Hobbs, who teaches English at Dobson High School in the Phoenix suburb of Mesa, was skeptical that a walkout was the best move forward. She noted that hourly workers in some school districts might not get paid during a walkout and that teachers might look too demanding with a raise on the table.

“We really do have to weigh public sentiment at this point,” said Hobbs, who ultimately decided to vote for a walkout.

The governor’s proposal has drawn support from the business community and some school organizations. But others are concerned about finding the money to cover a plan that would cost about $650 million when fully implemented.

One education advocacy group, Save Our Schools Arizona, said it initially was “cautiously optimistic” about Ducey’s plan but is now worried it isn’t a “sustainable or comprehensive” way to reinvest in schools.

The governor says money will come from increased state revenue, decreases in social service caseloads and changes in other budget proposals.

Ducey spokesman Daniel Scarpinato said in an email that the plan is funded with “the state’s most reliable funding source: the general fund. It’s in the base and will be an ongoing commitment.”

Meanwhile, teachers supporting the strike say they’re focused on improving the future for themselves and their students.

“We either risk short-term consequences, or we risk long-term consequences,” said Jennifer Ramirez Zamarron, a high school teacher at Trevor G. Browne High School in Phoenix.

“I would rather put an effort toward short-term consequences, like, ‘Oh, my kids went without instruction for X amount of days,’ versus ‘My kids went without funding for X amount of years,'” she said.

___

Associated Press writer Bob Christie in Glendale contributed to this report.WICHITA, Kan. (AP) — A federal jury on Wednesday found three men guilty of plotting to bomb a mosque and apartment complex housing Somali refugees in Kansas.

Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen were convicted of one count of conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction and one count of conspiracy against civil rights. Wright was convicted of a charge of lying to the FBI. Sentencing is set for June 27.

The three men were indicted in October 2016 for plotting an attack for the day after the presidential election in the meatpacking town of Garden City, about 220 miles (350 kilometers) west of Wichita.

Prosecutors have said that a fellow militia member, Dan Day, tipped off federal authorities after becoming alarmed by the escalating talk of violence and later agreed to wear a wire as a paid informant. The government’s case featured months of profanity-laced recordings in which militia members discussed plans and referred to the Somalis as “cockroaches.”

Wright is captured in one recording saying he hoped an attack on the Somalis would “wake people up” and inspire others to take similar action against Muslims.

The government argued that the men formed a splinter group of the militia Kansas Security Force that came to be known as “the Crusaders.” The testimony and recordings indicate the men tried to recruit other members of the Kansas Security Force to join them.

According to prosecutors, Stein was recorded discussing the type of fuel and fertilizer bomb that Timothy McVeigh used in the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, which killed 168 people. Stein was arrested when he delivered 300 pounds (135 kilograms) of fertilizer to undercover FBI agents to make explosives.

Attorneys for the defense said the FBI set up the men with a paid informant and all the talk about violence wasn’t serious. They said the men had a right to free speech and association under the U.S. Constitution.

Prosecutors argued the plot was more than just words, telling jurors that the men also manufactured homemade explosives and tested them.HOUSTON (AP) — Former President George W. Bush said Wednesday that his mother, Barbara Bush, didn’t fear death because she believed in an afterlife and that she would be “wonderfully received in the arms of a loving God.”

Barbara Bush, who died Tuesday at age 92 at her home in Houston, was “warm and wonderful, until you got out of line,” her son added while appearing with his wife, Laura Bush, on the Fox Business Network. Other relatives also described her as the family “enforcer” while her husband, former President George H.W. Bush, pursued careers in the Texas oil business and, later, politics and public service.

Tributes rolled in from around the world, heralding the former first lady as a warm woman of strength devoted to not only her family, but to child and adult literacy programs.

Current first lady Melania Trump, who will attend Barbara Bush’s funeral Saturday in Houston, praised her for putting “family and country above all else.” Among her greatest achievements, President Donald Trump added in a statement, “was recognizing the importance of literacy as a fundamental family value that requires nurturing and protection.”

Former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, whose last years in office overlapped the George H.W. Bush presidency, remembered Barbara Bush as warm and astute, saying he was “greatly saddened” by her death. Gorbachev visited with the Bushes at the former president’s library at Texas A&M University, where Barbara Bush will be buried.

“Barbara did a lot to build trust and friendship between us. She immediately developed a warm relationship with Raisa (Gorbachev’s wife), they communicated easily and at ease,” Gorbachev said.

In Moscow, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a telegram to the former president offering his condolences.

In Kuwait, the Arab nation that has long celebrated George H.W. Bush for securing its freedom from Iraqi occupation in the 1991 Gulf War, the state-run news agency KUNA reported that Kuwaiti leader Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah sent letters of condolence to the Bush family. Barbara Bush visited Kuwait in 1993 and 2001, and was warmly received by dignitaries and Kuwaiti women.

Former President Barack Obama said he and former first lady Michelle Obama would always be grateful to Barbara Bush “for the generosity she showed to us throughout our time in the White House.”

“But we’re even more grateful for the way she lived her life — as a testament to the fact that public service is an important and noble calling; as an example of the humility and decency that reflects the very best of the American spirit,” Obama said.

Former President Jimmy Carter and former first lady Rosalynn Carter called Mrs. Bush the “matriarch of a family dedicated to serving.”

Barbara Bush’s funeral will be held at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church, which she and her husband regularly attended. Barricades were erected Wednesday, and police were stationed outside a funeral home near the church. The church will host a public viewing Friday. Saturday’s funeral will be by invitation only.

An “uplifting celebration” of Barbara Bush’s life will be held Thursday evening outside Houston City Hall. City officials encouraged people to wear blue, her favorite color, along with pearls, which became her signature neckwear jewelry. City Hall was being bathed in blue lights in her honor.

George H.W. Bush was at his wife’s side when she died and had held her hand all day Tuesday, according to Jean Becker, chief of staff at the former president’s office in Houston. They’d been married 73 years, more than any presidential couple.LONDON (AP) — The flags of more than 50 nations are flying outside Buckingham Palace as Queen Elizabeth II prepares to welcome leaders from the Commonwealth, an international club with an eclectic membership, an identity problem and an uncertain future.

The Commonwealth, an association of the U.K. and its former colonies, includes 53 countries, from populous India to tiny Tuvalu, held together loosely by historic ties, the English language and affection for the queen, who turns 92 on Saturday and has no designated successor as head of the group.

Philip Murphy, director of the University of London’s Institute of Commonwealth Studies, wrote in the Guardian newspaper the group was like “a grandfather clock that has been in the family for generations. It hasn’t told the right time for decades, but no one has the heart to take such a treasured heirloom to the (dump).”

Yet the old piece of furniture is getting a polish and a tuneup. With the U.K. set to leave the European Union next year, British authorities see the Commonwealth as a potential cornerstone of post-Brexit “global Britain.”

Britain is devoting both royal pomp and political capital to the biennial Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, which is being held in London for the first time in two decades.

The queen is hosting a Buckingham Palace dinner on Thursday, and has enthusiastically backed the “Commonwealth Canopy,” a forest conservation plan for all member nations.

Charismatic younger royals including Prince Harry and his fiancee Meghan Markle have been deployed to Commonwealth-related events with young people, businesses and volunteer groups.

Commonwealth leaders will spend Friday discussing issues such as trade, climate change, terrorism and cybersecurity in the grand surroundings of Windsor Castle, west of London.

Government leaders including India’s Narendra Modi, Canada’s Justin Trudeau, Australia’s Malcolm Turnbull, New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern and Jamaica’s Andrew Holness have all traipsed into 10 Downing St. for meetings with British Prime Minister Theresa May.

As Britain leaves the EU and its borderless single market for goods and services, it is eager to bolster trade with the Commonwealth, which includes wealthy industrialized nations such as Australia and Canada as well as huge, fast-growing India.

International Trade Secretary Liam Fox said this week that Brexit could revitalize the Commonwealth and “usher in a new era, harnessing the movement of expertise, talent, goods and capital between our nations in a way that we have not done for a generation or more.”

Others are skeptical.

In 2017, 44 percent of British exports went to the EU and just 9 percent to Commonwealth countries. Even if intra-Commonwealth trade almost doubles by 2020, as a recent report from the organization predicted, it would still leave a big trading gap for British exporters.

Murphy calls the promise of a Commonwealth economic boost “snake oil” from pro-Brexit campaigners.

Still, some say the Commonwealth could provide a platform for British diplomatic and cultural clout after it leaves the EU.

Michael Lake, director of the Royal Commonwealth Society charity, said the Commonwealth could be a “useful and productive stepping stone for the development of a new soft-power agenda.”

“It is absolutely not a replacement for Europe. But if you are looking to reshape your foreign policy, it would be perverse to think that the Commonwealth wasn’t a useful element in that,” he said.

But Britain’s relationship with the Commonwealth has been clouded by diplomatic missteps and the legacy of empire. May had to apologize this week after it emerged that some people who came to the U.K. from Caribbean decades ago had been refused medical care in Britain or threatened with deportation because they could not produce paperwork to show their right to residence.

The treatment of the “Windrush generation” — named for the ship Empire Windrush, which brought the first big group of post-war Caribbean immigrants to Britain in 1948 — has strained Commonwealth relations just as Britain is trying to strengthen them.

Gay-rights activists will be protesting the summit, urging the repeal of laws against homosexuality that are in force in more than 30 Commonwealth countries — in many cases, introduced under British rule.

May said Tuesday that Britain deeply regretted its role in passing anti-gay laws.

“I am all too aware that these laws were often put in place by my own country,” she said. “They were wrong then, and they are wrong now.”

The Commonwealth is officially committed to democracy and human rights, but its rights record is mixed. Many look with pride on the organization’s role in the 1970s and ’80s in trying to end apartheid in South Africa.

But many Commonwealth nations have been plagued by corruption or destabilized by coups. Zimbabwe’s former president, Robert Mugabe, pulled his country out of the group in 2003 after it was suspended for widespread human rights abuses. Gambia quit in 2013, calling the Commonwealth a “neocolonial institution.” It rejoined earlier this year.

Still, the Commonwealth provides support for democracy and corruption-fighting, and gives its smaller members the chance to be part of an international network. Attempts to expand the club beyond former British colonies have had modest success, with Mozambique and Rwanda joining in recent years.

The survival of the Commonwealth owes much to the commitment of the queen, who has visited almost every member country — often multiple times — over her 66-year-reign.

Her son Prince Charles is heir to the British throne, but will not automatically succeed her as the organization’s head. Commonwealth officials say the heads of government and secretary-general will decide who should head the group next, but have not said when or how that will take place.

Lake thinks “there is a widely held view that when the time comes Charles would be an able and widely accepted successor” — but there’s no guarantee.

Murphy said the Commonwealth today is held together by “a kind of inertia, the fact that it’s probably more trouble to wind it up than to keep going.”

But he said he wouldn’t write it off just yet.

“It’s sort of like the Holy Roman Empire — international organizations can survive long beyond their natural expiry date,” Murphy said.

___

Follow Jill Lawless on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/JillLawlessANKARA, Turkey (AP) — President Recep Tayyip Erdogan caught Turkey off guard on Wednesday by calling early elections for June, in a move that could cement his grip on power a year ahead of schedule.

Erdogan announced that parliamentary and presidential elections, originally scheduled for November 2019 will now be held June 24, meaning that a new political system that will increase the powers of the president will take effect a year early.

Turkey is switching from a parliamentary system to a presidential one, abolishing the office of the prime minister and decreasing the powers of the parliament, following a narrowly approved referendum last year. The changes take effect with the next election.

Erdogan would be able to run for two five-year terms on top of his current term.

The strongman, who has ruled Turkey since 2003, spoke of the need for the new system to be implemented quickly in order to deal with numerous challenges ahead, including Turkey’s fight against Kurdish insurgents in Syria and Iraq.

The move, however, allows the leader — criticized for his authoritarian tendencies — to capitalize on nationalist sentiment that is running high following a successful military campaign to drive out Syrian Kurdish militants from the border enclave of Afrin in northeast Syria and ahead of warnings that the economy could be foundering.

It also puts opposition parties, many of which haven’t yet decided who to put forward to challenge Erdogan, at a distinct disadvantage.

“Erdogan wants to take stock of a number of developments that are in his favor,” said Soner Cagaptay, Turkey researcher at the Washington Institute.

“Russia might soon force Turkey to pull out of Afrin,” Cagaptay said. He wants to move forward before the negative news (on Afrin and the economy) start coming in,” Cagaptay said.

“Be it the cross-border operations in Syria, or incidents of historic importance centered in Syria and Iraq, they have made it imperative for Turkey to overcome uncertainties quickly,” Erdogan said, in apparent reference to the aspirations for independence by Kurds in both countries.

Erdogan said: “Switching to a new system of government has increasingly gained urgency so that decisions regarding our country’s future can be made and implemented with greater strength.”

Erdogan announced the early elections after a meeting with Devlet Bahceli, the leader of Turkey’s main nationalist party, MHP, who made a surprise call for early elections citing efforts by unnamed circles to foment chaos in Turkey. The MHP has agreed to an election alliance with Erdogan’s ruling Justice and Development Party, or AKP.

Erdogan, who has moved to further tighten his grip on power since a failed coup attempt in 2016, needs a 51-percent majority to be re-elected in the first round of the presidential election.

The decision to hold early polls comes a month after the AKP, with the help of the nationalist party, changed electoral laws that, among other things, paves the way for government employees to monitor ballot boxes, reducing independent monitoring of the polls.

It also follows the sale of Turkey’s largest media group, Dogan Holding, to a group that is close to Erdogan — a move observers say places 90 percent of the nation’s media under Erdogan’s control.

Cagaptay said Erdogan had been “preparing the groundwork to stack the elections in his favor.”

Turkey’s weak opposition parties announced they were ready for the polls. They, however, have just two months to prepare for the elections and come up with candidates strong enough to challenge Erdogan.

It was unclear whether Meral Aksener, the leader of the fledgling center-right Good Party which broke away from the MHP, would be eligible to run in the polls. Aksener had announced her intention to run against Erdogan and was seen as a strong candidate. Selahattin Demirtas, the charismatic former leader of Turkey’s pro-Kurdish party, is in jail on terrorism charges.

The elections would be held under a state of emergency that was declared following the failed coup. Parliament extended it for a seventh time despite calls for its end. The main opposition party accuses the government of misusing its emergency powers to erode democracy and arrest government critics.

It allows the government to close down media outlets and non-governmental organizations.

The government argued that security threats from a movement led by U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of masterminding the coup, haven’t abated. It also cites Turkey’s continued struggle against Kurdish rebels and other groups.

Gulen has denied any ties to the failed coup.BERLIN (AP) — German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday sharply condemned a street assault in Berlin on two young men wearing Jewish skullcaps that has stoked the debate about anti-Semitism in the country.

A video of the attack Tuesday showing one of the victims being whipped with a belt quickly went viral.

Merkel called attack in the city’s trendy Prenzlauer Berg neighborhood “a very horrible incident” and vowed the government would respond “with full force and resolve” against growing anti-Semitism in Germany.

German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas tweeted that “Jews shall never again feel threatened here.”

“It’s our responsibility to protect Jewish life here,” he wrote in reference to the killing of six million European Jews by Germany under the Nazis in the Holocaust more than 70 years ago.

Berlin police said the two victims were 21 and 24 years old but didn’t identify them.

Israeli broadcaster Kan published an interview with the 21-year-old who was slightly injured by the belt, and identified him as Israeli Adam Armoush.

The video does not show the outbreak of the fight or how it started, but Armoush said he was leaving his Berlin home when the three people started cursing at them.

“They kept cursing us and my friend asked them to stop cursing,” Armoush told Kan TV. “They started to get angry and one of them ran to me and I knew it was important to film it because there would be no way to catch him by the time police arrived.”

Police said they are still looking for the attackers.

Two Jewish organizations posted the video , which showed a young man attacking the victim while yelling “Yahudi!” or “Jew” in Arabic.

Armoush told German broadcaster Deutsche Welle that he himself is an Israeli Arab, not Jewish, and that he wore the skullcap to make a point to a friend who said it was risky to do so in Germany.

“I was saying it’s really safe and I wanted to prove it, but it ended like that,” he said.

The head of the Central Council of Muslims in Germany, Aiman Mazyek, demanded punishment for the perpetrators, tweeting that “it makes me angry to see such violence full of hatred.”

“There’s anti-Semitism among German citizens, unfortunately, and also anti-Semitism from the Arabic-speaking region and the government will do everything (against it),” Merkel told reporters.

Police said after the belt attack, the suspect’s two companions took him away. Armoush followed them. The attacker then took a glass bottle, as if he intended to hit him again, but a witness interceded.

Armoush then lifts up his shirt on the video and shows bruises left by the belt. He did not respond to a request for comment from The Associated Press.

Berlin Mayor Michael Mueller also condemned the attack.

“I denounce this renewed anti-Semitic attack in the sharpest terms,” Mueller said. “Anti-Semitism doesn’t belong to the Berlin we want to live in.”

Yet the RIAS group said Berlin saw 947 anti-Semitic incidents including 18 attacks and 23 threats last year.

Anti-Semitic incidents have been on the rise across Germany. Several Jewish students have reported anti-Semitic bullying in schools in recent months and Israeli flags were burnt during a recent protest in Berlin.

Last week, a rap band that included cynical references about the Nazis’ Auschwitz death camp in its lyrics won the country’s most important music prize — drawing strong criticism from other artists and government officials. Several past winners said they would return their awards.

German rappers Kollegah and Farid Bang won an Echo award for their new album, including a track that contains the line “my body more defined than Auschwitz inmates.'”

Their record company, BMG, defended the rappers Wednesday, citing “artistic freedom.” The musicians themselves denied anti-Semitism but apologized for any offense caused.

In a separate incident, German aid group GIZ said Wednesday it has taken action against several employees accused of posting anti-Semitic material on social media. The group, whose biggest client is the German government, said it fired one employee, issued a written warning to another and reprimanded a third.

GIZ said last month it was alerted by reports in Israeli media to the posts by staff working in Jordan, Israel and the Palestinian territories. One featured the Israel flag with a Nazi swastika beneath the words: “I hate Israel.”

Tanja Goenner, chair of GIZ’s management board, said the group had “no reason to assume that anti-Semitism is a general problem.”

Earlier this month, Germany appointed a diplomat to coordinate government activities against anti-Semitism.

___

Frank Jordans in Berlin, Joseph Federman and Aron Heller in Jerusalem contributed reporting.RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) — Saudi Arabia held a private screening on Wednesday of the Hollywood blockbuster “Black Panther” to herald the launch of movie theaters in the kingdom, and tickets go on sale Thursday for public showings on Friday.

Authorities planned the invitation-only event in a concert hall converted into a cinema complex in the capital, Riyadh. The screening, attended by both men and women, will be followed by a rush to build movie theaters in major cities.

The Saudi government dubbed Wednesday’s event as “the showing of the first commercial film in the kingdom after more than 35 years.”

Audience members clearly enjoyed the moment, eating popcorn and erupting into applause and hoots when the movie started.

“This is a landmark moment in the transformation of Saudi Arabia into a more vibrant economy and society,” Saudi Minister of Culture and Information Awwad Alawwad said in statement ahead of the screening.

It’s a stark reversal for a county where public movie screenings were banned in the 1980’s during a wave of ultraconservatism that swept Saudi Arabia. Many Saudi clerics view Western movies and even Arabic films made in Egypt and Lebanon as sinful.

Despite decades of ultraconservative dogma, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has sought to ram through a number of major social reforms with support from his father, King Salman.

The crown prince is behind measures such as lifting a ban on women driving that will go into effect this summer, and bringing back concerts and other forms of entertainment to satiate the desires of the country’s majority young population. The social push by the 32-year-old heir to the throne is part of his so-called Vision 2030, a blueprint for the country that aims to boost local spending and create jobs amid sustained lower oil prices.

The Saudi government projects that the opening of movie theatres will contribute more than 90 billion riyals ($24 billion) to the economy and create more than 30,000 jobs by 2030. The kingdom says there will be 300 cinemas with around 2,000 screens built by 2030.

Over the past several years, Saudi Arabia has gradually been loosening restrictions on movie screenings, with local film festivals and screenings in makeshift theaters. For the most part, though, Saudis who wanted to watch a film in a movie theater would have to drive to nearby Bahrain or the United Arab Emirates for weekend trips to the cinema.

In the 1970s, there were informal movie screenings but the experience could be interrupted by the country’s religious police, whose powers have since been curbed.

Saudi writer and dissident Jamal Khashoggi describes the theaters of the 1970s as being “like American drive-ins, except much more informal.” In an opinion piece for The Washington Post, he wrote that to avoid being arrested at one of these screenings in Medina, a friend of his broke his leg jumping off a wall to escape the religious police.

By the 1980s, movie screenings were largely banned unless they took place in private residential compounds for foreigners or at cultural centers run by foreign embassies.

Access to streaming services, such as Netflix, and satellite TV steadily eroded attempts by the government to censor what the Saudi public could view. By 2013, the film “Wadjda” made history by becoming the first Academy Award entry for Saudi Arabia, though it wasn’t nominated for the Oscars.

Movies screened in Saudi cinemas will be subject to approval by government censors, as is the case in other Arab countries. Scenes of violence are not cut, but scenes involving nudity, sex or even kissing often do get axed.

It’s not clear whether “Black Panther” will undergo a similar censorship for Wednesday’s screening, which will be attended by diplomats, industry insiders, the press and the CEO of AMC Entertainment, Adam Aron. The U.S.-based AMC was granted the first license to operate a cinema in Saudi Arabia in a deal signed earlier this month in California with the crown prince.

AMC is partnering with a subsidiary of Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund, known as the Public Investment Fund, to build up to 40 AMC cinemas across the country over the next five years.

___

Follow Aya Batrawy on Twitter at https://twitter.com/ayaelbOKLAHOMA CITY (AP) — Frazzled residents in a part of rural northwestern Oklahoma paralyzed by days of wind-whipped wildfires expressed fear a blaze could overrun their home Wednesday, as firefighters battling the deadly fires there and in Colorado, Kansas and New Mexico found some relief at the promise of easing of dangerous weather conditions.

Hundreds of people across the region have been forced to evacuate their properties, homes have been swallowed by the fires and cattle burned to death as they stood in rivers and streams, presumably seeking respite from the flames. Two people have died and at least 9 injured in the Oklahoma fires.

“We are surviving, tired of the fire, stressing. It’s been very devastating,” said Denise McDaniel, who with her fiancee was forced to leave their home in Canton, Oklahoma, Tuesday night because of a large fire that started near Leedey. That fire has burned about 409 square miles (1,059 sq. kilometers) and is an estimated 3 percent contained.

“I don’t know what words to use to describe what’s going on over here,” said McDaniel. “Our home is still there, but if the fire reaches the town of Canton, our home won’t be there.”

U.S. Forest Service spokesman John Nichols, who has been working with firefighters battling a blaze estimated at about 106 square miles (275 sq. kilometers) that started near Woodward, Oklahoma, said he welcomed reports indicating wet weather could be on the way.

“Some rain might be coming in Thursday night. Thursday morning would be better,” Nichols said. The Woodward fire is about 45 percent contained.

On Tuesday, the National Weather Service warned that much of New Mexico, parts of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas were at an extreme risk of wildfires, due to a heady mix of hot, dry weather and strong winds, in some places gusting up to 80 mph. Temperatures reached 99 degrees (37 Celsius) Tuesday at Woodward, with humidity as low as 4 percent and wind gusts of up to 51 mph (82 kph).

The service relaxed that fire risk warning to critical for much of the region Wednesday.

Fires in Colorado licked Denver suburbs on Tuesday, stretching firefighting resources to their limits and taking out homes. Other fires jumped the state line into Kansas, where they were contained early Wednesday. Homes have been burned or destroyed in Kansas and Oklahoma too, although emergency management officials have been unable to provide exact numbers because the areas affected by wildfires were still too hot to enter. Kansas Gov. Jeff Colyer and Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin have issued disaster declarations.

In northwestern New Mexico, the milder weather conditions Wednesday should be useful for firefighters who were hindered by strong winds a day earlier but managed to keep wildfires largely in check on a mountain and a butte near Grants. Notices warning area residents to be ready to abandon their homes at a moment’s notice have been lifted and an evacuation center in Grants closed.

The fire has killed an undetermined number of cattle in Oklahoma, but Woods County Extension Agent Greg Highfill said the number is at least in the hundreds. Authorities are focusing on the animals that have survived.

“We’re kind of in a desperate need for hay to get us through the next couple of weeks,” because the fire has also destroyed pastures used to feed the herds, Highfill said.

___

Associated Press reporters Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City, Missouri, and Paul Davenport in Phoenix contributed to this report.BEIRUT (AP) — Assailants opened fire at a U.N. security team visiting the site of a suspected chemical weapons attack in Syria, an official said Wednesday, forcing it to retreat to its base and further delaying a fact-finding mission by outside experts to examine the claims.

Gunmen shot at the U.N. team in Douma on Tuesday and detonated an explosive, leading it to return to Damascus, said the head of the international chemical weapons watchdog, Ahmet Uzumcu. He did not identify the assailants.

Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons have been waiting since Saturday to visit Douma, the site of the alleged April 7 attack. They were initially blocked by the Syrian government and its ally, Russia, on Monday. Then on Tuesday, the advance security team from the U.N. came under fire, compounding the delays. The OPCW inspectors have not yet been able to visit the site, and Uzumcu did not say when they would deploy.

The town is under the protection of Russia’s military police. The Russian military said a Syrian security employee was slightly wounded in the crossfire Tuesday, but no Russian servicemen were at the site of the attack.

Journalists visiting Douma on a government-organized tour Monday did not report any security threats. The Associated Press met with residents who said they were overwhelmed by chlorine fumes on the night of the alleged attack, and lost their loved ones.

With 11 days now having passed, concerns are growing that evidence could fall prey to tampering or be otherwise compromised.

In response, the opposition’s Syrian Civil Defense, whose first responders were operating in Douma on the night of the alleged attack, gave the chemical weapons watchdog the locations of victims’ graves so it could salvage evidence, the group’s chief, Raed Saleh, told the AP. The Civil Defense no longer has a presence in Douma after being evacuated to rebel-held areas of northern Syria when the government took over the town. The government says the Civil Defense is a terrorist organization.

The U.S., which has drawn its own conclusions about the attack on Douma, accused the Syrian government and Russia of trying to cover up evidence of their culpability. Washington has not released any details of the evidence it has collected.

Russia and the Syrian government denied responsibility for the alleged attack, which took place during a government assault on the then rebel-held town. The Army of Islam surrendered Douma two days later.

The U.S., France and Britain struck against suspected chemical weapons facilities belonging to the Syrian government on Saturday, after concluding that Syrian President Bashar Assad’s forces were behind the attack.

Russia has accused the rebels of staging the attack with support from Britain, an allegation that Britain has strongly denied.

Syrian state media reported Tuesday that OPCW inspectors had entered Douma, but the Syrian government later said that only a U.N. advance security team went in.

U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Tuesday the U.S. did not believe the inspectors had entered Douma, and that the evidence was at risk of being compromised as delays dragged on.

“We’ve seen that the Russian government and the Syrian government — their whole goal in this is to try to cover up. Their goal is to try to deflect attention,” she said. “But the fact of the matter is that Bashar al-Assad is responsible yet again for gassing and killing innocent men, women and children.”

Russia’s military said Tuesday it had uncovered a chemical weapons stockpile left behind by the rebels in Douma. The claim could not be independently verified.

First responders and activists say more than 40 people were killed the night of the attack, many found with foam around their mouths, a sign of suffocation. Medical workers said they treated symptoms including difficulty breathing and fainting.

If confirmed, it would not be the first chemical weapons attack in Syria’s more than 7-year-old civil war. The U.N.-mandated Independent International Commission on Syria has documented more than 30 chemical attacks in Syria between 2013 and the end of 2017 — and says at least 25 of them were carried out by the Syrian military. For the rest, it had insufficient evidence to determine the perpetrator. Most involved chlorine gas.

Meanwhile, Syrian state media reported that rebels in a town northeast of Damascus were surrendering their weapons as part of an agreement to hand over control to the Syrian government.

Fighters from the Army of Islam and their families were to leave the town of Dumayr as part of the arrangement, the state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV station said. Some 1,500 gunmen and 3,500 others were expected to relocate to opposition-held territory in northern Syria, it said. The Syrian military would then resume control.

The U.N. and human rights agencies say such arrangements amount to forced population displacement, a war crime. They say civilians should not be forced out of their homes in war.

___

Corder reported from The Hague. Associated Press writer Zeina Karam in Beirut contributed to this report.Washington (AFP) – The United States imposed sanctions Wednesday on a gang it alleges has smuggled migrants out of war-torn Syria and through Mexico to the southern US border.

The US Treasury accused a 47-year-old Syrian, Nasif Barakat, of operating a “global network” bringing travellers to the United States illegally.

Would-be migrants pay an average of $20,000 and they are provided with false or fraudulently-obtained documents, sometimes including European passports.

Their route begins in Syria and transits Lebanon, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, before arriving in “certain South and Central American countries” and then the southwest US border.

Under the sanctions, US citizens are forbidden from doing business with Barakat or his gang, which is designated a “transnational criminal organization.”

Attorney General Jeff Sessions declared in the US statement that the action follows an executive order from President Donald Trump to dismantle such gangs.

“Many of these organizations use human smugglers to bring people across our borders with little regard to their safety or our national sovereignty,” Sessions said.

“We will continue to use every lawful tool we have to defend our borders, fight alien smuggling, restore legality to our immigration system, and to defund criminals of their ill-gotten gains.”

Syria has been in the grip of a multi-faction civil war for the past seven years, and the fighting has drawn in troops from Iran, Russia and a US-led coalition.

At the weekend, Trump ordered a brief Western air bombardment to punish Bashar al-Assad’s regime for its alleged use of banned chemical warfare agents against civilians.

But under Trump, the number of Syrian refugees that have been allowed into the United States legally has plummeted to 44 this financial year from 6,557 in 2017.BRATISLAVA, Slovakia (AP) — Slovakia’s prosecutor general has signed a deal to create an international team to investigate into the slayings of an investigative journalist and his fiancee.

A spokeswoman for Jaromir Ciznar says the prosecutor agreed on the deal in The Hague on Wednesday with Italian judicial authorities, and representatives from Europol and the Eurojust agency, which coordinates the fight against organized crime in Europe.

Jan Kuciak and Martina Kusnirova were shot dead in their home on Feb. 21. Slovak authorities said the slayings’ circumstances suggest it was a contract killing likely linked to Kuciak’s work.

Kuciak was investigating possible widespread government corruption and ties between politicians and Italian mobsters.

The killings triggered a political crisis that resulted in major protests, the government’s collapse and the national police chief’s dismissal.LONDON (AP) — The flags of more than 50 nations flew outside Buckingham Palace on Thursday as Queen Elizabeth II prepared to welcome leaders from the Commonwealth, an international club with an eclectic membership, an identity problem and an uncertain future.

The Commonwealth, an association of the U.K. and its former colonies, includes 53 countries, from populous India to tiny Tuvalu, held together loosely by historic ties, the English language and affection for the queen, who turns 92 on Saturday and has no designated successor as head of the Commonwealth.

Philip Murphy, director of the University of London’s Institute of Commonwealth Studies, told the Guardian newspaper the group was like “a grandfather clock that has been in the family for generations. It hasn’t told the right time for decades, but no one has the heart to take such a treasured heirloom to the (dump).”

Yet the old piece of furniture is getting a polish and a tuneup. With the U.K. set to leave the European Union next year, British authorities see the Commonwealth as a potential cornerstone of post-Brexit “global Britain.”

Britain is devoting both royal pomp and political capital to the biennial Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, which is being held in London for the first time in two decades.

The queen is hosting a Buckingham Palace dinner on Thursday, and has enthusiastically backed the “Commonwealth Canopy,” a forest conservation plan for all member nations.

Charismatic younger royals including Prince Harry and his fiancee Meghan Markle have been deployed to Commonwealth-related events with young people, businesses and volunteer groups.

Commonwealth leaders will spend Friday discussing issues such as trade, climate change, terrorism and cybersecurity in the grand surroundings of Windsor Castle, west of London.

Government leaders including India’s Narendra Modi, Canada’s Justin Trudeau, Australia’s Malcolm Turnbull, New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern, Jamaica’s Andrew Holness have all traipsed into 10 Downing St. for meetings with British Prime Minister Theresa May.

As Britain leaves the EU and its borderless single market for goods and services, it is eager to bolster trade with the Commonwealth, which includes wealthy industrialized nations such as Australia and Canada as well as huge, fast-growing India.

International Trade Secretary Liam Fox said this week that Brexit could revitalize the Commonwealth and “usher in a new era, harnessing the movement of expertise, talent, goods and capital between our nations in a way that we have not done for a generation or more.”

Others are skeptical.

In 2017, 44 percent of British exports went to the EU and just 9 percent to Commonwealth countries. Even if intra-Commonwealth trade almost doubles by 2020, as a recent report from the organization predicted, it would still leave a big trading gap for British exporters.

Murphy calls the promise of a Commonwealth economic boost “snake oil” from pro-Brexit campaigners.

Still, some say the Commonwealth could provide a platform for British diplomatic and cultural clout after it leaves the EU.

Michael Lake, director of the Royal Commonwealth Society charity, said the Commonwealth could be a “useful and productive stepping stone for the development of a new soft-power agenda.”

“It is absolutely not a replacement for Europe. But if you are looking to reshape your foreign policy, it would be perverse to think that the Commonwealth wasn’t a useful element in that,” he said.

But Britain’s relationship with the Commonwealth has been clouded by diplomatic missteps and the legacy of empire. May had to apologize this week after it emerged that some people who came to the U.K. from Caribbean decades ago had been refused medical care in Britain or threatened with deportation because they could not produce paperwork to show their right to residence.

The treatment of the “Windrush generation” — named for the ship Empire Windrush, which brought the first big group of post-war Caribbean immigrants to Britain in 1948 — has strained Commonwealth relations just as Britain is trying to strengthen them.

Gay-rights activists will be protesting the summit, urging the repeal of laws against homosexuality that are in force in more than 30 Commonwealth countries — in many cases, introduced under British rule.

May said Tuesday that Britain deeply regretted its role in passing anti-gay laws.

“I am all too aware that these laws were often put in place by my own country,” she said. “They were wrong then, and they are wrong now.”

The Commonwealth is officially committed to democracy and human rights, but its rights record is mixed. Many look with pride on the organization’s role in the 1970s and ’80s in trying to end apartheid in South Africa.

But many Commonwealth nations have been plagued by corruption or destabilized by coups. Zimbabwe’s former president, Robert Mugabe, pulled his country out of the group in 2003 after it was suspended for widespread human rights abuses. Gambia quit in 2013, calling the Commonwealth a “neocolonial institution.” It rejoined earlier this year.

Still, the Commonwealth provides support for democracy and corruption-fighting, and gives its smaller members the chance to be part of an international network. Attempts to expand the club beyond former British colonies have had modest success, with Mozambique and Rwanda joining in recent years.

The survival of the Commonwealth owes much to the commitment of the queen, who has visited almost every member country — often multiple times — over her 66-year-reign.

Her son Prince Charles is heir to the British throne, but will not automatically succeed her as the organization’s head. Commonwealth officials say the heads of government and secretary-general will decide who should head the group next, but have not said when or how that will take place.

Lake thinks “there is a widely held view that when the time comes Charles would be an able and widely accepted successor” — but there’s no guarantee.

Murphy said the Commonwealth today is held together by “a kind of inertia, the fact that it’s probably more trouble to wind it up than to keep going.”

But he said he wouldn’t write it off just yet.

“It’s sort of like the Holy Roman Empire — international organizations can survive long beyond their natural expiry date,” Murphy said.

___

Follow Jill Lawless on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/JillLawlessHAVANA (AP) — Cuba on Wednesday selected 57-year-old First Vice President Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez as sole candidate to succeed Raul Castro as president of Cuba, the centerpiece of an effort to ensure that the country’s single-party system outlasts the aging revolutionaries who created it.

The virtually certain unanimous approval of the National Assembly will install someone from outside the Castro family in the country’s highest government office for the first time in nearly six decades.

The 86-year-old Castro will remain head of the Communist Party, designated by the constitution as “the superior guiding force of society and the state.” As a result, Castro is almost certain to remain the most powerful person in Cuba for the time being. His departure from the presidency is nonetheless a symbolically charged moment for a country accustomed to 60 years of absolute rule first by revolutionary leader Fidel Castro and, for the last decade, his younger brother.

Nominated as new first vice president was Salvador Valdes Mesa, a 72-year-old Afro-Cuban former union official who has held a long series of high posts in the Cuban government. The government’s official Candidacy Commission also nominated another five vice presidents of the Council of State, Cuba’s highest government body. Only one of the five, 85-year-old Ramiro Valdez, was among the revolutionaries who fought with the Castros in the eastern Sierra Maestra mountains.

Facing biological reality, Raul Castro is working to ensure a smooth transition from him and his small group of former guerrillas to a new generation that can maintain the government’s grip on power in the face of economic stagnation, an aging population and waning revolutionary fervor among Cuban youth attuned more to global consumer culture than the anti-capitalist, nationalist messaging of the state-run media.

That media went into overdrive Wednesday with a single message: Cuba’s system is continuing in the face of change. Commentators on state television and online offered lengthy explanations of why Cuba’s single-party politics and socialist economy are superior to multi-party democracy and free markets, and assured Cubans that no fundamental changes were occurring, despite some new faces at the top.

“It falls on our generation to give continuity to the revolutionary process,” said assembly member Jorge Luis Torres, a municipal councilman from central Artemisa province who appeared to be in his 40s. “We’re a generation born after the revolution, whose responsibility is driving the destiny of the nation.”

Most Cubans know their first vice president as an unremarkable speaker who initially assumed a public profile so low it was virtually nonexistent. Until March, Diaz-Canel had said nothing to the Cuban people about the type of president he would be. The white-haired, generally unsmiling Diaz-Canel had been seen at greatest length in a leaked video of a Communist Party meeting where he somberly pledged to shutter some independent media and labeled some European embassies as outposts of foreign subversion.

That image has begun to change slightly this year as Diaz-Canel stepped into the moderate limelight offered by Cuba’s Soviet-style state media. With his public comments in March, many Cubans got a glimpse of him as a flesh-pressing local politician, an image familiar to residents of the central province where he was born and spent nine years in a role akin to a governor.

Castro entered the National Assembly just after 9 a.m. accompanied by a broadly smiling Diaz-Canel.

The 604 assembly members were sworn in — a 605th was absent — then voted for the president and vice president of the legislative body itself. The result of the votes for president and vice presidents and other national leaders is expected to be officially announced Thursday, the anniversary of the U.S.-backed Bay of Pigs invasion defeated by Cuban forces in 1961.

As in Cuba’s legislative elections, all of the leaders being voted in on Wednesday are selected by a government-appointed commission. Ballots offer only the option of approving or disapproving the official candidate. Candidates generally receive more than 90 percent of the votes in their favor.

Fidel Castro was prime minister and president from 1959 until he fell ill in 2006. Although Osvaldo Dorticos was president of Cuba during Fidel Castro’s time as prime minister, he was considered a figurehead beside the man who led Cuba’s revolution, forged its single-party socialist system and ruled by fiat.

______

Associated Press Writer Ben Fox contributed to this report.PARRISH, Ala. (AP) — A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town, spreading a stench like a giant backed-up toilet — and the “poop train” is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states’ waste.

In Parrish, Alabama, population 982, the sludge-hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months, Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable, especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated, she said.

“Oh my goodness, it’s just a nightmare here,” she said. “It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses. It smells like death.”

All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia, Alabama and other Southern states in recent years, including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina, a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.

In Parrish, townspeople are considering rescheduling children’s softball games, or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.

Sherleen Pike, who lives about a half-mile from the railroad track, said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad.

“Would New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever?” she said. “They don’t want to dump it in their rivers, but I think each state should take care of their own waste.”

Alabama’s inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers’ excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging, experts say.

Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper, describes Alabama as “kind of an open-door, rubber-stamp permitting place” for landfill operators.

“It’s easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash,” he said.

The poop train’s cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill, about 20 miles (30 kilometers) east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously, it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson, but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town.

The sludge “smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste,” West Jefferson’s attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become “infested with flies,” the complaint states.

After West Jefferson went to court, the train stopped in late January in Parrish, which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. It’s sat there ever since.

“We’re probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again,” the Parrish mayor said. Hall said she’s optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon.

New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being, said Eric Timbers, a city spokesman. Its waste, recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called “biosolids,” has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean.

In an earlier trash saga, a barge laden with 3,186 tons (2,890 metric tons) of non-toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987, seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Florida, Mexico, Belize and the Bahamas.

Brooke’s Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are “prime targets” for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning “that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation.”

Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment.

Nationally, the waste and recycling industry generates more than $93 billion in gross revenue annually, said Brandon Wright, a spokesman for the National Waste & Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby “and the waste has to go somewhere, so it gets transported out of state,” he said.

Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S.

A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as “America’s Pay Toilet.” It was among the nation’s largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak, the landfill took in nearly 800,000 tons (72,570 metric tons) of hazardous waste annually.

Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year, U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons (90 metric tons) of coal ash and other waste; more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee.

In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up.

“We’re moving into the summer, and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this,” she said.

___

Martin reported from Atlanta.Moscow (AFP) – US airlines are still able to fly in Russian air space, the transport ministry assured on Wednesday despite a transit agreement between Washington and Moscow expiring shortly.

“The Transport Minister of the Russian Federation confirms that flights of American companies over Russian territory are still authorised according to the existing scheme before new negotiations,” transport ministry spokesman Timur Khikmatov told AFP.

“This week we sent our American colleagues a proposal to negotiate on this issue. A date for the negotiations has not been agreed yet. We are waiting for an answer from our American colleagues,” he added.

Russian Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov was reporting as saying that Moscow was considering retaliatory measures against Washington in the sector as a response to recent US sanctions.

However a ban on transit flights was not being discussed, he said.

“We are considering various answers that our country could give to the introduction of sanctions that are unlawful from our point of view. While it is too early to speak about it, a response will be prepared, approved and adopted in its own time,” Sokolov was cited as saying by news agencies.

Every day, dozens of American flights cross Russian skies on their shortest and most lucrative routes to Asia but their permission to do so is due to run out at 7:59 pm (2359 GMT).

US State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said on Tuesday that the US ambassador to Moscow, Jon Huntsman, was in last minute discussions with Russian officials to facilitate a breakthrough in talks with airlines.

Russian civil aviation officials had been due to attend discussions hosted by the State Department in Washington, but cancelled. The airlines sent representatives to the talks.

Nauert said the Russians had not indicated why they had backed out of the meetings.

But the decision came after Saturday’s US-led air strikes on Syria angered Moscow, which has previously attempted to use air routes as diplomatic bargaining chips.ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday called early elections for June, meaning that a new political system that would allow him to consolidate powers would take effect a year earlier than scheduled.

After a meeting with Devlet Bahceli, the leader of Turkey’s main nationalist party, Erdogan announced that the presidential and parliamentary elections originally scheduled for November 2019 will now be held June 24.

He said the new system needs to be implemented quickly in order to deal with numerous challenges ahead, including Turkey’s fight against Kurdish insurgents in Syria and Iraq.

Turkey is switching from a parliamentary system to a presidential system that abolishes the office of the prime minister and decreases the powers of the parliament, following a narrowly approved referendum last year. The changes, which critics say will further reduce checks and balances, will take effect with the next elections.

“Be it the cross-border operations in Syria, or incidents of historic importance centered in Syria and Iraq, they have made it imperative for Turkey to overcome uncertainties quickly,” Erdogan said, in apparent reference to the aspirations for independence by Kurds in both countries.

Erdogan said: “Switching to a new system of government has increasingly gained urgency so that decisions regarding our country’s future can be made and implemented with greater strength.”

The snap elections were called a day after Bahceli, the leader of the Nationalist Movement Party and an Erdogan ally, made a surprise call for an early election in the summer.

Bahceli argued there’s “no point in prolonging this any longer,” citing efforts by unnamed groups to foment chaos in Turkey.

Erdogan, who has moved to further tighten his grip on power since a failed coup attempt in 2016, needs a 51 percent majority to be re-elected in the first round of the presidential election. Earlier this year, his ruling conservative, Islamic-rooted Justice and Development party formed an election alliance with Bahceli’s MHP.

Nationalist sentiment is running high over Turkey’s recent military operation in Syria, which ousted Syrian Kurdish forces from a northern enclave. Ankara has labeled the Syrian Kurdish fighters as terrorists because of their affiliation with outlawed Kurdish rebels fighting inside Turkey.

Although caught off-guard, opposition parties said they were ready for the early election.

Last month, Erdogan’s ruling Justice and Development Party, with the help of MHP votes, passed a set of changes to the country’s electoral laws that critics said are aimed at helping Erdogan consolidate power and could lead to election fraud.

In a related development, Turkey’s parliament voted on Wednesday to prolong a state of emergency that was declared after the failed coup.

The state of emergency was extended for a seventh time, despite calls for its end. It allows the government to rule by decrees, often bypassing parliament. The decrees have allowed the government to close down media outlets and non-governmental organizations.

The European Union, which Turkey seeks to join, says the country is backsliding on bringing its laws in line with EU standards and has called for the country to lift its state of emergency. Last month, a U.N. report concluded that Turkey’s state of emergency had led to human rights violations, including arbitrary detentions and dismissals, torture and ill-treatment.

Turkey’s main opposition party accuses the government of misusing its emergency powers to erode democracy and arrest government critics. Its supporters have staged sit-in protests this week across Turkey to demand an end to the emergency declaration.

The government argued that security threats from a movement led by U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of masterminding the coup, have not abated. It also cites Turkey’s continued struggle against Kurdish rebels and other groups.

Gulen has denied any ties to the failed coup.LONDON (AP) — Facebook is enhancing privacy safeguards for users around the world as it complies with new European rules designed to make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.

Facebook is introducing the new policies this week in Europe, but eventually everyone on the social network will be asked to decide whether they want to enable features like facial recognition and some types of targeted advertising, the company said in a blog post.

“Everyone – no matter where they live – will be asked to review important information about how Facebook uses data and make choices about their privacy on Facebook,” the company said in a blog post. “We’ll begin by rolling these choices out in Europe this week.”

The announcement comes as Facebook struggles with the fallout from revelations that a data analytics firm misused personal information from as many as 87 million Facebook accounts to help Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. The European Union next month will begin enforcing its new General Data Protection Regulation, which explicitly applies to any company that uses the data of EU residents, no matter where it is based.

The privacy law is the latest attempt by EU regulators to rein in mostly American tech giants who they blame for avoiding tax, stifling competition and encroaching on digital privacy rights. The EU says the rules are the most important change in data privacy regulation in a generation as it tries to catch up with technological advances since 1995, when the last comprehensive rules were approved.

The EU rules require consent forms to be written in plain language anyone can understand, as the EU targets the legalese buried in pages of terms and conditions that few users actually read before clicking “I Agree.” The regulations also require that consent must be as easy to withdraw as it is to give.

As part of the changes, Facebook users in Europe and Canada will for the first time be able to opt into the network’s facial recognition technology, which has been available in most other parts of the world for the past six years, the company said.

Users will also be asked whether they want to allow Facebook to use data from partners such as apps and websites to tailor the ads they see, and whether they want to share political, religious or relationship information from their profiles.

“We not only want to comply with the law, but also go beyond our obligations to build new and improved privacy experiences for everyone on Facebook,” the company said.

Meanwhile, the European Parliament renewed its call for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about the data privacy scandal, after Zuckerberg offered to send a subordinate in his place.

In a letter to Zuckerberg on Wednesday, the EU assembly’s president, Antonio Tajani, said that Europeans hit by the “scandal deserve a full and thorough explanation from Facebook’s top manager.”BRUSSELS (AP) — European Union lawmakers called Wednesday for the appointment of a top EU official to be reconsidered amid a scandal that has raised questions about the accountability of civil servants in Brussels.

The lawmakers said in a resolution that Martin Selmayr, a protege of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, was named secretary general of the powerful Commission in a what “could be seen as a coup-like action” that lacked transparency.

Selmayr, Juncker’s former head of cabinet, was given the top job in February at a meeting that saw him promoted twice within minutes. Even EU commissioners — who are responsible for policy files ranging from the economy to trade, the environment and energy — publicly admitted surprise at the speed with which the nomination was handled. Most were not even aware that the promotion was planned in advance, by Juncker himself.

In his new job, Selmayr runs the Commission — with some 33,000 employees and whose commissioners are appointed, not elected — and so wields strong influence over the EU’s agenda and policy priorities.

The move, exposed by French newspaper Liberation, has raised deep concerns because the Commission is the guardian of the EU’s treaties and the arbiter of Europe’s democratic standards yet stands accused of bending its own rules. For example, the Commission has launched a rule of law procedure against Poland for changes by the new government there that the EU’s executive arm believes undermine the independence of the courts and justice system. It’s locked in a similar battle with Hungary. Both countries say — like the Commission in this case — that they are following the letter of the law.

Part of the reason the people of Britain voted to leave the 28-nation bloc next year was the perception that unelected, unaccountable, well-heeled bureaucrats in Brussels were stitching up backroom deals against the interests of citizens and with the aim of enriching themselves. Regardless of his unquestioned competence, Selmayr’s nomination embodies the fears of euroskeptics.

“The Selmayr scandal is the perfect example of the kind of European Union we fight against: murky deals with a full disregard to basic values such as transparency, integrity and equal opportunities,” Socialist lawmaker Ines Ayala Sender said. The appointment, she said, “has rightly caused widespread disapproval and annoyance among our citizens, risking deteriorating the reputation of not only the Commission, but of all the EU institutions.”

In the resolution, which is publicly embarrassing but has no legal force, the lawmakers asked the Commission to “reassess the procedure of appointment of the new secretary general in order to give other possible candidates within the European public administration the possibility to apply.” They said the process should be revised so future appointments are open and transparent.

In a statement Wednesday, the Commission said it respected the rules and has no intention to revoke its decision.

“The Commission has followed all the rules both in spirit and to the letter,” EU Budget Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said. He said previous secretaries general had been appointed with “precisely the same procedure,” and that Selmayr’s credentials for the job “are beyond any doubt.”

The rapid rise of Selmayr — praised by some colleagues for his efficiency and hard work, criticized by others as an administrative steamroller — has rankled many in Brussels. In about 14 years he went from Commission spokesman to its top civil servant. The fact that he is German annoyed many too, notably in France, due to the high number of German nationals holding senior EU posts.

But there is no doubt that Juncker, who appears in frail health, relies heavily on Selmayr and came to office thanks to the former lawyer’s help.

Asked last month to confirm a rumor that he would resign if his protege was forced out, Juncker told reporters that he is the only man who could sack Selmayr and that he would not do so.HAVANA (AP) — Cuba on Wednesday launched the daylong process of selecting Raul Castro’s successor as president of Cuba, the centerpiece of an effort to ensure that the country’s single-party system outlasts the aging revolutionaries who created it.

State media said the government would announce Castro’s replacement on Thursday, installing someone from outside the Castro family in the country’s highest government office for the first time in nearly six decades.

Castro entered the National Assembly just after 9 a.m. accompanied by a broadly smiling Vice President Miguel Diaz-Canel, the man expected to succeed him.

The 605 assembly members were sworn in, then voted for the president and vice president of the legislative body itself. The president and vice president of Cuba and other national leaders will be voted on later in the day.

As in Cuba’s legislative elections, all of the leaders being voted in on Wednesday are selected by a government-appointed commission. Ballots offer only the option of approving or disapproving the official candidate. Candidates generally receive more than 90 percent of the votes in their favor.

The National Assembly in the past has generally met and selected the president in one day. Its votes are nearly always unanimous and seen as reflecting the will of the country’s top leadership.

The 86-year-old Castro is stepping down after two five-year terms. His brother Fidel was prime minister and president from 1959 until he fell ill in 2006. Although Osvaldo Dorticos was president of Cuba during Fidel Castro’s time as prime minister, he was considered a figurehead beside the man who led Cuba’s revolution, forged its single-party socialist system and ruled by fiat.

Diaz-Canel, 57, has long been seen as the overwhelming favorite to replace Castro, and a series of high-profile appearances on state-run television in recent days have done nothing to change that.WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump on Wednesday confirmed that his CIA chief secretly met with Kim Jong Un in North Korea and said “a good relationship was formed” heading into the adversaries’ anticipated summit.

Mike Pompeo’s highly unusual talks took place “last week,” Trump tweeted, and “went smoothly,” with details about the presidential meeting within the next few months “being worked out now.”

“Denuclearization will be a great thing for World, but also for North Korea!” Trump wrote while at his Florida estate, where he was hosting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

Trump had disclosed on Tuesday that the U.S. and North Korea were holding direct talks at “extremely high levels” in preparation for a possible summit. He said five locations were under consideration for the meeting, which could take place by early June.

Confirmation of Pompeo’s trip later came from two officials, who were not authorized to discuss the meeting publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.

The Washington Post, which first reported the development, said it took place over Easter weekend — just over two weeks ago, shortly after Pompeo was nominated to become secretary of state. Two White House officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive discussions, confirmed Wednesday that the trip took place over Easter weekend.

Kim’s offer for a summit was initially conveyed to Trump by South Korea last month, and the president shocked many by accepting it. U.S. officials indicated over the past two weeks that North Korea’s government had communicated directly with Washington that it was ready to discuss its nuclear weapons program.

It would be the first-ever summit between the U.S. and North Korea during more than six decades of hostility since the Korean War. North Korea’s nuclear weapons and its capability to deliver them by ballistic missile pose a growing threat to the U.S. mainland.

The U.S. and North Korea do not have formal diplomatic relations, complicating the arrangements for contacts between the two governments. It is not unprecedented for U.S. intelligence officials to serve as a conduit for communication with Pyongyang.

In 2014, the then-director of U.S. national intelligence, James Clapper, secretly visited North Korea to bring back two American detainees.

China, North Korea’s closest ally, said it welcomes direct contact and talks between the U.S. and North Korea after news emerged of Pompeo’s meeting with Kim.

Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a briefing Wednesday that Beijing hopes the two sides will work on a political resolution of tensions on the Korean Peninsula and set up a peace mechanism. The Koreas are technically still in a state of war after fighting in the 1950-53 Korean War ended with a cease-fire, not a peace treaty.

At a Senate hearing last week on his nomination, Pompeo played down expectations for a breakthrough deal on ending North Korea’s nuclear weapons program at the planned summit, but said it could lay the groundwork for a comprehensive agreement on denuclearization.

“I’m optimistic that the United States government can set the conditions for that appropriately so that the president and the North Korean leader can have that conversation and will set us down the course of achieving a diplomatic outcome that America and the world so desperately need,” Pompeo told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

After a year of escalating tensions, when North Korea conducted nuclear and long-range missile tests that drew world condemnation, Kim has pivoted to international outreach.

The young leader met China’s President Xi Jinping in Beijing in late March, Kim’s first trip abroad since taking power six years ago. He is set to meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in in the demilitarized zone between the rival Koreas on April 27.

___

Associated Press writers Matthew Pennington in Washington and Gillian Wong in Beijing contributed to this report.BEIRUT (AP) — The Latest on the Syria conflict (all times local):

5:55 p.m.

The chief of the global chemical weapons watchdog says it remains unclear when a team of its experts can visit the Syrian town of Douma to investigate an alleged deadly chemical weapon attack.

Independent experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons arrived in Damascus on Saturday to carry out a fact-finding mission. They are still waiting to visit nearby Douma, 11 days after the alleged attack took place.

OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu told a meeting of the organization’s Executive Council on Wednesday that the team will not visit Douma until United Nations security experts, who came under fire in the town on Tuesday, deem it safe and only if the team “can have unhindered access to the sites.”

Uzumcu says the incident Tuesday, “again highlights the highly volatile environment in which the FFM (Fact-Finding Mission) is having to work and the security risks our staff are facing.”

___

4:45 p.m.

A United Nations official says a U.N. team on a security mission to the site of a suspected chemical weapons attack in Syria was fired upon and had to return to its base in Damascus.

The official, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said the shooting occurred during a site visit to Douma on Tuesday, ahead of an expected visit to the area by a team of chemical weapons experts who have been delayed for days.

Independent experts from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons are still waiting to visit the town, 11 days after the alleged attack took place. They arrived in Damascus on a fact-finding mission on Saturday.

OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu told a closed-door meeting of his organization that it remains unclear when the team will be able to deploy to Douma, U.K. Ambassador Peter Wilson told reporters in The Hague.

Uzumcu said on Monday that the Syrian government and its ally Russia were blocking his team from visiting Douma.

Russia and the Syrian government deny responsibility for the alleged attack.

__ Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations

___

2:40 p.m.

Syrian state media say rebels in a town northeast of Damascus are handing over their weapons as part of an agreement reached with the Syrian government.

Al-Ikhbariya TV says the fighters from the Army of Islam rebel group and their families have begun evacuating the town of Dumayr, bound for opposition-held areas in the north as part of the agreement. The Syrian military would then enter the town.

It says the total number of evacuees has reached 5,000, including 1,500 gunmen. It also showed footage of what it says are weapons handed over to the Syrian military.

Dumayr is near the eastern Ghouta region, which came under full government control last week after a weekslong offensive and an alleged chemical weapons attack.

___

Noon

International chemical weapons inspectors do not appear to have visited the site of a suspected attack in Syria after days of delays by Syrian and Russian authorities.

Syrian state media reported Tuesday that inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons had entered the town of Douma, but Syria’s U.N. ambassador, Bashar Ja’afari, later said that only a U.N. advance security team had entered.

The U.S. State Department has accused the Syrian government and its ally Russia of trying to cover up the alleged April 7 attack. Spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Tuesday the U.S. did not believe the inspectors had entered Douma, and that the evidence is at risk of decaying as delays drag on.

There was no comment from the OPCW or the U.N. on Wednesday.ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday called early presidential and parliamentary elections for June, a move that will usher in a new political system increasing the powers of the president earlier than scheduled.

Erdogan announced, following a meeting with Devlet Bahceli, the leader of Turkey’s main nationalist party, that elections originally scheduled for November 2019 will now be held on June 24.

He said the new system needs to be implemented quickly in order to deal with a slew of challenges ahead, including Turkey’s fight against Kurdish insurgents in Syria and Iraq.

Turkey is switching from a parliamentary system to a presidential system that increases the powers of the president, following a narrowly approved referendum last year. The changes take effect with the next election.

“Be it the cross-border operations in Syria, or incidents of historic importance centered in Syria and Iraq, they have made it imperative for Turkey to overcome uncertainties quickly,” Erdogan said, in apparent reference to the aspirations for independence by Kurds in both countries.

The snap elections were called a day after Bahceli, the leader of the Nationalist Movement Party and an Erdogan ally — made a surprise call for snap elections in the summer.

Bahceli argued there’s “no point in prolonging this any longer,” citing efforts by unnamed groups to foment chaos in Turkey.

Erdogan, who has moved to further tighten his grip on politics since a failed coup attempt in 2016, needs a 51 percent majority to be re-elected in the first round of the presidential election. Earlier this year, his ruling his conservative, Islamic-rooted Justice and Development party reached an election alliance with Bahceli’s MHP.

The call for an early election comes as nationalist sentiment is running high over Turkey’s recent military operation in Syria that ousted Syrian Kurdish forces from a northern enclave. Ankara has labeled the Syrian Kurdish fighters as terrorists because of their affiliation with outlawed Kurdish rebels fighting inside Turkey.

In a related development, Turkey’s parliament was to vote Wednesday on whether to prolong the state of emergency that was declared after the failed July 2016 coup.

Parliament was widely expected to extend the state of emergency for a seventh time despite calls at home and abroad for it to end.

The European Union, which Turkey seeks to join, says Turkey is backsliding on bringing its laws into line with EU standards and has called for the country to lift its state of emergency. Last month, a U.N. report concluded that Turkey’s state of emergency had led to human rights violations, including arbitrary detentions and dismissals, torture and ill-treatment.

Turkey’s main opposition party accuses the government of misusing its emergency powers to erode democracy and arrest government critics. Its supporters have staged sit-in protests this week across Turkey to demand an end to the emergency declaration.

The government has asked Parliament to extend the emergency decree, arguing that security threats from a movement led by U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of masterminding the coup, have not abated. It also cites Turkey’s continued struggle against Kurdish rebels and other groups.

Gulen has denied any ties to the failed coup.HAVANA (AP) — Raul Castro is stepping down from Cuba’s presidency, but he isn’t giving up power.

The 86-year-old former guerrilla remains head of Cuba’s Communist Party, a position that leaves him with broad authority — including much oversight of the man who is replacing him as president. He is expected to hold the position until 2021.

Raul Castro’s official title will remain first secretary of the Communist Party, heading the elite 17-member Political Bureau and the broader Central Committee. Since committee members are elected from lists approved by the leadership, there is no real opposition, though members do debate important issues.

Cuba’s single-party system gives the Communist Party a role vastly more important than in any multi-party country, and it’s often hard to tell where the party stops and government begins. Senior government and party positions often overlap.

The constitution defines the party as “the superior guiding force of society and the state,” directing it to organize society toward the construction of socialism.

In practice, party officials oversee or work with government authorities on every level, including the military. While the new president is legally commander in chief, Raul’s influence is imbued throughout the institution that he led as defense minister for nearly half a century.

The party runs vast organizations that coordinate activities for nearly every Cuban child and student. Workers are part of the Communist Party labor union. Every major newspaper and magazine is run by the party.THE HAGUE, Netherlands (AP) — The head of the global chemical watchdog agency has rejected Russian claims that traces of a second nerve agent were discovered in the English city where former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter were poisoned.

Britain blames Russia for the attack, which it says was carried out by smearing a Soviet-developed nerve agent known as Novichok on a door handle at Sergei Skripal’s house in Salisbury. Moscow denies involvement.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Saturday that Moscow received confidential information from the laboratory in Spiez, Switzerland, that analyzed samples from the site of the March 4 poisoning in Salisbury.

He said the analysis — done at the request of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons — indicated that samples contained BZ nerve agent and its precursor. He said BZ was part of chemical arsenals of the U.S., Britain and other NATO countries, while the Soviet Union and Russia never developed the agent.

OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu told a meeting Wednesday of the organization’s Executive Council that a BZ precursor known as 3Q, “was contained in the control sample prepared by the OPCW Lab in accordance with the existing quality control procedures.”

He added “it has nothing to do with the samples collected by the OPCW team in Salisbury.”

Britain’s representative to the OPCW, Ambassador Peter Wilson, slammed the Russian foreign minister’s comments as a breach of the treaty outlawing chemical weapons.

“The thing for me that was particularly alarming about Lavrov’s statement is, first of all, the OPCW goes to enormous lengths to make sure that the identity of laboratories is confidential and, second of all, either the Russians are hacking the laboratories or they are making stuff up,” he said. “Either way, that is a violation of the confidentiality of the Chemical Weapons Convention.”

In a summary of its report last week, the OPCW did not name Novichok as the nerve agent used but it confirmed “the findings of the United Kingdom relating to the identity of the toxic chemical that was used in Salisbury.”

Wilson told reporters the OPCW “confirmed that they found what we found, and that is a Novichok.”

Wilson told the meeting that London continues to believe evidence points to Russian involvement in the attempted assassination.

‘We believe that only Russia had the technical means, operational experience and motive to target the Skripals,” Wilson said.

Wilson warned the Chemical Weapons Convention was being undermined by a growing use of nerve agents and other poisons, mentioning the 2017 assassination in Malaysia of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s estranged half brother, in addition to the Salisbury attack and the use of poison gas in Syria and Iraq.

“It is being continually violated,” Wilson told reporters.

He said the convention would be strengthened if all nations fully declared any stockpiles they still have. Member states are supposed to declare all their chemical weapons stocks upon joining the OPCW and destroy them.

The OPCW and Russia last year celebrated the destruction of the country’s final declared stocks.

“Russia clearly has chemical weapons they are not declaring and they need to do that,” Wilson said.HAVANA (AP) — The Latest on the meeting of Cuba’s legislature and the scheduled end of Raul Castro’s presidency (all times local):

9:45 a.m.

Cuba’s government is embracing social media as it convenes the National Assembly to elect a successor to President Raul Castro.

State-run media and government-controlled Twitter accounts are promoting what is expected to be a historic handover of the presidency to the first non-Castro to lead the country in nearly 60 years.

The accounts are using the hashtag “Somos Continuidad” or “We are continuity.” It’s an apparent effort to convey the message that the Cubans shouldn’t expect radical change when a new president is announced on Thursday.

Internet access has increased dramatically over the past two years but the country still has one of the lowest percentages of home internet usage in the world. Few Cubans use Twitter and the vast majority of the country relies on TV for news.

___

9:20 a.m.

Cuba’s legislature has opened a two-day session that is to elect a successor to President Raul Castro.

The new president will be the first person outside the Castro family to lead the island since in nearly six decades.

Legislators erupted in applause Wednesday morning as Castro entered the hall in a dark suit, accompanied by Miguel Diaz-Canel, his expected successor.

Diaz-Canel smiled and joined the applause of the president. Castro is leaving after serving two five-year terms. He succeeded his brother Fidel, who headed Cuba from 1959 to 2006.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the United States and North Korea (all times local):

6:55 a.m.

President Donald Trump is confirming that his CIA director met with Kim Jong Un (kim jawng oon) in North Korea “last week” in anticipation of their potential summit.

Trump tweets that Mike Pompeo’s (pahm-PAY’-oh’s) meeting “went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed.”

The president says summit details are being worked out and that “Denuclearization will be a great thing for World, but also for North Korea!”

Trump had said on Tuesday that talks between the U.S. and North Korea were underway at an “extremely high level.”

The summit is expected to take place by early June. Trump says five locations are under consideration.

___

12:35 a.m.

CIA Director Mike Pompeo recently traveled to North Korea to meet with leader Kim Jong Un, a highly unusual, secret visit undertaken as the enemy nations prepare for a meeting between President Donald Trump and Kim.

Two officials have confirmed the trip to The Associated Press. They are not authorized to discuss the visit publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.

The Washington Post first reported Pompeo’s meeting with Kim, saying it took place just over two weeks ago during Easter weekend.

Trump said the U.S. and North Korea are holding direct talks at “extremely high levels” in preparation for a possible summit with Kim, expected to take place by early June.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders says Trump and Kim have not spoken directly.PUTRAJAYA, Malaysia (AP) — Malaysian opposition leader Mahathir Mohamad said Wednesday that huge rallies indicate some of the ruling coalition’s traditional Malay supporters are now favoring the opposition and a change of government is possible in next month’s elections.

Mahathir, Asia’s longest-serving political leader until retiring after 22 years in 2003, is now leading a four-party alliance to oust scandal-tainted Prime Minister Najib Razak in the May 9 elections. Najib’s ruling coalition has increasingly depended on the Malay Muslim majority in poor rural areas to retain power after urban middle-class voters flocked to the opposition in the past two elections.

In an interview with The Associated Press, the 92-year-old Mahathir said Malay support for the opposition has undergone an obvious increase, citing unusually huge turnouts at rallies.

Mahathir said the opposition wouldn’t need every government supporter to change their mind. “We need maybe 30 percent of them to turn around — that would be sufficient for us to win,” he said.

Yet, Mahathir predicted only a 50-50 chance of victory for the opposition “because of the government’s tendency to cheat, to threaten people, to use money, to even block the election process.”

Najib, 64, has been dogged by a massive corruption scandal involving the 1MDB state investment fund, which he set up and previously led. The fund accumulated massive debt, and the U.S. and other countries are investigating possible cross-border embezzlement and money laundering. Najib himself has denied wrongdoing and has fired critics and muzzled reporting on the scandal.

Mahathir said even though rural Malays underestimate the scale of the scandal, they have been hard hit by a rising cost of living due to the introduction of a 6 percent goods and services tax in 2015 to raise government revenue.

“Now wherever we go, we have a huge number of people coming to us and most of them are Malays,” Mahathir said of the crowds at opposition rallies. “They will come out and they will listen to the talks until the very end. They don’t move, they don’t go away. It shows their interest.”

“I think there is a wave — whether you call it a tsunami or not, I don’t know — but there certainly is a change of heart among the rural Malays,” he said.

Najib’s National Front coalition lost its two-thirds parliamentary majority in 2008 elections. In 2013, it secured its lowest number of parliamentary seats ever and lost the popular vote for the first time to the opposition, which Najib blamed on a “Chinese tsunami.” It currently holds 132 out of 222 parliamentary seats.

More than half of the 222 parliamentary seats at stake in next month’s election are dominated by Malays, who have traditionally been strong government supporters. Malays and other indigenous groups are about two-thirds of Malaysia’s people, with Chinese about a quarter and ethnic Indians and others the rest.

New electoral maps approved earlier this year were seen as benefiting Najib’s coalition, and the election date itself was controversial. The midweek vote was seen as depressing turnout among Malaysia’s 14.94 million eligible voters and so was hastily declared a public holiday.

“If it is a fair election, the opposition would win hands down. Such is the dislike for the present government that most people would vote for the opposition, but of course, the government has the power and the authority to abuse the system completely,” Mahathir said, citing the new maps and the suspension of his nascent political party just before election was called.

In the event of an opposition victory, Mahathir warned that there could be instability if the win is small.

“With Najib, we can never be very sure that he wouldn’t resort to illegal means to retain his position. So if the majority we obtain is small, he might create a problem,” he said. He noted that Najib could declare an emergency in the event of violent political demonstrations.

“The opposition can protest, I suppose. They can take to the streets, but it will mean violence. It will mean a repeat of 1969 on a bigger scale perhaps. That is possible,” he said, referring to bloody racial riots in 1969 that killed more than 200 people.

Mahathir said the 1MDB scandal, which is being investigated by the U.S and several other countries for cross-border embezzlement and money laundering, has blackened Malaysia’s international reputation.

The opposition will reopen investigations into 1MDB if it wins the election, he said, but denied they would be targeted at Najib.

“If it reaches the court, the court will decide, we are not going to decide,” Mahathir said. “It is not a question of revenge. We are not going to take revenge on him, but the law must be respected.”

The U.S. Justice Department says at least $4.5 billion was stolen from 1MDB by associates of Najib and is working to seize $1.7 billion allegedly taken from the fund to buy assets in the U.S.

Mahathir said he regretted not putting in place stronger checks on power when he was prime minister.

“I did not know it at the time, of course, but I regret very much that I was not able to foresee the kind of damage that can be done by a prime minister under the existing law.”

If Najib retains power, Mahathir said the country would be bankrupted due to ballooning national debts that the government cannot pay.

“This country will be totally destroyed,” he said.STOCKHOLM (AP) — A man suspected of masterminding the theft of about 600 computers used to mine bitcoins and other virtual currencies has likely fled to Sweden after breaking out of a prison in Iceland, officials said Wednesday.

Swedish police spokesman Stefan Dangardt says no arrest has been made in Sweden but Icelandic police have briefed them on the situation and issued an international arrest warrant.

Police in Iceland said they believe Sindri Thor Stefansson fled a low-security prison through a window and boarded a flight to Sweden at Iceland’s international airport in Keflavik.

Icelandic officials said it was unlikely that Stefansson had to show a passport at the airport since he traveled within Europe’s passport-free Schengen travel zone but the plane ticket he used was under someone else’s name.

Non-European Union member Iceland is member of Europe’s borderless travel area.

Stefansson was among 11 people arrested for allegedly stealing the powerful computers in a series of four burglaries in December and January in what is considered Iceland’s biggest-ever heist.

The stolen equipment, which still is missing, has been valued at almost $2 million. Icelandic media have the case the “Big Bitcoin Heist.” If used for its original purpose — to create new bitcoins — the thieves could turn a massive profit in an untraceable currency.

Police have arrested 22 people altogether, including a security guard, without solving the burglaries.

The escaped prisoner was being held at the Sogn prison in rural southern Iceland, 95 kilometers (59 miles) from the airport. The prison is unfenced and inmates have telephone and internet access.

Stefansson had been in custody since February. He was moved to the open prison 10 days ago, police said.

“He had an accomplice,” Police Chief Gunnar Schram told Visir, an online news outlet in Iceland. “We are sure of that.”

A passenger on the same flight to Sweden as the inmate told national broadcaster RUV that Iceland’s prime minister, Katrin Jakobsdottir, was also on that flight.

Jakobsdottir was among five Nordic prime ministers who met with India’s prime minister Tuesday in Stockholm.

___

Egill Bjarnason contributed from Iceland.BERLIN (AP) — Two young men wearing Jewish skullcaps were attacked and insulted in an apparent anti-Semitic assault in Berlin by three other men, who whipped one with a belt, Berlin police said Wednesday.

The German government expressed shock over Tuesday’s attack in the city’s trendy Prenzlauer Berg neighborhood, which was caught on video by one of the victims and quickly went viral.

German Foreign Heiko Maas tweeted that “it is intolerable if young men are being attacked here just because they wear a kippa.”

“Jews shall never again feel threatened here. It’s our responsibility to protect Jewish life here,” Maas added, in reference to the killing of six million European Jews by Germany under the Nazis in the Holocaust more than 70 years ago.

Berlin police said the two victims were 21 and 24 years old but didn’t identify them by name.

Israeli broadcaster Kan published an interview with the 21-year-old victim who was slightly injured by the belt, and identified him as Israeli citizen Adam Armoush. He said he was leaving his Berlin home when the three people came and started cursing at them.

“They kept cursing us and my friend asked them to stop cursing,” Armoush told Kan TV. “They started to get angry and one of them ran to me and I knew it was important to film it because there would be no way to catch him by the time police arrived.”

Police said they are still looking for the attackers.

Two Jewish organizations posted the video , which showed a young man attacking the victim while yelling “Yahudi!” or “Jew” in Arabic.

The head of the Central Council of Muslims in Germany, Aiman Mazyek, demanded punishment for the perpetrators, tweeting that “it makes me angry to see such violence full of hatred.”

Police said after the belt attack, the suspect’s two companions took him away. When the group left, Armoush followed them. The attacker then took a glass bottle, as if he intended to hit him again, but a witness interceded and prevented the attack.

Following the attack, Armoush lifts up his shirt on the video and shows bruises left by the belt. Armoush did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Associated Press.

Berlin Mayor Michael Mueller also condemned the attack.

“I denounce this renewed anti-Semitic attack in the sharpest terms,” Mueller said. “Anti-Semitism doesn’t belong to the Berlin we want to live in.”

Anti-Semitic incidents have been on the rise in Germany. Several Jewish students have reported anti-Semitic bullying in schools in recent months, Israeli flags were burnt during a recent protest in Berlin and a rap band that included cynical references about the Nazis’ Auschwitz death camp in its lyrics won the country’s most important music prize last week — drawing massive criticism from other artists and government officials.

The German government appointed a career diplomat earlier this month to coordinate the fight against anti-Semitism.

According to the RIAS group, some 947 anti-Semitic incidents including 18 attacks and 23 threats were documented in Berlin last year.

___

Frank Jordans in Berlin, Joseph Federman and Aron Heller in Jerusalem contributed reporting.LONDON (AP) — After decades of sidelining the Commonwealth as a relic of their imperial past, many in Britain are now promoting the group of ex-colonies as a ready-made market for what they hope to be the country’s buccaneering global business spirit after the exit from the European Union.

It’s unlikely to be that easy.

At this week’s summit in London of leaders from the Commonwealth, Prime Minister Theresa May and her international trade secretary, Liam Fox, sought to underline the group’s importance to a “Global Britain” after Brexit in less than a year.

Brexit proponents like Fox cast the Commonwealth as a more natural fit for Britain than the centralized EU. Ever since the Brexit vote campaign, they referred to the “old friends” in the Commonwealth, some of whom still have Queen Elizabeth II as their sovereign, use English as their official language, and share a cultural and sporting heritage.

“As the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, we have the opportunity to reinvigorate our Commonwealth partnerships and usher in a new era, harnessing the movement of expertise, talent, goods and capital between our nations, in a way that we have not done for a generation or more,” Fox said.

The potential of the Commonwealth, a varied group of 53 countries that includes Australia, Canada, countries in sub-Saharan Africa, many of the islands of the Caribbean and India, is “vast,” according to Fox. He cited forecasts that trade between Commonwealth countries is expected to total $700 billion by 2020, up from $560 billion now.

However, the idea that the Commonwealth can ever match the EU as a trading partner is widely dismissed by experts, as is the notion that striking new deals will be simpler.

“The great myth is that withdrawing from the EU would enable the U.K. to trade more easily with the Commonwealth, whereas in fact Britain already has trade agreements in place or in negotiation with the vast majority of Commonwealth members through the EU,” said Philip Murphy, director of the Institute of Commonwealth Studies at London University.

In 2017, nearly half of Britain’s exports went to the 27 other EU countries. Less than 10 percent went to Commonwealth countries. EU states accounted for 7 of Britain’s top ten export markets. Singapore is the top Commonwealth destination at 16th, accounting for just 1.5 percent of Britain’s total export of goods.

There’s room for growth, particularly in India, which is one of the fastest-expanding economies in the world. But it’s coming from a low level: Britain sold only 4.4 billion pounds ($6.25 billion) worth of goods to India in 2017 and imported 7.5 billion over the same period.

Rakesh Bharti Mittal, president of the Confederation of Indian Industry, said trade between Britain and India is “very, very small” but that there is “huge potential.”

Doubling or even trebling trade volumes between the two countries would still leave it far short of the levels between Britain and Germany. In 2017, Britain exported 37.7 billion pounds of goods to Germany, making it its second-biggest export market. On the imports side, Britain brought in 69.5 billion pounds worth of goods from Germany, more than any other country.

It’s these hard economic realities that are front and center in the Brexit discussions with the EU. And it’s the reason why the British government was so keen to agree on the outlines of a transition deal whereby Britain would remain part of the EU’s tariff-free and frictionless single market and customs until after Brexit day.

Even the Brexit-backer Fox is aware of the risks to British businesses of an abrupt rupture with the EU on March 29, 2019. Fox says one of his priorities is to make sure Britain duplicates the trade deals the EU has with scores of countries around the world.

“As we leave the European Union our first aim is to ensure stability with our trading partners, to those countries with whom we have an agreement by virtue of our EU membership,” Fox said.

After that, Fox is clear he wants to see Britain’s trading compass turn away from the EU toward the faster-growing economies of Asia and Africa, many of whom are what he has termed as some of Britain’s “oldest and most resilient friendships and partnerships.”

That will not only be up to Britain, however, as its significance as an export market for many of those developing countries has declined since Britain joined an early version of the EU in 1973.

Most observers think Britain will be able to strike swift trade deals with the likes of Australia and New Zealand, which together account for less than 2 percent of British trade.

“Trade deals with the key Commonwealth partners such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand will not come anywhere near to make up for any losses stemming from the new barriers to trade between the U.K. and the EU,” said Peg Murray-Evans of the University of York.

Other trade deals with the likes of India will take longer — if they ever happen. India has stressed that it wants its people, particularly students, to have easier access to Britain, a stance that’s at odds with one of the primary motivations of the Brexit vote — clamping down on immigration.

In any case, Britain’s ability to influence the Commonwealth is likely to wane in coming years as India’s clout grows.

“There’s also an illusion in the U.K. that when it leaves the EU, former Commonwealth members will embrace it like a long-lost mother, and that of course is utter nonsense,” said Murphy, author of ‘The Empire’s New Clothes: The Myth of the Commonwealth.’

“You can’t under-estimate the sensitivity of many Commonwealth states to the legacy of imperialism and that is not going to make them inclined to bail out Britain if it gets itself into economic trouble over Brexit.”NEW YORK (AP) — So you want to have a baby.

Would you like a dark-haired girl with a high risk of someday getting colon cancer, but a good chance of above-average music ability?

Or would you prefer a girl with a good prospect for high SAT scores and a good shot at being athletic, but who also is likely to run an above-average risk of bipolar disorder and lupus as an adult?

How about a boy with a good shot at having musical ability and dodging asthma, but who also would be predisposed to cataracts and type 2 diabetes?

Confused? You’re just getting started. There are dozens more choices for which of your embryos should be placed in the womb to become your child.

That’s the future a biomedical ethics expert envisions for 20 to 40 years from now — soon enough that today’s children may face it when they start their own families.

“The majority of babies of people who have good health coverage will be conceived this way,” predicts Henry Greely, a Stanford University law professor who works in bioethics.

You’ve probably read about concerns over “designer babies,” whose DNA is shaped by gene editing. Greely is focused on a different technology that has gotten much less attention: In a startling bit of biological alchemy, scientists have shown that in mice, they can turn ordinary cells into sperm and eggs.

It’s too soon to know if it could be done in people. But if it can, it could become a powerful infertility treatment, permitting genetic parenthood for people who can’t make their own sperm or eggs.

It also would mean that a woman who wants to get pregnant could produce dozens more eggs per attempt than with the current procedure of harvesting some from her ovaries.

And that means a lot of choices.

___

AN ARRAY OF EMBRYOS

Here’s what Greely envisions: A man and woman walk into a fertility clinic. The man drops off some sperm. The woman leaves some skin cells, which are turned into eggs and fertilized with the man’s sperm.

Unlike in vitro fertilization today, which typically yields around eight eggs per try, the new method could result in 100 embryos.

The embryos’ complete library of DNA would be decoded and analyzed to reveal genetic predispositions, both for disease and personal traits. The man and woman would get dossiers on the embryos that pass minimum tests for suitability.

Out of, say, 80 suitable embryos, the couple would then choose one or two to implant.

The possibilities don’t stop there. The technology might also help open the door to same-sex couples having children genetically related to both of them, though the additional twist of making eggs from men or sperm from women would be a huge biological challenge.

More worrisome is the so-called Brad Pitt scenario: We all shed a bit of sloughed-off DNA every day, like on the lip of a coffee cup. Such discarded material could be secretly snatched up to turn an unwitting celebrity into a genetic parent.

It is a long way in the future, but real life is already creeping toward it. Some scientists are trying to make human eggs and sperm in the lab. They are working with “iPS cells,” which are ordinary body cells that have been morphed into a malleable state.

Amander Clark of the University of California, Los Angeles, says her goal is to aid basic research into why some people are infertile. She acknowledges the technique might itself be used to treat some infertility, particularly in young people made sterile by cancer treatments.

As for decoding the complete DNA library of embryos, Dr. Louanne Hudgins, who studies prenatal genetic screening and diagnosis at Stanford, says some pregnant patients there say they’ve already had fertility clinics do that. They didn’t reveal why, Hudgins said.

Hudgins, who’s president of the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics, said no national medical association has endorsed decoding all the DNA of a fetus, which is called its genome. So she believes no insurance company would pay for that now.

___

‘EASY’ PRENATAL DIAGNOSIS

Greely, who lays out his ideas in a book called “The End of Sex and the Future of Human Reproduction,” calls his vision “easy PGD,” or prenatal genetic diagnosis.

Ordinary PGD has been done for decades. When a couple is known to be at risk for having a child with a specific genetic disorder, such as cystic fibrosis or sickle cell anemia, the woman undergoes a procedure to remove some eggs. After fertilization, some cells are plucked from the embryos and examined to identify those without carry the disease-causing abnormality.

That procedure looks for a specific problem in a few embryos, not entire genomes from dozens of them. If a couple wants to select a “super baby,” says Dr. Richard Scott Jr., a founding partner of Reproductive Medicine Associates of New Jersey, “we tell them we can’t do it.”

In fact, Scott and others say, even wide-ranging analysis would not provide a precise forecast of how a child will turn out.

If DNA is the hardware, there’s also the software: chemical modifications that determine when and where particular genes turn on and off. Much of this “epigenome” would develop after an embryo’s genes are sampled, Scott said.

“Your child may not turn out to be the three-sport All-American at Stanford,” because “the epigenome didn’t work out,” Scott said.

Greely agrees that predictions about behavioral traits like intelligence and athletic ability will be imprecise, because of epigenetics and because of basic uncertainties about what genes are involved and how they interact. And a person’s upbringing and life experiences have a big effect.

___

WHAT WOULD COUPLES DO?

Even if the predictions aren’t perfect, would couples want to take steps to control their child’s genetics? Many experts doubt it.

Only a “very small minority” seek a perfect baby, says Stanford’s Hudgins. In her practice, she said she often finds women pass up all screening because they figure the baby’s fate is “in God’s hands.”

Dr. James Grifo of the New York University Fertility Center also questions how popular the idea would be.

“No patient has ever came to me and said, ‘I want a designer baby,'” said Grifo, who’s performed in vitro fertilization since 1988.

Greely doubts that influencing brainpower or athleticism would be a major draw for parents. Instead, he thinks they would care most about avoiding awful diseases that strike in infancy or childhood. They’ll probably be less concerned about illnesses that might show up later in life, such as Alzheimer’s or Parkinson’s. For one thing, he says, parents-to-be may see them as becoming treatable by the time a child becomes vulnerable.

He thinks easy PGD is coming, and it would be better if properly handled. He says it should be proven safe, subsidized, monitored for long-term effects, and regulated so that parents can choose whether to use it and decide what embryonic traits to focus on. And he’d outlaw stealing somebody’s DNA and unwittingly making them a parent.

___

OTHERS SEE PITFALLS

Once the genetic profile is done, could it come back to haunt a child if, say, a life insurer or nursing home demanded to see it to assess disease risk? How would the large number of rejected embryos be handled ethically and politically?

Perhaps future regulation could limit the number of embryos created, as well as what traits a couple could select for, said I. Glenn Cohen, a Harvard law professor.

Lori B. Andrews, a professor at the Chicago-Kent College of Law, summed up her views in a review of Greely’s book.

“The idea of easy PGD,” she wrote, “should make us uneasy indeed.”

Still, even some who doubt the idea’s feasibility say Greely is right to raise the issue.

“It’s certainly something we have to take seriously and think through now,” said Marcy Darnovsky, who writes on the politics of human biotechnology as executive director of the Center for Genetics and Society in Berkeley, California. “This is not just a technical or science question.”

___

Follow Malcolm Ritter at @MalcolmRitter . His recent work can be found here .

___

This Associated Press series was produced in partnership with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.NORRISTOWN, Pa. (AP) — The Latest on Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial (all times local):

8:45 a.m.

Bill Cosby has arrived at a suburban Philadelphia courthouse for the eighth day of his sexual assault retrial.

As the 80-year-old comedian arrived Wednesday morning, spokesman Andrew Wyatt spoke to reporters and blasted the testimony from a police sergeant and detective at Tuesday’s trial.

He says that prosecutors were using “tools of incompetence to build monuments of nothingness.” Wyatt says Cosby’s defense thinks the case should be dismissed.

A police sergeant testified Tuesday that a suburban Philadelphia prosecutor closed the original 2005 probe hours after investigators met to discuss leads that needed to be followed up.

Jurors heard from a police interview in which Cosby acknowledged fondling his chief accuser’s breasts and genitals after giving her pills.

Jurors could soon hear explosive 2005 testimony about giving quaaludes to women before sex.

___

12:55 a.m.

Jurors could soon hear Bill Cosby’s explosive testimony about giving quaaludes to women before sex.

Prosecutors are expected to read a transcript of the 2005 testimony as early as Wednesday.

They’re saving for the very end of their case Cosby’s own words about using the 1970s party drug “the same as a person would say, ‘Have a drink.'”

Cosby’s old admissions about quaaludes have taken on new significance at the comedian’s sexual assault retrial in suburban Philadelphia after a half-dozen women testified that he drugged and violated them.

Cosby gave the deposition as part of a lawsuit chief accuser Andrea Constand filed against him. He settled in 2006 for nearly $3.4 million.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) — Saudi Arabia is to hold a private screening on Wednesday of the Hollywood blockbuster “Black Panther” to herald the launch of movie theaters in the kingdom that are expected to open to the public as early as next month.

Authorities are planning an invitation-only screening of the movie in a concert hall converted into a cinema complex in the capital, Riyadh. The screening will be followed by a rush to build movie theaters in major cities.

The Saudi government has dubbed Wednesday’s event as “the showing of the first commercial film in the kingdom after more than 35 years.”

“This is a landmark moment in the transformation of Saudi Arabia into a more vibrant economy and society,” Saudi Minister of Culture and Information Awwad Alawwad said in statement ahead of the screening.

It’s a stark reversal for a county where public movie screenings were banned in the 1980’s during a wave of ultraconservatism that swept Saudi Arabia. Many Saudi clerics view Western movies and even Arabic films made in Egypt and Lebanon as sinful.

Despite decades of ultraconservative dogma, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has sought to ram through a number of major social reforms with support from his father, King Salman.

The crown prince is behind measures such as lifting a ban on women driving that will go into effect this summer, and bringing back concerts and other forms of entertainment to satiate the desires of the country’s majority young population. The social push by the 32-year-old heir to the throne is part of his so-called Vision 2030, a blueprint for the country that aims to boost local spending and create jobs amid sustained lower oil prices.

The Saudi government projects that the opening of movie theatres will contribute more than 90 billion riyals ($24 billion) to the economy and create more than 30,000 jobs by 2030. The kingdom says there will be 300 cinemas with around 2,000 screens built by 2030.

Over the past several years, Saudi Arabia has gradually been loosening restrictions on movie screenings, with local film festivals and screenings in makeshift theaters. For the most part, though, Saudis who wanted to watch a film in a movie theater would have to drive to nearby Bahrain or the United Arab Emirates for weekend trips to the cinema.

In the 1970s, there were informal movie screenings but the experience could be interrupted by the country’s religious police, whose powers have since been curbed.

Saudi writer and dissident Jamal Khashoggi describes the theaters of the 1970s as being “like American drive-ins, except much more informal.” In an opinion piece for the Washington Post, he wrote that to avoid being arrested at one of these screenings in Medina, a friend of his broke his leg jumping off a wall to escape the religious police.

By the 1980s, movie screenings were largely banned unless they took place in private residential compounds for foreigners or at cultural centers run by foreign embassies.

Access to streaming services, such as Netflix, and satellite TV steadily eroded attempts by the government to censor what the Saudi public could view. By 2013, the film “Wadjda” made history by becoming the first Academy Award entry for Saudi Arabia, though it wasn’t nominated for the Oscars.

Movies screened in Saudi cinemas will be subject to approval by government censors, as is the case in other Arab countries. Scenes of violence are not cut, but scenes involving nudity, sex or even kissing often do get axed.

It’s not clear whether “Black Panther” will undergo a similar censorship for Wednesday’s screening, which will be attended by diplomats, industry insiders, the press and the CEO of AMC Entertainment, Adam Aron. The U.S.-based AMC was granted the first license to operate a cinema in Saudi Arabia in a deal signed earlier this month in California with the crown prince.

AMC is partnering with a subsidiary of Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund, known as the Public Investment Fund, to build up to 40 AMC cinemas across the country over the next five years.

___

Follow Aya Batrawy on Twitter at https://twitter.com/ayaelbPARRISH, Ala. (AP) — A stinking trainload of human waste from New York City is stranded in a tiny Alabama town, spreading a stench like a giant backed-up toilet — and the “poop train” is just the latest example of the South being used as a dumping ground for other states’ waste.

In Parrish, Alabama, population 982, the sludge-hauling train cars have sat idle near the little league ball fields for more than two months, Mayor Heather Hall said. The smell is unbearable, especially around dusk after the atmosphere has become heated, she said.

“Oh my goodness, it’s just a nightmare here,” she said. “It smells like rotting corpses, or carcasses. It smells like death.”

All kinds of waste have been dumped in Georgia, Alabama and other Southern states in recent years, including toxic coal ash from power plants around the nation. In South Carolina, a plan to store radioactive nuclear waste in a rural area prompted complaints that the state was being turned into a nuclear dump.

In Parrish, townspeople are considering rescheduling children’s softball games, or playing at fields in other communities to escape the stink.

Sherleen Pike, who lives about a half-mile from the railroad track, said she sometimes dabs peppermint oil under her nose because the smell is so bad.

“Would New York City like for us to send all our poop up there forever?” she said. “They don’t want to dump it in their rivers, but I think each state should take care of their own waste.”

Alabama’s inexpensive land and permissive zoning laws and a federal ban on dumping New Yorkers’ excrement in the ocean got the poop train chugging, experts say.

Nelson Brooke of the environmental group Black Warrior Riverkeeper, describes Alabama as “kind of an open-door, rubber-stamp permitting place” for landfill operators.

“It’s easy for them to zip into a rural or poor community and set up shop and start making a ton of cash,” he said.

The poop train’s cargo is bound for the Big Sky landfill, about 20 miles (30 kilometers) east of Parrish. The landfill has been accepting the New York sewage sludge since early 2017. Previously, it was transferred from trains to trucks in nearby West Jefferson, but officials there obtained an injunction to keep the sludge out of their town.

The sludge “smells of dead rotting animals as well as human waste,” West Jefferson’s attorney said in a lawsuit against Big Sky Environmental LLC. It also caused the community to become “infested with flies,” the complaint states.

After West Jefferson went to court, the train stopped in late January in Parrish, which lacks the zoning regulations to block the train cars. It’s sat there ever since.

“We’re probably going to look at creating some simple zoning laws for the town of Parrish so we can be sure something like this does not happen again,” the Parrish mayor said. Hall said she’s optimistic the sludge will all be trucked to the landfill soon.

New York City has discontinued shipping it to Alabama for the time being, said Eric Timbers, a city spokesman. Its waste, recovered from the sewage treatment process and often called “biosolids,” has been sent out of state partly because the federal government in the late 1980s banned disposal in the Atlantic Ocean.

In an earlier trash saga, a barge laden with 3,186 tons (2,890 metric tons) of non-toxic paper and commercial garbage from Long Island and New York City wandered the ocean for months in 1987, seeking a place to dump it after plans by a private developer to turn it into methane gas in North Carolina fell through. It was turned away by North Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Florida, Mexico, Belize and the Bahamas.

Brooke’s Black Warrior Riverkeeper group last year opposed continued permits for the Big Sky landfill. Rural parts of Alabama are “prime targets” for landfills that accept out-of-state waste, it argued, meaning “that Alabama was becoming a dumping ground for the rest of the nation.”

Big Sky officials did not return multiple email and phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment.

Nationally, the waste and recycling industry generates more than $93 billion in gross revenue annually, said Brandon Wright, a spokesman for the National Waste & Recycling Association. Wright said there are many reasons waste is sometimes transported out of state. There might not be enough landfill space nearby “and the waste has to go somewhere, so it gets transported out of state,” he said.

Alabama and other Southern states have a long history accepting waste from around the U.S.

A former state attorney general once described a giant west Alabama landfill as “America’s Pay Toilet.” It was among the nation’s largest hazardous waste dumps when it opened in 1977. At its peak, the landfill took in nearly 800,000 tons (72,570 metric tons) of hazardous waste annually.

Plans to dump coal ash in Southern states have been particularly contentious. Each year, U.S. coal plants produce about 100 million tons (90 metric tons) of coal ash and other waste; more than 4 million tons of it wound up in an Alabama landfill following a 2008 spill in Tennessee.

In Parrish, the mayor hopes the material in the train cars is removed before the weather warms up.

“We’re moving into the summer, and the summer in the South is not forgiving when it comes to stuff like this,” she said.

___

Martin reported from Atlanta.BROWNSBURG, Ind. (AP) — Donald Trump’s re-election campaign has demanded that Rep. Todd Rokita take down yard signs it says give the false impression the president endorsed the Indiana Republican’s Senate bid, two people with direct knowledge of the matter told The Associated Press.

The rebuke came after two volunteers who led Trump’s bare-bones 2016 campaign in Vice President Mike Pence’s home state endorsed Rokita during an Indianapolis news conference last week.

The Rokita signs, which have gone up since that event, proclaim in large white letters “Endorsed by Trump/Pence,” with smaller letters below adding “2016 Indiana Team Leaders.”

Rokita spokesman Nathan Brand refused to say if the campaign will comply with the Trump campaign’s request.

“We do not comment on yard sign strategy,” Brand said in a statement that reiterated the endorsement by the two volunteers.

Tony Samuel, one of the volunteers who endorsed Rokita, told the AP that the Trump campaign texted him Monday night to voice displeasure over the signage.

Trump’s re-election campaign is concerned the signs imply an endorsement that has not been made, a campaign official told the AP. The campaign also asked that Rokita’s campaign certify in writing once the signs have been taken down, the other person with direct knowledge of the matter said.

Both spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to publicly discuss the matter.

John Pence, the vice president’s nephew and deputy executive director of the Trump re-election campaign, declined to comment on the campaign’s demand for Rokita to remove the signs.

The rebuke is a harsh blow for Rokita, who carries a cardboard cutout of Trump to campaign rallies, dons a “Make America Great Again” hat in TV ads and has ridiculed one opponent, fellow Rep. Luke Messer, for being a “Never Trumper.”

Rokita and Messer are locked in a tight three-way race with former state Rep. Mike Braun that will determine who faces Sen. Joe Donnelly in November’s general election.

The signage flap comes in the homestretch of a bitter GOP primary contest in which all three candidates have fallen over each other to portray themselves as Trump’s staunchest supporter in Indiana, which holds its primary May 8.

The leaders of Trump’s 2016 Indiana campaign, Samuel and Rex Early, noted when they endorsed Rokita that they were doing it as individuals.

“We are not speaking for the president or the White House,” said Samuel, a veteran political operative and longtime Rokita friend.

But since then, Rokita has aggressively touted the endorsement at campaign appearances, during a recent debate and in his latest TV add titled simply “TRUMP.”

Rokita, a lawyer who has been in elected office for 15 years, jumped into the race in August. He has sought to portray himself as a political outsider and the one true embodiment of the president’s populist appeal. In separate TV ads, he calls for English to be made the official language of the U.S., drinks beer and fires a rifle that appears to be an AR-15.

But the AP reported earlier this month that he had harsh words for Trump in February 2016, when he called the eventual president “vulgar, if not profane” during a little-noticed interview with Indianapolis-based WXIN TV.

Rokita, at the time was a supporter of Sen. Marco Rubio in the Republican presidential primary.

“When you see Marco contrasted with Donald Trump — I mean someone who is vulgar, if not profane,” Rokita said. “At some point you have to be presidential. People expect that and you see that in Marco Rubio.”HOUSTON (AP) — They met at a Christmas dance. She was 17. He was 18.

Two years later they were married. The couple stayed together for 73 years, becoming the longest-married couple in presidential history.

“George Bush knows how I feel,” Barbara Bush had said. “He is the hero… He is my hero.”

Former first lady Barbara Bush died Tuesday at the age of 92.

The couple’s relationship was a true love story, which granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager described Monday as “remarkable.”

The former president “still says, ‘I love you Barbie’ every night,” Hager said on NBC’s “Today”, where she works. They had six children, including Hager’s father, former president George W. Bush, making Barbara Bush one of only two first ladies to also be a presidential mother. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams, the nation’s second president, and mother of John Quincy Adams, the sixth president.

George H.W. Bush, 93, has described the mother of their six children as “the mainstay, of course, the parent who was always there to help solve the daily problems and emergencies of teen and preteen life.”

In her 1994 memoir, Barbara Bush describes her and her husband as “the two luckiest people in the world, and when all the dust is settled and all the crowds are gone, the things that matter are faith, family and friends. We have been inordinately blessed, and we know that.”

The former president was a naval aviator in training when they met.

“I’m not much at recalling what people wear, but that particular occasion stands out in my memory,” he says in his autobiography.

The band was playing Glenn Miller tunes and he asked a friend from Rye, New York, if he knew the girl across the room in the green and red holiday dress. The friend introduced him to Barbara Pierce, a publisher’s daughter from Rye who was going to school in South Carolina.

The next song was a waltz.

“Since I didn’t waltz, we sat the dance out. And several more after that, talking and getting to know each other,” George H.W. Bush said. “It was a storybook meeting.”

Within eight months, they’d met each other’s families, were engaged in August 1943 and married Jan. 6, 1945, four months after Bush was shot down over the Pacific. He’d been the Navy’s youngest aviator when he got his wings and carried the name “Barbara” on his Grumman Avenger torpedo bomber.

After the war, he attended Yale and they moved to Texas. Her husband made his mark in the oil business as the couple grew their family and turned to politics, a journey that would take them around the world and into the White House.

“You have given me joy that few men know,” George Bush wrote to her, according to a collection of letters published in 1999.

“I have climbed perhaps the highest mountain in the world, but even that cannot hold a candle to being Barbara’s husband,” he also said.

Photos taken of the couple by The Associated Press over the decades have captured moments of care, such as when Barbara Bush applied sunscreen to the 41st president’s nose at a 2015 baseball game between the Houston Astros and Seattle Mariners; and candor, notably after Bush stepped on his wife’s toe in 1989 while boarding Air Force One.

Their marriage also has endured more serious trials.

A daughter, Robin, died in 1953 of leukemia a few weeks before her 4th birthday.

Barbara Bush has recalled a bout of depression in the mid-1970s.

“Night after night, George held me weeping in his arms while I tried to explain my feelings,” she said. “I almost wonder why he didn’t leave me.”

Just last year, allegations surfaced that Bush, who for more than five years has used a wheelchair for mobility, inappropriately touched more than a half dozen women on their buttocks as they stood next to him to take photos.

Through family spokesman Jim McGrath, Bush issued repeated apologies “to anyone he has offended.”

“George Bush simply does not have it in his heart to knowingly cause anyone distress,” McGrath said.

Also last year, they both wound up in the same Houston hospital — the former president with pneumonia; his wife with bronchitis.

In 2013, she told C-SPAN in an interview that they pray aloud each night “and sometimes we fight over whose turn it is.”

In the same conversation, she said she didn’t fear death for herself or “my precious George.”

“I know there is a great God, and I’m not worried,” she said.Fresno State University professor Randa Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday that former First Lady Barbara Bush “was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal.”

She added: “Fuck outta here with your nice words.”

Mrs. Bush passed away on Tuesday at the age of 92 after struggling with illness. She was praised in tributes by leaders from across the political spectrum.

Our statement on the passing of Former First Lady Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/MhTVYCL9Nj — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) April 18, 2018

Jarrar, whose tweets are protected, teaches in the English department at Fresno State, and taunted her critics by boasting: “I will never be fired.”

According to the Fresno Bee, Jarrar described herself on Twitter as “an Arab-American and a Muslim-American woman” and added that “she is a tenured professor and makes $100,000 a year.”

In her faculty bio at Fresno State, she is pictured posing with a kaffiyeh, a scarf often used to express solidarity with the Palestinian struggle against Israel.

She reportedly tweeted Tuesday: “If you’d like to know what it’s like to be an Arab American Muslim American woman with some clout online expressing an opinion, look at the racists going crazy in my mentions right now.”

Last year, an adjunct professor at Fresno State was placed on leave after tweeting that “Trump must hang.”

According to her bio, Jarrar grew up in Kuwait and moved to the U.S. after the Gulf War.

In that war, Mrs. Bush’s husband, President George H. W. Bush, launched a massive military operation to liberate Kuwait from Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.

Update: Jarrar’s account says she is “Currently on leave from Fresno State.”

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) is pushing to end Citibank’s federal contract after the finance giant adopted new gun policies that do not respect the Second Amendment.

Citibank currently enjoys a $700 billion contract with the General Services Administration (GSA), and Rokita is seeking to have that contract terminated.

Rokita sent a letter to GSA administrator Emily W. Murphy, in which he pointed to Citibank’s new policy mandating that financial customers in the firearms sector refuse to sell “high capacity” magazines and bump stocks, and also refuse to sell long guns to any one under 21, although federal law allows sales to customers age 18 and up.

Citibank’s policy also requires customers in the firearms industry to go beyond federal requirements on background checks and refuse sales to anyone whose background check goes three days without conclusively proving the would-be buyer is barred from firearm possession.

Rokita described these policies as “a flagrant attempt to undermine our fundamental rights by caving to radicals not endorsed by our federal government.” He told Administrator Murphy, “Our federal government should instead do business with companies that respect all of our constitutional rights, including the Second Amendment.”

He called on GSA to “take all necessary steps to review and terminate its contract with Citibank,” unless the finance giant reverses policy.

During an April 14 interview on Breitbart News Saturday, Rep. Rokita emphasized that Citibank has proven to be “a huge critic of the NRA and the Second Amendment itself.” He praised the 15 co-signatories who joined him in calling for Citibank’s federal contract to be terminated.

The 15 Reps. who signed Rokita’s letter are Rick Allen (R-GA), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Ralph Norman (R-SC), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Rep. Louis Gohmert (R-TX) Steve Russell (R-OK), Steve King (R-IA), Tom Marino (R-PA), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Matt Gaetz (R-FL), Lamar Smith (R-TX), and Ron Estes (R-KS).

Rokita said he wants to be sure Citibank “is not making money off taxpayers when they have so little regard for the God-given right taxpayers have, and that includes, certainly, the Second Amendment.”

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Starbucks will close 8,000 of its company-owned stores in the U.S. on May 29 for one afternoon to make its employees undergo “racial bias training.”

The company said that 175,000 workers would receive this training, which former Obama administration Attorney General Eric Holder and other experts would have a hand in designing, CNN Money reported.

Other experts responsible for designing the training include executives from progressive think tank Demos, the Equal Justice Initiative, NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund President Sherrilyn Ifill, and Anti-Defamation League CEO Jonathan Greenblatt.

These experts would also be responsible for judging the training’s effectiveness.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we need to take to fix it,” Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson said in a statement.

“While this is not limited to Starbucks, we’re committed to being a part of the solution,” he said. “Closing our stores for racial bias training is just one step in a journey that requires dedication from every level of our company and partnerships in our local communities.”

CNBC reported that once the company-owned locations complete the training, the company will make the training available to its licensed partners.

The company’s announcement comes after employees at a Philadelphia Starbucks called the police on two black men Saturday, leading to their arrest for trespassing. No charges were filed against the men.

A video of the encounter went viral on social media, prompting many people to call for a boycott of the coffee chain on Twitter.

A company spokesperson said Johnson met with the two men Monday and apologized. Starbucks also said the manager who called the police is “no longer at that store,” but did not elaborate on the specifics of the employee’s removal from the store.Wednesday on ABC News’ “Start Here” podcast, former FBI Director James Comey said the presidency of Donald Trump had caused him to no longer consider himself a Republican.

When asked if he was a Republican, Comey said, “No. The Republican party has left me, and many others. I need no better evidence then their new website which I think is LyinComey maybe, attacking me. I just think they’ve lost their way and I can’t be associated with it.”

He continued, “These people don’t represent anything I believe in.”

He added, “I see the Republican Party, as near as I can tell, reflects now entirely Donald Trump’s values. It doesn’t reflect values at all. It’s transactional. It’s ego-driven, it’s in service to his ego. And it’s, I think, consoling itself that we’re going to achieve important policy goals — a tax cut or something. As I say in the book, only a fool would be consoled by a particular Supreme Court pick or a policy achievement in a trade for the core values of this country.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENSlide Fire announced a last day for orders Tuesday in anticipation of a bump stock ban from President Trump’s Department of Justice.

Slide Fire is the nation’s preeminent bump stock manufacturer, so their decision to close up shop is very telling.

They posted an announcement alerting customers that they will cease accepting bump stock orders on May 20 and will also take their website on that day.

And so it begins……Breaking News!!! On Sunday, May 20, 2018 at midnight “Slide Fire” will cease taking orders for its products and shut down its website. #2A #Guns @AWRHawkins pic.twitter.com/WovPQfbqMb — Michael Cargill (@michaeldcargill) April 18, 2018

Following the October 1, 2017, Las Vegas attack–the only time bump stocks have been used criminally–lawmakers who admitted not even knowing bump stocks existed were quick to call for a ban on the devices. Their calls overlooked the fact that Barack Obama’s ATF signed off on the legality of the devices in 2010.

The public did not rally behind calls for a ban and the legislative push failed.

However, the NRA asked the ATF to reevaluate bump stocks and in late December the ATF began accepting public comment on plans to broaden the definition of “machine guns” so as to include bump stocks, thereby allowing the agency to ban the devices via regulation.

Gun control journalism outlet The Trace reported that 85 percent of the comments received by the ATF was against a bump stock ban. Yet the DOJ moved forward with the ban and its implementation is thought to be imminent.

Gun Owners of America has fought the ban every step of the way and continues to make clear that they will file suit against any such ban if enacted.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Former immigration judge, Andrew R. Arthur, joined SiriusXM hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak on Tuesday’s Breitbart News Tonight, describing the Supreme Court decision in Sessions v. Dimaya as endangering Americans by restricting the federal government’s capacity to remove aliens convicted of “crimes of violence.”

LISTEN:



Arthur, currently a resident fellow in law and policy for the Center for Immigration Studies, said, “I think the biggest problem with this decision is it’s the sort of decision that only people who think too much and know too little actually do, and I don’t want to criticize Justice Gorsuch or Justice Kagan, but, again, it’s a very theoretical decision that doesn’t actually have anything to do with the way that this statute is applied in the real world.”

Arthur agreed with Chief Justice John Roberts’ dissent. He said, “Justice Roberts, on the other hand, in his dissent actually explains how it’s applied in the real world and explains how it’s not really that difficult of a statute to apply and how it’s not really that vague. As Justice Roberts noted, there are some serious implications to this decision. There are a lot of very dangerous aliens who are not going to be removable because of this decision, plus the crime of violence definition … applies in a bunch of different criminal statutes, and each one of those is going to be very adversely affected by the court’s decision. Again, we can’t allow that to get in the way of a constitutional analysis if a provision is plainly constitutionally invalid, but, again, I concur with Justice Roberts: it’s not, and it should have been allowed to stand, but the court didn’t see it that way.”

Arthur highlighted the bone of contention between the Supreme Court’s majority and dissenting opinions. He stated, “Under the immigration laws, we define certain things as aggravated felonies; they have very serious consequences: you’re not eligible for certain forms of relief, including asylum, cancellation, and removal. Plus, you’re removable from the United States. One of the subsections of the aggravated felony definition is for crimes of violence, and it defines a crime of violence [in] 18 U.S.C. 16.”

Arthur explained 18 U.S.C. 16’s definition of “crime of violence.” He said, “At issue in the case was 18 U.S.C. 16 subsection (b), which defines a ‘crime of violence’ as any other offense that is a felony and by its nature involves a substantial risk of physical force against the person or property of another in the course of committing the offense. Now, the typical case in which we think of this is burglary. When you break into somebody’s house, you do it with the possibility that that person will be home, that they’ll be armed, that you’ll be armed, or that you’ll actually have to use force against that individual, but force will actually have to be used in the commission of the offence.”

He continued, “Kidnapping is another one, a very common crime in which the ‘crime of violence standard’ is used, but the Supreme Court said today that this particular provision — 18 U.S.C. 16 subsection (b) that I just read — is void for vagueness. It’s too vague to be applied, notwithstanding the fact that the Supreme Court actually applied it in a case called [Leocal v. Ashcroft]. So it is a little odd.”

Arthur said, “[James Dimaya] is a fellow who committed two burglaries. This isn’t a guy who drunk drove a couple of times or wrote bad checks. These are serious crimes, and these are crimes that actually have an effect on the community. For the courts to issue a decision like this, such a sweeping decision, was a little bit of a surprise.”

Arthur assessed Gorsuch’s underlying motivations for his decision to join Justices Breyer, Ginsburg, Kagan, and Sotomayor’s majority ruling. He remarked, “One thing about Justice Gorsuch’s concurrence in this case [is] … his strong belief in civil liberties definitely comes through because his concurrence almost completely addresses the issue of the constitutional protections that individuals have against government action, including vague statutes that can be interpreted and abused by courts and prosecutors and police. So I think that was really the driving motivation behind [his concurrence], not the idea that … the aliens who commit crimes like this should be allowed back on the street.”

Arthur added, “Even though it’s a decision that goes against the rule of law and one that, I think, reaches the wrong decision, [Gorsuch] makes some very strong statements in favor of civil liberties. Here’s a quote: ‘Why, for example, would due process require Congress to speak more clearly when it seeks to deport a lawfully resident alien than when it wishes to subject a citizen to indefinite civil commitment, strip him of a business license essential to his family’s living, or confiscate his home? I can think of no good answer.’ It reminds me of Marbury v. Madison, where Justice Marshall ruled against what his interests were, but in doing so, established some very strong principles that actually carried forward his ideas. I think we’re going to see a lot of good come out of Gorsuch’s concurrence. Unfortunately, in the short term, a lot of bad’s going to come out of it.”

Arthur advised Congress to pass legislation with more specificity in defining a “crime of violence.” He said, “[Congress] will have to put in some sort of fix for this hole in the law for these dangerous individuals who are going to be released or not removed because of this. We keep hearing Democrats saying, ‘Deport criminals. Don’t break up families.’ If you want to deport criminals, here’s your opportunity. Here’s a good, strong bill that is going to allow you to deport burglars and kidnappers and individuals who engage in assault. Sign onto it. Put your money where your mouth is.”

Arthur said, “Burglary, indecent assault and battery, stalking, and manslaughter: those are four pretty serious crimes. The idea that you can be a lawful permanent resident, commit one of these crimes, commit several of these crimes, and be allowed to continue to live among us, that’s a serious problem. In the short run, until this gets fixed, those individuals are going to be allowed to remain in the United States and stalk and burglarize and engage in assaults and batteries until this can be resolved.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.President Donald Trump cast doubts on a sketch released by porn star Stormy Daniels, purporting to be an image of a man who threatened her and her daughter.

“A sketch years later about a nonexistent man,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)!”

Trump shared an picture of Daniels and her ex-boyfriend that a supporter shared with him on Twitter, commenting that he looked a lot like the sketch.

Daniels said that the man approached her and her daughter after she sold a story about an affair with Trump to a magazine for $15,000.

“A guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story,'” she said in an interview with CBS’s 60 Minutes. “And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone.”

Daniels denied her claim that she had affair with Trump in 2011 after signing a nondisclosure agreement and was paid $130,000 by Trump’s personal lawyer before the election.Three new plaintiffs have joined former Google employee James Damore’s lawsuit against the company, alleging gender, racial, and political discrimination.

Manuel Amador, Stephen McPherson, and Michael Burns, who were all job applicants turned down by Google, have joined the lawsuit.

“As amply supported by the allegations set forth in this First Amended Complaint, Google has adopted a pattern and practice of disparately and adversely treating similarly situated job applicants because of the applicants’ race, sex, and political affiliations and activities,” declares the updated lawsuit. “Google and its management fetishize ‘diversity’ as measured by these protected characteristics only, and mandate that the percentage of non-Caucasian/Asian, non-male, and non-conservatives employed by Google increase rapidly over time. In so doing, Google assigns negative value to applications submitted by persons perceived to be members of Google-disfavored races, male, and/or conservative, by virtue of the applicant’s protected traits, affiliations, or activities.”

“Caucasian/Asian, non-male, or non-conservative applicant will be hired over similarly situated Caucasian/Asian, male, conservative applicants for any given position,” the complaint continued. “Thus, in the alternative, Google’s hiring practices negatively and disparately impact job applicants, including Amador, McPherson, and Burns, who are, or are perceived to be, members of Google disfavored races, male, and/or conservative. Individuals from these categories are disproportionately less likely to be hired by Google as a causal result of Google’s illegal hiring practices.”

Manuel Amador

According to the lawsuit, Amador, who joined Google as a Systems Engineer, eventually left the company after being asked to apologize for something he did not say.

Despite being faced with such hostility, Amador continued to voice his opinions, in direct defiance of those at Google that seek to silence and expel all opposing viewpoints. The culture of intolerance, however, eventually became too much for Amador to bear. In or around June 2016, Amador was called to a meeting with Google HR as a result of someone falsely accusing Amador of believing that people have differing levels of intelligence based on that person’s race. Amador has never thought that, does not believe it to be true, and has never written or spoken as if he believed it to be true. This false complaint was filed by an anonymous complainant as means to stifle Amador’s political activities and conversations at Google, was done to harass Amador on the basis of his race and/or gender, and resulted in Amador receiving a letter from Google reprimanding Amador. Despite the complaint being entirely fabricated, Google sided with the harassers and asked that Amador issue an apology. At that point, Amador felt compelled to leave Google as a result of the hostile work environment created by, and left unchecked at, Google. To stay at Google brought with it an unacceptably high risk that Amador’s personal and professional reputation would be permanently tarnished by those at Google bent on suppressing and expelling those who hold viewpoints different from their own, Google-disfavored races, and/or males. By demanding that Amador apologize over a falsified complaint, Google sent a clear message that it would allow and enable such hostile, retaliatory, and oppressive conduct to occur unchecked.

Amador then released an open letter following his departure.

In his written notice of resignation to Google’s Adam Iwanicki and Brian Kennan, Amador stated that though he profoundly appreciated his involvement on his team, “the way in which [Amador] ha[s] been repeatedly treated by other members of the company (including H.R.) in response to [Amador] speaking up on a variety of subjects, ranging from political events to workplace conditions, ha[s] made [Amador’s] stay at Google too stressful….” Amador also released an open letter in which Amador said “goodbye” to Google and identified his reasons for leaving. Specifically, Amador wrote that “Google employs a few individuals (from rank-and-file to upper management) who are or have become highly ideological. They have made it one of their ostensible missions to have the entire company conform to these ideologies. Most

of them believe that all of us – me and many others included – should not be permitted to impugn or question the ideologies they want to impose.” Amador’s letter further elaborates on the politically-charged monoculture that is hostile to certain viewpoints, including conservatism and libertarianism: “many people (including me) have faced contempt, opprobrium, insults, smears, provocations, threats of industry blacklisting, and even frivolous H.R. reports that influence my career (and many others’), in retaliation for voicing my mind. The tone of this treatment was always particularly intense whenever I dared to question the set of ideologies that I found incorrect, toxic or divisive. I have been slurred as a racist, a sexist and ‘privileged,’ in direct contradiction to the content of my thoughts…I have been directly ordered by senior management to ‘stop posting immediately’ on a thread where I had managed to give other Googlers the impression that it was okay to discuss a common myth about free speech.” As a result of this hostility, Amador was forced to leave Google. After his departure, Amador received a written letter from Google, signed by Manuel Chiatello, from Google’s Human Resources Management, and Adam Iwanicki, Google’s Site Reliability Manager, recommending to any prospective employer that Amador be hired. The letter identifies what Google believed to be several of Amador’s strengths as an employee, including his ability to “integrate into the different types of activities he was involved in,” “good planning capabilities and sound judgment,” “good organizational skills,” his ability to cope with “high volumes of work,” and that “Manuel was friendly, open and tactful with superiors and colleagues. His personal behavior was respectable. He was a reliable colleague. The quality of his work met our requirements.” Thereafter, Amador was hired by another tech company in Switzerland.

However, when Amador later reapplied to Google, the company allegedly refused, while another employee at Google informed him he had been “blacklisted.”

It is Google’s custom and practice to rehire former employees who voluntarily left their jobs at Google, pursuant to simplified, streamlined rehiring procedures. For example, a former employee wishing to return to his recently vacated position needs only to contact that employee’s former supervisor, request to be rehired, and if the position is available, the employee will be rehired without any formal interview process. Accordingly, Amador understood and reasonably believed that he could and would be rehired for the same or substantially similar role as his former position at Google. A former colleague, friend, and current Google employee (referred hereinafter as “Amador’s friend”), also referred and recommended to Google that Amador be rehired as a systems engineer, a position Amador is amply qualified for, including because he performed identical or substantially similar work for Google for approximately three years and he had met all expectations during that time. In or around April 2017, Amador applied for the position of systems engineer at three of Google’s offices, including Mountain View, California. On April 18, 2017, Google recruiter Taylor Rosser (“Rosser”) emailed Amador, informing him that, despite another Google employee referring him for the position, after “carefully reviewing [Amador’s] background and experience,” Google would not be proceeding with Amador’s application.

After Amador asked why his application had been rejected, Rosser allegedly evaded his questions.

Disturbed by Google’s refusal to rehire him for the same or similar role as he had previously held, which was contrary to Google’s usual practice of rehiring former employees, Amador asked Amador’s friend if he knew why this might be the case. Amador’s friend then approached the Google recruiter, Rosser, to discuss why Amador’s application had been rejected. Rosser stated to Amador’s friend that all other candidates for the systems engineer positions were more qualified than Amador. This reason given by Rosser was false and pretextual. Unconvinced that this was the reason, Amador’s friend inquired further and discovered that other applicants had been, at most, designated as an “L3.” Amador, however, was an “L4” during his employment with Google, indicating that Amador was more qualified and/or experienced than the all other applicants, according to Google’s own internal standards. Amador’s friend then informed Rosser that Amador was a “L4” when Amador left Google, and that it did not make sense that Google would hire an “L3,” someone of lesser experience than Amador, in Amador’s place. Rosser again acted evasively, avoided answering Amador’s friend’s questions and ultimately refused to provide any cognizable answer as to why Amador’s application had been rejected. Amador’s friend later informed Amador that he believed Google had blacklisted Amador from employment at Google. Accordingly, Amador is informed and believes, and thereupon alleges, that Google blacklisted him from employment at Google, as a result of his real or perceived political viewpoints, activities, and affiliations, and as a result of his being male, which is, unfortunately, consistent with Google’s unlawful employment practices. Despite his ample experience and qualifications, including his several years of working at Google in the same or similar role as the position Amador applied for, which he did to Google’s

express satisfaction, Google categorically refuses to rehire Amador. Despite rejecting Amador’s application, the positions for which Amador applied remained open at the time his applications were rejected, and Google continued to seek applicants from persons of Amador’s qualifications. In accordance with its unlawful and discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Google refused to rehire Amador on the basis of his actual or perceived political affiliation and activities, and his gender. Indeed, as discussed herein, the pattern and practice of refusing to hire candidates because of these protected traits or activities is pervasive throughout Google. Amador’s application for employment was also rejected by Google as a direct result of Google’s hiring practices that disparately impact actual or perceived, members of Google-disfavored races and/or males. Google permits all hiring personnel a wide degree of discretion in assessing and refusing to hire persons that are not considered to be a “cultural fit” within Google, while simultaneously demanding a more diversified workforce and that all employees are, or become, complicit in Google’s discriminatory hostility toward Caucasian/Asian, conservative men, and toward all those that disagree with Google’s approach to achieving diversity in the workforce.

Stephen McPherson

McPherson’s allegations in the lawsuit claim his application to Google was turned down because of both his race, gender, and political orientation.

McPherson is a member of the Republican Party, a former U.S. Navy pilot, and an ex-staffer for former U.S. Representative George R. Nethercutt Jr. (R-WA).

“McPherson is a white male. Both of these traits are visibly apparent from his person,” the complaint notes.

During his decade-long service with the U.S. Navy, McPherson witnessed or learned from at least two other Navy pilots that Google had offered each a job through Google’s veterans placement program. In 2016, while stationed in San Diego, California, McPherson transitioned out of the Navy, and applied for a project manager position with the Google Fiber project. While the position may have required McPherson to relocate to Texas, Google considered, interviewed, and ultimately rejected McPherson’s application in its headquarters in Mountain View, California. McPherson met all qualifications for the project manager position listed by Google. Based on McPherson’s ample qualifications and extensive leadership experience, he was a strong candidate for the position. Moreover, a former Navy pilot and current Google employee, Manolo Strange (“Strange”), referred McPherson to Google as a prospective employee. In March 2016, McPherson submitted his application materials and was thereafter contacted for initial telephone interviews in March 2016. In April 2016, evidently impressed by McPherson, Google paid to have McPherson flown up to Mountain View, California on or around April 26, 2016 for a series of in-person interviews that took place at Google’s headquarters. This day-long interview process involved approximately five in-person interviews, as well as a more casual interview over lunch, which was intended, in part, to allow McPherson an opportunity to converse informally with another Googler on the Fiber team, and to ask questions. Following his day-long interview process, Renee Doyle (“Doyle”), a Google’s HR employee contacted McPherson and began discussing information related to his prospective salary, including his most recent salary, bonus, and stock options. Another Google HR employee, Carmen Simpson, emailed McPherson on May 24, 2016, stating, “Hi Stephen are you prepared to move to San Antonio if I can get you an offer?” To which, McPherson responded in the affirmative. On June 1, 2016, Doyle contacted McPherson by email again, asking McPherson to let her know of any competing offer details. McPherson understood these exchanges to indicate Google was highly likely to offer him the job. Google also requested that McPherson interview with “John,” a member of the Google Fiber team in Austin, Texas. The interview occurred over the phone on or around May 26, 2016.

However, despite Google’s interest in McPherson, his application was soon denied.

Despite his ample qualifications, and experience, and the apparent interest by Google, on or around June 10, 2016, Google informed McPherson that he was no longer being considered for the project manager position. Specifically, Google’s staffing employee, Carmen Simpson, informed McPherson that Google requires unanimity in their hiring decisions, and that Google was unable to

reach unanimity with McPherson’s application. McPherson then contacted Strange, the former pilot who had referred him to Google, and asked his advice on how to proceed. Strange stated to McPherson that what he experienced, namely, being interviewed and proceeding almost to the point of an offer letter, “rarely happens,” but that “once the decision is made they don’t reverse it.” Strange then suggested that McPherson reapply

in one year’s time. Despite rejecting McPherson’s application, the position for which McPherson applied remained open at the time his application was rejected, and Google continued to seek applicants from

persons of McPherson’s qualifications. In accordance with its unlawful and discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Google refused to hire McPherson on the basis of his political affiliation and activities, gender, and Google-disfavored race. Indeed, as discussed herein, the pattern and practice of refusing to hire candidates because of these protected traits or activities is pervasive throughout Google. McPherson’s application for employment was also rejected by Google as a direct result of Google’s hiring practices that disparately impact actual or perceived, members of Google disfavored races and/or males. Google permits all hiring personnel a wide degree of discretion in assessing and refusing to hire individuals who are not considered to be a “cultural fit” within Google, while simultaneously demanding a more diversified workforce and that all employees are, or become, complicit in Google’s discriminatory hostility toward white, conservative men, and toward all those who disagree with Google’s approach to achieving diversity in the workforce.

Michael Burns

Burns, who is described by the complaint as “an accomplished copywriter, marketer, consultant, and entrepreneur,” as well as a “conservative, white male,” was denied a job at Google after he shared an article about fired Google employee James Damore on Twitter. The complaint also suggests that Burns’ race and gender had something to do with his application being denied.

In his spare time, Burns publishes or shares material on social media platforms that are conservative or libertarian in nature, and/or that are likely to be perceived as conservative, including on Twitter and on his LinkedIn profile. At the time of his application, the posts and comments made on these platforms were accessible to the general public and/or to all persons with a Twitter or

LinkedIn account. For example, Burns follows conservative and libertarian groups and individuals, such as the Cato Institute, Reason Foundation, Heartland Institute, Independent Women’s Forum, and the Heritage Foundation – all of which advocate political positions that fall outside the narrow political ideologies tolerated by Google. Burns follows and/or shares posts made by these entities as a means of engaging in political discussion on topical issues with others on social media. As might be expected from an entrepreneur and marketing specialist, Burns includes a hyperlink to his LinkedIn profile at the base of his signature block for every email he sends. This allows interested persons, or companies, to more easily view his experiences, qualifications, and recommendations from those that have used his services or have worked with Burns in the past.

Despite applying to several positions at Google, going through several interviews, and being given the indication that he was likely to be hired, Burns career prospects at Google suddenly halted after he shared an article on Twitter about fired Google employee James Damore.

The article defended Damore’s right to speak his mind, rebuffed Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s firing of Damore, and offered suggestions for how Pichai could have better handled the

situation. Burns shared the article because he felt it contributed a unique political perspective as to the heated political discussions about Damore and his controversial memo, which was counter to the prevailing dismissive and derisive attitude exhibited by some members of the public and the press toward Damore. This post was shared by Burns on his publicly viewable Twitter account, which shares the same profile name as Burns’ LinkedIn account. Burns also shares other posts, and comments on other people’s posts, in a manner that might lead others to believe that Burns identifies politically as a conservative. As a link to Burns’ LinkedIn account is contained at the base of each of Burns’ emails to Google, those Google employees in a position to make the hiring decision as to Burns’ application for employment had immediate access to review and consider Burns’ social media posts, including those posts that are conservative-leaning, such as the article that defended Damore and was critical of Google’s unlawful practices. On information and belief, Google did precisely this. Burns is also a Caucasian male, which is evident from his name and the picture or pictures of Burns visible on Burns’ Twitter and LinkedIn profile pages. Despite his ample experience and qualifications, and interviewing for the position, Burns was not offered the copywriter position or any subsequent role as a content strategist with Google. Indeed, Burns later responded to Google’s request for contractors on LinkedIn, but was denied any contractor position with Google, establishing that Burns is being categorically denied a position at Google. Despite rejecting Burns’ application, the position for which Burns applied remained open at the time his application was rejected, and Google continued to seek applicants from persons of Burns’ qualifications. In accordance with its unlawful and discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Google refused to hire Burns on the basis of his political affiliation and activities, gender, and race. Indeed, as discussed above, the pattern and practice of refusing to hire candidates because of these protected traits or activities is pervasive throughout Google. Unfortunately, Burns, like Amador and McPherson, fell victim to Google’s unlawful devices. Burns’ application for employment was also rejected by Google as a direct result of Google’s hiring practices that disparately impact actual or perceived, members of a Google-disfavored races and/or males. Google permits all hiring personnel a wide degree of discretion in assessing and refusing to hire persons that are not considered to be a “cultural fit” within Google, while simultaneously demanding a more diversified workforce and that all employees are, or become, complicit in Google’s discriminatory hostility toward white, conservative men, and toward all those that disagree with Google’s approach to achieving diversity in the workforce.Three new plaintiffs have joined former Google employee James Damore’s lawsuit against the company, alleging gender, racial, and political discrimination.

Manuel Amador, Stephen McPherson, and Michael Burns, who were all job applicants turned down by Google, have joined the lawsuit.

“As amply supported by the allegations set forth in this First Amended Complaint, Google has adopted a pattern and practice of disparately and adversely treating similarly situated job applicants because of the applicants’ race, sex, and political affiliations and activities,” declares the updated lawsuit. “Google and its management fetishize ‘diversity’ as measured by these protected characteristics only, and mandate that the percentage of non-Caucasian/Asian, non-male, and non-conservatives employed by Google increase rapidly over time. In so doing, Google assigns negative value to applications submitted by persons perceived to be members of Google-disfavored races, male, and/or conservative, by virtue of the applicant’s protected traits, affiliations, or activities.”

“Caucasian/Asian, non-male, or non-conservative applicant will be hired over similarly situated Caucasian/Asian, male, conservative applicants for any given position,” the complaint continued. “Thus, in the alternative, Google’s hiring practices negatively and disparately impact job applicants, including Amador, McPherson, and Burns, who are, or are perceived to be, members of Google disfavored races, male, and/or conservative. Individuals from these categories are disproportionately less likely to be hired by Google as a causal result of Google’s illegal hiring practices.”

Manuel Amador

According to the lawsuit, Amador, who joined Google as a Systems Engineer, eventually left the company after being asked to apologize for something he did not say.

Despite being faced with such hostility, Amador continued to voice his opinions, in direct defiance of those at Google that seek to silence and expel all opposing viewpoints. The culture of intolerance, however, eventually became too much for Amador to bear. In or around June 2016, Amador was called to a meeting with Google HR as a result of someone falsely accusing Amador of believing that people have differing levels of intelligence based on that person’s race. Amador has never thought that, does not believe it to be true, and has never written or spoken as if he believed it to be true. This false complaint was filed by an anonymous complainant as means to stifle Amador’s political activities and conversations at Google, was done to harass Amador on the basis of his race and/or gender, and resulted in Amador receiving a letter from Google reprimanding Amador. Despite the complaint being entirely fabricated, Google sided with the harassers and asked that Amador issue an apology. At that point, Amador felt compelled to leave Google as a result of the hostile work environment created by, and left unchecked at, Google. To stay at Google brought with it an unacceptably high risk that Amador’s personal and professional reputation would be permanently tarnished by those at Google bent on suppressing and expelling those who hold viewpoints different from their own, Google-disfavored races, and/or males. By demanding that Amador apologize over a falsified complaint, Google sent a clear message that it would allow and enable such hostile, retaliatory, and oppressive conduct to occur unchecked.

Amador then released an open letter following his departure.

In his written notice of resignation to Google’s Adam Iwanicki and Brian Kennan, Amador stated that though he profoundly appreciated his involvement on his team, “the way in which [Amador] ha[s] been repeatedly treated by other members of the company (including H.R.) in response to [Amador] speaking up on a variety of subjects, ranging from political events to workplace conditions, ha[s] made [Amador’s] stay at Google too stressful….” Amador also released an open letter in which Amador said “goodbye” to Google and identified his reasons for leaving. Specifically, Amador wrote that “Google employs a few individuals (from rank-and-file to upper management) who are or have become highly ideological. They have made it one of their ostensible missions to have the entire company conform to these ideologies. Most

of them believe that all of us – me and many others included – should not be permitted to impugn or question the ideologies they want to impose.” Amador’s letter further elaborates on the politically-charged monoculture that is hostile to certain viewpoints, including conservatism and libertarianism: “many people (including me) have faced contempt, opprobrium, insults, smears, provocations, threats of industry blacklisting, and even frivolous H.R. reports that influence my career (and many others’), in retaliation for voicing my mind. The tone of this treatment was always particularly intense whenever I dared to question the set of ideologies that I found incorrect, toxic or divisive. I have been slurred as a racist, a sexist and ‘privileged,’ in direct contradiction to the content of my thoughts…I have been directly ordered by senior management to ‘stop posting immediately’ on a thread where I had managed to give other Googlers the impression that it was okay to discuss a common myth about free speech.” As a result of this hostility, Amador was forced to leave Google. After his departure, Amador received a written letter from Google, signed by Manuel Chiatello, from Google’s Human Resources Management, and Adam Iwanicki, Google’s Site Reliability Manager, recommending to any prospective employer that Amador be hired. The letter identifies what Google believed to be several of Amador’s strengths as an employee, including his ability to “integrate into the different types of activities he was involved in,” “good planning capabilities and sound judgment,” “good organizational skills,” his ability to cope with “high volumes of work,” and that “Manuel was friendly, open and tactful with superiors and colleagues. His personal behavior was respectable. He was a reliable colleague. The quality of his work met our requirements.” Thereafter, Amador was hired by another tech company in Switzerland.

However, when Amador later reapplied to Google, the company allegedly refused, while another employee at Google informed him he had been “blacklisted.”

It is Google’s custom and practice to rehire former employees who voluntarily left their jobs at Google, pursuant to simplified, streamlined rehiring procedures. For example, a former employee wishing to return to his recently vacated position needs only to contact that employee’s former supervisor, request to be rehired, and if the position is available, the employee will be rehired without any formal interview process. Accordingly, Amador understood and reasonably believed that he could and would be rehired for the same or substantially similar role as his former position at Google. A former colleague, friend, and current Google employee (referred hereinafter as “Amador’s friend”), also referred and recommended to Google that Amador be rehired as a systems engineer, a position Amador is amply qualified for, including because he performed identical or substantially similar work for Google for approximately three years and he had met all expectations during that time. In or around April 2017, Amador applied for the position of systems engineer at three of Google’s offices, including Mountain View, California. On April 18, 2017, Google recruiter Taylor Rosser (“Rosser”) emailed Amador, informing him that, despite another Google employee referring him for the position, after “carefully reviewing [Amador’s] background and experience,” Google would not be proceeding with Amador’s application.

After Amador asked why his application had been rejected, Rosser allegedly evaded his questions.

Disturbed by Google’s refusal to rehire him for the same or similar role as he had previously held, which was contrary to Google’s usual practice of rehiring former employees, Amador asked Amador’s friend if he knew why this might be the case. Amador’s friend then approached the Google recruiter, Rosser, to discuss why Amador’s application had been rejected. Rosser stated to Amador’s friend that all other candidates for the systems engineer positions were more qualified than Amador. This reason given by Rosser was false and pretextual. Unconvinced that this was the reason, Amador’s friend inquired further and discovered that other applicants had been, at most, designated as an “L3.” Amador, however, was an “L4” during his employment with Google, indicating that Amador was more qualified and/or experienced than the all other applicants, according to Google’s own internal standards. Amador’s friend then informed Rosser that Amador was a “L4” when Amador left Google, and that it did not make sense that Google would hire an “L3,” someone of lesser experience than Amador, in Amador’s place. Rosser again acted evasively, avoided answering Amador’s friend’s questions and ultimately refused to provide any cognizable answer as to why Amador’s application had been rejected. Amador’s friend later informed Amador that he believed Google had blacklisted Amador from employment at Google. Accordingly, Amador is informed and believes, and thereupon alleges, that Google blacklisted him from employment at Google, as a result of his real or perceived political viewpoints, activities, and affiliations, and as a result of his being male, which is, unfortunately, consistent with Google’s unlawful employment practices. Despite his ample experience and qualifications, including his several years of working at Google in the same or similar role as the position Amador applied for, which he did to Google’s

express satisfaction, Google categorically refuses to rehire Amador. Despite rejecting Amador’s application, the positions for which Amador applied remained open at the time his applications were rejected, and Google continued to seek applicants from persons of Amador’s qualifications. In accordance with its unlawful and discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Google refused to rehire Amador on the basis of his actual or perceived political affiliation and activities, and his gender. Indeed, as discussed herein, the pattern and practice of refusing to hire candidates because of these protected traits or activities is pervasive throughout Google. Amador’s application for employment was also rejected by Google as a direct result of Google’s hiring practices that disparately impact actual or perceived, members of Google-disfavored races and/or males. Google permits all hiring personnel a wide degree of discretion in assessing and refusing to hire persons that are not considered to be a “cultural fit” within Google, while simultaneously demanding a more diversified workforce and that all employees are, or become, complicit in Google’s discriminatory hostility toward Caucasian/Asian, conservative men, and toward all those that disagree with Google’s approach to achieving diversity in the workforce.

Stephen McPherson

McPherson’s allegations in the lawsuit claim his application to Google was turned down because of both his race, gender, and political orientation.

McPherson is a member of the Republican Party, a former U.S. Navy pilot, and an ex-staffer for former U.S. Representative George R. Nethercutt Jr. (R-WA).

“McPherson is a white male. Both of these traits are visibly apparent from his person,” the complaint notes.

During his decade-long service with the U.S. Navy, McPherson witnessed or learned from at least two other Navy pilots that Google had offered each a job through Google’s veterans placement program. In 2016, while stationed in San Diego, California, McPherson transitioned out of the Navy, and applied for a project manager position with the Google Fiber project. While the position may have required McPherson to relocate to Texas, Google considered, interviewed, and ultimately rejected McPherson’s application in its headquarters in Mountain View, California. McPherson met all qualifications for the project manager position listed by Google. Based on McPherson’s ample qualifications and extensive leadership experience, he was a strong candidate for the position. Moreover, a former Navy pilot and current Google employee, Manolo Strange (“Strange”), referred McPherson to Google as a prospective employee. In March 2016, McPherson submitted his application materials and was thereafter contacted for initial telephone interviews in March 2016. In April 2016, evidently impressed by McPherson, Google paid to have McPherson flown up to Mountain View, California on or around April 26, 2016 for a series of in-person interviews that took place at Google’s headquarters. This day-long interview process involved approximately five in-person interviews, as well as a more casual interview over lunch, which was intended, in part, to allow McPherson an opportunity to converse informally with another Googler on the Fiber team, and to ask questions. Following his day-long interview process, Renee Doyle (“Doyle”), a Google’s HR employee contacted McPherson and began discussing information related to his prospective salary, including his most recent salary, bonus, and stock options. Another Google HR employee, Carmen Simpson, emailed McPherson on May 24, 2016, stating, “Hi Stephen are you prepared to move to San Antonio if I can get you an offer?” To which, McPherson responded in the affirmative. On June 1, 2016, Doyle contacted McPherson by email again, asking McPherson to let her know of any competing offer details. McPherson understood these exchanges to indicate Google was highly likely to offer him the job. Google also requested that McPherson interview with “John,” a member of the Google Fiber team in Austin, Texas. The interview occurred over the phone on or around May 26, 2016.

However, despite Google’s interest in McPherson, his application was soon denied.

Despite his ample qualifications, and experience, and the apparent interest by Google, on or around June 10, 2016, Google informed McPherson that he was no longer being considered for the project manager position. Specifically, Google’s staffing employee, Carmen Simpson, informed McPherson that Google requires unanimity in their hiring decisions, and that Google was unable to

reach unanimity with McPherson’s application. McPherson then contacted Strange, the former pilot who had referred him to Google, and asked his advice on how to proceed. Strange stated to McPherson that what he experienced, namely, being interviewed and proceeding almost to the point of an offer letter, “rarely happens,” but that “once the decision is made they don’t reverse it.” Strange then suggested that McPherson reapply

in one year’s time. Despite rejecting McPherson’s application, the position for which McPherson applied remained open at the time his application was rejected, and Google continued to seek applicants from

persons of McPherson’s qualifications. In accordance with its unlawful and discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Google refused to hire McPherson on the basis of his political affiliation and activities, gender, and Google-disfavored race. Indeed, as discussed herein, the pattern and practice of refusing to hire candidates because of these protected traits or activities is pervasive throughout Google. McPherson’s application for employment was also rejected by Google as a direct result of Google’s hiring practices that disparately impact actual or perceived, members of Google disfavored races and/or males. Google permits all hiring personnel a wide degree of discretion in assessing and refusing to hire individuals who are not considered to be a “cultural fit” within Google, while simultaneously demanding a more diversified workforce and that all employees are, or become, complicit in Google’s discriminatory hostility toward white, conservative men, and toward all those who disagree with Google’s approach to achieving diversity in the workforce.

Michael Burns

Burns, who is described by the complaint as “an accomplished copywriter, marketer, consultant, and entrepreneur,” as well as a “conservative, white male,” was denied a job at Google after he shared an article about fired Google employee James Damore on Twitter. The complaint also suggests that Burns’ race and gender had something to do with his application being denied.

In his spare time, Burns publishes or shares material on social media platforms that are conservative or libertarian in nature, and/or that are likely to be perceived as conservative, including on Twitter and on his LinkedIn profile. At the time of his application, the posts and comments made on these platforms were accessible to the general public and/or to all persons with a Twitter or

LinkedIn account. For example, Burns follows conservative and libertarian groups and individuals, such as the Cato Institute, Reason Foundation, Heartland Institute, Independent Women’s Forum, and the Heritage Foundation – all of which advocate political positions that fall outside the narrow political ideologies tolerated by Google. Burns follows and/or shares posts made by these entities as a means of engaging in political discussion on topical issues with others on social media. As might be expected from an entrepreneur and marketing specialist, Burns includes a hyperlink to his LinkedIn profile at the base of his signature block for every email he sends. This allows interested persons, or companies, to more easily view his experiences, qualifications, and recommendations from those that have used his services or have worked with Burns in the past.

Despite applying to several positions at Google, going through several interviews, and being given the indication that he was likely to be hired, Burns career prospects at Google suddenly halted after he shared an article on Twitter about fired Google employee James Damore.

The article defended Damore’s right to speak his mind, rebuffed Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s firing of Damore, and offered suggestions for how Pichai could have better handled the

situation. Burns shared the article because he felt it contributed a unique political perspective as to the heated political discussions about Damore and his controversial memo, which was counter to the prevailing dismissive and derisive attitude exhibited by some members of the public and the press toward Damore. This post was shared by Burns on his publicly viewable Twitter account, which shares the same profile name as Burns’ LinkedIn account. Burns also shares other posts, and comments on other people’s posts, in a manner that might lead others to believe that Burns identifies politically as a conservative. As a link to Burns’ LinkedIn account is contained at the base of each of Burns’ emails to Google, those Google employees in a position to make the hiring decision as to Burns’ application for employment had immediate access to review and consider Burns’ social media posts, including those posts that are conservative-leaning, such as the article that defended Damore and was critical of Google’s unlawful practices. On information and belief, Google did precisely this. Burns is also a Caucasian male, which is evident from his name and the picture or pictures of Burns visible on Burns’ Twitter and LinkedIn profile pages. Despite his ample experience and qualifications, and interviewing for the position, Burns was not offered the copywriter position or any subsequent role as a content strategist with Google. Indeed, Burns later responded to Google’s request for contractors on LinkedIn, but was denied any contractor position with Google, establishing that Burns is being categorically denied a position at Google. Despite rejecting Burns’ application, the position for which Burns applied remained open at the time his application was rejected, and Google continued to seek applicants from persons of Burns’ qualifications. In accordance with its unlawful and discriminatory patterns, practices, and policies, Google refused to hire Burns on the basis of his political affiliation and activities, gender, and race. Indeed, as discussed above, the pattern and practice of refusing to hire candidates because of these protected traits or activities is pervasive throughout Google. Unfortunately, Burns, like Amador and McPherson, fell victim to Google’s unlawful devices. Burns’ application for employment was also rejected by Google as a direct result of Google’s hiring practices that disparately impact actual or perceived, members of a Google-disfavored races and/or males. Google permits all hiring personnel a wide degree of discretion in assessing and refusing to hire persons that are not considered to be a “cultural fit” within Google, while simultaneously demanding a more diversified workforce and that all employees are, or become, complicit in Google’s discriminatory hostility toward white, conservative men, and toward all those that disagree with Google’s approach to achieving diversity in the workforce.According to an updated complaint from former Google engineer James Damore’s class-action lawsuit, Google reserves certain jobs specifically for “diverse individuals.”

Following the addition of three new plaintiffs, Manuel Amador, Stephen McPherson, and Michael Burns to former engineer James Damore’s class action lawsuit against the Internet giant, new allegations have been brought against the company. One new allegation is that Google specifically reserves certain jobs for “diverse individuals.” Damore’s complaint states:

Google Literally Defines “Diverse Candidates” as Blacks, Hispanics, Veterans, PWDs, and Women And Maintains Quotas On May 3, 2016, Gina Coons (“Coons”), Global Marketing Stafﬁng Lead at Google,who manages a group of approximately 16 Google recruiters, sent an email entitled “[Please read]New Monthly Global Stafﬁng Meeting details.” In this email, which was sent to the entire Global Stafﬁng team, Coons forwarded an email from Michael Moran (“Moran”), a recruiter at Google, dated April 28, 2016. In Moran’s email, Moran described two programs at Google: Center Stage and Supplemental Headcount. The Center Stage Program was a new project at Google that aimed to “feature exceptional marketing talent to Leadership in an effort to better socialize proﬁles across the business and ﬁnd candidates a suitable home.” Moran stated in his email that this project places an “[e]mphasis on diversity (80% of talent featured should be diverse).”

The Supplemental Headcount Program was “a last-ditch strategy for getting diverse talent into Google when all other avenues have been exhausted.” Moran went on to state “POps has a handull of HC reserved exclusively for diverse HC. Diverse candidates are: Black, Hispanic, veterans, PWD, and L4+ women.” Upon information and belief, “PWD” stands for “People with Disabilities.”

Notably, Caucasians, Asians, and males are leﬁ out of Google’s deﬁnition, and are thus being eliminated for consideration for certain categories of job openings at Google.

This would seem to corroborate previous reports that senior management at Google focused on “diversity first and technology second.” An interview with a Google employee (alias “Hal”) stated:

A lot of social justice activists essentially spend all day fighting the culture war, and get nothing done. The company has made it a point to hire more people like this. The diversity gospel has been woven into nearly everything the company does, to the point where senior leaders focus on diversity first and technology second. The companywide “Google Insider” emails used to talk about cool new tech, but now they’re entirely about social justice initiatives. Likewise, the weekly all-hands “TGIF” meetings used to focus on tech, but now they’re split about 50/50 between tech and identity politics signaling.

Read more about Google’s history of bias against conservatives in Breitbart News’ Rebels of Google series.According to an updated complaint from former Google engineer James Damore’s class-action lawsuit, Google reserves certain jobs specifically for “diverse individuals.”

Following the addition of three new plaintiffs, Manuel Amador, Stephen McPherson, and Michael Burns to former engineer James Damore’s class action lawsuit against the Internet giant, new allegations have been brought against the company. One new allegation is that Google specifically reserves certain jobs for “diverse individuals.” Damore’s complaint states:

Google Literally Defines “Diverse Candidates” as Blacks, Hispanics, Veterans, PWDs, and Women And Maintains Quotas On May 3, 2016, Gina Coons (“Coons”), Global Marketing Stafﬁng Lead at Google,who manages a group of approximately 16 Google recruiters, sent an email entitled “[Please read]New Monthly Global Stafﬁng Meeting details.” In this email, which was sent to the entire Global Stafﬁng team, Coons forwarded an email from Michael Moran (“Moran”), a recruiter at Google, dated April 28, 2016. In Moran’s email, Moran described two programs at Google: Center Stage and Supplemental Headcount. The Center Stage Program was a new project at Google that aimed to “feature exceptional marketing talent to Leadership in an effort to better socialize proﬁles across the business and ﬁnd candidates a suitable home.” Moran stated in his email that this project places an “[e]mphasis on diversity (80% of talent featured should be diverse).”

The Supplemental Headcount Program was “a last-ditch strategy for getting diverse talent into Google when all other avenues have been exhausted.” Moran went on to state “POps has a handull of HC reserved exclusively for diverse HC. Diverse candidates are: Black, Hispanic, veterans, PWD, and L4+ women.” Upon information and belief, “PWD” stands for “People with Disabilities.”

Notably, Caucasians, Asians, and males are leﬁ out of Google’s deﬁnition, and are thus being eliminated for consideration for certain categories of job openings at Google.

This would seem to corroborate previous reports that senior management at Google focused on “diversity first and technology second.” An interview with a Google employee (alias “Hal”) stated:

A lot of social justice activists essentially spend all day fighting the culture war, and get nothing done. The company has made it a point to hire more people like this. The diversity gospel has been woven into nearly everything the company does, to the point where senior leaders focus on diversity first and technology second. The companywide “Google Insider” emails used to talk about cool new tech, but now they’re entirely about social justice initiatives. Likewise, the weekly all-hands “TGIF” meetings used to focus on tech, but now they’re split about 50/50 between tech and identity politics signaling.

Read more about Google’s history of bias against conservatives in Breitbart News’ Rebels of Google series.A document brought to light by James Damore’s class-action lawsuit against Google and drafted by the company’s HR department instructing managers at the company on how to be “inclusive” cautioned managers against rewarding employees for traits “valued by the U.S. white/male dominant culture”, including individual achievement, and meritocracy.

The document has been released as part of James Damore’s ongoing class-action lawsuit against Google, which alleges the company discriminates on the basis of race, gender, and political viewpoint. It was announced today that three new plaintiffs have joined the lawsuit, bringing the total number of plaintiffs up to five.

According to the lawsuit, the document is provided to all Google managers as part of “Inclusive Perf” training, which is a requirement for some departments at the company, and “strongly encouraged” by others.

The handout cautions managers about “rewarding people when they exhibit values and practices that are part of the dominant, and either punishing or failing to reward people when they exhibit values that are outside the of the dominant cultural norm.”

The handout goes on to list examples of things that are “valued” by the dominant “white/male” culture of the U.S. These include:

Meritocracy, winning, avoiding conflict, a belief in objectivity, a “colorblind racial frame”, urgency, numbers driven, and perfectionism.

This is contrasted with values that are “commonly invisibilized or devalued” by the “white/male” culture, including:

Raising up multiple voices, collective achievement, a belief in subjectivity, “noticing race/color and any racial patterns in treatment”, sustainability, and “seven generations thinking.”

According to the lawsuit, the document goes on to explain “how Google managers can give feedback to ‘women and people of color’ as opposed to giving feedback to males and Caucasians.”

Damore’s lawsuit claims that the handout cites “multiple different studies and articles on gender and race biases and stereotypes to justify the positions set forth.” The lawsuit notes that, unlike James Damore, who was fired after he referenced studies on gender differences, the document’s author “was never reprimanded for promoting harmful racial and gender stereotypes of Google-disfavored races and males.”

“Rather, this program became part of Google’s indoctrination of its management staff.”

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.A document brought to light by James Damore’s class-action lawsuit against Google and drafted by the company’s HR department instructing managers at the company on how to be “inclusive” cautioned managers against rewarding employees for traits “valued by the U.S. white/male dominant culture”, including individual achievement, and meritocracy.

The document has been released as part of James Damore’s ongoing class-action lawsuit against Google, which alleges the company discriminates on the basis of race, gender, and political viewpoint. It was announced today that three new plaintiffs have joined the lawsuit, bringing the total number of plaintiffs up to five.

According to the lawsuit, the document is provided to all Google managers as part of “Inclusive Perf” training, which is a requirement for some departments at the company, and “strongly encouraged” by others.

The handout cautions managers about “rewarding people when they exhibit values and practices that are part of the dominant, and either punishing or failing to reward people when they exhibit values that are outside the of the dominant cultural norm.”

The handout goes on to list examples of things that are “valued” by the dominant “white/male” culture of the U.S. These include:

Meritocracy, winning, avoiding conflict, a belief in objectivity, a “colorblind racial frame”, urgency, numbers driven, and perfectionism.

This is contrasted with values that are “commonly invisibilized or devalued” by the “white/male” culture, including:

Raising up multiple voices, collective achievement, a belief in subjectivity, “noticing race/color and any racial patterns in treatment”, sustainability, and “seven generations thinking.”

According to the lawsuit, the document goes on to explain “how Google managers can give feedback to ‘women and people of color’ as opposed to giving feedback to males and Caucasians.”

Damore’s lawsuit claims that the handout cites “multiple different studies and articles on gender and race biases and stereotypes to justify the positions set forth.” The lawsuit notes that, unlike James Damore, who was fired after he referenced studies on gender differences, the document’s author “was never reprimanded for promoting harmful racial and gender stereotypes of Google-disfavored races and males.”

“Rather, this program became part of Google’s indoctrination of its management staff.”

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.Facebook’s shares fell on Wednesday after the company’s stock received its first downgrade since January, according to a report.

“Research firm OTR Global cut its rating to mixed versus positive amid concern that year-over-year growth in advertisement spending moderated in the first quarter of 2018,” reported Bloomberg. “The last downgrade of the stock prior to OTR was made by Stifel Nicolaus & Co’s Scott Devitt in January, before the scandal involving Cambridge Analytica.”

“The company’s first-quarter ad spending will likely rise 19 to 24 percent year-over-year in the first quarter, versus a gain of as much as 30 percent in the fourth quarter, OTR said. Facebook lost 10 percent last month amid concern over the way the company handled its users’ personal data,” they explained, adding that, “OTR is not beholden to traditional industry coverage. The research team uses information gathered through methods including interviews with industry experts, client events and company filing reviews.”

You can read the full report at Bloomberg.Facebook’s shares fell on Wednesday after the company’s stock received its first downgrade since January, according to a report.

“Research firm OTR Global cut its rating to mixed versus positive amid concern that year-over-year growth in advertisement spending moderated in the first quarter of 2018,” reported Bloomberg. “The last downgrade of the stock prior to OTR was made by Stifel Nicolaus & Co’s Scott Devitt in January, before the scandal involving Cambridge Analytica.”

“The company’s first-quarter ad spending will likely rise 19 to 24 percent year-over-year in the first quarter, versus a gain of as much as 30 percent in the fourth quarter, OTR said. Facebook lost 10 percent last month amid concern over the way the company handled its users’ personal data,” they explained, adding that, “OTR is not beholden to traditional industry coverage. The research team uses information gathered through methods including interviews with industry experts, client events and company filing reviews.”

You can read the full report at Bloomberg.Facebook has admitted to tracking the personal details of people without accounts across the web using “Like” buttons and other analytics tools.

Social media giant Facebook recently admitted that they track users outside of the platform, even those that don’t have accounts. In a post to the Facebook Newsroom that responded to many of the questions that the company’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg was unable to answer before Congress, Product Management Director David Baser outlined how Facebook gathers information from users on the internet.

When does Facebook get data about people from other websites and apps?

Many websites and apps use Facebook services to make their content and ads more engaging and relevant. These services include: Social plugins , such as our Like and Share buttons, which make other sites more social and help you share content on Facebook;

, such as our Like and Share buttons, which make other sites more social and help you share content on Facebook; Facebook Login, which lets you use your Facebook account to log into another website or app;

which lets you use your Facebook account to log into another website or app; Facebook Analytic s, which helps websites and apps better understand how people use their services; and

s, which helps websites and apps better understand how people use their services; and Facebook ads and measurement tools, which enable websites and apps to show ads from Facebook advertisers, to run their own ads on Facebook or elsewhere, and to understand the effectiveness of their ads. When you visit a site or app that uses our services, we receive information even if you’re logged out or don’t have a Facebook account. This is because other apps and sites don’t know who is using Facebook.

Breitbart News has highlighted the most important element in that last paragraph. Facebook has admitted that it uses “Like” buttons on websites to track users in the past, in a case from July of 2017, plaintiffs claimed that through the use of “like” buttons, which appear on many websites across the internet, Facebook was tracking their user’s browsing habits and building detailed reports, an act which the plaintiffs argued violated federal and state privacy and wiretapping laws.

The case was dismissed by US District Judge Edward Davila of San Jose, California who stated that the plaintiffs in the case had not proven that they had a reasonable expectation of privacy or had suffered any realistic economic harm or loss due to Facebook’s actions. Davila said that the plaintiffs failed to prove that Facebook had in fact spied on them and had failed to take necessary precautions to protect their web browsing habits, such as the Digital Advertising Alliance’s opt-out tool.

When Facebook users, and non-users, visit websites featuring “Like” buttons, a large amount of their browsing data is scraped and sent to the company. Baser outlined how much information the organization gathers in his recent Newsroom posts:

When you visit a website, your browser (for example Chrome, Safari or Firefox) sends a request to the site’s server. The browser shares your IP address so the website knows where on the internet to send the site content. The website also gets information about the browser and operating system (for example Android or Windows) you’re using because not all browsers and devices support the same features. It also gets cookies, which are identifiers that websites use to know if you’ve visited before. This can help with things like saving items in your shopping cart.

While Facebook users have accepted that their data is being collected by the social media firm, many internet users choose not to join Facebook over fears of privacy issues. Now, it seems that even those that wish to opt-out of social media are still having their data harvested by the tech firms. Given that “Like” buttons are prevalent across most sites on the internet and user data is extremely valuable to Facebook, it’s unlikely that this practice will stop anytime soon.Facebook has admitted to tracking the personal details of people without accounts across the web using “Like” buttons and other analytics tools.

Social media giant Facebook recently admitted that they track users outside of the platform, even those that don’t have accounts. In a post to the Facebook Newsroom that responded to many of the questions that the company’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg was unable to answer before Congress, Product Management Director David Baser outlined how Facebook gathers information from users on the internet.

When does Facebook get data about people from other websites and apps?

Many websites and apps use Facebook services to make their content and ads more engaging and relevant. These services include: Social plugins , such as our Like and Share buttons, which make other sites more social and help you share content on Facebook;

, such as our Like and Share buttons, which make other sites more social and help you share content on Facebook; Facebook Login, which lets you use your Facebook account to log into another website or app;

which lets you use your Facebook account to log into another website or app; Facebook Analytic s, which helps websites and apps better understand how people use their services; and

s, which helps websites and apps better understand how people use their services; and Facebook ads and measurement tools, which enable websites and apps to show ads from Facebook advertisers, to run their own ads on Facebook or elsewhere, and to understand the effectiveness of their ads. When you visit a site or app that uses our services, we receive information even if you’re logged out or don’t have a Facebook account. This is because other apps and sites don’t know who is using Facebook.

Breitbart News has highlighted the most important element in that last paragraph. Facebook has admitted that it uses “Like” buttons on websites to track users in the past, in a case from July of 2017, plaintiffs claimed that through the use of “like” buttons, which appear on many websites across the internet, Facebook was tracking their user’s browsing habits and building detailed reports, an act which the plaintiffs argued violated federal and state privacy and wiretapping laws.

The case was dismissed by US District Judge Edward Davila of San Jose, California who stated that the plaintiffs in the case had not proven that they had a reasonable expectation of privacy or had suffered any realistic economic harm or loss due to Facebook’s actions. Davila said that the plaintiffs failed to prove that Facebook had in fact spied on them and had failed to take necessary precautions to protect their web browsing habits, such as the Digital Advertising Alliance’s opt-out tool.

When Facebook users, and non-users, visit websites featuring “Like” buttons, a large amount of their browsing data is scraped and sent to the company. Baser outlined how much information the organization gathers in his recent Newsroom posts:

When you visit a website, your browser (for example Chrome, Safari or Firefox) sends a request to the site’s server. The browser shares your IP address so the website knows where on the internet to send the site content. The website also gets information about the browser and operating system (for example Android or Windows) you’re using because not all browsers and devices support the same features. It also gets cookies, which are identifiers that websites use to know if you’ve visited before. This can help with things like saving items in your shopping cart.

While Facebook users have accepted that their data is being collected by the social media firm, many internet users choose not to join Facebook over fears of privacy issues. Now, it seems that even those that wish to opt-out of social media are still having their data harvested by the tech firms. Given that “Like” buttons are prevalent across most sites on the internet and user data is extremely valuable to Facebook, it’s unlikely that this practice will stop anytime soon.If Mark Zuckerberg really wants Facebook to be a “platform for all ideas,” as he repeatedly told lawmakers last week, all he needs to do is add a single, radical new feature to the social network.

Concerns over the censorship of conservatives on social media were a dominant theme at Zuckerberg’s congressional hearings last week. Commerce Committee chairman Sen. Thune (R-SD) closed the first day of proceedings by warning the Facebook CEO to “err on the side of protecting speech, especially political speech, from all different quarters.”

The Facebook CEO’s response was to assure lawmakers that inexplicable censorship of conservative accounts were “enforcement errors” and that Facebook is a “platform for all ideas” with a “responsibility is to allow the broadest spectrum of free expression as we can.”

If Zuckerberg is sincere in his words, there’s a very simple feature he could introduce for Facebook’s American users that would ensure free speech is protected on Facebook. In addition to reducing the workload on Facebook’s content moderators (and the chance for “enforcement errors”), the feature would simultaneously satisfy users who are comfortable with unrestricted freedom of expression, and those who want a “safe,” college campus-like experience on the platform.

Here’s what the feature would look like:

Let’s call this approach “filter-first,” and contrast it with the”ban-first” approach currently used by social media platforms. A filter-first approach recognizes that absent special circumstances like spam, phishing, or criminal activity, social media companies do not have to ban anyone when they can give users the option to filter content instead. It’s an approach that takes power away from social media executives and gives it to users – something that Zuckerberg insists he is in favor of.

Opponents will argue that it reinforces partisan filter bubbles. But so does banning! The only difference is that with a filter-first approach, users at least have the option to seek out competing views. With a ban-first approach, there’s no way out of the bubble, at least within Facebook. Therefore, If your goal is to diminish filter bubbles, filter-first is still superior to ban-first.

It’s not a perfect fix to censorship. There would be raging disputes over what kind of content gets thrown into the “hateful,” “offensive,” and “fake news” categories. There would be demands for new categories and new filters. And it would only work if Facebook also commits to transparency, informing users when their content has been categorized and why.

Filter-first would be an immense improvement over the current situation, in which social media companies, using vaguely defined community guidelines, can arbitrarily ban content across their entire platforms. Using this approach, Facebook could only limit content for the small minority of users who have opted-in to a digital safe space.

An ideal solution would be if deliberately vague, politically charged terms like “hate speech” were retired from public discourse altogether, but it will take years, possibly decades of social activism for that to be achieved. In the meantime, this approach would ensure that the snowflakes can have a safe, filtered, Disneyfied experience, while the adults of Facebook are allowed to carry on their conversations in peace.

Of course, Zuckerberg will not introduce such a feature voluntarily, even if he wanted to. Corporations, as Sen. Tim Scott pointed out last week, have turned against the constitution, including the first amendment. If Facebook reduces restrictions on hate speech or offensive material, they would immediately be hit with an advertiser boycott along the lines of the YouTube “adpocalypse.”

On this rare occasion, the government can help. If Congress passes a law mandating a filter-first approach for dominant social media platforms, the Silicon Valley CEOs can simply tell their advertisers: “Sorry, Congress made us do it.” Advertiser boycotts against a social media platform are pointless if the government makes it impossible for them to get their way.

Lawmakers won’t act without pressure from the grassroots, of course. Republicans are instinctively reluctant to regulate private companies, while Democrats want more censorship on social media, not less. But Congress still responds to voters: many of the Republicans who questioned Zuckerberg about censorship last week said that it was their constituents who had first raised the issue with them.

As with most good things in politics, the restoration of free speech on social media will only come about when voters demand it – loudly.

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.If Mark Zuckerberg really wants Facebook to be a “platform for all ideas,” as he repeatedly told lawmakers last week, all he needs to do is add a single, radical new feature to the social network.

Concerns over the censorship of conservatives on social media were a dominant theme at Zuckerberg’s congressional hearings last week. Commerce Committee chairman Sen. Thune (R-SD) closed the first day of proceedings by warning the Facebook CEO to “err on the side of protecting speech, especially political speech, from all different quarters.”

The Facebook CEO’s response was to assure lawmakers that inexplicable censorship of conservative accounts were “enforcement errors” and that Facebook is a “platform for all ideas” with a “responsibility is to allow the broadest spectrum of free expression as we can.”

If Zuckerberg is sincere in his words, there’s a very simple feature he could introduce for Facebook’s American users that would ensure free speech is protected on Facebook. In addition to reducing the workload on Facebook’s content moderators (and the chance for “enforcement errors”), the feature would simultaneously satisfy users who are comfortable with unrestricted freedom of expression, and those who want a “safe,” college campus-like experience on the platform.

Here’s what the feature would look like:

Let’s call this approach “filter-first,” and contrast it with the”ban-first” approach currently used by social media platforms. A filter-first approach recognizes that absent special circumstances like spam, phishing, or criminal activity, social media companies do not have to ban anyone when they can give users the option to filter content instead. It’s an approach that takes power away from social media executives and gives it to users – something that Zuckerberg insists he is in favor of.

Opponents will argue that it reinforces partisan filter bubbles. But so does banning! The only difference is that with a filter-first approach, users at least have the option to seek out competing views. With a ban-first approach, there’s no way out of the bubble, at least within Facebook. Therefore, If your goal is to diminish filter bubbles, filter-first is still superior to ban-first.

It’s not a perfect fix to censorship. There would be raging disputes over what kind of content gets thrown into the “hateful,” “offensive,” and “fake news” categories. There would be demands for new categories and new filters. And it would only work if Facebook also commits to transparency, informing users when their content has been categorized and why.

Filter-first would be an immense improvement over the current situation, in which social media companies, using vaguely defined community guidelines, can arbitrarily ban content across their entire platforms. Using this approach, Facebook could only limit content for the small minority of users who have opted-in to a digital safe space.

An ideal solution would be if deliberately vague, politically charged terms like “hate speech” were retired from public discourse altogether, but it will take years, possibly decades of social activism for that to be achieved. In the meantime, this approach would ensure that the snowflakes can have a safe, filtered, Disneyfied experience, while the adults of Facebook are allowed to carry on their conversations in peace.

Of course, Zuckerberg will not introduce such a feature voluntarily, even if he wanted to. Corporations, as Sen. Tim Scott pointed out last week, have turned against the constitution, including the first amendment. If Facebook reduces restrictions on hate speech or offensive material, they would immediately be hit with an advertiser boycott along the lines of the YouTube “adpocalypse.”

On this rare occasion, the government can help. If Congress passes a law mandating a filter-first approach for dominant social media platforms, the Silicon Valley CEOs can simply tell their advertisers: “Sorry, Congress made us do it.” Advertiser boycotts against a social media platform are pointless if the government makes it impossible for them to get their way.

Lawmakers won’t act without pressure from the grassroots, of course. Republicans are instinctively reluctant to regulate private companies, while Democrats want more censorship on social media, not less. But Congress still responds to voters: many of the Republicans who questioned Zuckerberg about censorship last week said that it was their constituents who had first raised the issue with them.

As with most good things in politics, the restoration of free speech on social media will only come about when voters demand it – loudly.

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar has requested leave from her teaching duties this spring, according to her Twitter account and information provided to Breitbart News by the university.

Jarrar, a professor of English at Fresno State, is facing quite the backlash after she published several tweets celebrating the death of former First Lady Barbara Bush.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F**k outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday.

In a separate tweet, Jarrar said that the news made her “happy” because Barbara Bush’s death likely made George W. Bush upset.

After Jarrar’s tweet invoked a tidal wave of responses, the professor bragged that she could never be fired because she had tenure.

“Sweetie i work as a tenured professor,” she tweeted at one user. “I make 100K a year doing that. i will never be fired. i will always have people wanting to hear what i have to say. even you are one of them!”

Following the backlash, Jarrar set her Twitter account to private. She edited her Twitter biography to add the line: “currently on leave from Fresno State.”

In a comment to Breitbart News, Fresno State said that Professor Jarrar has “requested a leave” for the spring semester and will not be teaching classes.

In a public statement, Fresno State President Joseph Castro said that he was concerned by the remarks Jarrar made about Bush on Twitter.

On behalf of Fresno State, I extend my deepest condolences to the Bush family on the loss of our former First Lady, Barbara Bush. We share the deep concerns expressed by others over the personal comments made today by professor Randa Jarrar, a professor in the English Department at Fresno State. Her statements were made as a private citizen, not as a representative at Fresno State. Professor Jarrar’s expressed personal views and commentary are obviously contrary to the core values of our University, which include respect and empathy for individuals with divergent points of view, and a sincere commitment to mutual understanding and progress.

This is not the first incident at Fresno State featuring a crazed professor. In November, Fresno State Professor Gregory Thatcher was forced by a court to pay a $17,000 fine after he was caught on camera erasing the chalk messages of a pro-life student group.Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar has requested leave from her teaching duties this spring, according to her Twitter account and information provided to Breitbart News by the university.

Jarrar, a professor of English at Fresno State, is facing quite the backlash after she published several tweets celebrating the death of former First Lady Barbara Bush.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F**k outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday.

In a separate tweet, Jarrar said that the news made her “happy” because Barbara Bush’s death likely made George W. Bush upset.

After Jarrar’s tweet invoked a tidal wave of responses, the professor bragged that she could never be fired because she had tenure.

“Sweetie i work as a tenured professor,” she tweeted at one user. “I make 100K a year doing that. i will never be fired. i will always have people wanting to hear what i have to say. even you are one of them!”

Following the backlash, Jarrar set her Twitter account to private. She edited her Twitter biography to add the line: “currently on leave from Fresno State.”

In a comment to Breitbart News, Fresno State said that Professor Jarrar has “requested a leave” for the spring semester and will not be teaching classes.

In a public statement, Fresno State President Joseph Castro said that he was concerned by the remarks Jarrar made about Bush on Twitter.

On behalf of Fresno State, I extend my deepest condolences to the Bush family on the loss of our former First Lady, Barbara Bush. We share the deep concerns expressed by others over the personal comments made today by professor Randa Jarrar, a professor in the English Department at Fresno State. Her statements were made as a private citizen, not as a representative at Fresno State. Professor Jarrar’s expressed personal views and commentary are obviously contrary to the core values of our University, which include respect and empathy for individuals with divergent points of view, and a sincere commitment to mutual understanding and progress.

This is not the first incident at Fresno State featuring a crazed professor. In November, Fresno State Professor Gregory Thatcher was forced by a court to pay a $17,000 fine after he was caught on camera erasing the chalk messages of a pro-life student group.President Donald Trump promised his administration would continue to be “very tough” of the communist regime of Cuba and its Venezuelan proxy in an exclusive Spanish-language interview with Univisión during his visit to Hialeah, Florida, on Monday.

Trump visited Hialeah—a working class, majority Cuban-American community—to promote job creation in the country’s Latin American community.

Sitting down with Univisión 23’s Ninoska Pérez Castellón, Trump agreed with the interviewer that the promotion of CIA director Mike Pompeo to the Secretary of State position and the replacement of H.R. McMaster with new National Security Advisor John Bolton were a sign that his administration was preparing to get tougher on human rights violators.

“John has worked very well, is very in favor of the struggle in Cuba and Venezuela for justice,” Trump told Pérez. “The governments have been very unjust to the people there, as you know. [Former President Barack] Obama gave it all up, I have recovered that. We have been very tough on Cuba because we want the people to have freedom.”

Trump lamented that many Americans “don’t even know” the suffering of the Cuban people and the diaspora following the 1959 revolution, and expressed gratitude for the support that the largely conservative Cuban- and Venezuelan-American communities. “As you know, I have great support from the Cuban people here, and from the Venezuelans, we have been very strong regarding Venezuela.”

“We are in the process of doing even more,” Trump promised. “We have this very much under control.”

President Trump has been consistent for decades in supporting the Cuban exile community. While he has not helped Cuban refugees fleeing political persecution stay legally in the United States—Trump has not overturned President Obama’s repeal of the “wet foot/dry foot” policy, which some Cubans alleged was a move to punish Cubans for supporting Trump—he has delivered a variety of speeches promising support for the community.

The Trump administration more broadly has repeatedly promised support for both victims of the Cuban and Venezuelan regimes.

Last weekend, speaking at the Summit of the Americas, Vice President Mike Pence urged attendees—of which President Trump was not one—to help bring about regime change in both countries.

“As we speak, a tired communist regime continues to impoverish its people and deny their most fundamental rights in Cuba,” Pence said. “The Castro regime has systematically sapped the wealth of a great nation and stolen the lives of a proud people. Our administration has taken decisive action to stand with the Cuban people, and stand up to their oppressors.”

“No longer will the United States fund Cuba’s military, security and intelligence services—the core of that despotic regime. And the United States will continue to support the Cuban people as they stand and call for freedom,” he vowed.

Of Venezuela, Pence said, “In Venezuela, as in Cuba, the tragedy of tyranny is on full display. As this body knows well, Venezuela was one of our hemisphere’s richest nations once, and not too long ago. It is now among the poorest.”

The Cuban regime has currently begun a process to replace Raúl Castro in the largely ceremonial post of “president,” while the dictator will remain the head of the Communist Party, constitutionally the most powerful political entity in the country. The U.S. State Department expressed pessimism at the idea that the transition will result in greater freedom for the Cuban people.

“As we watch what’s taken place at the Cuba national assembly, we certainly see that that’s not a democratic transition. So when we see that something is not a democratic transition, that’s of great concern to us,” State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert told reporters during a regular press briefing on Tuesday. “We would like citizens to be able to have a say in their political outcomes, and this certainly does not seem like regular folks will have a say.”

“We hope that Cuba’s new president will listen to the Cuban people. We’re not sure that that’s going to happen,” Nauert added.

The likely successor to Raúl Castro is current Vice President Miguel Díaz-Canel, a hardline communist who has openly admitted to keeping opposition voices out of the nation’s legislature and condemned moves to improve relations with the United States.

In addition to recent statements from Trump officials, the Trump National Security Strategy (NSS) specifically identified Cuba and Venezuela as threats.

“In Venezuela and Cuba, governments cling to anachronistic leftist authoritarian models that continue to fail their people,” the NSS warned. “Competitors have found operating space in the hemisphere. China seeks to pull the region into its orbit through state-led investments and loans. Russia continues its failed politics of the Cold War by bolstering its radical Cuban allies as Cuba continues to repress its citizens.”

Trump’s largest event addressing the Cuban and Venezuelan crises occurred last year in Miami, where he announced a complete pivot away from President Obama’s conciliatory policies towards the Castro regime. At that event, Trump made sure to place prominent victims of Havana’s violent policies front and center, including the families of the U.S. citizens killed by Cuban pilots in 1994 while working for Brothers to the Rescue, an independent group conducting rescue operations for Cubans attemping to reach the United States via makeshift rafts.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.President Donald Trump promised his administration would continue to be “very tough” of the communist regime of Cuba and its Venezuelan proxy in an exclusive Spanish-language interview with Univisión during his visit to Hialeah, Florida, on Monday.

Trump visited Hialeah—a working class, majority Cuban-American community—to promote job creation in the country’s Latin American community.

Sitting down with Univisión 23’s Ninoska Pérez Castellón, Trump agreed with the interviewer that the promotion of CIA director Mike Pompeo to the Secretary of State position and the replacement of H.R. McMaster with new National Security Advisor John Bolton were a sign that his administration was preparing to get tougher on human rights violators.

“John has worked very well, is very in favor of the struggle in Cuba and Venezuela for justice,” Trump told Pérez. “The governments have been very unjust to the people there, as you know. [Former President Barack] Obama gave it all up, I have recovered that. We have been very tough on Cuba because we want the people to have freedom.”

Trump lamented that many Americans “don’t even know” the suffering of the Cuban people and the diaspora following the 1959 revolution, and expressed gratitude for the support that the largely conservative Cuban- and Venezuelan-American communities. “As you know, I have great support from the Cuban people here, and from the Venezuelans, we have been very strong regarding Venezuela.”

“We are in the process of doing even more,” Trump promised. “We have this very much under control.”

President Trump has been consistent for decades in supporting the Cuban exile community. While he has not helped Cuban refugees fleeing political persecution stay legally in the United States—Trump has not overturned President Obama’s repeal of the “wet foot/dry foot” policy, which some Cubans alleged was a move to punish Cubans for supporting Trump—he has delivered a variety of speeches promising support for the community.

The Trump administration more broadly has repeatedly promised support for both victims of the Cuban and Venezuelan regimes.

Last weekend, speaking at the Summit of the Americas, Vice President Mike Pence urged attendees—of which President Trump was not one—to help bring about regime change in both countries.

“As we speak, a tired communist regime continues to impoverish its people and deny their most fundamental rights in Cuba,” Pence said. “The Castro regime has systematically sapped the wealth of a great nation and stolen the lives of a proud people. Our administration has taken decisive action to stand with the Cuban people, and stand up to their oppressors.”

“No longer will the United States fund Cuba’s military, security and intelligence services—the core of that despotic regime. And the United States will continue to support the Cuban people as they stand and call for freedom,” he vowed.

Of Venezuela, Pence said, “In Venezuela, as in Cuba, the tragedy of tyranny is on full display. As this body knows well, Venezuela was one of our hemisphere’s richest nations once, and not too long ago. It is now among the poorest.”

The Cuban regime has currently begun a process to replace Raúl Castro in the largely ceremonial post of “president,” while the dictator will remain the head of the Communist Party, constitutionally the most powerful political entity in the country. The U.S. State Department expressed pessimism at the idea that the transition will result in greater freedom for the Cuban people.

“As we watch what’s taken place at the Cuba national assembly, we certainly see that that’s not a democratic transition. So when we see that something is not a democratic transition, that’s of great concern to us,” State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert told reporters during a regular press briefing on Tuesday. “We would like citizens to be able to have a say in their political outcomes, and this certainly does not seem like regular folks will have a say.”

“We hope that Cuba’s new president will listen to the Cuban people. We’re not sure that that’s going to happen,” Nauert added.

The likely successor to Raúl Castro is current Vice President Miguel Díaz-Canel, a hardline communist who has openly admitted to keeping opposition voices out of the nation’s legislature and condemned moves to improve relations with the United States.

In addition to recent statements from Trump officials, the Trump National Security Strategy (NSS) specifically identified Cuba and Venezuela as threats.

“In Venezuela and Cuba, governments cling to anachronistic leftist authoritarian models that continue to fail their people,” the NSS warned. “Competitors have found operating space in the hemisphere. China seeks to pull the region into its orbit through state-led investments and loans. Russia continues its failed politics of the Cold War by bolstering its radical Cuban allies as Cuba continues to repress its citizens.”

Trump’s largest event addressing the Cuban and Venezuelan crises occurred last year in Miami, where he announced a complete pivot away from President Obama’s conciliatory policies towards the Castro regime. At that event, Trump made sure to place prominent victims of Havana’s violent policies front and center, including the families of the U.S. citizens killed by Cuban pilots in 1994 while working for Brothers to the Rescue, an independent group conducting rescue operations for Cubans attemping to reach the United States via makeshift rafts.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.(POLITICO) STOCKHOLM — Sweden may be known for its popular music, IKEA and a generous welfare state. It is also increasingly associated with a rising number of Islamic State recruits, bombings and hand grenade attacks.

In a period of two weeks earlier this year, five explosions took place in the country. It’s not unusual these days — Swedes have grown accustomed to headlines of violent crime, witness intimidation and gangland executions. In a country long renowned for its safety, voters cite “law and order” as the most important issue ahead of the general election in September.

The topic of crime is sensitive, however, and debate about the issue in the consensus-oriented Scandinavian society is restricted by taboos.

You can read the rest of this article on the POLITICO website here.(POLITICO) STOCKHOLM — Sweden may be known for its popular music, IKEA and a generous welfare state. It is also increasingly associated with a rising number of Islamic State recruits, bombings and hand grenade attacks.

In a period of two weeks earlier this year, five explosions took place in the country. It’s not unusual these days — Swedes have grown accustomed to headlines of violent crime, witness intimidation and gangland executions. In a country long renowned for its safety, voters cite “law and order” as the most important issue ahead of the general election in September.

The topic of crime is sensitive, however, and debate about the issue in the consensus-oriented Scandinavian society is restricted by taboos.

You can read the rest of this article on the POLITICO website here.An illegal immigrant from Albania who used a fake ID to get a kidney transplant, costing the National Health Service (NHS) more than £72,000, has been imprisoned.

Fatmira Tafa, 31, came to Britain in 2014 in the back of a lorry to be with a man she met on the internet.

Nadricim Bengasi, also an illegal immigrant, gave Tafa a falsified Greek ID in the name of Eleni Manola, so that she could pose as a European Union citizen and gain access to British benefits and services, reports WalesOnline.

It was while living in Cardiff, Wales, that she became ill and received treatment and a kidney transplant on the NHS at University Hospital Wales in October 2016, costing the hospital a total of £72,469.

As an Albanian citizen, she would have been placed on dialysis, stabilised, and returned to Albania — but, posing as an EU citizen, she gained access to Wales’s organ waiting list, depriving a British person of the life-saving operation.

Britain’s Left Demands NHS Serves the World, Is Actually INTERNATIONAL Health Service

https://t.co/emW43wg2cS — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 30, 2017

The crime only came to light after Tafa’s boyfriend had been deported and she told medical staff at a check-up that she had defrauded the NHS.

Tafa then lodged an asylum application with the Home Office, which is still pending.

In Wales in 2015/16, there were 242 patients waiting for a vital organ transplant — up 10 per cent from two years before — and 27 people died waiting.

Last year, the NHS reported that across the whole of the United Kingdom, waiting time for a kidney transplant was down by 18 per cent, but patients were still having to wait 944 days — more than two and a half years.

The taxpayer-funded health service also noted that since the previous World Kidney Day, 62 per cent of patients who have died waiting for an organ transplant were waiting for a kidney.

“Health tourism” continues to cost the UK taxpayer around £2 billion a year, with one non-EU citizen leaving a Manchester hospital with a £530,000 bill.

However, Tafa’s prison term will last only 14 months — and she may spend only a fraction of this in custody rather than on license in the community — with Judge Jeremy Jenkins telling her the court had “great sympathy” for her.

Whistleblowing Medics Expose EU Health Tourists Bleeding NHS Dry https://t.co/xkzXfrWGgK pic.twitter.com/pWmzG3yb1q — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) February 2, 2016

It is not just non-EU citizens who are short-changing Britons. Figures obtained from the Department of Health through Freedom of Information requests showed that the United Kingdom paid out over £630 million to EU and other European Economic Area countries like Norway for Britons’ health care abroad under supposedly reciprocal rules.

However, the UK claimed back only a little under £66.5 million from EU/EEA countries for NHS treatment — a discrepancy of some £564 million, or £11 million a week.

Twitter Follow @friedmanpress Follow Victoria Friedman onAn illegal immigrant from Albania who used a fake ID to get a kidney transplant, costing the National Health Service (NHS) more than £72,000, has been imprisoned.

Fatmira Tafa, 31, came to Britain in 2014 in the back of a lorry to be with a man she met on the internet.

Nadricim Bengasi, also an illegal immigrant, gave Tafa a falsified Greek ID in the name of Eleni Manola, so that she could pose as a European Union citizen and gain access to British benefits and services, reports WalesOnline.

It was while living in Cardiff, Wales, that she became ill and received treatment and a kidney transplant on the NHS at University Hospital Wales in October 2016, costing the hospital a total of £72,469.

As an Albanian citizen, she would have been placed on dialysis, stabilised, and returned to Albania — but, posing as an EU citizen, she gained access to Wales’s organ waiting list, depriving a British person of the life-saving operation.

Britain’s Left Demands NHS Serves the World, Is Actually INTERNATIONAL Health Service

https://t.co/emW43wg2cS — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 30, 2017

The crime only came to light after Tafa’s boyfriend had been deported and she told medical staff at a check-up that she had defrauded the NHS.

Tafa then lodged an asylum application with the Home Office, which is still pending.

In Wales in 2015/16, there were 242 patients waiting for a vital organ transplant — up 10 per cent from two years before — and 27 people died waiting.

Last year, the NHS reported that across the whole of the United Kingdom, waiting time for a kidney transplant was down by 18 per cent, but patients were still having to wait 944 days — more than two and a half years.

The taxpayer-funded health service also noted that since the previous World Kidney Day, 62 per cent of patients who have died waiting for an organ transplant were waiting for a kidney.

“Health tourism” continues to cost the UK taxpayer around £2 billion a year, with one non-EU citizen leaving a Manchester hospital with a £530,000 bill.

However, Tafa’s prison term will last only 14 months — and she may spend only a fraction of this in custody rather than on license in the community — with Judge Jeremy Jenkins telling her the court had “great sympathy” for her.

Whistleblowing Medics Expose EU Health Tourists Bleeding NHS Dry https://t.co/xkzXfrWGgK pic.twitter.com/pWmzG3yb1q — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) February 2, 2016

It is not just non-EU citizens who are short-changing Britons. Figures obtained from the Department of Health through Freedom of Information requests showed that the United Kingdom paid out over £630 million to EU and other European Economic Area countries like Norway for Britons’ health care abroad under supposedly reciprocal rules.

However, the UK claimed back only a little under £66.5 million from EU/EEA countries for NHS treatment — a discrepancy of some £564 million, or £11 million a week.

Twitter Follow @friedmanpress Follow Victoria Friedman onWednesday on Fox Business Network’s “Mornings with Maria,” former President George W. Bush said some people had forgotten the lessons of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.

Bartiromo asked, “As we see what’s happening in the world today from North Korea and Syria we still have these radicals trying to undo who we are, your thoughts on what to do and how to respond to what’s happening.”

Bush replied, “People are forgetting the lessons of 9/11. And one of the major lessons of 9/11 is the human condition elsewhere matters to our national security. It’s in our nation’s interest for women to be successful in the Middle East for example, or for civil society to take hold. Because it’s with civil society and people having a say in the future of their governments that the foundation for peace is laid.”

He added, “So my thoughts are, remember the lessons of 9/11.”

(h/t WFB)

Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNENWednesday on Fox Business Network’s “Mornings with Maria,” former President George W. Bush said some people had forgotten the lessons of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.

Bartiromo asked, “As we see what’s happening in the world today from North Korea and Syria we still have these radicals trying to undo who we are, your thoughts on what to do and how to respond to what’s happening.”

Bush replied, “People are forgetting the lessons of 9/11. And one of the major lessons of 9/11 is the human condition elsewhere matters to our national security. It’s in our nation’s interest for women to be successful in the Middle East for example, or for civil society to take hold. Because it’s with civil society and people having a say in the future of their governments that the foundation for peace is laid.”

He added, “So my thoughts are, remember the lessons of 9/11.”

(h/t WFB)

Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNENNorth Korea’s state media outlets, which have remained largely silent on talks for an in-person meeting between communist dictator Kim Jong-un and U.S. President Donald Trump, did not disclose on Wednesday the news that CIA Director Mike Pompeo met Kim personally in Pyongyang.

Pompeo, who Trump nominated to replace Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State, reportedly met with Kim over Easter weekend to lay the groundwork for Kim’s meeting with the president. Yet North Korea’s government-controlled media – the only media in the country – have yet to report that Kim and Trump are preparing a meeting at all.

On Wednesday, the state newspaper Rodong Sinmun instead published its usual communist propaganda. In an article titled “Let Us Glorify Socialist Country of Juche, Patriotic Heritage of President Kim Il Sung,” the newspaper urges the nation to vigorously embrace the “self-reliance” (juche) ideology that has led it to repression, starvation, and decades of unfathomable state violence. In honor of founder Kim Il-sung’s birthday (“when the sun of juche rose”), Rodong suggested that Koreans “glorify their socialist country as the country of the President forever by conveying his benevolence generation after generation.”

North Korea “is enjoying only victories and glory century after century as there is the heritage associated with the whole patriotic life of the great leader,” the article asserts. “Our socialist country in which the people’s beautiful dream and idea come true is the crystal of warm loving care shown by the President for the people.”

In other articles, Rodong Sinmun and the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), a sort of newswire service run by the regime, boast of their ties to other communist and socialist dictatorships, like Cuba and Venezuela. The outlets also report on Kim Jong-un’s recent meetings with Chinese leaders.

This week, Kim met with Song Tao, identified as “head of the International Liaison Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.” Song was in Pyongyang with a Chinese art troupe sent as a gesture of diplomatic goodwill to perform for Kim. Kim threw a dinner party for Song and the Chinese delegation, which KCNA reports “proceeded in an intimate and amicable atmosphere as it took place together with Chinese comrades who came into genuine feelings and became more familiar with Korean people.”

The absence of any news regarding Kim’s upcoming meeting with Trump, which the U.S. president suggested will likely occur in early June, means that the North Korean people do not know that Kim is planning an unprecedented encounter with the man his regime regularly vilifies as the head of an evil capitalist empire.

It also means that North Koreans do not know that Kim welcomed American officials into his midst this month. Reports revealed on Tuesday that Pompeo visited Pyongyang on Easter weekend and met with Kim in a secret visit. According to Trump, Pompeo’s visit “went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed.” Trump also said Tuesday that the list of settings his meeting with Kim has been narrowed down to five locations, although he did not disclose who the candidates are.

While North Korea may have been receptive to Pompeo, reports indicate Kim’s regime is not yet in a position to fully trust Washington. South Korea’s conservative-leaning Chosun Ilbo reports Wednesday that Trump’s decision to conduct airstrikes against North Korean ally Bashar al-Assad in Syria has given Pyongyang “the jitters” and triggered “heavy pressure” on Kim to toe the line on behavior that violates international law and may prompt a similar military response.

North Korea is one of the world’s most prolific international law violators, regularly repressing the human rights of its people and running an illegal nuclear weapons program.

Before Kim meets Trump, he will have to go through Moon Jae-in, the leftist president of South Korea. Moon and Kim are scheduled to meet in a Korean border town on the south side on April 27. There, reports in South Korean media indicate, the two sides will attempt to sign a peace agreement. The Korean war technically never ended, as neither side surrendered or signed an accord.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.North Korea’s state media outlets, which have remained largely silent on talks for an in-person meeting between communist dictator Kim Jong-un and U.S. President Donald Trump, did not disclose on Wednesday the news that CIA Director Mike Pompeo met Kim personally in Pyongyang.

Pompeo, who Trump nominated to replace Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State, reportedly met with Kim over Easter weekend to lay the groundwork for Kim’s meeting with the president. Yet North Korea’s government-controlled media – the only media in the country – have yet to report that Kim and Trump are preparing a meeting at all.

On Wednesday, the state newspaper Rodong Sinmun instead published its usual communist propaganda. In an article titled “Let Us Glorify Socialist Country of Juche, Patriotic Heritage of President Kim Il Sung,” the newspaper urges the nation to vigorously embrace the “self-reliance” (juche) ideology that has led it to repression, starvation, and decades of unfathomable state violence. In honor of founder Kim Il-sung’s birthday (“when the sun of juche rose”), Rodong suggested that Koreans “glorify their socialist country as the country of the President forever by conveying his benevolence generation after generation.”

North Korea “is enjoying only victories and glory century after century as there is the heritage associated with the whole patriotic life of the great leader,” the article asserts. “Our socialist country in which the people’s beautiful dream and idea come true is the crystal of warm loving care shown by the President for the people.”

In other articles, Rodong Sinmun and the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), a sort of newswire service run by the regime, boast of their ties to other communist and socialist dictatorships, like Cuba and Venezuela. The outlets also report on Kim Jong-un’s recent meetings with Chinese leaders.

This week, Kim met with Song Tao, identified as “head of the International Liaison Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.” Song was in Pyongyang with a Chinese art troupe sent as a gesture of diplomatic goodwill to perform for Kim. Kim threw a dinner party for Song and the Chinese delegation, which KCNA reports “proceeded in an intimate and amicable atmosphere as it took place together with Chinese comrades who came into genuine feelings and became more familiar with Korean people.”

The absence of any news regarding Kim’s upcoming meeting with Trump, which the U.S. president suggested will likely occur in early June, means that the North Korean people do not know that Kim is planning an unprecedented encounter with the man his regime regularly vilifies as the head of an evil capitalist empire.

It also means that North Koreans do not know that Kim welcomed American officials into his midst this month. Reports revealed on Tuesday that Pompeo visited Pyongyang on Easter weekend and met with Kim in a secret visit. According to Trump, Pompeo’s visit “went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed.” Trump also said Tuesday that the list of settings his meeting with Kim has been narrowed down to five locations, although he did not disclose who the candidates are.

While North Korea may have been receptive to Pompeo, reports indicate Kim’s regime is not yet in a position to fully trust Washington. South Korea’s conservative-leaning Chosun Ilbo reports Wednesday that Trump’s decision to conduct airstrikes against North Korean ally Bashar al-Assad in Syria has given Pyongyang “the jitters” and triggered “heavy pressure” on Kim to toe the line on behavior that violates international law and may prompt a similar military response.

North Korea is one of the world’s most prolific international law violators, regularly repressing the human rights of its people and running an illegal nuclear weapons program.

Before Kim meets Trump, he will have to go through Moon Jae-in, the leftist president of South Korea. Moon and Kim are scheduled to meet in a Korean border town on the south side on April 27. There, reports in South Korean media indicate, the two sides will attempt to sign a peace agreement. The Korean war technically never ended, as neither side surrendered or signed an accord.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is under increasing pressure to face European Union lawmakers over the recent privacy scandal that has engulfed his company.

The President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, has called on Zuckerberg to appear for questioning, adding that sending another executive would not be sufficient.

“Let me also stress that one of the Parliament’s future priorities will be to reinforce the regulatory framework to ensure a well-functioning digital market with high-level protection for our citizens,” he wrote in a letter to Facebook.

The body’s Justice Commissioner, Vera Jourova, also urged Zuckerberg to attend the parliament following a conversation with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg.

“This case is too important to treat as business as usual,” Jourova said this week. “I advised Sheryl Sandberg that Zuckerberg should accept the invitation from the European Parliament. [EU digital chief] Andrius Ansip refers to the invitation as a measure of rebuilding trust.”

Manfred Weber, leader of the right-wing European People’s Party (EPP) bloc, also urged Zuckerberg not to “underestimate” the parliament’s capacity to impose stricter data regulation.

“He must not underestimate the capacity of the European Parliament to do actions against Facebook and against him as CEO of Facebook.”

The calls follow the major scandal at the company over their selling of data to Cambridge Analytica, which is estimated to have affected around three million Europeans.

Last week, Zuckerberg testified before the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees, where he faced hundreds of questions on issues such as privacy, censorship, and monopolization.

Other countries including the United Kingdom, Australia, and the Philippines are also investigating Facebook over the scandal, which is believed to have affected around 87 million users.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comFormer Google employee Manuel Amador is one of three men who have joined James Damore’s class-action lawsuit against Google. He alleges a workplace in which “hostile, retaliatory, and oppressive conduct” would occur, and that ultimately he was “blacklisted” from future employment with the Silicon Valley giant.

According to the lawsuit, Amador, who joined Google as a Systems Engineer, eventually left the company after being asked to apologize for something he did not say.

Despite being faced with such hostility, Amador continued to voice his opinions, in direct defiance of those at Google that seek to silence and expel all opposing viewpoints. The culture of intolerance, however, eventually became too much for Amador to bear. In or around June 2016, Amador was called to a meeting with Google HR as a result of someone falsely accusing Amador of believing that people have differing levels of intelligence based on that person’s race. Amador has never thought that, does not believe it to be true, and has never written or spoken as if he believed it to be true. This false complaint was filed by an anonymous complainant as means to stifle Amador’s political activities and conversations at Google, was done to harass Amador on the basis of his race and/or gender, and resulted in Amador receiving a letter from Google reprimanding Amador. Despite the complaint being entirely fabricated, Google sided with the harassers and asked that Amador issue an apology. At that point, Amador felt compelled to leave Google as a result of the hostile work environment created by, and left unchecked at, Google. To stay at Google brought with it an unacceptably high risk that Amador’s personal and professional reputation would be permanently tarnished by those at Google bent on suppressing and expelling those who hold viewpoints different from their own, Google-disfavored races, and/or males. By demanding that Amador apologize over a falsified complaint, Google sent a clear message that it would allow and enable such hostile, retaliatory, and oppressive conduct to occur unchecked.

Amador then released an open letter following his departure.

In his written notice of resignation to Google’s Adam Iwanicki and Brian Kennan, Amador stated that though he profoundly appreciated his involvement on his team, “the way in which [Amador] ha[s] been repeatedly treated by other members of the company (including H.R.) in response to [Amador] speaking up on a variety of subjects, ranging from political events to workplace conditions, ha[s] made [Amador’s] stay at Google too stressful….” Amador also released an open letter in which Amador said “goodbye” to Google and identified his reasons for leaving. Specifically, Amador wrote that “Google employs a few individuals (from rank-and-file to upper management) who are or have become highly ideological. They have made it one of their ostensible missions to have the entire company conform to these ideologies. Most

of them believe that all of us – me and many others included – should not be permitted to impugn or question the ideologies they want to impose.” Amador’s letter further elaborates on the politically-charged monoculture that is hostile to certain viewpoints, including conservatism and libertarianism: “many people (including me) have faced contempt, opprobrium, insults, smears, provocations, threats of industry blacklisting, and even frivolous H.R. reports that influence my career (and many others’), in retaliation for voicing my mind. The tone of this treatment was always particularly intense whenever I dared to question the set of ideologies that I found incorrect, toxic or divisive. I have been slurred as a racist, a sexist and ‘privileged,’ in direct contradiction to the content of my thoughts…I have been directly ordered by senior management to ‘stop posting immediately’ on a thread where I had managed to give other Googlers the impression that it was okay to discuss a common myth about free speech.” As a result of this hostility, Amador was forced to leave Google. After his departure, Amador received a written letter from Google, signed by Manuel Chiatello, from Google’s Human Resources Management, and Adam Iwanicki, Google’s Site Reliability Manager, recommending to any prospective employer that Amador be hired. The letter identifies what Google believed to be several of Amador’s strengths as an employee, including his ability to “integrate into the different types of activities he was involved in,” “good planning capabilities and sound judgment,” “good organizational skills,” his ability to cope with “high volumes of work,” and that “Manuel was friendly, open and tactful with superiors and colleagues. His personal behavior was respectable. He was a reliable colleague. The quality of his work met our requirements.” Thereafter, Amador was hired by another tech company in Switzerland.

However, when Amador later reapplied to Google, the company allegedly refused, while another employee at Google informed him he had been “blacklisted.”

It is Google’s custom and practice to rehire former employees who voluntarily left their jobs at Google, pursuant to simplified, streamlined rehiring procedures. For example, a former employee wishing to return to his recently vacated position needs only to contact that employee’s former supervisor, request to be rehired, and if the position is available, the employee will be rehired without any formal interview process. Accordingly, Amador understood and reasonably believed that he could and would be rehired for the same or substantially similar role as his former position at Google. A former colleague, friend, and current Google employee (referred hereinafter as “Amador’s friend”), also referred and recommended to Google that Amador be rehired as a systems engineer, a position Amador is amply qualified for, including because he performed identical or substantially similar work for Google for approximately three years and he had met all expectations during that time. In or around April 2017, Amador applied for the position of systems engineer at three of Google’s offices, including Mountain View, California. On April 18, 2017, Google recruiter Taylor Rosser (“Rosser”) emailed Amador, informing him that, despite another Google employee referring him for the position, after “carefully reviewing [Amador’s] background and experience,” Google would not be proceeding with Amador’s application.

After Amador asked why his application had been rejected, Rosser allegedly evaded his questions.Fresno State President Joseph I. Castro expressed “deep concerns” on Tuesday over a series of pejorative tweets issued by Professor Randa Jarrar in reaction to former First Lady Barbara Bush’s death.

Bush passed away on Tuesday. She as 92.

“On behalf of Fresno State, I extend my deepest condolences to the Bush family on the loss of our former First Lady Barbara Bush,” Castro wrote in a public statement. “We share the deep concerns expressed by others over the personal comments made today by Professor Randa Jarrar, a professor in the English Department at Fresno State.”

Statement by @Fresno_State President @JosephICastro regarding tweets made today by a faculty member: pic.twitter.com/h3ZbQyMmxd — Fresno State (@Fresno_State) April 18, 2018

Jarrar, who teaches in the English department, tweeted on Tuesday that the former First Lady “was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal.” She added, “Fuck outta here with your nice words.”

In his statement, Castro added, “Professor Jarrar’s expressed personal views and commentary are obviously contrary to the core values of our university, which include respect and empathy for individuals with divergent points of view, and a sincere commitment to mutual understanding and progress.”

According to the Fresno Bee, Jarrar encouraged her critics to tag Castro in tweets, and wrote, “What I love about being an American professor is my right to free speech, and what I love about Fresno State is that I always feel protected and at home here. GO BULLDOGS!”

Jarrar reportedly taunted her critics by writing that she is a is a tenured professor and makes $100,000 a year and said, “I will never be fired.”

Jarrar’s Twitter account says she is “Currently on leave from Fresno State.”

Fresno State told Breitbart News that Professor Jarrar has “requested a leave” for the spring semester and will not be teaching classes.

Bush received accolades or praise and respect from leaders across the political spectrum:

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4OW72iddQx — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit & grace, brains & beauty. She was fierce & feisty in support of her family & friends, her country & her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory. — Bill Clinton (@BillClinton) April 17, 2018

Our statement on the passing of Former First Lady Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/MhTVYCL9Nj — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) April 18, 2018

Tonight is a sad night for America. First Lady Barbara Bush will be remembered for the dignity, civility & spirit she brought to every thing she did. But most of all, everyone who knew Mrs. Bush saw her immense love for & pride in her family. pic.twitter.com/bDrauy3U67 — Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) April 18, 2018

Barbara Bush holds a revered place in the hearts of generations of Americans. She so loved her family and our country. She led both with clarity and character. To Mrs. Bush’s family, I extend the deepest condolences of the whole House. May she rest in eternal peace. pic.twitter.com/Jy7zifU7gK — Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) April 18, 2018

Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.Sen. Tom Cotton blasted some of his Democrat colleagues for their stated opposition to confirming Mike Pompeo as secretary of state.

The senator praised Pompeo’s successful trip to North Korea during Easter weekend, which the Washington Post reported Tuesday.

During a call with White House reporters, Cotton ridiculed Senate Democrats for suggesting Pompeo was “too bellicose” and not committed to diplomacy.

“There’s not many worse regimes than North Korea on the face of this earth, and to sit down with this leader and try to find a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula, just shows that he is committed to diplomacy,” he said.

Cotton also lightly criticized Sen. Rand Paul for his opposition to Pompeo’s nomination despite support from President Trump.

“Sen. Paul has unusual foreign policy views that are not representative of the Republican Senate Caucus,” he said.

Counselor to the president, Kellyanne Conway, said Pompeo was already a trusted adviser to the president for a number of international issues, which is why he had the confidence of the White House.

Cotton pointed out that Pompeo was already “invested” in the negotiations with North Korea and that it would be a bad sign for diplomacy if Democrats chose to block his nomination.

The senator would not comment when Breitbart News asked him if members of the Senate Intelligence Committee were briefed about Pompeo’s trip.

Cotton signaled confidence that Pompeo would pass Senate confirmation next week, despite the Senate Intelligence Committee’s sending warning signs that it might not sign off on his nomination.

Sen. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, both Democrats, have indicated they will not support Pompeo.

“I am not concerned Mike Pompeo will be confirmed as secretary of state next week,” Cotton said.Havana (AFP) – Cuba said Wednesday it saw no justification for Canada’s decision to recall the families of its diplomatic staff on the island following a probe into an as-yet unexplained illness affecting US and Canadian envoys.

“The Cuban government respects the decision taken by the government of Canada but sees it as lacking any justification,” said a foreign ministry statement.

Ottawa on Monday announced the move, saying the families would be returning to Canada in the coming weeks. It said the number of staff and family members with symptoms had risen from eight to 10.

In total, 27 diplomats and family members were tested after complaining of dizziness, headaches, nausea, nosebleeds or sleeplessness between April and December last year.

Canadian and US authorities had initially suspected a “sonic attack” or a “mass psychosomatic incident” but that idea was later dismissed, with a senior Canadian official describing it as “unlikely”

“According to the Canadian government itself, there have been no reports of new incidents in more than six months, the cause being unknown, and no evidence which would suggest that Canadian travelers in Cuba are at risk,” the Cuban ministry’s statement said.

It said Havana would continue working with the Canadian authorities to find out what caused the ailments.

Canadian officials have said previously the situation does not warrant the closure of Canada’s mission in Havana, and Ottawa does not believe there are any risks for Canadian tourists.

Canada is the main source of tourists to the communist island, with more than a million visiting the island in 2017, ministry figures show.

In March, the US State Department said it will permanently scale back its mission to Cuba, which had already been operating with a reduced staff since September last year, when diplomats and relatives were evacuated because of the health incident.

In all, at least 24 US envoys and family members fell ill.Geneva (AFP) – The speaker of the Catalan parliament said Wednesday that new elections were not in the region’s “interest” while Spain persists in blocking a new president from taking office.

Separatist politician Roger Torrent speaking to reporters in Geneva, added that the best candidate for the job is Carles Puigdemont, the former regional president, who is in self-imposed exile.

“The scenario of elections is a scenario that, in my opinion, is not at all in the interest of Catalonia,” Torrent said, after discussing the Catalan situation with a senior official at the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights.

Catalonia has been in political limbo since Spain’s conservative central government imposed direct rule on the region after it unilaterally declared independence in October.

Separatist parties claimed the most seats in regional elections in December but the Catalan parliament has not sworn in a new regional president, with the three nominated candidates all facing rebellion charges.

“I think that this question should be put to the Spanish government and to the courts: How long will they continue to block (Catalonia’s president) from taking office?” Torrent said.

“It is the Spanish government and the institutions of the state, and in particular the courts, that are blocking the swearing-in from happening,” he said.

Fresh regional elections will be triggered if a new leader is not in place by May 22.

– ‘Puigdemont is the legitimate president’ –

Torrent said it was “normal” that Puigdemont, who is currently in Germany fighting extradition back to Spain, should stand as Catalan president.

“Mr Puigdemont is the legitimate president of Catalonia,” Torrent said in an interview with AFP.

“That’s why it is normal for him to present his candidacy for the presidency,” Torrent added.

However, Torrent stressed that it was not his job to propose candidates as that is the prerogative of Catalan’s parliamentary majority.

The current nominee, separatist leader Jordi Sanchez, is in prison.

Puigdemont, the first choice for the job, went into self-imposed exile after the independence bid.

Jordi Turull, the former regional government spokesman who was also nominated for the presidency, is also in jail.

The Spanish government of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy argues that the separatists are themselves to blame for the delay in naming a new Catalan president, by their failure to put up a candidate who is not embroiled in judicial problems.

Torrent meanwhile said he was “satisfied” with his UN meeting.

“There is a common concern about the threats to fundamental democratic rights, and, at the same time, there is a shared consensus about the need to find the means to find a political resolution to this conflict,” he said.

UN rights office spokeswoman Ravina Shamdashani confirmed the meeting but provided no details.April 18 (UPI) — Anne Archer, Fionnula Flanagan, Hal Linden and Joe Piscopo will guest star on the May 16 episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, NBC said Wednesday.

The episode takes place in an assisted living home where a resident — played by Lost alum Flanagan — with Alzheimer’s Disease reports she has been raped.

Fatal Attraction icon Archer plays a notorious actress connected to the case, while Barney Miller veteran Linden plays a man from the alleged victim’s past and former Saturday Night Live player Piscopo channels Frank Sinatra as an entertainer who works at the facility, a news release said.

“We were quadruple blessed with our guest stars on ‘Mama,’” executive producer and showrunner Michael Chernuchin said in a statement about the episode. “First, Joe Piscopo turned our set into a night club with Old Blue Eyes taking center stage. Then, Hal Linden, one of the all-time great TV police captains, discovered what it’s like to be on the other side of the interrogation table while rediscovering a 50-year-old love affair with the character played by the always brilliant Fionnula Flanagan. Finally, Anne Archer displays the unique talent that makes her true Hollywood royalty.”NORRISTOWN, Pa. (AP) — The Latest on Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial (all times local):

3:35 p.m.

A key defense witness says the chief accuser at Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial talked about framing a celebrity before going to police with her allegations in 2005.

Marguerite Jackson is testifying Wednesday at Cosby’s retrial in suburban Philadelphia. She says Andrea Constand spoke of the plot while they were rooming together on a road trip to Rhode Island with the Temple University women’s basketball team. Both women worked at Temple.

Jackson says Constand told her she’d been assaulted, then switched gears and said she could fabricate an account to “sue and get that money.”

Constand has accused Cosby of drugging and molesting her in 2004. His lawyers say she made up the story to extort a big civil settlement.

Constand has testified she didn’t “recall ever having a conversation with” Jackson.

___

3:20 p.m.

The star defense witness in Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial has taken the witness stand.

Marguerite Jackson began testifying Wednesday afternoon at the courthouse in Philadelphia.

Jackson has said Cosby’s chief accuser, Andrea Constand, once spoke of framing a “high-profile person” so she could file a lawsuit.

Constand testified Monday that she did not “recall ever having a conversation with” Jackson and denied a defense claim that she falsely accused Cosby as part of a get-rich scheme.

Cosby is charged with drugging and molesting Constand at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. He says she consented to a sexual encounter.

Constand sued Cosby in 2005 after prosecutors decided not to file criminal charges. The case was settled for nearly $3.4 million.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

1:30 p.m.

The star defense witness in Bill Cosby’s sexual assault retrial is getting ready to take the witness stand.

Cosby’s lawyers say Marguerite Jackson will testify Wednesday afternoon.

Jackson says Cosby’s chief accuser, Andrea Constand, once spoke of framing a “high-profile person” so she could file a lawsuit.

Constand testified Monday that she did not “recall ever having a conversation with” Jackson and denied a defense claim that she falsely accused Cosby as part of a get-rich scheme.

Cosby is charged with drugging and molesting Constand at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. He says she consented to a sexual encounter.

Constand sued Cosby in 2005 after prosecutors decided not to file criminal charges. The case was settled for nearly $3.4 million.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.

___

11:35 a.m.

A book publisher says model Janice Dickinson told her she was drugged and raped by Bill Cosby and was insistent that the story be included in her 2002 memoir.

Judith Regan told jurors at Cosby’s sexual assault retrial on Wednesday that Dickinson was upset the company’s legal department wouldn’t let them print such an explosive story without a corroborating witness.

Dickinson testified last week that Cosby raped her at a Lake Tahoe, Nevada hotel in 1982, after giving her a pill.

The book contained a highly sanitized version of the encounter, with no sex at all, let alone a rape.

Regan testified that she believed Dickinson’s allegations were credible, but that her account was “modified to deal with this issue without any legal problems.”

___

11:10 a.m.

Jurors are hearing Bill Cosby’s deposition testimony about giving quaaludes to women before sex.

Cosby made the damaging admission when he testified in 2005 as part of his chief accuser’s civil lawsuit against him. Prosecutors won the right to introduce it to the jury at his sexual assault retrial. A police detective is reading his testimony to the jury Wednesday.

In the deposition, Cosby says he gave quaaludes, a now-banned sedative that was a popular party drug in the 1970s, to women he wanted to have sex with “the same as a person would say, ‘Have a drink.'”

Cosby is charged with drugging and molesting a former Temple University women’s basketball administrator at his suburban Philadelphia home. He says he gave her cold pills and that their sexual encounter was consensual.

___

8:45 a.m.

Bill Cosby has arrived at a suburban Philadelphia courthouse for the eighth day of his sexual assault retrial.

As the 80-year-old comedian arrived Wednesday morning, spokesman Andrew Wyatt spoke to reporters and blasted the testimony from a police sergeant and detective at Tuesday’s trial.

He says that prosecutors were using “tools of incompetence to build monuments of nothingness.” Wyatt says Cosby’s defense thinks the case should be dismissed.

A police sergeant testified Tuesday that a suburban Philadelphia prosecutor closed the original 2005 probe hours after investigators met to discuss leads that needed to be followed up.

Jurors heard from a police interview in which Cosby acknowledged fondling his chief accuser’s breasts and genitals after giving her pills.

Jurors could soon hear explosive 2005 testimony about giving quaaludes to women before sex.

___

12:55 a.m.

Jurors could soon hear Bill Cosby’s explosive testimony about giving quaaludes to women before sex.

Prosecutors are expected to read a transcript of the 2005 testimony as early as Wednesday.

They’re saving for the very end of their case Cosby’s own words about using the 1970s party drug “the same as a person would say, ‘Have a drink.'”

Cosby’s old admissions about quaaludes have taken on new significance at the comedian’s sexual assault retrial in suburban Philadelphia after a half-dozen women testified that he drugged and violated them.

Cosby gave the deposition as part of a lawsuit chief accuser Andrea Constand filed against him. He settled in 2006 for nearly $3.4 million.

The Associated Press doesn’t typically identify people who say they’re victims of sexual assault unless they grant permission, which Constand has done.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — There was a loud boom, and the plane started shaking violently. Air whooshed through the cabin, and snow-like debris floated down the aisle as oxygen masks dropped from the ceiling. Some passengers wondered if they would ever hug their children again. At least one bought in-flight WiFi as the jet descended so he could say goodbye to his loved ones.

A blown engine on a Southwest Airlines jet Tuesday hurled shrapnel at the aircraft and led to the death of a passenger who was nearly sucked out a broken window.

The terrifying string of events on Flight 1380 brought out acts of bravery among the 149 passengers and crew members and drew across-the-board praise for the cool-headed pilot who safely guided the crippled Boeing 737 to an emergency landing in Philadelphia.

___

Alfred Tumlinson was traveling with his wife back to Corpus Christi, Texas, after attending a Texas Farm Bureau gala in New York City. About 30 minutes after the flight took off from La Guardia Airport, they heard a boom at about 32,000 feet over Pennsylvania, and the plane started losing altitude.

A second bang followed, said Marty Martinez, a 29-year-old digital marketing specialist heading home to Dallas. That was when he saw a window blown open about two rows ahead of him on the other side of the plane.

“It felt like the plane was freefalling. … Of course, everyone is like freaking out, everybody is crying. It was the scariest experience,” Martinez told CBS News.

Air rushed through the suddenly depressurized cabin, and “all this debris is flying in your face, down to the aisle of the plane, into the back of the plane,” Tumlinson said.

As those aboard started putting their masks on and helping others with theirs, passengers and crew members rushed to reach a woman who was being sucked out head-first through the opening. By at least one passenger’s account, half her body was outside the plane.

___

A man in a cowboy hat, rancher Tim McGinty of Hillsboro, Texas, tore his mask off and struggled to pull the woman in. Andrew Needum, a firefighter from Celina, Texas, came to help, and the two of them managed to drag her back inside.

“It seemed like two minutes and it seemed like two hours,” McGinty, told KXAS-TV after arriving in Dallas, a bandage on an arm scraped while trying to save the woman.

McGinty’s wife, Kristin McGinty, who was also on board, later told USA Today: “Some heroes wear capes, but mine wears a cowboy hat.”

When a flight attendant asked if anyone knew CPR, retired school nurse Peggy Phillips got out of her seatbelt, and she and the firefighter laid the grievously injured woman down. The two of them began administering CPR for about 20 minutes, until the plane landed.

Jennifer Riordan, a 43-year-old Wells Fargo bank executive and mother of two from Albuquerque, New Mexico, didn’t survive.

“If you can possibly imagine going through the window of an airplane at about 600 mph and hitting either the fuselage or the wing with your body, with your face, then I think I can probably tell you there was significant trauma,” Phillips told ABC.

___

Inside the cockpit, pilot Tammie Jo Shults calmly communicated the severity of the situation.

“Injured passengers, OK, and is your airplane physically on fire?” an air traffic controller could be heard asking in a recording of the transmissions.

“No, it’s not on fire, but part of it is missing,” Shults said, pausing briefly. “They said there’s a hole and, uh, someone went out.”

The air traffic controller responded with seeming disbelief: “Um, I’m sorry, you said there was a hole and somebody went out?”

“Yes,” Shults said.

___

Some passengers took to social media to say their goodbyes to friends and family.

Matt Tranchin, who was heading home to Dallas, began texting his eight-months-pregnant wife and his parents that he loved them and telling them things he wanted his unborn son to know if the plane crashed and he didn’t make it.

Martinez made a Facebook Live post showing him and other passengers with oxygen masks on, the wind whipping in the background.

“I literally bought WiFi as the plane was going down because I wanted to be able to reach the people I loved … thinking these were my final moments on earth,” he wrote on Facebook.

___

As the plane descended steeply but steadily toward Philadelphia, the cabin was noisy from the open window, but the passengers were mostly quiet, maybe because they had their masks on, said passenger Amanda Bourman, of New York.

“Everybody was crying and upset. You had a few passengers that were very strong and they kept yelling to people, you know, ‘It’s OK! We’re going to do this!'” Bourman said. “I just remember holding my husband’s hand, and we just prayed and prayed and prayed.”

For Kristopher Johnson, a single thought flooded his mind: his wife and 13-month-old son Jakob.

“I thought it was the end of my life,” Johnson, an assistant principal at East Montana Middle School in El Paso, Texas, told People.com. “I thought I’d never be able to see my son or my wife or my family again. That was the first thing that rushed through my head.”

Kathy Farnan, 77-year-old from Santa Fe, New Mexico, said people seated near her in the front, away from the damage, remained relatively calm. “There was no panic. Everybody was good. I think it was too early in the morning. People are running on half asleep,” she said.

Eric Zilbert, an administrator with the California Education Department, said even the children “did very well.”

___

Passengers praised Shults for her professionalism during emergency. Shults, a Navy veteran and one of the first female fighter pilots in the U.S. military, was at the controls when the jet landed, according to her husband, Dean Shults.

She got a round of applause from the passengers after putting the plane down safely. She walked through the aisle and talked with passengers to make sure they were OK afterward.

“She has nerves of steel, that lady,” Tumlinson said. “I’m going to send her a Christmas card, I’m going to tell you that, with a gift certificate for getting me on the ground. She was awesome.”Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni warned his citizens this week against the practice of fellatio, pointing out that the “mouth is for eating” rather than sexual activity.

“Let me take this opportunity to warn our people publicly about the wrong practices indulged in and promoted by some of the outsiders,” Museveni said in the Ugandan parliament. “The mouth is for eating, not for sex. We know the address of sex, we know where sex is.”

In 2014, Museveni also warned that oral sex could cause health problems like worms and Hepatitis B, using similar language to his remarks.

“One of the cultures that we detest is oral sex,” he said at the time. “The mouth is for picking food, not for sex. We know the address for sex. That address (the mouth) is not for sex.”

“It is not healthy. You can contract STD (sexually transmitted diseases),” he continued. “You push the mouth there, you can come back with worms and they enter your stomach because that is a wrong address. You can also contract Hepatitis B.”

That same year, Museveni signed the Anti-Homosexuality Act, which criminalizes gay sex with punishments of up to life imprisonment. Under the act, those who fail to report homosexuality activity are also subject to criminal charges.

Defending the act, Museveni claimed that homosexuality in Uganda had been promoted by “arrogant and careless Western groups that are coming in our schools and recruiting homosexuals into homosexuality and lesbianism.”

“I have failed to understand that you can fail to be attracted to all these beautiful women and be attracted to a man,” he said. “That is a really serious matter. There is something really wrong with you.”

Uganda’s treatment of gay people remains a major source of contention for Western countries and human rights groups, although Museveni has previously urged people not to push him on the matter.

“I advise friends from the West not to make this an issue because if they make it an issue the more they will lose,’’ he said. “This is social imperialism. To impose social values of one group on our society.”

“I would advise Western countries, this is a no-go area,’’ he said. “I don’t mind being on a collision course with the West. I am prepared.’’

Museveni, 73, has ruled Uganda since 1986 as leader of the extremist National Resistance Movement. He plans to run for a sixth term in 2021 following the approval of a bill that abolishes presidential age limits.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com.London (AFP) – London stocks outperformed their peers on Wednesday, buoyed by weakness in the pound after British inflation dived to a one-year low.

Other key markets had a mostly lacklustre day, traders reported, as investors were happy to take a step back from near-constant recent worries about global trade and tensions over Syria.

“UK stocks jumped off the back of a weaker British pound but nothing really captured the imagination of European investors,” said Jasper Lawler, head of research at LCG.

Sterling’s downturn marked a sharp reversal from the currency’s post-Brexit vote highs seen early in the week and followed much weaker than expected inflation data for March.

Annual British inflation slowed unexpectedly to 2.5 percent in March from 2.7 percent in February, prompting market talk that the case for early Bank of England interest rate rises may be starting to fall apart.

The news divided opinion about the chances of a rate hike in May, which had previously been considered a near-certainty.

Pundits said the data also threw into doubt the course of the Bank of England’s monetary policy for the rest of the year.

But sterling’s drop was a boon for stocks, as the weaker currency enhances the earnings of multi-nationals trading on the FTSE.

– Improving mood –

“The FTSE 100 has gone from the back of the pack to the market leader, as a sharp deterioration in UK inflation has driven the pound sharply lower, ramping up FTSE gains,” said IG analyst Joshua Mahony.

In company news, British retail property giant Hammerson scrapped a £3.4-billion ($4.9-billion, 3.9-billion-euro) takeover of rival Intu that would have created a pan-European shopping mall giant, citing a weak UK consumer market.

Investors welcomed Hammerson’s decision, with the group’s share price jumping sharply, while that of Intu slumped.

Wall Street stocks, meanwhile, were a touch firmer approaching midday in New York.

“The global mood starts to improve,” said CMC Markets analyst David Madden. The Syrian conflict and global trade uncertainty were now “on hold” he said, providing markets with fresh upside, and the chance to focus on corporate earnings.

Oil prices had a strong day, with both key crude contracts posting gains well above a dollar per barrel.

A surprise fall in weekly US oil stocks underpinned the market, as did reports that OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia is aiming for the oil price to return to around $100, dealers said.

– Key figures around 1540 GMT –

New York – Dow: UP 0.1 percent at 24,813.96 points

London – FTSE 100: UP 1.3 percent at 7,317.34 (close)

Frankfurt – DAX 30: UP 0.04 percent at 12,590.83 (close)

Paris – CAC 40: UP 0.5 percent at 5,380.17 (close)

EURO STOXX 50: UP 0.4 percent at 3,492.62

Tokyo – Nikkei 225: UP 1.4 percent at 22,158.20 (close)

Hong Kong – Hang Seng: UP 0.7 percent at 30,284.25 (close)

Shanghai – Composite: UP 0.8 percent at 3,091.40 (close)

Euro/dollar: UP at $1.2376 from $1.2370 at 2100 GMT

Dollar/yen: UP at 107.26 yen from 107.00

Pound/dollar: DOWN at $1.4229 from $1.4288

Oil – Brent North Sea: UP $1.36 at $72.94 per barrel

Oil – West Texas Intermediate: UP $1.46 at $67.98

burs-jh/pvhTampa (AFP) – Falling is the leading cause of injury-related death among people over age 65, and seniors who want to avoid falls should exercise, not rely on supplements like vitamin D, US guidelines said Tuesday.

The new recommendations from the US Preventive Services Task Force update those last issued in 2012, when the independent medical advisory group was favorable to taking supplements containing vitamin D as a way of preventing fall-related injury.

But unless a person has vitamin D deficiency or a frail bone condition known as osteoporosis, the task force’s latest review of clinical trials on the topic found no benefit for average seniors, and even an increased risk of kidney stones for those who take vitamin D and calcium supplements.

“The USPSTF found adequate evidence that vitamin D supplementation has no benefit in preventing falls in older adults,” said the guidelines published in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

Instead, the USPSTF “recommends exercise interventions to prevent falls” in those 65 years or older who are at increased risk of falling.

Such exercise may include “supervised individual and group classes and physical therapy,” said the guidelines.

The update was based on a review of 11 randomized, clinical trials involving more than 51,000 people.

“Vitamin D supplementation alone or with calcium was not associated with reduced fracture incidence” among adults without vitamin D deficiency, osteoporosis, or prior fracture, said the report.

According to the most recent data from 2014, nearly 29 percent of US adults 65 years or older reported falling.

Nearly 38 percent “needed medical treatment or restricted activity for a day or longer,” said the JAMA report.

Some 33,000 people died due to falls in 2015.

An accompanying editorial in JAMA said the new recommendation, with its “increased emphasis on exercise, warrants adoption and should prove helpful, especially because exercise interventions reduce injurious falls.”

Getting more exercise can also improve health by lowering the risk of heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, dementia and cancer, it said.

However, for elders “at increased risk for osteoporosis, those with vitamin D deficiency, or both, it remains reasonable to consider vitamin D supplementation (800-1000 IU/d or more), consistent with recommendations of other professional societies such as the US Endocrine Society and National Osteoporosis Foundation,” the editorial said.Paris (AFP) – Keeping transplant livers on “life support” at body temperature preserves them better than the prevailing method of near-freezing, and could reduce the number of donor organs thrown away, a study said Wednesday.

Currently most donor livers are stored in an inert state at temperatures just above freezing until they can be transferred to a recipient.

But many end up damaged, meaning that only a portion of livers harvested for transplant get used despite an urgent, and growing, organ shortage.

“Approximately one in five patients died on the UK liver transplant waiting list last year, whilst, paradoxically, almost 500 livers from deceased organ donors were not… transplanted,” study co-author Constantin Coussios of the University of Oxford told AFP.

“This was because the suboptimal condition of many donor organs is such that these are unlikely to work after being preserved in an ice box. Despite many advances in liver transplantation, the method of organ preservation has scarcely changed in 30 years.”

A newer method called normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) uses a machine to pump blood through the liver at 37 degrees Celsius (98,6 degrees Fahrenheit) — the human body temperature.

The technique keeps the liver functioning artificially while feeding it oxygenated blood, medicine, and nutrients.

But scientists did not know if it actually works better than the prevailing method, prompting the first-ever study to compare the warm and cold liver storage methods.

Coussios and a team studied what happened to two sets of donor livers — 100 stored on ice, another 120 with NMP, and published their findings in the science journal Nature.

The NMP livers, the authors found, had 50 percent less “graft injury” than the near-frozen organs, and could be kept for considerably longer.

– Liver is ‘a patient’ –

More of the NMP livers them could be transplanted.

The number of livers retrieved from donors but rejected after storage “was reduced by 50 percent,” said Coussios.

By keeping it functioning artificially, NMP allowed for easier assessment of liver quality than was possible with a near-frozen, hypothermic organ, he said — a sort of pre-surgery “test drive”.

The team concluded that widespread use of NMP could cut the number of people who die waiting for a transplant while harvested organs are discarded.

The first NMP device, dubbed OrganOx, was trademarked in 2016, and has started to be used in Europe, India, and Canada, said Coussios

One of the study authors is a former chief executive of OrganOx Limited, and Coussios is its technical director.

In a comment also carried by Nature, Stefan Schneeberger of the Innsbruck Medical University in Austria said the team made a “convincing case” for the effectiveness of NMP, which he said treats the liver “like a patient.

“It is perfused, monitored, and fed by a machine. If it performs well, it is transplanted immediately; if not, it might undergo treatment, modification or repair before transplantation.”

The long-term effects of NMP must be studied before it can be concluded to be a more effective and suitable method for organ storage, Schneeberger added.

Coussios said further study is needed into the cost-effectiveness of the technology.April 18 (UPI) — President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe were scheduled to hold a joint news conference Wednesday evening after a series of bilateral meetings in Florida.

The event was set to take place at 5 p.m. EDT at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach.

After the first meeting Tuesday evening, the two leaders said they discussed talks with North Korea to end the country’s nuclear program. They also planned to talk about trade, specifically Trump’s interest in renegotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership.April 18 (UPI) — CBS said Wednesday it has renewed 11 shows for the 2018-19 broadcast season.

Among the shows picked up for an additional season are Blue Bloods, Bull, Hawaii Five-0, Madam Secretary, MacGyver, NCIS: Los Angeles, NCIS: New Orleans, Survivor, The Amazing Race, 48 Hours and 60 Minutes.

The network previously announced it will be bringing back The Big Bang Theory, Young Sheldon, Mom, NCIS, Seal Team and S.W.A.T. next season.

The fates of Elementary, Criminal Minds and Kevin Can Wait remain unclear, however.During a ceremony held to celebrate National Army Day in Iran on Wednesday, Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani said the Islamic Republic will “produce or procure any weapons” that it needs to defend itself.

“The Islamic Republic of Iran’s Army has protected the country against foreign conspiracies through its deterrent power,” Rouhani said, according to Iran’s state-run Tasnim News Agency. “The aggressive powers have nested around us and have an illegitimate presence (in the region). In this situation, we need a powerful and deterrent armed force not only to prevent an invasion by aggressors, but also to protect the country from terrorists who cast a greedy eye onto our lands.”

Rouhani added, “(Therefore,) we will produce or procure any weapons that the Army and the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) need for defense.”

The parade, which began Wednesday morning, reportedly took place near the mausoleum of the late founder of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. His tomb is located in southern Tehran.

Members of Iran’s Ground Force, Navy, Air Force, and Air Defense Force reportedly participated in the parade and some of Iran’s new weapons were also put on display.

According to Iran’s state-run Press TV, “Iran’s latest domestically manufactured missile system called Kamin-2 was unveiled. It is a portable device designed to target enemy drones flying in low altitude.”

The publication added, “Among other defense hardware put on display were the country’s other missile systems, including S-300, S-200, Tabas and Sayyad, as well as radar systems, tanks, armored vehicles and sniper rifles.”

During the parade, Rouhani reportedly said the country’s defense program was peaceful and that Iran has no intention to invade other countries or harm their interests.

Rouhani reportedly emphasized that Iran’s policy towards other nations was one of “good neighborliness” and said that Iran’s history shows it has never invaded other countries and has been helpful to them.

Iran’s heavy presence in Syria and Iraq has all but left the countries under Iran’s control and by some estimates, is leading to the completion of the “Iranian Empire.”

Iran has exported terrorism since the Islamic revolution of 1979. Prior to that, Iran did not export terrorism.

Adelle Nazarian is a politics and national security reporter for Breitbart News. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.University of Michigan Professor Sarah Ensor published an academic journal article this month that argues that humans should establish erotic relationships with plants.

Originally highlighted by the Twitter account New Real Peer Review, Ensor’s journal article explores the field of “ecosexuality,” a term which means the sexual relationship between humans and plants. Advocates in the field argue that the Earth needs to be treated with love. In addition to reducing harmful environmental practices, ecosexuals believe that humans should physically make love to the Earth.

Ensor, an English professor at the University of Michigan, begins by citing the “Ecosex Manifesto,” which was penned by UC Santa Cruz Professor Elizabeth Stephens. Breitbart News originally reported on Stephens and her “ecosex” movement in September. Then, Stephens was promoting her documentary in which she and others lick trees, roll around in mud, and engage in sexual acts with elements of nature.

Ensor begins her article by citing Stephens’ manifesto. “[Ecosexuals] make love with the earth… We shamelessly hug trees, massage the earth with our feet, and talk erotically to plants,” Stephens wrote.

Now, Professor Ensor is carrying on the nonsensical tradition started by Stephens. In her journal article, she argues that environmental spaces must welcome queer and “polymorphous” sexual identities. According to Sigmund Freud, “polymorphous sexuality” refers to the ability to receive sexual gratification from activities that aren’t traditionally considered to be sexual.

Likewise, when queer ecocritic Catriona Sandilands suggests that in order for “environmentalism … to go beyond ‘just saying no,’ … spaces for exploration must be allowed to flourish and proliferate” and, relatedly, that “[p]olymorphous sexualities and multiple natures are … at the heart of green resistances,” she does not clarify how these approaches would actually play out in practice.

The article, which is titled “The Ecopoetics of Contact: Touching, Cruising, Gleaning,” was published in April by the Oxford University Press.

If Ensor’s work is any indication, the ecosexuality movement is growing in America. Stay tuned to Breitbart News for more updates on professors making out with trees.WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration finds the expanding cooperation in Syria between U.S. NATO ally Turkey and Russia “gravely concerning,” a top Department of State (DOS) warned lawmakers.

On Wednesday, David Satterfield, the acting assistant secretary for the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at DOS, testified during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing alongside A. Wess Mitchell, the assistant secretary for DOS’ Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs.

Despite being on opposite sides of the Syrian civil war, Russia, Turkey, and Iran have held various fruitless discussions to end the conflict, which has been raging since March 2011.

The talks have notably excluded the United States, which has deployed about 2,000 troops to primarily combat the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) in Syria.

In recent weeks, the Trump administration has been hinting at a possible U.S. withdrawal from Syria, pushing for regional ownership of the conflict to in lieu of the United States military presence.

Throughout the war, Russia and Iran have been supporting Assad while Turkey and to a lesser extent the United States have been backing opposition fighters.

Nevertheless, Mitchell noted in written testimony:

Turkey lately has increased its engagement with Russia and Iran. Ankara has sought to assure us that it sees this cooperation as a necessary stepping-stone towards progress in the Geneva [Syrian peace] process and as a means of de-escalating the conflict. But the ease with which Turkey brokered arrangements with the Russian military to facilitate the launch of its Operation Olive Branch [against U.S.-allied Kurdish fighters] in [Syria’s] Afrin District—arrangements to which America was not privy—is gravely concerning. It is in the American national interest to see Turkey remain strategically and politically aligned with the West, and we believe it is also in Turkey’s interests.

As an ally of Kurdish troops considered to be terrorists by Ankara, the United States finds itself in a stand-off against its NATO partner Turkey, which has decided to expand its Operation Olive Branch into northern Syria’s Manbij region.

U.S.-backed Kurdish troops control vast swathes of northern Syria, including Manbij.

Although U.S.-led coalition troops and their local allies have liberated “approximately 98 percent” of the territory once controlled by ISIS in its “crumbling” so-called caliphate in Iraq and Syria, problems remain, Satterfield declared in his written testimony, adding:

We recognize current challenges, such as in Manbij, Syria, where U.S. forces are located. We have made it very clear to the Turkish government that we will continue to operate there and are working hard with our NATO ally to find a roadmap to a resolution.

Mitchell acknowledged that the U.S. military is engaged in discussions with both Russia and Turkey to avoid clashes in Syria, telling lawmakers:

[Regargding Turkey], our policy has been to combine close engagement with clear messaging that the United States will actively defend its interests. In the context of Syria, we have engaged in high-level interagency discussions, both to address legitimate Turkish security concerns and to avoid inadvertent collisions between our forces. These conversations are ongoing.

Stressing Moscow’s “intolerable” support for Assad, the State officials emphasized that U.S. and Russia have drastically different goals in Syria.

The Assad regime was on the brink of defeat before receiving assistance from Iran and Russia, but now the dictator controls more territory than any other warring party, including those backed by Turkey and the United States, respectively.

Referring to Russia, Mitchell testified:

Its reckless intervention in Syria and support for the Assad regime has raised the risk of confrontation with the West … America has done its part to avoid these [escalating] spirals. We have brokered and maintain de-confliction [communication] channels to avoid collisions in an increasingly congested and complex battlespace … We do not seek a confrontation. But our forces will not hesitate to use necessary and proportionate force to defend themselves…

Russia’s primary goal in Syria is to maintain an ever-present military footprint in the Middle East as a means to expand its influence in the region, Mitchell said.

“It also wants to inflict a globally visible defeat on the United States … Moscow is willing to accept and impose catastrophic human costs to achieve these goals,” he added.London (AFP) – Burnley may be an impressive seventh in the Premier League but manager Sean Dyche wants to see how high his side can climb before the season ends.

The Clarets’ 2-1 win over Leicester last weekend put them on course for the final Europa League spot, provided Southampton do not win the FA Cup.

Dyche’s men are now just two points behind sixth-placed Arsenal but they would climb above the Gunners were they to beat Chelsea at Turf Moor on Thursday and secure a sixth win in a row.

“To be seventh is fantastic. If we can attempt to chase down Arsenal — I don’t think that would have been words I’d have been using at the beginning of the season — we will do,” Dyche said Wednesday.

Burnley started their season in style with a 3-2 win away to reigning champions Chelsea, a match where they were 3-0 up come half-time at Stamford Bridge.

Dyche, recalling his team talk at the interval, said: “It was definitely one I hadn’t planned on. We had a little meeting with the staff and they said, ‘What do you think’. And I said: ‘I don’t know. What do you want me to tell them? They’re 3-0 up at Chelsea’. Then we just waffled on and kept our fingers crossed and we managed to get that one over the line.

“The big thing looking back on that game, it’s not just a great result against a top side, everyone waits for their first win and it makes a story if you don’t get it in a number of games, well that’s gone immediately. And an away win. It doesn’t guarantee anything but it changes the immediate feel of the season. We’ve not really looked back.”

Nick Pope’s form in goal has led to talk he could be in England’s squad for the World Cup and all but scuppered the chances of Tom Heaton, fit again following a shoulder injury, travelling to Russia as a member of Gareth Southgate’s squad.

“Popey’s having a very strong season, he’s delivering very, very good performances, so I’ve got no reason at the moment to consider changing him,” said Dyche.

“Tom is a fantastic keeper, he’s done many good things, and his time will come again. Tom’s very respectful, he totally understands it.”London (AFP) – Petr Cech believes Arsenal will have to win all their remaining matches if they are to secure a place in the top five of the Premier League.

The Gunners are currently six points adrift of fifth-placed London rivals Chelsea, with both sides having a maximum of 15 points to play for from their five remaining league games this season.

Arsenal’s best hope of qualifying for European football, next season, however, could lie in winning this term’s Europa League, where they face Atletico Madrid in a two-legged semi-final.

Sunday saw Arsene Wenger’s men suffer a fifth successive away league defeat when they lost 2-1 at Newcastle and Arsenal goalkeeper Cech told the London Evening Standard on Wednesday: “We are in the two competitions, so now need to keep switching between them and do our best. We are in a position now where we must win all our remaining games and hope it lifts us in the table.

“We are in a very difficult moment because everybody else has a big advantage.”

The former Chelsea star added: “In the Europa League, we have a semi-final to play, so we need to make sure we are ready.”

Meanwhile, Cech was at a loss to understand Arsenal’s worst run of away league results in over 30 years.

“It’s very difficult to explain why because until last season, we were one of the best teams in terms of the away record,” he said. “But somehow it has completely reversed this season and we don’t seem to find the answer for it.

“When you commit so many team mistakes, away or home, you get punished and Sunday proved that. Of course you try to address that, but clearly the same things are happening.

“We don’t do these mistakes — the team mistakes — when we play at home.”London (AFP) – Mohamed Salah has set his sights on breaking Ian Rush’s Liverpool record for the most goals scored in a single season.

Salah bagged his 40th goal of the campaign when he netted in Liverpool’s win against Bournemouth on Saturday.

Now he is only seven goals short of equalling Liverpool legend Rush’s club record mark of 47, which he set in 1983-84.

With four Premier League matches and a two-legged Champions League semi-final to come, the Egypt star has a good chance of achieving his goal at the end of a dream first season with Liverpool following his move from Chelsea last year.

“There’s a big chance to break the record, to be number one for a club like Liverpool, it’s something huge,” Salah told Premier League Productions.

“I will be very happy if I break it. I’m happy about 40, I want to keep scoring, I want to be number one for the record.

“It’s always good when you see your name with legends of a club like Liverpool, it’s a different feeling and I’m very happy about that.

“But I always try to look at myself and I want more. I have 40 now, I’m telling myself, ‘Why not? You can be number one!’”

Salah is a strong contender to win the Footballer of the Year award, but he insists he is more concerned with enjoying a successful finish to the season with Liverpool, who face Roma in the Champions League semi-finals.

“I will try my best to break the record but, as I’ve said before, we play as 11 players, I play for the team,” he said.

“It’s not about individual awards, it’s something for the team. I’m sure if I have a chance to give it to someone else to score, I will – it’s not about me, it’s about us.”April 18 (UPI) — Mookie Betts tied Ted Williams with a Boston Red Sox record three homers in a win against the Los Angeles Angels.

The All-Star right fielder went 3-for-3, with three bombs, three RBIs and two walks in the Red Sox’s 10-1 win Tuesday at Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, Calif.

He is now hitting a league-best .389 on the season, with five home runs and 13 RBIs. Betts also leads baseball with 19 runs scored, a 1.289 OPS and a 246 OPS+.

The Red Sox went deep six times Tuesday against Angels pitchers.

“I think this is just something we can sustain,” Betts told reporters. “I think we have a lot of good hitters. If one guy is off, it seems like the next three are kind of in a groove. If that’s how we’re going to work, I think we’ll be pretty good.”

Betts Bomb No. 1

It didn’t take long for Betts to warm up. His first big fly came in the first at-bat of the game. The Red Sox leadoff hitter settled in against Angels starter Shohei Ohtani. The right-handed hurler worked a full count against the outfielder. Betts then took a hack at Ohtani’s seventh offering, a 97.4-mph four-seam fastball.

He sent the pitch to left center field for a 411-foot home run. Betts belted the pitch out of the stadium at 104.9 mph, according to Statcast.

Betts Bomb No. 2

The Red Sox led 7-0 by the time Betts had his next at-bat. This time, he settled in against Angels reliever Luke Bard. Betts fouled off Bard’s first offering. He sent his second pitch — an 83.5-mph slider — to left field for a 417-foot home run.

Betts Bomb No. 3

Albert Pujols put the Angels on the board in the bottom of the third frame, hitting an RBI single off of Red Sox starter David Price. Rafael Devers gave the Red Sox a 9-1 lead with a homer to center field in the top of the fourth inning.

Betts plated the Red Sox’s final run in the bottom of the eighth inning. The outfielder faced Angles righty Cam Bedrosian during that at-bat. He saw just one pitch during that exchange.

Betts turned on a 92.3-mph four-seam fastball, sending the offering to left center field for a 426-foot bomb. That ball left the park at 108 mph, according to Statcast.April 18 (UPI) — The Senate voted on Wednesday to invalidate government guidance that was enacted to prevent lenders from offering less favorable terms to non-white borrowers.

A resolution to repeal the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau guidelines, sponsored by Sen. Jerry Moran, R-Kan., was approved by 51 votes to 47 votes. It now goes to the House. A simple majority in both houses of Congress would invalidate the agency guidelines. The president’s signature on the bill is not required.

The guidance was issued in 2013, when the bureau cited “potentially discriminatory markups” in auto financing. Third-party lenders offer financing to car dealers at a varying rate, and when dealers can increase the rate customers pay, the difference is considered a “mark-up” shared by the lender and the dealer. The bureau said the markups return additional money to the dealers, who can change lenders’ rates regardless of a customers’ credit-worthiness.

The dealer’s latitude in the transaction increases “the risk of pricing disparities among consumers based on race, national origin, and potentially other prohibited bases,” the bureau said. It also fined lenders millions of dollars between 2013 and 2016 for the practice.

The American Bankers Association, a trade organization, has said that the guidelines caused many lenders to leave the field of financing, increasing costs and reducing choices for customers.

The proposal in the House on Wednesday has the approval of Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. In a Twitter message he referred to the bureau guidelines as an Obama-era overreach.The Miami Dolphins have invited members of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas football team, to help announce their 2018 NFL Draft picks next week.

The Dolphins revealed that students from the Parkland, Florida, high school that suffered a mass shooting in February will join team officials at the podium on April 28 during the last day of the 2018 draft, according to CBS Sports.

“Miami holds five picks from 123 to 229 overall on the final day of the draft,” CBS reported.

The students will join the NFL’s recent practice of allowing guest announcers during the draft. But this is not the first time the Dolphins have reached out to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Along with a $17,500 donation to the Feis family by the Dolphins coaching staff, the team donated $100,000 to the school community. Some Dolphins players have also visited with some of the students and their families.

“Quarterback Ryan Tannehill, wide receiver Kenny Stills, defensive tackle Davon Godchaux and former players also visited five survivors of the school shooting, along with members of the Florida Panthers, Miami Heat and Miami Marlins,” the Palm Beach Post reported.

The team also hosted a football camp in Parkland in May.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Butler County Sheriff Michael Slupe has banned his office from conducting business with any company involved in a boycott of the NRA.

He enacted the prohibition earlier this month but news surrounding it just became public this week.

The Washington Examiner reports Slupe sent everyone in his office an order which said, “Though I cannot dictate which companies you utilize in your personal life, I can and am going to dictate which companies the Butler County Sheriff’s Office will not use.” He stressed that companies boycotting the NRA are not to be used “when making arrangements for any extradition or stay over [being scheduled].”

On February 24, 2018, Breitbart News reported that over a dozen companies cut ties with the NRA in reaction to post-Parkland gun control campaigns. Those companies included:

First National Bank of Omaha

Enterprise Rent-A-Car

Symantec

Metlife

Delta Airlines

United

Best Western

Sheriff Slupe reacted to the boycotts by saying, “These companies made the choice to boycott the NRA for whatever their reason(s) are, so, I am making the choice not to support them. I believe it is important to send a message as a department that we support the members of our community that are members of the NRA that have had nothing to do with any of the shootings, yet they are the face of the blame in the eyes of corporate America.”

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Facebook has suspended conservative comedian Terrence K. Williams for posting screenshots of hate mail he received from liberals.

For the second time in a week, Facebook has suspended a conservative user for posting screenshots of abuse they received on the platform. Shortly after the suspension of columnist and editor Jamie Glazov, who posted screenshots of threats he received, comedian Terrence K. Williams has been temporarily suspended for posting screenshots of abuse and ridicule he received from liberals on the platform.

Williams posted examples of the threats he receives on a regular basis from liberals seemingly angered at the idea of a black conservative. One such message can be seen below:

This image was promptly removed by Facebook as they allegedly don’t allow posts that “bully private individuals.” Williams told Breitbart News, “Facebook always deletes the post and says I’m bullying or harassing the people sending the threats and harassment.”

Shortly after this, Williams received a 24-hour suspension from posting to Facebook:

Examples of the abuse that Williams receives on a regular basis can be seen below. Williams alleges that despite reporting these messages on a regular basis, Facebook has taken no action against the individuals that refer to Williams as a “coon” amongst other racial slurs:

Breitbart News spoke with Williams about his treatment on Facebook and how he deals with attacks from those at the left, seemingly angry at Williams simply for being black and conservative. Williams said that he had become afraid to expose the abuse he was receiving for fear that his Facebook page may suffer as a result. Williams stated: “I dont post all my threats anymore because I fear that Facebook may suspend my account and I have a large platform and people that look forward to my messages every day and I’m going on tour so I don’t want to break any violations and throw everything away so I don’t post all my stuff all the time. Facebook said they would ban me permanently if I kept posting screenshots of the death threats.”

Williams stated that despite multiple reports drawing Facebook’s attention to the screenshots and the abuse he received, Facebook failed to act: “Facebook said that they reviewed the screenshots and said that none of the threats violated Facebook’s guidelines.”

Breitbart News asked Williams if he felt that Facebook was specifically targeting minority conservatives such as himself and YouTube stars Diamond and Silk who have alleged that their Facebook page reach has been limited by the social media platform. Williams said, “I do believe that Facebook is targeting not only conservatives but they’re really targeting minority conservatives such as myself and Diamond and Silk, they have a million followers and their posts are only reaching eight people are you serious? And Facebook does the same thing to me, I lose followers every day and I do not believe that my fans are going to my page to unfollow me.”

Facebook has not responded to a request for comment from Breitbart News at the time of the writing of this article.President Donald Trump will host a campaign rally in Washington, Michigan, for his supporters during the White House Correspondents’ Association (WHCA) dinner instead of continuing the presidential tradition of attending the event.

“While the fake news media will be celebrating themselves with the denizens of Washington society in the swamp that evening, President Trump will be in a completely different Washington, celebrating our national economic revival with patriotic Americans,” said Trump campaign COO Michael Glassner in an email to supporters.

This is the second year that Trump has skipped the correspondents’ dinner in favor of a campaign rally. In 2017, he skipped it to rally supporters in Pennsylvania.

“They are watching right now, and they would love to be with us right here tonight,” Trump said at the time about the reporters at the dinner. “But they are trapped at the dinner, which will be very, very boring.”

Trump weighed the possibility of attending the dinner this year but ultimately decided not to.

“I sort of feel that the press is so bad, it’s so fake, it’s so made up,” Trump said in an interview with New York radio show Bernie and Sid. “I call them novelists, they make up the sources, in some cases there are sources, but then they won’t do it correctly either but in many cases, they literally make up sources.”

The dinner will continue without the president, although this year, members of Trump’s administration are allowed to attend.

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders plans to attend the WHCA dinner this year, which will be held on April 28.The outlook for the U.S. economy remains positive with growth set to continue thanks to “robust” business borrowing, rising consumer demand, and widespread employment growth, the Federal Reserve reported on Wednesday.

The Fed’s latest read on the economy comes in the form of its “Beige Book,” which is a summary of information received from contacts in business in each of the Fed’s 12 regional districts.

“Economic activity continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace across the 12 Federal Reserve District in March and early April,” the report said.

The report’s use of “modest to moderate” to describe the pace of economic growth may relieve concerns that the economy might be at risk of overheating, one of the factors that triggered rising stock market volatility starting in late January and early February. If anything, the report may indicate that the economy could afford to heat up a bit more.

Manufacturing activity grew but only “moderately,” the Fed said. Residential construction expanded. Demand for nonfiancial services was “mostly solid.” Consumer spending rose in most regions, although auto sales were mixed in some regions. Loan demand from businesses grew and commercial real estate and construction improved. The energy sector saw a pickup in activity, except for the Richmond Fed district, where coal production was flat and natural gas production dipped.

Several Fed districts reported a jump in “commercial and industrial lending,” Fed speak for borrowings by businesses. Atlanta described loan growth as “solid,” Cleveland as “healthy” and St. Louis as “robust.” The Dallas Fed reported “markedly stronger growth” in business loans and commercial real estate.

The rise in business borrowing is good news for banks but also for the broader economy. It may indicate the start of the investment that the Trump administration has predicted will result from the cuts in business taxes and more generous write-offs for capital expenses.

Tariffs and talk of trade war does not seem to have weighed on actual activity despite being on the minds of many business people.

“Contacts in various sectors including manufacturing, agriculture, and transportation expressed concern about the newly imposed and/or proposed tariffs,” the central bank.

And although price increases were described as “moderate,” steel prices were said to be rising “dramatically” in some areas due to the tariffs.

The report describes labor markets as “tight” and notes that there are reports of labor shortages in high-skill positions, including engineering, information technology, and healthcare. Construction and transportation contacts also claimed to be experiencing labor shortages. Nonetheless, most regions across the country saw only “modest” wage growth.

“Businesses were responding to labor shortages in a variety of ways, from raising pay to enhancing training to increasing their use of overtime and/or automation,” the Fed said. “Upward wage pressures persisted but generally did not escalate.”Los Angeles (AFP) – Swedish star Zlatan Ibrahimovic has hinted that he hopes to feature at this year’s World Cup, teasing fans that he could come out of retirement to play in Russia.

In an appearance on ABC television’s late night Jimmy Kimmel show on Tuesday, the former Sweden striker said “it wouldn’t be a World Cup” if he didn’t play.

The 36-year-old has previously been circumspect about his hopes of playing in the World Cup for Sweden, who qualified for the finals for the first time in 12 years when they defeated Italy in a play-off.

“I’m going to the World Cup, yes,” Ibrahimovic told Kimmel when asked if he would be in Russia.

When pressed by the host if he expected to attend as a player or in another capacity, Ibrahimovic was coy.

“I just said I’m going to the World Cup,” the Los Angeles Galaxy striker said. “If I say more, people will hang me, so I have to be careful what I say now.”

Speaking later, he added: “I mean, a World Cup without me wouldn’t be a World Cup.”

Ibrahimovic, who last played at a World Cup with Sweden in 2006, retired from international football after the 2016 European Championship.

He said last month he wanted to concentrate on settling into his career in Major League Soccer before thinking about the World Cup.

But he admitted he was available for Russia if required.

“Let me first enjoy it here,” Ibrahimovic said on March 30. “What happens here will take it further.

“The World Cup is another question. I’ve said it before. Nobody needs to call anybody. If they want, I’m there.”Tampa (AFP) – SpaceX was poised Wednesday to try again to blast off NASA’s newest planet-hunting spacecraft after a two-day delay to check out the Falcon 9 rocket’s navigation systems.

The $337 million Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, or TESS, aims to search for planets where life may exist by scanning 85 percent of the skies for planets beyond the solar system, known as exoplanets.

“All systems and weather are go for Falcon 9’s launch of @NASA_TESS today at 6:61 pm (2251 GMT),” SpaceX said on Twitter.

The initial attempt Monday was scrubbed about two hours before planned takeoff from a NASA pad at Cape Canaveral, Florida.

The washing machine-sized spacecraft is built to search the nearest, brightest stars for signs of periodic dimming. These so-called “transits” may mean that planets are in orbit around them.

TESS is expected to reveal 20,000 planets beyond our solar system, including more than 50 Earth-sized planets and up to 500 planets less than twice the size of the Earth, NASA said.

Its discoveries will be studied further by ground- and space-based telescopes for signs of habitability, including a rocky terrain, a size similar to Earth and a distance from their sun — neither too close nor too far — that allows the right temperature for liquid water.

TESS will survey far more cosmic terrain than its predecessor, NASA’s Kepler Space Telescope, which launched in 2009.Washington (AFP) – US Defense Secretary Jim Mattis on Wednesday pushed back against a report saying he had unsuccessfully urged President Donald Trump to seek congressional approval ahead of last week’s air strikes in Syria.

Citing anonymous military and administration officials, the New York Times said Mattis had recommended Trump get a green light from lawmakers before launching Friday’s cruise missile barrage against three targets the Pentagon said were tied to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons program.

“I have no idea where that story came from,” Mattis told reporters as he greeted Qatar’s defense minister, Khalid bin Mohammed al-Attiyah, at the Pentagon.

“I found nothing in it that I could recall from my own last week’s activities.”

Chemical weapons inspectors are waiting to go into Douma, near Damascus, to probe allegations of a chemical gas attack on April 7 that prompted last week’s US-led response.

Mattis said the regime has previously used delays after such an attack to “try to clean up the evidence before the investigation team gets in. So it’s unfortunate they were delayed.”

Following the deadly Douma incident, Trump tweeted there would be a “big price to pay” after and promised missiles would be coming.

His remarks virtually ensured a response to the alleged chemical attack, even though many US lawmakers have expressed reservations over further military engagement in Syria unless Trump can articulate a long-term strategy for the country.

A Pentagon official told AFP that there was no debate at the White House, and that “everyone” agreed Trump had the authority needed to launch the strikes.

In the days since the US-led strikes, which also saw British and French jets launch missiles, debate in Washington has continued about whether Trump has the legal authorities to conduct strikes against the Syrian regime.

On Monday, a bipartisan group of senators introduced a bill that would update war powers that first were passed in the days after the September 11, 2001 attacks.

US forces have largely been operating under this so-called AUMF (authorization for use of military force) even though the Pentagon’s mission has grown far beyond what was envisioned in the early days of hunting Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan.

Since 2001, presidents George W. Bush, Barack Obama and now Trump have relied on the authorities, along with a subsequent AUMF in 2002, as the basis for operations against armed Islamist groups.

One of the bill’s authors, Republican Senator Todd Young, said it “recognizes the unique nature of the Islamist terrorist threat, while also recognizing that Congress must exercise robust oversight.”

Former president Barack Obama faced sharp criticism when he tried and failed to have Congress approve a plan to attack Assad after the Syrian leader crossed Obama’s “red line” and used chemical weapons in 2013.BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — The former head of Hungary’s swimming federation on Wednesday firmly denied allegations that he ordered the 1998 slaying of a business rival, his lawyer said.

Tamas Gyarfas has been in police custody since late Tuesday on suspicion of ordering the February 1998 killing of media mogul Janos Fenyo, who was fatally shot in his car in downtown Budapest.

Defense lawyer Janos Banati said Wednesday that Gyarfas was questioned by police for several hours and told them about his conflict with Fenyo as well as their later reconciliation.

“Tamas Gyarfas filed a complaint against the imputation and most firmly denied the act he was charged with,” Banati said in a statement.

Banati said Gyarfas gave “comprehensive and logical answers” to authorities’ questions.

Now authorities will decide whether Gyarfas will be released, detained further or face possible charges.

Gyarfas and Fenyo were key players in the Hungarian media industry from around the time of Hungary’s return to democracy in 1990.

Fenyo, who worked for years as a press photographer, launched a successful chain of video rental stores shortly after returning in 1987 from the United States. Later, he began building a media company that grew to include popular magazines and newspapers as well as a cable TV channel.

In the late afternoon of Feb. 11, 1998, Fenyo was shot numerous times with a Croatian-made submachine gun, which later was recovered by police along with the clothes worn by the killer. The assassination shocked the country and speculation about its motive immediately centered both on Fenyo’s legal and allegedly illegal business dealings.

A Slovak man, Jozef Rohac, was sentenced to life in prison last year for Fenyo’s killing but the police are still looking for who hired the gunman.

Police reopened their investigation into the Fenyo killing in October. Last week police questioned Tamas Portik, currently serving a 13-year term for ordering an underworld killing, about his suspected involvement in Fenyo’s slaying.

Gyarfas led the Hungarian Swimming Federation in 1993-2016 while also holding top positions in European and international swimming organizations and on Hungary’s Olympic committee. He is still listed as a member of FINA’s executive body.

Gyarfas resigned as head of the swimming federation in November 2016, just months before Hungary hosted the 2017 world championships, the largest sporting event ever held in the country and of which Gyarfas has been a key organizer.

The push for his ouster was led by three-time Olympic swimming champion Katinka Hosszu, who called him a “most harmful factor” for Hungarian swimming. She says swimmers needed better training facilities and funding to compete.An Oxford college has apologised for causing “distress” to students after attempting to organise a cannabis-themed party, which was accused of “cultural appropriation”.

Mansfield College was forced to cancel the “420 themed” party, scheduled to take place on Friday the 20th of April, after students said they were offended and complained.

In an email to students reported by Cherwell, organisers reportedly said the party would be a celebration of the “internationally recognised day of protest for the legalisation of Marijuana”.

They invited students to “dress up as their favourite stoner”, continuing: “420 is not about the consumption of da herb itself, and more about the arts, music, and literature surrounding it; it’s a celebration of a rich culture including everything from hippies to Hip-Hop, from Seth Rogan to the Dude.”

However, they also urged attendees to avoid illegal drugs and for white students to avoid politically incorrect costumes, adding: “if you’re white, don’t try to go as Snoop Dogg or Bob Marley. Blackface isn’t cool.”

Because you'd obviously go up to Oxford at 18 years old looking forward to your first cultural appropriation lectures https://t.co/y6LBtcacOI — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 18, 2017

Offended students quickly took to Mansfield College’s Facebook page to criticise the event.

One said: “Sorry I think the Entz don’t get April fools, is this an actual joke?? Because there are SO many aspects of the email that we all just received that are deeply wrong and squirm inducing [sic].”

Another said: “I’m genuinely working on the assumption that the Entz email has been hacked.”

The team behind the event sent another email out shortly afterwards, apologising “for the (no longer) ‘420’ themed BOP this coming Friday,” adding: “We understand that this was met with offence and we want to apologise dearly to those who were offended.

“We overlooked the clear issues with this theme and now realise our very significant mistake in the matter. We can’t apologise enough.

“And clearly nor did we expect any members of the College to be dressing in a manner so as to be culturally appropriating any culture.”

The Mansfield team also told Cherwell: “We recognised quickly that there were many real problems with this theme and it was consequently changed.

“To reiterate, the event will not be going ahead with this theme. We regret and apologise for any offence or distress which may have been caused.”An Oxford college has apologised for causing “distress” to students after attempting to organise a cannabis-themed party, which was accused of “cultural appropriation”.

Mansfield College was forced to cancel the “420 themed” party, scheduled to take place on Friday the 20th of April, after students said they were offended and complained.

In an email to students reported by Cherwell, organisers reportedly said the party would be a celebration of the “internationally recognised day of protest for the legalisation of Marijuana”.

They invited students to “dress up as their favourite stoner”, continuing: “420 is not about the consumption of da herb itself, and more about the arts, music, and literature surrounding it; it’s a celebration of a rich culture including everything from hippies to Hip-Hop, from Seth Rogan to the Dude.”

However, they also urged attendees to avoid illegal drugs and for white students to avoid politically incorrect costumes, adding: “if you’re white, don’t try to go as Snoop Dogg or Bob Marley. Blackface isn’t cool.”

Because you'd obviously go up to Oxford at 18 years old looking forward to your first cultural appropriation lectures https://t.co/y6LBtcacOI — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 18, 2017

Offended students quickly took to Mansfield College’s Facebook page to criticise the event.

One said: “Sorry I think the Entz don’t get April fools, is this an actual joke?? Because there are SO many aspects of the email that we all just received that are deeply wrong and squirm inducing [sic].”

Another said: “I’m genuinely working on the assumption that the Entz email has been hacked.”

The team behind the event sent another email out shortly afterwards, apologising “for the (no longer) ‘420’ themed BOP this coming Friday,” adding: “We understand that this was met with offence and we want to apologise dearly to those who were offended.

“We overlooked the clear issues with this theme and now realise our very significant mistake in the matter. We can’t apologise enough.

“And clearly nor did we expect any members of the College to be dressing in a manner so as to be culturally appropriating any culture.”

The Mansfield team also told Cherwell: “We recognised quickly that there were many real problems with this theme and it was consequently changed.

“To reiterate, the event will not be going ahead with this theme. We regret and apologise for any offence or distress which may have been caused.”A group is planning to boycott and protest ten Chicago-area Starbucks locations Wednesday in light of the arrest of two black men at a Philadelphia Starbucks this week.

The Black Star Project, a group that says it is “committed to improving the quality of life in Black and Latino communities of Chicago,” announced that it organized the protests to get corporate America to address racial issues.

“Enough is enough. That’s all we’re saying. It’s not about Starbucks. It certainly is not about coffee. It’s not about one racist individual managing one store in one city. It’s about a culture that has become a part of the very fabric of this county. It needs to change,” Herb Howard of the Black Star Project told WLS.

The group plans to protest the stores for two hours beginning at 11 a.m. Wednesday, and is asking those who demonstrate to pass out fliers, not to block the doors, and be courteous to the customers.

The group is asking demonstrators to buy something if they go inside the stores to use the restroom.

The planned protests are set to take place at the Starbucks stores located at 444 North Michigan Avenue, 200 West Adams, 231 South LaSalle, 25 East Washington, 227 West Monroe, 21 South Clark, 35th and State Street, 4355 North Sheridan Road, 71st and Stony Island, and 55th and Woodlawn.

The protests come days after employees at a Philadelphia Starbucks called the police on two black men Saturday when they asked to use the restroom and did not buy anything from the store.

Police arrested the men for trespassing, although authorities did not file charges against the men.

A video of the encounter went viral on social media, prompting many people to call for a boycott of the coffee chain on Twitter.

Starbucks responded to the incident by sending its CEO to Philadelphia to personally apologize to the men and announced it would close 8,000 of its stores for “racial bias training” for an afternoon next month.A group is planning to boycott and protest ten Chicago-area Starbucks locations Wednesday in light of the arrest of two black men at a Philadelphia Starbucks this week.

The Black Star Project, a group that says it is “committed to improving the quality of life in Black and Latino communities of Chicago,” announced that it organized the protests to get corporate America to address racial issues.

“Enough is enough. That’s all we’re saying. It’s not about Starbucks. It certainly is not about coffee. It’s not about one racist individual managing one store in one city. It’s about a culture that has become a part of the very fabric of this county. It needs to change,” Herb Howard of the Black Star Project told WLS.

The group plans to protest the stores for two hours beginning at 11 a.m. Wednesday, and is asking those who demonstrate to pass out fliers, not to block the doors, and be courteous to the customers.

The group is asking demonstrators to buy something if they go inside the stores to use the restroom.

The planned protests are set to take place at the Starbucks stores located at 444 North Michigan Avenue, 200 West Adams, 231 South LaSalle, 25 East Washington, 227 West Monroe, 21 South Clark, 35th and State Street, 4355 North Sheridan Road, 71st and Stony Island, and 55th and Woodlawn.

The protests come days after employees at a Philadelphia Starbucks called the police on two black men Saturday when they asked to use the restroom and did not buy anything from the store.

Police arrested the men for trespassing, although authorities did not file charges against the men.

A video of the encounter went viral on social media, prompting many people to call for a boycott of the coffee chain on Twitter.

Starbucks responded to the incident by sending its CEO to Philadelphia to personally apologize to the men and announced it would close 8,000 of its stores for “racial bias training” for an afternoon next month.A meeting in Nigeria’s National Assembly plenary was disrupted after a group of men stormed the building and stole the chamber’s mace – a large, ceremonial club.

One of National Assembly’s security personnel told local outlet Premium Times that the men told him they were with Senator Ovie Omo-Agege.

“We tried to stop them but they told us they were with him (Omo-Agege),” he said.

After storming the building, the men stole the chamber’s mace, required for all Senate plenaries, throwing the meeting into “pandemonium.”

Footage from the incident shows men fighting and throwing chairs, as onlookers back off from the incident.

The incident appears to be an act of protest against Omo-Agege’s suspension from the Senate after he accused fellow politicians of trying to undermine President Muhammadu Buhari, to whom he claims to be intensely loyal. Ome-Agege is now believed to have sponsored the attack, with an eyewitness telling the Guardian that they had spotted him with the intruders before the incident took place.

According to Premium Times, the Senate resumed its plenary around an hour after the incident after finding a replacement mace.

In a statement on Wednesday, the Senate’s media and public affairs chairman Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi condemned the incident as an “act of treason.”

“Today, some hoodlums … seized the symbol of authority of the Upper Legislative Chamber, the mace,” he said in a statement. “This action is an act of treason, as it is an attempt to overthrow a branch of the federal government of Nigeria by force and it must be treated as such.”

“All security agencies must stand on the side of due process and immediately mobilize their personnel to retrieve the mace and apprehend the mastermind and the perpetrators of this act,” he continued.

Today, some hoodlums led by suspended Senator @OvieOmoAgege walked into the Senate plenary and seized the symbol of authority of the Upper Legislative Chamber, the mace. pic.twitter.com/9j4iZ3X3dv — The Nigerian Senate (@NGRSenate) April 18, 2018

The incident provides further testament to the sorry state of Nigerian politics in the run-up to next year’s presidential election, where violence, intimidation, and corruption are part and parcel of political life.

“This speaks to the kind of fractures that we’re going to see as 2019 approaches,” independent political analyst Chris Ngwodo said in an interview with Bloomberg.

“The sheer hooliganism of the action does not speak well of the senator or just of the institution itself,” he continued. “It’s an unfortunate example of the low values we find among our political elite.”

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comA meeting in Nigeria’s National Assembly plenary was disrupted after a group of men stormed the building and stole the chamber’s mace – a large, ceremonial club.

One of National Assembly’s security personnel told local outlet Premium Times that the men told him they were with Senator Ovie Omo-Agege.

“We tried to stop them but they told us they were with him (Omo-Agege),” he said.

After storming the building, the men stole the chamber’s mace, required for all Senate plenaries, throwing the meeting into “pandemonium.”

Footage from the incident shows men fighting and throwing chairs, as onlookers back off from the incident.

The incident appears to be an act of protest against Omo-Agege’s suspension from the Senate after he accused fellow politicians of trying to undermine President Muhammadu Buhari, to whom he claims to be intensely loyal. Ome-Agege is now believed to have sponsored the attack, with an eyewitness telling the Guardian that they had spotted him with the intruders before the incident took place.

According to Premium Times, the Senate resumed its plenary around an hour after the incident after finding a replacement mace.

In a statement on Wednesday, the Senate’s media and public affairs chairman Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi condemned the incident as an “act of treason.”

“Today, some hoodlums … seized the symbol of authority of the Upper Legislative Chamber, the mace,” he said in a statement. “This action is an act of treason, as it is an attempt to overthrow a branch of the federal government of Nigeria by force and it must be treated as such.”

“All security agencies must stand on the side of due process and immediately mobilize their personnel to retrieve the mace and apprehend the mastermind and the perpetrators of this act,” he continued.

Today, some hoodlums led by suspended Senator @OvieOmoAgege walked into the Senate plenary and seized the symbol of authority of the Upper Legislative Chamber, the mace. pic.twitter.com/9j4iZ3X3dv — The Nigerian Senate (@NGRSenate) April 18, 2018

The incident provides further testament to the sorry state of Nigerian politics in the run-up to next year’s presidential election, where violence, intimidation, and corruption are part and parcel of political life.

“This speaks to the kind of fractures that we’re going to see as 2019 approaches,” independent political analyst Chris Ngwodo said in an interview with Bloomberg.

“The sheer hooliganism of the action does not speak well of the senator or just of the institution itself,” he continued. “It’s an unfortunate example of the low values we find among our political elite.”

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comNigerian officials failed to confirm or deny news this week that nearly 100 girls had died in captivity as the nation observed four years since Boko Haram abducted over 200 girls from the northeastern village of Chibok.

While Abuja has managed to negotiate for the release of dozens of the girls originally kidnapped, an estimated 113 remain under the Islamic State affiliate’s control. A Nigerian journalist known to have ties to leaders within Boko Haram reported this weekend that most of the 113 are dead.

Boko Haram kidnapped 276 girls from a secondary school in Chibok on April 14, 2014, while they were taking a physics exam. 57 girls escaped in the immediate aftermath of the abduction, many injuring themselves significantly by jumping off of the trucks they had been packed into. The other 219 remained in custody for the long term, with some exceptions. Last May, Boko Haram agreed to the release of an estimated 82 of the girls in exchange for the liberation of key leaders within the group. The Nigerian government subsequently readjusted their estimate of the number of girls left in captivity to 113.

On Saturday, Nigerian newspaper Vanguard reports, journalist Ahmad Salkida estimated that 15 girls remained alive, while another 98 had been killed in captivity in the Sambisa forest, either by their captors or in Nigerian government airstrikes on Boko Haram targets.

“Many of the girls have died as a result of crossfire and bombardments by security forces that no doubt were intent on rescuing them,” Salkida tweeted.

On Tuesday, Salkida reported that Boko Haram sources had told him that twice the number of girls remained alive. In addition to the 15 confirmed alive, another 15 remain in their custody from the original group abducted from a secondary school in Chibok on April 14, 2014.

4/ A leading member of the Jama'atu Ahlis-Sunna Lidda'Awati Wal-Jihad or BH has now clarified the earlier information about 15 girls. Indeed, the 15 #Chibokgirls are available, but known to a particular cell that spoke to me emphatically days leading to the 4th anniversary. — Ahmad Salkida (@ContactSalkida) April 17, 2018

5/ However, two other cells within the larger group has brought additional information, clarifying the earlier information, that there is another 10 girls available to another cell. Outside of the 15 and 10, another 5 amongst the girls are also alive as at early hours of today. — Ahmad Salkida (@ContactSalkida) April 17, 2018

Five of the second group of 15, Salkida says, have been so thoroughly indoctrinated that they have requested to Boko Haram leaders that they not be part of any negotiations for release with the Nigerian government, as they do not want to return to life outside of the terrorist group.

Nigeria has struggled even with reintegrating girls into society who do seem to wish to return to their families. Many of the girls are being kept in refugee camps – some with children born in captivity to the terrorists they were “married” off to – and un-indoctrinated out of the repressive jihadist ideology they were forced to consume. Yet the girls are not safe even when placed in refugee camps; a year ago, Nigeria accidentally conducted an airstrike on one of these camps and killed 100 Boko Haram victims, instead of targeting a stronghold held by the terrorists.

Vanguard notes that the Nigerian government has dismissed the claim and suggested that, according to their sources, all the remaining Chibok girls are alive.

“Following the numerous press enquiries on the information contained in the series of tweets by Mr Ahmed Salkida, we wish to reiterate that the information is not known to the officials of this administration either from the captors of the Chibok girls or the international intercessors who are working with us,” Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari Garba Shehu told reporters on Monday. “We wish to confirm that Mr Salkida is not involved, on behalf of the Nigerian government in the processes leading to the release of the over 100 Chibok Girls that have returned.”

“The remaining Chibok Girls are there and we are not relenting on getting their release,” Shehu insisted, adding that Salkida had not approached the government with the information he received from his Boko Haram source.

Some relatives of the remaining missing girls have demanded that the government force Boko Haram to deliver proof of life for the girls that Abuja insists are still alive.

“This claim has added to the grief of parents. The government should act fast. The longer it takes to resolve this issue, the more the future of these girls is destroyed,” Ayuba Alamson Chibok, a local activist and relative of one of the victims, told Agence-France Presse (AFP). He noted that the information relatives have received through back channels from Boko Haram confirms that “some girls were killed in [a] military strike on the camp they were being held.”

Boko Haram most recently released a proof of life video of the Chibok girls in January. In the video, the girls deny wanting to go home.

“By the grace of Allah, we will not return to you,” one girl says.

The continued hostage status of the girls remains a blight on the record of Buhari, who became president in 2015 after running a campaign vowing to eradicate the terrorist group and condemning predecessor Goodluck Jonathan for not fighting back hard enough against Boko Haram. In December 2015, Buhari announced that Nigeria had “won the war” against the group,” a wildly premature statement that has continued to haunt him, as Buhari continues to insist Boko Haram no longer poses a threat to the country. Shortly before the group released the January proof of life video for the Chibok girls, Buhari had told local media, “we have since beaten Boko Haram” yet again.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.Nigerian officials failed to confirm or deny news this week that nearly 100 girls had died in captivity as the nation observed four years since Boko Haram abducted over 200 girls from the northeastern village of Chibok.

While Abuja has managed to negotiate for the release of dozens of the girls originally kidnapped, an estimated 113 remain under the Islamic State affiliate’s control. A Nigerian journalist known to have ties to leaders within Boko Haram reported this weekend that most of the 113 are dead.

Boko Haram kidnapped 276 girls from a secondary school in Chibok on April 14, 2014, while they were taking a physics exam. 57 girls escaped in the immediate aftermath of the abduction, many injuring themselves significantly by jumping off of the trucks they had been packed into. The other 219 remained in custody for the long term, with some exceptions. Last May, Boko Haram agreed to the release of an estimated 82 of the girls in exchange for the liberation of key leaders within the group. The Nigerian government subsequently readjusted their estimate of the number of girls left in captivity to 113.

On Saturday, Nigerian newspaper Vanguard reports, journalist Ahmad Salkida estimated that 15 girls remained alive, while another 98 had been killed in captivity in the Sambisa forest, either by their captors or in Nigerian government airstrikes on Boko Haram targets.

“Many of the girls have died as a result of crossfire and bombardments by security forces that no doubt were intent on rescuing them,” Salkida tweeted.

On Tuesday, Salkida reported that Boko Haram sources had told him that twice the number of girls remained alive. In addition to the 15 confirmed alive, another 15 remain in their custody from the original group abducted from a secondary school in Chibok on April 14, 2014.

4/ A leading member of the Jama'atu Ahlis-Sunna Lidda'Awati Wal-Jihad or BH has now clarified the earlier information about 15 girls. Indeed, the 15 #Chibokgirls are available, but known to a particular cell that spoke to me emphatically days leading to the 4th anniversary. — Ahmad Salkida (@ContactSalkida) April 17, 2018

5/ However, two other cells within the larger group has brought additional information, clarifying the earlier information, that there is another 10 girls available to another cell. Outside of the 15 and 10, another 5 amongst the girls are also alive as at early hours of today. — Ahmad Salkida (@ContactSalkida) April 17, 2018

Five of the second group of 15, Salkida says, have been so thoroughly indoctrinated that they have requested to Boko Haram leaders that they not be part of any negotiations for release with the Nigerian government, as they do not want to return to life outside of the terrorist group.

Nigeria has struggled even with reintegrating girls into society who do seem to wish to return to their families. Many of the girls are being kept in refugee camps – some with children born in captivity to the terrorists they were “married” off to – and un-indoctrinated out of the repressive jihadist ideology they were forced to consume. Yet the girls are not safe even when placed in refugee camps; a year ago, Nigeria accidentally conducted an airstrike on one of these camps and killed 100 Boko Haram victims, instead of targeting a stronghold held by the terrorists.

Vanguard notes that the Nigerian government has dismissed the claim and suggested that, according to their sources, all the remaining Chibok girls are alive.

“Following the numerous press enquiries on the information contained in the series of tweets by Mr Ahmed Salkida, we wish to reiterate that the information is not known to the officials of this administration either from the captors of the Chibok girls or the international intercessors who are working with us,” Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari Garba Shehu told reporters on Monday. “We wish to confirm that Mr Salkida is not involved, on behalf of the Nigerian government in the processes leading to the release of the over 100 Chibok Girls that have returned.”

“The remaining Chibok Girls are there and we are not relenting on getting their release,” Shehu insisted, adding that Salkida had not approached the government with the information he received from his Boko Haram source.

Some relatives of the remaining missing girls have demanded that the government force Boko Haram to deliver proof of life for the girls that Abuja insists are still alive.

“This claim has added to the grief of parents. The government should act fast. The longer it takes to resolve this issue, the more the future of these girls is destroyed,” Ayuba Alamson Chibok, a local activist and relative of one of the victims, told Agence-France Presse (AFP). He noted that the information relatives have received through back channels from Boko Haram confirms that “some girls were killed in [a] military strike on the camp they were being held.”

Boko Haram most recently released a proof of life video of the Chibok girls in January. In the video, the girls deny wanting to go home.

“By the grace of Allah, we will not return to you,” one girl says.

The continued hostage status of the girls remains a blight on the record of Buhari, who became president in 2015 after running a campaign vowing to eradicate the terrorist group and condemning predecessor Goodluck Jonathan for not fighting back hard enough against Boko Haram. In December 2015, Buhari announced that Nigeria had “won the war” against the group,” a wildly premature statement that has continued to haunt him, as Buhari continues to insist Boko Haram no longer poses a threat to the country. Shortly before the group released the January proof of life video for the Chibok girls, Buhari had told local media, “we have since beaten Boko Haram” yet again.

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.Wednesday on NBC’s “Today,” actor Robert De Niro said he would like to continue his role on SNL as special counsel Robert Mueller in a sketch where he takes President Donald Trump to jail.

De Niro said, “I hope there’s a couple where I interrogate, I arrest him, and then I take him to jail.”

When asked about being politically active, De Niro said, “I have never been this active. But when I see what’s going on with this guy, you have no choice but to be active. It’s past the point of being passive. People have to speak out. They have to speak out over and over and over again. This guy, this administration, is beyond belief. It has to stop.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENWednesday on NBC’s “Today,” actor Robert De Niro said he would like to continue his role on SNL as special counsel Robert Mueller in a sketch where he takes President Donald Trump to jail.

De Niro said, “I hope there’s a couple where I interrogate, I arrest him, and then I take him to jail.”

When asked about being politically active, De Niro said, “I have never been this active. But when I see what’s going on with this guy, you have no choice but to be active. It’s past the point of being passive. People have to speak out. They have to speak out over and over and over again. This guy, this administration, is beyond belief. It has to stop.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENApparently, the scam to try and fool us cord-cutters into paying for the same cable TV scam through a streaming service is failing. A company called Philo is now offering 37 live streaming channels for only $16 a month. The best news is that you are not subsidizing CNN or ESPN.

Why is this news? Let us count the ways…

To begin with, for $16 a month, the networks you can stream live include A&E, AMC, CMT, Comedy Central, Discovery, HGTV, Investigative Discovery, TLC, History, MTV, Nick, and OWN. Basically, by using Philo, your Roku player (or any other similar streaming device) replaces your cable box. You can also enjoy the equivalent of a DVR by saving any show for 30 days.

The $16 price point is huge, other than Sling, which is $20 a month for 25 channels (including CNN, ESPN, and a lot of junk), Philo is less than half of the current alternatives. DirecTV Now costs $35 a month; YouTubeTV, PlayStation Vue, and Hulu Live cost $40. In my opinion, these packages are nothing less than the cable scam moved to streaming.

How does Philo offer 37 channels for just $16? Well, here is the most interesting part…

Philo does not offer news or sports. No CNN, no MSNBC, no ESPN, or ESPN 2. Hallelujah! Except for BBC World News, this is a package strictly made up of entertainment channels.

Also missing are the countless sub-networks, the expensive filler, the junk channels that no one watches but you still pay for simply because greedy entertainment companies force them into your package.

Also of note is that biggest dog of all blinked. Rather than strong-arm Philo to accept ESPN (which would have turned a $16 package into a $22 package), Disney agreed to unbundle A&E and History as standalones. Disney does not own those networks outright but probably could have queered the deal.

This might even be unprecedented. For decades, in order for your subscription TV provider to offer a popular network like A&E or History, they were forced by the Disneys of the world to also provide expensive networks like ESPN and all kinds of junk sub-networks like MTV 9, ESPN 11, Discovery 17 (I’m making those up but you know what I mean). This is why you are forced to pay for 500 channels when you only watch six.

Viacom also provides a number of networks to Philo, including MTV, BET, CMT, VHI, the Paramount Network, and Comedy Central. Except for MTV2, though, there are none of Viacom’s junk networks clogging up the package.

Discovery Inc. (Discovery Channel, Investigative Discovery, HGTV, Animal Planet), A+E Networks (A&E, History), and AMC Networks (AMC, Sundance, BBC America) make up the bulk of the package. Like Viacom, all three of those corporations could have tried to muscle a number of junk networks into the bundle to sweeten their own deal, but didn’t.

Also notable is that this package decided to move forward without a number of the Mighty Entertainment Multinationals, including anything from Time-Warner and Comcast.

This might also be the first streaming TV package that does not force you to subsidize the far-left CNN. The anti-Trump network’s ratings are so anemic, CNN could never survive without the cable subsidy you are forced to pay, even if you never watch the channel. So, at long last, here is a way to enjoy some of your favorite networks without subsidizing CNN’s fake news and bigoted hate. Same with ESPN.

The bad news with Philo is that you are still paying for the privilege of watching 20 minutes of commercials per hour — something I have found unbearable for 20 years,

The overall story here is that the big, fat cable bundle is beginning to break apart into more reasonable bite-sized pieces.

As smart people cut the expensive cable cord and move to cheaper than cheap streaming services like Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon, which offer more commercial-free programming than any human being could consumer for a fraction of the price, this is putting massive pressure on these left-wing entertainment companies to actually treat us like valued customers again.

Imagine that.

Philo arrives on Apple TV and Amazon Fire sometime this summer. It is already available through Roku.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.Apparently, the scam to try and fool us cord-cutters into paying for the same cable TV scam through a streaming service is failing. A company called Philo is now offering 37 live streaming channels for only $16 a month. The best news is that you are not subsidizing CNN or ESPN.

Why is this news? Let us count the ways…

To begin with, for $16 a month, the networks you can stream live include A&E, AMC, CMT, Comedy Central, Discovery, HGTV, Investigative Discovery, TLC, History, MTV, Nick, and OWN. Basically, by using Philo, your Roku player (or any other similar streaming device) replaces your cable box. You can also enjoy the equivalent of a DVR by saving any show for 30 days.

The $16 price point is huge, other than Sling, which is $20 a month for 25 channels (including CNN, ESPN, and a lot of junk), Philo is less than half of the current alternatives. DirecTV Now costs $35 a month; YouTubeTV, PlayStation Vue, and Hulu Live cost $40. In my opinion, these packages are nothing less than the cable scam moved to streaming.

How does Philo offer 37 channels for just $16? Well, here is the most interesting part…

Philo does not offer news or sports. No CNN, no MSNBC, no ESPN, or ESPN 2. Hallelujah! Except for BBC World News, this is a package strictly made up of entertainment channels.

Also missing are the countless sub-networks, the expensive filler, the junk channels that no one watches but you still pay for simply because greedy entertainment companies force them into your package.

Also of note is that biggest dog of all blinked. Rather than strong-arm Philo to accept ESPN (which would have turned a $16 package into a $22 package), Disney agreed to unbundle A&E and History as standalones. Disney does not own those networks outright but probably could have queered the deal.

This might even be unprecedented. For decades, in order for your subscription TV provider to offer a popular network like A&E or History, they were forced by the Disneys of the world to also provide expensive networks like ESPN and all kinds of junk sub-networks like MTV 9, ESPN 11, Discovery 17 (I’m making those up but you know what I mean). This is why you are forced to pay for 500 channels when you only watch six.

Viacom also provides a number of networks to Philo, including MTV, BET, CMT, VHI, the Paramount Network, and Comedy Central. Except for MTV2, though, there are none of Viacom’s junk networks clogging up the package.

Discovery Inc. (Discovery Channel, Investigative Discovery, HGTV, Animal Planet), A+E Networks (A&E, History), and AMC Networks (AMC, Sundance, BBC America) make up the bulk of the package. Like Viacom, all three of those corporations could have tried to muscle a number of junk networks into the bundle to sweeten their own deal, but didn’t.

Also notable is that this package decided to move forward without a number of the Mighty Entertainment Multinationals, including anything from Time-Warner and Comcast.

This might also be the first streaming TV package that does not force you to subsidize the far-left CNN. The anti-Trump network’s ratings are so anemic, CNN could never survive without the cable subsidy you are forced to pay, even if you never watch the channel. So, at long last, here is a way to enjoy some of your favorite networks without subsidizing CNN’s fake news and bigoted hate. Same with ESPN.

The bad news with Philo is that you are still paying for the privilege of watching 20 minutes of commercials per hour — something I have found unbearable for 20 years,

The overall story here is that the big, fat cable bundle is beginning to break apart into more reasonable bite-sized pieces.

As smart people cut the expensive cable cord and move to cheaper than cheap streaming services like Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon, which offer more commercial-free programming than any human being could consumer for a fraction of the price, this is putting massive pressure on these left-wing entertainment companies to actually treat us like valued customers again.

Imagine that.

Philo arrives on Apple TV and Amazon Fire sometime this summer. It is already available through Roku.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.Jen Spyra, a writer for The Late Show with Stephen Colbert is facing a public backlash for reacting to the news of the passing of Barbara Bush with a joke about the former first lady’s looks.

“RIP Barbara Bush, the only woman who was 92 for 30 years,” Spyra tweeted.

RIP Barbara Bush, the only woman who was 92 for 30 years. — Jen Spyra (@jenspyra) April 18, 2018

While some praised and defended the humor, most of the replies were negative and critical.

Many of the replies pointed out the double standard leftists like Spyra frequently travel in when it comes to mocking age and looks.

wow i thought leftists didnt body shame??? — Bradley Schultz (@schultz_racing) April 18, 2018

Way to be progressive. Wonder why Trump won, because of people like you. — Luke Kicklighter (@lkicklighter) April 18, 2018

I'm a huge @colbertlateshow fan, so you've likely written stuff that I've found really funny, but ageist shit like this perpetuates the idea that women aren't allowed to grow old naturally. — Mary K. Bingler (@MaryKBingler) April 18, 2018

So it’s okay to make fun of a woman’s appearance? Or is that only towards recently deceased or just women you don’t agree with in general? It’s hard to keep up with the ever-changing rules. — Pete Athens (@athynz1) April 18, 2018

Now make a joke about how Michelle Obama looks, & decide how you'd react if you heard it. — Laurence Watkins (@thelarrywatkins) April 18, 2018

Others pointed out why Mrs. Bush’s hair grayed prematurely and why she refused to dye it.

She had cancer treatments and her hair grayed; she did not dye it in tribute to her daughter she lost to leukemia. I hope this makes you feel smaller… — Melissa spindler (@melissaspin08) April 18, 2018

So when someone goes prematurely grey because they lost a 3 yr old daughter from cancer, it's time to make a weak joke for attention..got it! Oh, hopefully karma will show big for making me speak up for any of the Bush Clan. — Mephibosheth (@Az61Ronin) April 18, 2018

The New York Times adds, “Barbara Bush’s brown hair began to gray in the 1950s while her 3-year-old daughter, Pauline, known to her family as Robin, underwent treatment for leukemia. She died in October 1953. Barbara Bush eschewed dying her hair, which ultimately turned white. She later said that dyed hair didn’t look good on her and credited the color to the public’s perception of her as “everybody’s grandmother.”

Some of Spyra’s critics kept it simple:

Mrs. Bush was very comfortable in her own skin and with her looks.

She is quoted as saying: “People who worry about their hair all the time, frankly, are boring.”

On aging, she said: “Never ask anyone over 70 how they feel. They’ll tell you.”

On her petty critics: “Why be afraid of what people will say? Those who care about you will say, Good luck! and those who care only about themselves will never say anything worth listening to anyway.”

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.Jen Spyra, a writer for The Late Show with Stephen Colbert is facing a public backlash for reacting to the news of the passing of Barbara Bush with a joke about the former first lady’s looks.

“RIP Barbara Bush, the only woman who was 92 for 30 years,” Spyra tweeted.

RIP Barbara Bush, the only woman who was 92 for 30 years. — Jen Spyra (@jenspyra) April 18, 2018

While some praised and defended the humor, most of the replies were negative and critical.

Many of the replies pointed out the double standard leftists like Spyra frequently travel in when it comes to mocking age and looks.

wow i thought leftists didnt body shame??? — Bradley Schultz (@schultz_racing) April 18, 2018

Way to be progressive. Wonder why Trump won, because of people like you. — Luke Kicklighter (@lkicklighter) April 18, 2018

I'm a huge @colbertlateshow fan, so you've likely written stuff that I've found really funny, but ageist shit like this perpetuates the idea that women aren't allowed to grow old naturally. — Mary K. Bingler (@MaryKBingler) April 18, 2018

So it’s okay to make fun of a woman’s appearance? Or is that only towards recently deceased or just women you don’t agree with in general? It’s hard to keep up with the ever-changing rules. — Pete Athens (@athynz1) April 18, 2018

Now make a joke about how Michelle Obama looks, & decide how you'd react if you heard it. — Laurence Watkins (@thelarrywatkins) April 18, 2018

Others pointed out why Mrs. Bush’s hair grayed prematurely and why she refused to dye it.

She had cancer treatments and her hair grayed; she did not dye it in tribute to her daughter she lost to leukemia. I hope this makes you feel smaller… — Melissa spindler (@melissaspin08) April 18, 2018

So when someone goes prematurely grey because they lost a 3 yr old daughter from cancer, it's time to make a weak joke for attention..got it! Oh, hopefully karma will show big for making me speak up for any of the Bush Clan. — Mephibosheth (@Az61Ronin) April 18, 2018

The New York Times adds, “Barbara Bush’s brown hair began to gray in the 1950s while her 3-year-old daughter, Pauline, known to her family as Robin, underwent treatment for leukemia. She died in October 1953. Barbara Bush eschewed dying her hair, which ultimately turned white. She later said that dyed hair didn’t look good on her and credited the color to the public’s perception of her as “everybody’s grandmother.”

Some of Spyra’s critics kept it simple:

Mrs. Bush was very comfortable in her own skin and with her looks.

She is quoted as saying: “People who worry about their hair all the time, frankly, are boring.”

On aging, she said: “Never ask anyone over 70 how they feel. They’ll tell you.”

On her petty critics: “Why be afraid of what people will say? Those who care about you will say, Good luck! and those who care only about themselves will never say anything worth listening to anyway.”

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.First Lady Melania Trump strutted like a runway model across the lawn at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, on Tuesday where she and President Trump greeted Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe and his wife, Akie Abe.

In a yacht club chic frock by Carolina Herrera, Mrs. Trump glowed in the Florida sunshine as she glamorously walked through Mar-a-Lago, eventually stopping to have lunch alongside Mrs. Abe.

The Carolina Herrera number features black and white stripes, a criss-cross bodice, an off-the-shoulder neckline, and a full A-line skirt cut at tea-length. The dress is nearly sold out for $2,990 at Neiman Marcus and is made in Italy.

Keeping to her signature tousled waves and smokey eyes, Mrs. Trump chose a pair of white leather “So Kate” Christian Louboutin stilettos to top the look off. The nearly 5-inch Louboutins retail for $725.

Mrs. Trump’s nod to Carolina Herrera, a brand that has traditionally dressed First Ladies, was inevitable as her personal couturier, fashion designer, and stylist Hervé Pierre once served as the brand’s creative director. Herrera, herself, took her last bow with the brand this past February at New York Fashion Week.

John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.First Lady Melania Trump strutted like a runway model across the lawn at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida, on Tuesday where she and President Trump greeted Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe and his wife, Akie Abe.

In a yacht club chic frock by Carolina Herrera, Mrs. Trump glowed in the Florida sunshine as she glamorously walked through Mar-a-Lago, eventually stopping to have lunch alongside Mrs. Abe.

The Carolina Herrera number features black and white stripes, a criss-cross bodice, an off-the-shoulder neckline, and a full A-line skirt cut at tea-length. The dress is nearly sold out for $2,990 at Neiman Marcus and is made in Italy.

Keeping to her signature tousled waves and smokey eyes, Mrs. Trump chose a pair of white leather “So Kate” Christian Louboutin stilettos to top the look off. The nearly 5-inch Louboutins retail for $725.

Mrs. Trump’s nod to Carolina Herrera, a brand that has traditionally dressed First Ladies, was inevitable as her personal couturier, fashion designer, and stylist Hervé Pierre once served as the brand’s creative director. Herrera, herself, took her last bow with the brand this past February at New York Fashion Week.

John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter at @JxhnBinder.Former First Lady Barbara Bush, the wife of America’s 41st president and mother of its 43rd, passed away on Tuesday evening in Houston, Texas, with her husband of 73 years holding her hand.

The Bush family matriarch’s iconic life spanned nearly a century and afforded her a front row seat to the seminal moments of American political history over multiple administrations, from Nixon to Trump.

From her then-fiancé George H.W. Bush’s service as a Navy pilot in World War II, to her husband’s presidency during the fall of the Soviet Union, and her son George W. Bush’s presidency during the 9/11 terror attacks and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Barbara Bush’s life encompassed America’s greatest tragedies and triumphs in a century-long ascent as a super power.

This is her life in photos.Former First Lady Barbara Bush, the wife of America’s 41st president and mother of its 43rd, passed away on Tuesday evening in Houston, Texas, with her husband of 73 years holding her hand.

The Bush family matriarch’s iconic life spanned nearly a century and afforded her a front row seat to the seminal moments of American political history over multiple administrations, from Nixon to Trump.

From her then-fiancé George H.W. Bush’s service as a Navy pilot in World War II, to her husband’s presidency during the fall of the Soviet Union, and her son George W. Bush’s presidency during the 9/11 terror attacks and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Barbara Bush’s life encompassed America’s greatest tragedies and triumphs in a century-long ascent as a super power.

This is her life in photos.Fresno State University professor Randa Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday that former First Lady Barbara Bush “was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal.”

She added: “Fuck outta here with your nice words.”

Mrs. Bush passed away on Tuesday at the age of 92 after struggling with illness. She was praised in tributes by leaders from across the political spectrum.

Our statement on the passing of Former First Lady Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/MhTVYCL9Nj — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) April 18, 2018

Jarrar, whose tweets are protected, teaches in the English department at Fresno State, and taunted her critics by boasting: “I will never be fired.”

According to the Fresno Bee, Jarrar described herself on Twitter as “an Arab-American and a Muslim-American woman” and added that “she is a tenured professor and makes $100,000 a year.”

In her faculty bio at Fresno State, she is pictured posing with a kaffiyeh, a scarf often used to express solidarity with the Palestinian struggle against Israel.

She reportedly tweeted Tuesday: “If you’d like to know what it’s like to be an Arab American Muslim American woman with some clout online expressing an opinion, look at the racists going crazy in my mentions right now.”

Last year, an adjunct professor at Fresno State was placed on leave after tweeting that “Trump must hang.”

According to her bio, Jarrar grew up in Kuwait and moved to the U.S. after the Gulf War.

In that war, Mrs. Bush’s husband, President George H. W. Bush, launched a massive military operation to liberate Kuwait from Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.

Update: Jarrar’s account says she is “Currently on leave from Fresno State.”

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.While discussing Barbara Bush’s legacy on Tuesday evening, CNN’s Anderson Cooper and Jeffrey Toobin could not resist using the opportunity to slam President Donald Trump.

After news broke of Barbara Bush’s passing, Toobin rattled off the “list of adjectives” associated with the former First Lady—“public-service oriented, the honesty, decency”—and asked, “what about the contrast to our current president?”

“I mean this family, whatever else you think of the Bushes, were a family that was wall-to-wall decent… good to people… considerate of others,” Toobin said. “And I’m sorry, I just keep thinking of Donald Trump in the White House who has none of the qualities that the Bushes have. It’s just a sign of how different this country is now than it was not that many years ago.”

Barbara Bush was critical of Trump during the 2016 election cycle, saying she did not understand how women could vote for Trump. She also said that she was “sick of him” and didn’t waste time thinking about Trump.

Cooper said that Barbara Bush “was so repelled by Donald Trump” and added that Trump is “antithetical to all of the values she grew up believing and lived her life by.”

Toobin then mocked Trump for getting draft deferments because of bone spurs and contrasted Trump’s deferments with George H.W. Bush’s heroism.

On Tuesday evening, Trump ordered U.S. flags to be flown at half-staff through sunset on Saturday, when Barbara Bush will be buried at the George Bush Presidential Library at College Station, Texas.While discussing Barbara Bush’s legacy on Tuesday evening, CNN’s Anderson Cooper and Jeffrey Toobin could not resist using the opportunity to slam President Donald Trump.

After news broke of Barbara Bush’s passing, Toobin rattled off the “list of adjectives” associated with the former First Lady—“public-service oriented, the honesty, decency”—and asked, “what about the contrast to our current president?”

“I mean this family, whatever else you think of the Bushes, were a family that was wall-to-wall decent… good to people… considerate of others,” Toobin said. “And I’m sorry, I just keep thinking of Donald Trump in the White House who has none of the qualities that the Bushes have. It’s just a sign of how different this country is now than it was not that many years ago.”

Barbara Bush was critical of Trump during the 2016 election cycle, saying she did not understand how women could vote for Trump. She also said that she was “sick of him” and didn’t waste time thinking about Trump.

Cooper said that Barbara Bush “was so repelled by Donald Trump” and added that Trump is “antithetical to all of the values she grew up believing and lived her life by.”

Toobin then mocked Trump for getting draft deferments because of bone spurs and contrasted Trump’s deferments with George H.W. Bush’s heroism.

On Tuesday evening, Trump ordered U.S. flags to be flown at half-staff through sunset on Saturday, when Barbara Bush will be buried at the George Bush Presidential Library at College Station, Texas.President Donald Trump cast doubts on a sketch released by porn star Stormy Daniels, purporting to be an image of a man who threatened her and her daughter.

“A sketch years later about a nonexistent man,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)!”

Trump shared an picture of Daniels and her ex-boyfriend that a supporter shared with him on Twitter, commenting that he looked a lot like the sketch.

Daniels said that the man approached her and her daughter after she sold a story about an affair with Trump to a magazine for $15,000.

“A guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story,'” she said in an interview with CBS’s 60 Minutes. “And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone.”

Daniels denied her claim that she had affair with Trump in 2011 after signing a nondisclosure agreement and was paid $130,000 by Trump’s personal lawyer before the election.President Donald Trump took to Twitter Wednesday morning to hail the “Revolution” by local governments in Southern California against the state’s “sanctuary” laws.

Roughly one dozen local governments have voted to defy state laws that limit or prevent participation in immigration law enforcement by federal agencies. On Tuesday evening, San Diego County became the latest to join the revolt. The day before, Los Alamitos — the first local government to defy the state’s sanctuary laws — approved the ordinance it first passed last month.

On Wednesday morning, Trump tweeted:

There is a Revolution going on in California. Soooo many Sanctuary areas want OUT of this ridiculous, crime infested & breeding concept. Jerry Brown is trying to back out of the National Guard at the Border, but the people of the State are not happy. Want Security & Safety NOW! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Trump is also in the midst of an ongoing dispute with California Governor Jerry Brown about the deployment of 400 National Guard troops to enhance border security. Brown is resisting efforts to use those troops along the border, even though they would only be playing a supporting role for U.S. Border Patrol, and not enforcing immigration law directly.

On Tuesday, speaking at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, Brown attempted to dismiss the ongoing revolt against “sanctuary state” laws as the work of “low-life politicians,” rather than as a grass-roots effort.

Last month, the U.S. Department of Justice sued the State of California in a federal court in Sacramento, seeking to overturn three of the state’s “sanctuary” laws. The Trump administration contends that California’s statutes violate the U.S. Constitution’s Supremacy Clause. Experts suggest that California will struggle to defend at least two of the three laws.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.President Donald Trump took to Twitter Wednesday morning to hail the “Revolution” by local governments in Southern California against the state’s “sanctuary” laws.

Roughly one dozen local governments have voted to defy state laws that limit or prevent participation in immigration law enforcement by federal agencies. On Tuesday evening, San Diego County became the latest to join the revolt. The day before, Los Alamitos — the first local government to defy the state’s sanctuary laws — approved the ordinance it first passed last month.

On Wednesday morning, Trump tweeted:

There is a Revolution going on in California. Soooo many Sanctuary areas want OUT of this ridiculous, crime infested & breeding concept. Jerry Brown is trying to back out of the National Guard at the Border, but the people of the State are not happy. Want Security & Safety NOW! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Trump is also in the midst of an ongoing dispute with California Governor Jerry Brown about the deployment of 400 National Guard troops to enhance border security. Brown is resisting efforts to use those troops along the border, even though they would only be playing a supporting role for U.S. Border Patrol, and not enforcing immigration law directly.

On Tuesday, speaking at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, Brown attempted to dismiss the ongoing revolt against “sanctuary state” laws as the work of “low-life politicians,” rather than as a grass-roots effort.

Last month, the U.S. Department of Justice sued the State of California in a federal court in Sacramento, seeking to overturn three of the state’s “sanctuary” laws. The Trump administration contends that California’s statutes violate the U.S. Constitution’s Supremacy Clause. Experts suggest that California will struggle to defend at least two of the three laws.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.California Governor Jerry Brown on Tuesday insisted that California’s “sanctuary state” laws do not benefit criminal illegal aliens.

While speaking at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, Brown was asked whether California’s “sanctuary state” laws favor the “rights of criminal illegal aliens over the rights” of law-abiding Californians.

Brown said that notion is “absolutely false” and claimed that there is not a “scintilla of evidence that would support such an outlandish” proposition.

The California governor also said that it is a “lie” to say that Fullerton’s Grace Aguilar would still be alive if the state had more stringent immigration enforcement.

Aguilar, who was just six years of age, was reportedly murdered this year while sitting in her front yard by a twice-deported illegal immigrant who was driving under the influence.

NBC4 reported in February:

Immigration officials say 50-year-old Maximino Delgado Lagunas, who is in the United States illegally, had a blood alcohol level nearly three times the legal limit when he was arrested. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has revealed to NBC4 that Lagunas, a Mexican national, had been deported twice, once in 2001 and again in 2008. Court records show that in 2015 he was arrested for another DUI. Immigration officials say that back then Buena Park police did not detain Lagunas for the required 48 hours for pickup by immigration officials, instead placing him on informal probation and releasing him to the streets.

It took the Aguilars eight years to have their precious Grace, who was described as someone who “loved people, nature and God.”

Brown last year signed SB 54, the state’s main sanctuary law that prohibits local authorities from honoring Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers, and he has vehemently defended it.

After the Trump administration filed a lawsuit against three of California’s “sanctuary state” laws in March, Brown accused the Trump administration of “going to war” against the Golden State.

“This is basically going to war against the state of California, the engine of the American economy,” Brown said then. “It’s not wise, it’s not right, and it will not stand.”

Tuesday at the National Press Club, Brown also said that local officials who have been voting to defy the state’s sanctuary laws were “low-life” politicians trying to “exploit” the immigration issue.California Governor Jerry Brown on Tuesday insisted that California’s “sanctuary state” laws do not benefit criminal illegal aliens.

While speaking at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, Brown was asked whether California’s “sanctuary state” laws favor the “rights of criminal illegal aliens over the rights” of law-abiding Californians.

Brown said that notion is “absolutely false” and claimed that there is not a “scintilla of evidence that would support such an outlandish” proposition.

The California governor also said that it is a “lie” to say that Fullerton’s Grace Aguilar would still be alive if the state had more stringent immigration enforcement.

Aguilar, who was just six years of age, was reportedly murdered this year while sitting in her front yard by a twice-deported illegal immigrant who was driving under the influence.

NBC4 reported in February:

Immigration officials say 50-year-old Maximino Delgado Lagunas, who is in the United States illegally, had a blood alcohol level nearly three times the legal limit when he was arrested. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has revealed to NBC4 that Lagunas, a Mexican national, had been deported twice, once in 2001 and again in 2008. Court records show that in 2015 he was arrested for another DUI. Immigration officials say that back then Buena Park police did not detain Lagunas for the required 48 hours for pickup by immigration officials, instead placing him on informal probation and releasing him to the streets.

It took the Aguilars eight years to have their precious Grace, who was described as someone who “loved people, nature and God.”

Brown last year signed SB 54, the state’s main sanctuary law that prohibits local authorities from honoring Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers, and he has vehemently defended it.

After the Trump administration filed a lawsuit against three of California’s “sanctuary state” laws in March, Brown accused the Trump administration of “going to war” against the Golden State.

“This is basically going to war against the state of California, the engine of the American economy,” Brown said then. “It’s not wise, it’s not right, and it will not stand.”

Tuesday at the National Press Club, Brown also said that local officials who have been voting to defy the state’s sanctuary laws were “low-life” politicians trying to “exploit” the immigration issue.The mayor of New York is offering male criminals the chance to move into women’s jails, providing the men say they have a “female gender identity.”

“It’s the city’s responsibility to protect the rights and safety of all New Yorkers, and that means protecting transgender individuals in city jails as well,” said a statement from Mayor Bill de Blasio. “New York City is one of the first major cities to commit to taking this step, and it’s crucial to ensuring all our facilities are welcoming and safe for all New Yorkers, no matter their gender identity.”

The Mayor’s wife applauded the new policy, which will allow criminal men to live in close quarters with jailed women:

“With today’s announcement, New York City takes another important step to protect the rights, dignity and safety of transgender and gender non-conforming people, and it is our hope that cities across the country will follow our lead,” said First Lady Chirlane McCray. “Keeping transgender and gender non-conforming New Yorkers safe, wherever they are, is the City’s responsibility– whether they are in city custody or walking through their own neighborhoods.”

Jailed women will be forced to live with criminal transgender men “unless the outcome of an individualized safety assessment as required by The Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) or the expressed preferences and safety concerns of the inmate require alternate housing,” the mayor’s statement said.

The statement did not say how city officials would protect the sexual privacy of the jailed women. Instead, the statement included multiple professions of concerns for the men who say they are women, but no offers of sympathy for the women. For example, the statement included a comment from a group once known for advocacy of rights for lesbians:

“This policy is a big step forward for New York City,” said Lambda Legal CEO Rachel B. Tiven. “Going to jail is scary enough – and for transgender women incarcerated in men’s facilities around the country, it can be horrific. Lambda Legal applauds the NYC Commission on Human Rights for helping the Department of Correction make jails safer for transgender New Yorkers.”

Currently, the number of jailed criminals in New York who claim to be transgender is very small. Newsday reported that “as of April 17, there are 26 individuals in custody who self-report as transgender, and one individual who self-reports as gender nonconforming.”

Nationwide, there almost 500 people in federal jails who claim to be members of the other sex, DallasNews.com reported March 26.

Several women prisoners in Texas are seeking to exclude men who say they are women from their jail and are now negotiating a legal settlement with President Donald Trump’s appointees. Their chances were boosted when Trump discarded the pro-transgender policies pushed by former President Barack Obama.

The women are represented by the conservative Alliance Defending Freedom no-profit law firm. DallasNews.com reported:

After fighting a yearlong suit against a group of [female] Carswell inmates, prison officials are negotiating a settlement that could result in major changes to the way [Donna] Langan — and the 472 other trans men and women in federal lockup — are treated and housed. The settlement terms could be released in a matter of months, ending a legal battle that’s spanned two presidential administrations and pitted a black Republican woman against a reformed white supremacist and a handful of other trans inmates. The outcome will map the future for hundreds of prisoners and provide a window into how the Trump administration views the rights of transgender Americans, both free and behind bars. … [ADF lawyer Gary] McCaleb doesn’t expect the BOP to require all transgender women to be housed in men’s prisons. Trans inmates interacting with others in the yard or mess hall also is less of a concern, he said. It’s the housing issue — whether transgender women are allowed to room with non-trans prisoners — that he thinks will change.

The women’s claim for safety from the men is merely “transphobic,” said Margo Schlanger, a progressive at the University of Michigan’s law school. The DallasNews.com site reported:

“You have transphobic plaintiffs’ counsel against a transphobic administration,” she said, referring to the Alliance Defending Freedom and the Trump White House, respectively. “It’s unsurprising that they’d agree with each other.”

However, a growing number of advocates are concerned that progressives’ endorsement of “gender identity” will harm jailed women, partly because transgender advocates say people can change legal sex even without having genital surgery or taking opposite-sex hormones. For example, Breitbart’s London bureau reported in November 2017 about the problems caused by the transfer of men into women’s jails:

A report by feminist charity Fair Play for Women found “at least 41 per cent” of transgender inmates housed in jails across England and Wales are sex offenders — compared to 17 per cent of the population as a whole — and that a further handful are held in maximum-security category A prisons.

In February 2017, Breitbart reported:

A transgendered murderer, who is biologically male, has been moved out of a female jail after being accused of having sex with the women there. Paris Green, who identifies as a woman, was jailed after being found guilty of helping to torture a man to death after a row over a bag of chips. Previously known as Peter Laing, he was imprisoned for a minimum of 18 years in 2013 for playing a part in the brutal murder of Robert Shankland, 46, in Fife, Scotland. However, Green, 23, was housed on a female wing in HMP Edinburgh after claiming to want to live as a woman and go through a sex change operation. A source familiar with the case told The Star: “The women want sex and Paris is the only person who can give it to them.”

In September 2017, Breitbart reported:

A ‘transgendered’ convicted double rapist, who is biologically male, has been put in isolation in prison after being moved to an all-female jail, where it is claimed [he] made advances on female prisoners. Martin Ponting, 50, a father of three, transformed into Jessica Winfield in jail after being sentenced to life imprisonment back in 1995. The double rapist is in the process of having a £10,000 sex change behind bars, paid for by the taxpayer.

Nationwide, the transgender ideology is deeply unpopular, especially among women and parents. In 2017, Obama told NPR that his promotion of the transgender ideology made it easier for Donald Trump to win the presidency.

Multiple polls show that most Americans wish to help and comfort people who think they are a member of the opposite sex, even as they also reject the transgender ideology’s claim that a person’s legal sex is determined by their feeling of “gender identity,” not by biology.

Despite the huge expense, conflict, and damage to young people, the gender ideology is rapidly gaining power, aided by huge donations from wealthy individuals and medical companies. In Ohio, for example, in February, a judge forced parents of a teenage girl to give up custody so she can begin a lifetime of drug treatments and surgery that will allow her to appear as a male.

The progressive push to bend Americans’ attitudes and their male-and-female civic society around the idea of “gender identity” has already attacked and cracked many of the popular social rules which help Americans manage the cooperation and competition among and between complementary, different and equal men and women.

These pro-gender claims have an impact on different-sex bathrooms, shelters for battered women, sports leagues for girls, hiking groups for boys, K-12 curricula, university speech codes, religious freedoms, free speech, the social status of women, parents’ rights in childrearing, practices to help teenagers, health outcomes, women’s expectations of beauty, culture and civic society, scientific research, prison safety, civic ceremonies, school rules, men’s sense of masculinity, law enforcement, and children’s sexual privacy.The mayor of New York is offering male criminals the chance to move into women’s jails, providing the men say they have a “female gender identity.”

“It’s the city’s responsibility to protect the rights and safety of all New Yorkers, and that means protecting transgender individuals in city jails as well,” said a statement from Mayor Bill de Blasio. “New York City is one of the first major cities to commit to taking this step, and it’s crucial to ensuring all our facilities are welcoming and safe for all New Yorkers, no matter their gender identity.”

The Mayor’s wife applauded the new policy, which will allow criminal men to live in close quarters with jailed women:

“With today’s announcement, New York City takes another important step to protect the rights, dignity and safety of transgender and gender non-conforming people, and it is our hope that cities across the country will follow our lead,” said First Lady Chirlane McCray. “Keeping transgender and gender non-conforming New Yorkers safe, wherever they are, is the City’s responsibility– whether they are in city custody or walking through their own neighborhoods.”

Jailed women will be forced to live with criminal transgender men “unless the outcome of an individualized safety assessment as required by The Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) or the expressed preferences and safety concerns of the inmate require alternate housing,” the mayor’s statement said.

The statement did not say how city officials would protect the sexual privacy of the jailed women. Instead, the statement included multiple professions of concerns for the men who say they are women, but no offers of sympathy for the women. For example, the statement included a comment from a group once known for advocacy of rights for lesbians:

“This policy is a big step forward for New York City,” said Lambda Legal CEO Rachel B. Tiven. “Going to jail is scary enough – and for transgender women incarcerated in men’s facilities around the country, it can be horrific. Lambda Legal applauds the NYC Commission on Human Rights for helping the Department of Correction make jails safer for transgender New Yorkers.”

Currently, the number of jailed criminals in New York who claim to be transgender is very small. Newsday reported that “as of April 17, there are 26 individuals in custody who self-report as transgender, and one individual who self-reports as gender nonconforming.”

Nationwide, there almost 500 people in federal jails who claim to be members of the other sex, DallasNews.com reported March 26.

Several women prisoners in Texas are seeking to exclude men who say they are women from their jail and are now negotiating a legal settlement with President Donald Trump’s appointees. Their chances were boosted when Trump discarded the pro-transgender policies pushed by former President Barack Obama.

The women are represented by the conservative Alliance Defending Freedom no-profit law firm. DallasNews.com reported:

After fighting a yearlong suit against a group of [female] Carswell inmates, prison officials are negotiating a settlement that could result in major changes to the way [Donna] Langan — and the 472 other trans men and women in federal lockup — are treated and housed. The settlement terms could be released in a matter of months, ending a legal battle that’s spanned two presidential administrations and pitted a black Republican woman against a reformed white supremacist and a handful of other trans inmates. The outcome will map the future for hundreds of prisoners and provide a window into how the Trump administration views the rights of transgender Americans, both free and behind bars. … [ADF lawyer Gary] McCaleb doesn’t expect the BOP to require all transgender women to be housed in men’s prisons. Trans inmates interacting with others in the yard or mess hall also is less of a concern, he said. It’s the housing issue — whether transgender women are allowed to room with non-trans prisoners — that he thinks will change.

The women’s claim for safety from the men is merely “transphobic,” said Margo Schlanger, a progressive at the University of Michigan’s law school. The DallasNews.com site reported:

“You have transphobic plaintiffs’ counsel against a transphobic administration,” she said, referring to the Alliance Defending Freedom and the Trump White House, respectively. “It’s unsurprising that they’d agree with each other.”

However, a growing number of advocates are concerned that progressives’ endorsement of “gender identity” will harm jailed women, partly because transgender advocates say people can change legal sex even without having genital surgery or taking opposite-sex hormones. For example, Breitbart’s London bureau reported in November 2017 about the problems caused by the transfer of men into women’s jails:

A report by feminist charity Fair Play for Women found “at least 41 per cent” of transgender inmates housed in jails across England and Wales are sex offenders — compared to 17 per cent of the population as a whole — and that a further handful are held in maximum-security category A prisons.

In February 2017, Breitbart reported:

A transgendered murderer, who is biologically male, has been moved out of a female jail after being accused of having sex with the women there. Paris Green, who identifies as a woman, was jailed after being found guilty of helping to torture a man to death after a row over a bag of chips. Previously known as Peter Laing, he was imprisoned for a minimum of 18 years in 2013 for playing a part in the brutal murder of Robert Shankland, 46, in Fife, Scotland. However, Green, 23, was housed on a female wing in HMP Edinburgh after claiming to want to live as a woman and go through a sex change operation. A source familiar with the case told The Star: “The women want sex and Paris is the only person who can give it to them.”

In September 2017, Breitbart reported:

A ‘transgendered’ convicted double rapist, who is biologically male, has been put in isolation in prison after being moved to an all-female jail, where it is claimed [he] made advances on female prisoners. Martin Ponting, 50, a father of three, transformed into Jessica Winfield in jail after being sentenced to life imprisonment back in 1995. The double rapist is in the process of having a £10,000 sex change behind bars, paid for by the taxpayer.

Nationwide, the transgender ideology is deeply unpopular, especially among women and parents. In 2017, Obama told NPR that his promotion of the transgender ideology made it easier for Donald Trump to win the presidency.

Multiple polls show that most Americans wish to help and comfort people who think they are a member of the opposite sex, even as they also reject the transgender ideology’s claim that a person’s legal sex is determined by their feeling of “gender identity,” not by biology.

Despite the huge expense, conflict, and damage to young people, the gender ideology is rapidly gaining power, aided by huge donations from wealthy individuals and medical companies. In Ohio, for example, in February, a judge forced parents of a teenage girl to give up custody so she can begin a lifetime of drug treatments and surgery that will allow her to appear as a male.

The progressive push to bend Americans’ attitudes and their male-and-female civic society around the idea of “gender identity” has already attacked and cracked many of the popular social rules which help Americans manage the cooperation and competition among and between complementary, different and equal men and women.

These pro-gender claims have an impact on different-sex bathrooms, shelters for battered women, sports leagues for girls, hiking groups for boys, K-12 curricula, university speech codes, religious freedoms, free speech, the social status of women, parents’ rights in childrearing, practices to help teenagers, health outcomes, women’s expectations of beauty, culture and civic society, scientific research, prison safety, civic ceremonies, school rules, men’s sense of masculinity, law enforcement, and children’s sexual privacy.Greenies are up in arms over another environmental scandal of their own making. A TV documentary, shown on Britain’s left-wing Channel 4, has been shocked to discover that old hardwood forests in the U.S. are being chopped down, exported to the UK and burned for what is laughably being billed as “green” energy.

According to the Ecologist:

Huge areas of hardwood forest in the state of Virginia are being chainsawed to create ‘biomass’ energy in Britain as the government attempts to reach targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in efforts to tackle climate change, an investigation by Channel 4 Dispatches has found. A key part of government efforts to hit its green energy targets is to switch from generating electricity from burning coal to burning wood – or so-called biomass. It’s a policy that is costing taxpayers more than £700 million per year through a levy on their electricity bills.

Well fancy that. Enviroloons caught once again killing the planet in order to save it.

Oscar Wilde would have called this “the rage of Caliban seeing his own face in the glass”.

I call it: “Groundhog Day.” This happens all the time because environmental destruction is not a bug of the Climate Industrial Complex – it’s a feature.

The U.S.-hardwood-for-UK-biomass scandal is a perfect example of the havoc wrought on nature by misguided environmental policy.

It has been in the public domain since at least 2014 when David Rose wrote the first of several exposes in the Mail on Sunday.

He revealed that burning wood as a substitute for coal does not reduce CO2 emissions (it increases them…)

But astonishingly, a new study shows that the switch by Drax from coal to wood is actually increasing carbon emissions. It says they are four times as high as the maximum level the Government sets for plants that use biomass – which is defined as fuel made from plant material that will grow back again, therefore re-absorbing the CO2 emitted when it is burnt.

He revealed that the cost is exorbitant:

At £80 per MW/hr, Drax’s biomass energy is two-and-a-half times more expensive than coal – a cost passed on to customers. Last year Drax soaked up £340 million in ‘green’ subsidies that were added to British consumers’ power bills – a sum set to rocket still further. Without these subsidies, its biomass operation would collapse.

He revealed that, far from using just “eco-friendly” pellets (supposedly left over from things like housebuilding), Drax’s supplier is clear-cutting swathes of hardwood forest which will take years to recover.

In a promotional video for Bloomberg Business last month, the only pellet source that managing director Andy Koss mentioned was the sawdust. He said: ‘We take the sawdust that’s left over from sawmills that are cutting the big trees that go into house-building.’ In fact, according to Drax’s own website, last year sawdust made up just 9.5 per cent of its pellets. A much bigger source is American hardwood trees – such as oak, sweetgum, cypress, maple and beech – supplied by US firm Enviva, which sells Drax a million tons of pellets a year, a quarter of the plant’s 2014 supply. Drax claims the wood it is supplied with is ‘sustainable’. However, the Dogwood Alliance, a US environmental group, has investigated Enviva operations on the ground several times and found evidence to the contrary. Drax is proud of its green credentials, and claims that it uses sawdust from sawmills and ‘waste wood’ or ‘leftovers’ – branches and smaller sections – discarded by commercial logging operations Late last month, Dogwood campaigner Adam Macon travelled with colleagues to the Enviva pellet plant at Ahoskie, North Carolina, where he saw piles of hardwood trunks 40 feet high being fed into the plant’s hopper – the start of the process where the trees are pulped and turned into pellets. These could not be described as ‘leftovers’.

Yet four years on, nothing has been done to correct this crying scandal.

Britain’s ‘Conservative’ government remains so wedded to green ideology and EU-driven renewables targets that actually considers its biomass policy something to boast about.

As it told the Ecologist:

A spokesman for the Government’s Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy told Channel 4: “Between 1990 and 2016, the UK reduced its emissions by over 40 percent. We have the most stringent biomass sustainability provisions in Europe. “Environmentally friendly, low carbon bioenergy can help the UK to transition to a more diverse energy mix, increase our energy security, keep costs down for consumers and help us to meet our 2050 carbon targets.”

So the only place we’re likely to get any sense on this issue is Donald Trump’s United States.

People of America: from North Carolina to Virginia and beyond, your precious, beautiful, biodiverse, picturesque hardwood forests are being felled to be shipped across the pond to provide overpriced, eco-unfriendly energy which is causing old people to die in fuel poverty while the squishy fake-conservative government responsible for this outrage crows about how magnificently green it is being.

I’m not suggesting that the time has come quite yet to redirect your warheads from Pyongyang to London, necessarily.

But I do think a few stiff words from President Trump might be appropriate, if and when the British government finally deigns to give him the state visit he so richly deserves.

Remember what Britain did to the White House in 1812, America. Don’t let the Brits get away with doing it again to your cherished woodland…Greenies are up in arms over another environmental scandal of their own making. A TV documentary, shown on Britain’s left-wing Channel 4, has been shocked to discover that old hardwood forests in the U.S. are being chopped down, exported to the UK and burned for what is laughably being billed as “green” energy.

According to the Ecologist:

Huge areas of hardwood forest in the state of Virginia are being chainsawed to create ‘biomass’ energy in Britain as the government attempts to reach targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in efforts to tackle climate change, an investigation by Channel 4 Dispatches has found. A key part of government efforts to hit its green energy targets is to switch from generating electricity from burning coal to burning wood – or so-called biomass. It’s a policy that is costing taxpayers more than £700 million per year through a levy on their electricity bills.

Well fancy that. Enviroloons caught once again killing the planet in order to save it.

Oscar Wilde would have called this “the rage of Caliban seeing his own face in the glass”.

I call it: “Groundhog Day.” This happens all the time because environmental destruction is not a bug of the Climate Industrial Complex – it’s a feature.

The U.S.-hardwood-for-UK-biomass scandal is a perfect example of the havoc wrought on nature by misguided environmental policy.

It has been in the public domain since at least 2014 when David Rose wrote the first of several exposes in the Mail on Sunday.

He revealed that burning wood as a substitute for coal does not reduce CO2 emissions (it increases them…)

But astonishingly, a new study shows that the switch by Drax from coal to wood is actually increasing carbon emissions. It says they are four times as high as the maximum level the Government sets for plants that use biomass – which is defined as fuel made from plant material that will grow back again, therefore re-absorbing the CO2 emitted when it is burnt.

He revealed that the cost is exorbitant:

At £80 per MW/hr, Drax’s biomass energy is two-and-a-half times more expensive than coal – a cost passed on to customers. Last year Drax soaked up £340 million in ‘green’ subsidies that were added to British consumers’ power bills – a sum set to rocket still further. Without these subsidies, its biomass operation would collapse.

He revealed that, far from using just “eco-friendly” pellets (supposedly left over from things like housebuilding), Drax’s supplier is clear-cutting swathes of hardwood forest which will take years to recover.

In a promotional video for Bloomberg Business last month, the only pellet source that managing director Andy Koss mentioned was the sawdust. He said: ‘We take the sawdust that’s left over from sawmills that are cutting the big trees that go into house-building.’ In fact, according to Drax’s own website, last year sawdust made up just 9.5 per cent of its pellets. A much bigger source is American hardwood trees – such as oak, sweetgum, cypress, maple and beech – supplied by US firm Enviva, which sells Drax a million tons of pellets a year, a quarter of the plant’s 2014 supply. Drax claims the wood it is supplied with is ‘sustainable’. However, the Dogwood Alliance, a US environmental group, has investigated Enviva operations on the ground several times and found evidence to the contrary. Drax is proud of its green credentials, and claims that it uses sawdust from sawmills and ‘waste wood’ or ‘leftovers’ – branches and smaller sections – discarded by commercial logging operations Late last month, Dogwood campaigner Adam Macon travelled with colleagues to the Enviva pellet plant at Ahoskie, North Carolina, where he saw piles of hardwood trunks 40 feet high being fed into the plant’s hopper – the start of the process where the trees are pulped and turned into pellets. These could not be described as ‘leftovers’.

Yet four years on, nothing has been done to correct this crying scandal.

Britain’s ‘Conservative’ government remains so wedded to green ideology and EU-driven renewables targets that actually considers its biomass policy something to boast about.

As it told the Ecologist:

A spokesman for the Government’s Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy told Channel 4: “Between 1990 and 2016, the UK reduced its emissions by over 40 percent. We have the most stringent biomass sustainability provisions in Europe. “Environmentally friendly, low carbon bioenergy can help the UK to transition to a more diverse energy mix, increase our energy security, keep costs down for consumers and help us to meet our 2050 carbon targets.”

So the only place we’re likely to get any sense on this issue is Donald Trump’s United States.

People of America: from North Carolina to Virginia and beyond, your precious, beautiful, biodiverse, picturesque hardwood forests are being felled to be shipped across the pond to provide overpriced, eco-unfriendly energy which is causing old people to die in fuel poverty while the squishy fake-conservative government responsible for this outrage crows about how magnificently green it is being.

I’m not suggesting that the time has come quite yet to redirect your warheads from Pyongyang to London, necessarily.

But I do think a few stiff words from President Trump might be appropriate, if and when the British government finally deigns to give him the state visit he so richly deserves.

Remember what Britain did to the White House in 1812, America. Don’t let the Brits get away with doing it again to your cherished woodland…The U.S. government approved a new rule on Tuesday banning wireless carriers from using funds from a federal subsidy to buy telecommunications gear made by Chinese manufacturers.

The Federal Communications Commission unanimously voted to adopt a measure that prohibits U.S. wireless companies from buying equipment from companies seen as posing a national security threat by using funds from a federal program aimed at supporting service in rural areas, tribal lands, low-income neighborhoods, and schools and libraries.

FCC chairman Ajit Pai has pushed for the rule. Like others in the Trump administration, Pai has expressed concerns that foreign technology firms–particularly Chinese firms–could pose national security threats by building “backdoors” into U.S. telecommunications networks. Many telecom industry leaders agree with this assessment.

“All Chinese telecom equipment comes with malware,” one telecom executive told Breitbart News.

This week he authored an op-ed with Senator Tom Cotton, the Arkansas Republican, calling for the measure. The authors warned that “a hostile foreign power could use these backdoors to spy on Americans or attack our critical infrastructure by injecting viruses or launching denial-of-service attacks.”

China has said that it wants to become the global leader in the development and manufacture of next-generation 5G wireless service. Tuesday’s vote could create a roadblock by discouraging U.S. firms from using equipment made by Chinese firms. Although the ban only applies to the use of federal subsidies, many U.S. firms may find it easier to avoid Chinese made gear altogether, according to some telecom industry analysts.

“If you can’t use China gear in one part of your network, it probably doesn’t make sense to use it in another. So you just avoid China,” the telecom executive said. He spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized to speak on the issue.

The rule will now go into the official public comment period while the FCC gathers more information. A final rule is not expected for several months.The U.S. government approved a new rule on Tuesday banning wireless carriers from using funds from a federal subsidy to buy telecommunications gear made by Chinese manufacturers.

The Federal Communications Commission unanimously voted to adopt a measure that prohibits U.S. wireless companies from buying equipment from companies seen as posing a national security threat by using funds from a federal program aimed at supporting service in rural areas, tribal lands, low-income neighborhoods, and schools and libraries.

FCC chairman Ajit Pai has pushed for the rule. Like others in the Trump administration, Pai has expressed concerns that foreign technology firms–particularly Chinese firms–could pose national security threats by building “backdoors” into U.S. telecommunications networks. Many telecom industry leaders agree with this assessment.

“All Chinese telecom equipment comes with malware,” one telecom executive told Breitbart News.

This week he authored an op-ed with Senator Tom Cotton, the Arkansas Republican, calling for the measure. The authors warned that “a hostile foreign power could use these backdoors to spy on Americans or attack our critical infrastructure by injecting viruses or launching denial-of-service attacks.”

China has said that it wants to become the global leader in the development and manufacture of next-generation 5G wireless service. Tuesday’s vote could create a roadblock by discouraging U.S. firms from using equipment made by Chinese firms. Although the ban only applies to the use of federal subsidies, many U.S. firms may find it easier to avoid Chinese made gear altogether, according to some telecom industry analysts.

“If you can’t use China gear in one part of your network, it probably doesn’t make sense to use it in another. So you just avoid China,” the telecom executive said. He spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized to speak on the issue.

The rule will now go into the official public comment period while the FCC gathers more information. A final rule is not expected for several months.A new report from telecommunications research firm Analysys Mason judges the United States to be in third place for the race to establish a nationwide 5G wireless network, lagging behind China and South Korea but just ahead of Japan.

Analysys Mason sees a tight race, with each of the leading competitors bringing different advantages to the table. China is ahead by a nose thanks to “proactive government policies and industry momentum,” while the United States has the leading private wireless industry in the world, and is close to commercial deployment of 5G networking.

Meredith Attwell Baker, president and CEO of U.S. wireless industry group CTIA, expressed confidence that America would “leapfrog China because key leaders in the Administration, on Capitol Hill, and at the FCC are focused on the reforms needed to win the race.”

However, Baker warned that the U.S. “will not get a second chance to win the global 5G race.”

China-watchers had an interesting day on Tuesday. Just hours after announcing it was the first Chinese vendor to pass the core networking tests for 5G, Huawei Chairman Eric Xu seemed to downplay the significance of the new technology, essentially dismissing it as a marginal improvement over 4G networks that would provide little material benefit to consumers.

“Pessimism about 5G has been growing behind the scenes in the mobile industry but Huawei is the first large infrastructure company to state it explicitly,” telecom analyst Ben Stanton told the Financial Times. “The reality is that 5G will be incredibly expensive for operators to deploy, requiring tens of thousands of new base stations per country. And the industry is yet to uncover a killer-use case for the 5G network.”

Stanton echoed a point made by Xu that 5G does not really have a “use case” or “killer application” that would justify the expense of upgrading on a massive scale. Even the much-touted next-generation miracle of self-driving automobiles can make do with 4G speeds for Internet access.

Skeptical analysts portray 5G as a self-fulfilling technological prophecy, something every corporation and government must invest in because no one wants to fall behind. One also gets the impression from cagey public relations announcements that hyper-competitive telecom companies do not want to give away precisely what they have in mind for 5G until they are ready to roll it out.

Interestingly, Analysys Mason cites research indicating American leadership in 4G networks brought enormous benefits, adding $100 billion to the national GDP and increasing wireless industry jobs by 84 percent. On the other hand, the Financial Times notes some grumbling from the United Kingdom that 4G was not quite the cash cow it was touted as. One way to resolve that conflict is to posit that leadership is vital when leaping to a new generation of networking technology.

Another explanation is that fully developed infrastructure and a host of secondary providers ready to take advantage of dramatically increased bandwidth is crucial. First commercial clients, and then users in the individual market, must be dazzled by what they can do with 5G on Day One before they sink big money into an upgrade. This could be the key to Meredith Attwell Baker’s prediction that the U.S. is poised to leap ahead of China, as American companies develop a constellation of attractive applications for 5G that drive massive sales and investment.

A fully operational 5G network will be hundreds of times faster and more efficient than the blazing-fast 4G networks of today, with more reliable connections and improved data security. One of its security advantages is that more bandwidth can be set aside for data security measures without impacting the user experience. That is one reason some analysts dispute the contention that 4G is adequate for self-driving cars, as they will require both rock-solid high-speed network communications and top-shelf security.

Peak use surges should be less noticeable under 5G. More bandwidth will be available to consumers at more competitive pricing. Local networks should be able to communicate with each other more easily, creating a constellation of “Internet of Things” smart devices around each user.

The elimination of network latency—the gap between a device requesting information and the response flowing in—should make long-anticipated applications such as remote surgery with virtual-reality equipment possible. The strange new science of haptic feedback will make the Internet tactile – that is, capable of transmitting vibrations and other physical sensations in real time to wireless devices.

The economic benefits of 5G are forecast to include $533 billion added to the U.S. gross domestic product and $1.2 trillion in consumer benefits, several times the value 4G networking provided. The cell phone industry believes it will be revitalized by new networking technology, as it is growing more difficult to sell new phones that offer only incremental improvements to the user experience under 4G networking. There are fears that surging demand for wireless networking will run into the limitations of 4G soon and choke off growth in the market.

Jamal Carnette at the Motley Fool predicted in January that Republican tax cuts would give 5G a vital shot in the arm, just as the global competition goes into the home stretch:

The Republican tax bill should lead to faster 5G adoption overall. Lowering the rate on one of the highest-taxed industries will immediately make telecommunications companies more profitable and allow lower break-even rates for projects. Verizon and AT&T have effective tax rates of 33.5% and 32.5%, respectively, nearly double the average effective rate of 18.6%. It’s no wonder AT&T gave out one-time $1,000 bonuses in response to the bill’s passage.

By nearly universal agreement, the remaining hurdle is to update outmoded state and federal regulations that can make nationwide 5G a reality. A dozen or so major cities could have 5G networks by the end of the year, but some of its most exciting applications can only be realized when adoption is widespread and the new high-speed, low-latency network spreads from coast to coast.

The slow pace of auctions for 5G spectrum has been cited as a stumbling block. On Tuesday, the Federal Communications Commission voted to hold the first auction for some 6,000 licenses in November.

FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel said it was “troubling” that countries like South Korea, Germany, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Romania announced plans for 5G auctions ahead of the United States.

“Today, thankfully, this agency takes steps to put ourselves back in the running. I’m glad my colleagues are ready to get back on track. Today we schedule our first 5G auction and finally get out of the starting gate,” she said.

“It’s important to mention that we will be able to commence spectrum auctions later this year because of recent legislative action,” added FCC Chairman Ajit Pai. “I’m grateful to Congress for passing, and the President for signing, legislation fixing a technical problem involving upfront payments by auction bidders for spectrum.”A new report from telecommunications research firm Analysys Mason judges the United States to be in third place for the race to establish a nationwide 5G wireless network, lagging behind China and South Korea but just ahead of Japan.

Analysys Mason sees a tight race, with each of the leading competitors bringing different advantages to the table. China is ahead by a nose thanks to “proactive government policies and industry momentum,” while the United States has the leading private wireless industry in the world, and is close to commercial deployment of 5G networking.

Meredith Attwell Baker, president and CEO of U.S. wireless industry group CTIA, expressed confidence that America would “leapfrog China because key leaders in the Administration, on Capitol Hill, and at the FCC are focused on the reforms needed to win the race.”

However, Baker warned that the U.S. “will not get a second chance to win the global 5G race.”

China-watchers had an interesting day on Tuesday. Just hours after announcing it was the first Chinese vendor to pass the core networking tests for 5G, Huawei Chairman Eric Xu seemed to downplay the significance of the new technology, essentially dismissing it as a marginal improvement over 4G networks that would provide little material benefit to consumers.

“Pessimism about 5G has been growing behind the scenes in the mobile industry but Huawei is the first large infrastructure company to state it explicitly,” telecom analyst Ben Stanton told the Financial Times. “The reality is that 5G will be incredibly expensive for operators to deploy, requiring tens of thousands of new base stations per country. And the industry is yet to uncover a killer-use case for the 5G network.”

Stanton echoed a point made by Xu that 5G does not really have a “use case” or “killer application” that would justify the expense of upgrading on a massive scale. Even the much-touted next-generation miracle of self-driving automobiles can make do with 4G speeds for Internet access.

Skeptical analysts portray 5G as a self-fulfilling technological prophecy, something every corporation and government must invest in because no one wants to fall behind. One also gets the impression from cagey public relations announcements that hyper-competitive telecom companies do not want to give away precisely what they have in mind for 5G until they are ready to roll it out.

Interestingly, Analysys Mason cites research indicating American leadership in 4G networks brought enormous benefits, adding $100 billion to the national GDP and increasing wireless industry jobs by 84 percent. On the other hand, the Financial Times notes some grumbling from the United Kingdom that 4G was not quite the cash cow it was touted as. One way to resolve that conflict is to posit that leadership is vital when leaping to a new generation of networking technology.

Another explanation is that fully developed infrastructure and a host of secondary providers ready to take advantage of dramatically increased bandwidth is crucial. First commercial clients, and then users in the individual market, must be dazzled by what they can do with 5G on Day One before they sink big money into an upgrade. This could be the key to Meredith Attwell Baker’s prediction that the U.S. is poised to leap ahead of China, as American companies develop a constellation of attractive applications for 5G that drive massive sales and investment.

A fully operational 5G network will be hundreds of times faster and more efficient than the blazing-fast 4G networks of today, with more reliable connections and improved data security. One of its security advantages is that more bandwidth can be set aside for data security measures without impacting the user experience. That is one reason some analysts dispute the contention that 4G is adequate for self-driving cars, as they will require both rock-solid high-speed network communications and top-shelf security.

Peak use surges should be less noticeable under 5G. More bandwidth will be available to consumers at more competitive pricing. Local networks should be able to communicate with each other more easily, creating a constellation of “Internet of Things” smart devices around each user.

The elimination of network latency—the gap between a device requesting information and the response flowing in—should make long-anticipated applications such as remote surgery with virtual-reality equipment possible. The strange new science of haptic feedback will make the Internet tactile – that is, capable of transmitting vibrations and other physical sensations in real time to wireless devices.

The economic benefits of 5G are forecast to include $533 billion added to the U.S. gross domestic product and $1.2 trillion in consumer benefits, several times the value 4G networking provided. The cell phone industry believes it will be revitalized by new networking technology, as it is growing more difficult to sell new phones that offer only incremental improvements to the user experience under 4G networking. There are fears that surging demand for wireless networking will run into the limitations of 4G soon and choke off growth in the market.

Jamal Carnette at the Motley Fool predicted in January that Republican tax cuts would give 5G a vital shot in the arm, just as the global competition goes into the home stretch:

The Republican tax bill should lead to faster 5G adoption overall. Lowering the rate on one of the highest-taxed industries will immediately make telecommunications companies more profitable and allow lower break-even rates for projects. Verizon and AT&T have effective tax rates of 33.5% and 32.5%, respectively, nearly double the average effective rate of 18.6%. It’s no wonder AT&T gave out one-time $1,000 bonuses in response to the bill’s passage.

By nearly universal agreement, the remaining hurdle is to update outmoded state and federal regulations that can make nationwide 5G a reality. A dozen or so major cities could have 5G networks by the end of the year, but some of its most exciting applications can only be realized when adoption is widespread and the new high-speed, low-latency network spreads from coast to coast.

The slow pace of auctions for 5G spectrum has been cited as a stumbling block. On Tuesday, the Federal Communications Commission voted to hold the first auction for some 6,000 licenses in November.

FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel said it was “troubling” that countries like South Korea, Germany, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Romania announced plans for 5G auctions ahead of the United States.

“Today, thankfully, this agency takes steps to put ourselves back in the running. I’m glad my colleagues are ready to get back on track. Today we schedule our first 5G auction and finally get out of the starting gate,” she said.

“It’s important to mention that we will be able to commence spectrum auctions later this year because of recent legislative action,” added FCC Chairman Ajit Pai. “I’m grateful to Congress for passing, and the President for signing, legislation fixing a technical problem involving upfront payments by auction bidders for spectrum.”Radio hosts Joe Madison and Stephen A. Smith, think that QB/activist Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned because he hurts ticket sales.

Madison, a host on SiriusXM’s Urban View Channel, asked ESPN’s Smith about why Kaepernick, who started the anthem-kneeling movement in 2016, can’t get a job.

Madison said to Smith to start the interview, “If Kaepernick took a knee and folks still bought tickets and the stadiums still sold out, he’d play.

“Joe, I couldn’t put it any better myself. If this man had had no effect on their bottom line in their eyes, this would not be an issue. He would be playing.”

Two important aspects of NFL’s financial bottom line are TV ratings and ticket sales, and the anthem protest movement have hurt the league in these areas.

“There’s something that’s tricky in all this,” Smith told Madison. “66% of the American population is white. Where are you getting most of your money from if you are the National Football League? Sure you have support from the black community, the Latino community, etc. but, for the most part you’re getting it from a lot of white folks here. Just a numbers game here. So, ultimately you put them in the position where they have to make a choice based on numbers. Now if you had white folks that stood up in support of Colin Kaepernick that would be a different ballgame.”

Clearly there are white people who support Kaepernick, and you can find them all over social media.

But there are others who don’t support him and have made their voices heard by watching the NFL less on TV and attending fewer games.

However, Madison pointed out boycotts work both ways, and some of his callers are staying away from the NFL over the league shunning Kaepernick.

“Now, here’s the other side of that,” Madison said. “If this boycott all my callers are pushing – even though they’re not boycotting – most of them. If their boycott was working, and they started losing big time money, Kaepernick would play.

“There’s 2 bottom lines,” Smith responded. “The primary bottom line is what we’re talking about… dollars and cents. The secondary bottom line is something that only black folks can speak to.

“You do have folks in corporate America that happen to be white that they’re primary objective outside of the bottom line is to exercise control, more so than what’s right or wrong. So if you have an African American that is taking a position and they believe he’s galvanized folks in a way that he is empowered they are more interested in curtailing that power as opposed to exploiting his talents. And so, because of that, that’s problematic in and of itself.

“So, with Colin Kaerpenick it’s two-fold: One is the bottom line. The other is, we are not going to sit here and allow this man to sit up there and exercise this level of control and influence where he’s impacting our bottom line.”

And the NFL’s bottom line is making money since they’re a business, and they don’t like factors standing in the way of that.

Follow Dan Leberfeld on Twitter @jetswhispersRadio hosts Joe Madison and Stephen A. Smith, think that QB/activist Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned because he hurts ticket sales.

Madison, a host on SiriusXM’s Urban View Channel, asked ESPN’s Smith about why Kaepernick, who started the anthem-kneeling movement in 2016, can’t get a job.

Madison said to Smith to start the interview, “If Kaepernick took a knee and folks still bought tickets and the stadiums still sold out, he’d play.

“Joe, I couldn’t put it any better myself. If this man had had no effect on their bottom line in their eyes, this would not be an issue. He would be playing.”

Two important aspects of NFL’s financial bottom line are TV ratings and ticket sales, and the anthem protest movement have hurt the league in these areas.

“There’s something that’s tricky in all this,” Smith told Madison. “66% of the American population is white. Where are you getting most of your money from if you are the National Football League? Sure you have support from the black community, the Latino community, etc. but, for the most part you’re getting it from a lot of white folks here. Just a numbers game here. So, ultimately you put them in the position where they have to make a choice based on numbers. Now if you had white folks that stood up in support of Colin Kaepernick that would be a different ballgame.”

Clearly there are white people who support Kaepernick, and you can find them all over social media.

But there are others who don’t support him and have made their voices heard by watching the NFL less on TV and attending fewer games.

However, Madison pointed out boycotts work both ways, and some of his callers are staying away from the NFL over the league shunning Kaepernick.

“Now, here’s the other side of that,” Madison said. “If this boycott all my callers are pushing – even though they’re not boycotting – most of them. If their boycott was working, and they started losing big time money, Kaepernick would play.

“There’s 2 bottom lines,” Smith responded. “The primary bottom line is what we’re talking about… dollars and cents. The secondary bottom line is something that only black folks can speak to.

“You do have folks in corporate America that happen to be white that they’re primary objective outside of the bottom line is to exercise control, more so than what’s right or wrong. So if you have an African American that is taking a position and they believe he’s galvanized folks in a way that he is empowered they are more interested in curtailing that power as opposed to exploiting his talents. And so, because of that, that’s problematic in and of itself.

“So, with Colin Kaerpenick it’s two-fold: One is the bottom line. The other is, we are not going to sit here and allow this man to sit up there and exercise this level of control and influence where he’s impacting our bottom line.”

And the NFL’s bottom line is making money since they’re a business, and they don’t like factors standing in the way of that.

Follow Dan Leberfeld on Twitter @jetswhispersNFL activist and Players Coalition leader Malcolm Jenkins, thinks that the authorities are “trying to make an example” of fellow anthem protester Michael Bennett, by indicting him for pushing an elderly female security guard.

According to Les Bowen of the Philadelphia Daily News, Jenkins said, “From the outside looking in, not necessarily knowing all the details, but just kind of using common sense, it seems like they’re trying to make an example out of him.”

The Eagles’ safety continued, “But hopefully, those things will work out in his favor. He’s a guy that, I was excited when we [traded for him]. Still looking forward to him being a part of this team, being part of this community, because I think he’s somebody that cares. Somebody that works hard, obviously, he’s a great athlete, but a great human being as well.”

Jenkins became teammates with Bennett this offseason, when the Eagles acquired the latter in a trade with Seattle. Bennett’s lawyers have denounced the charges against him in Houston as, “ludicrous.”

Bennett’s other notable brushes with the law include an infamous incident in Las Vegas where he lied about being racially profiled and having the Las Vegas Police Department threaten to “blow his f*ck*ng head off.” Only to have camera footage reveal that the LVMPD detained him only after he acted suspiciously and ran from police, with no documentation of an officer making vulgar threats of shooting him in the head.

Malcolm Jenkins turned down an opportunity to go to the White House after Philadelphia’s Super Bowl win over the Patriots.

“I’m not interested in a photo op,” Jenkins explained.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnNFL activist and Players Coalition leader Malcolm Jenkins, thinks that the authorities are “trying to make an example” of fellow anthem protester Michael Bennett, by indicting him for pushing an elderly female security guard.

According to Les Bowen of the Philadelphia Daily News, Jenkins said, “From the outside looking in, not necessarily knowing all the details, but just kind of using common sense, it seems like they’re trying to make an example out of him.”

The Eagles’ safety continued, “But hopefully, those things will work out in his favor. He’s a guy that, I was excited when we [traded for him]. Still looking forward to him being a part of this team, being part of this community, because I think he’s somebody that cares. Somebody that works hard, obviously, he’s a great athlete, but a great human being as well.”

Jenkins became teammates with Bennett this offseason, when the Eagles acquired the latter in a trade with Seattle. Bennett’s lawyers have denounced the charges against him in Houston as, “ludicrous.”

Bennett’s other notable brushes with the law include an infamous incident in Las Vegas where he lied about being racially profiled and having the Las Vegas Police Department threaten to “blow his f*ck*ng head off.” Only to have camera footage reveal that the LVMPD detained him only after he acted suspiciously and ran from police, with no documentation of an officer making vulgar threats of shooting him in the head.

Malcolm Jenkins turned down an opportunity to go to the White House after Philadelphia’s Super Bowl win over the Patriots.

“I’m not interested in a photo op,” Jenkins explained.

Follow Dylan Gwinn on Twitter @themightygwinnPresident Donald Trump confirmed reports that CIA director Mike Pompeo met secretly with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un.

“Mike Pompeo met with Kim Jong Un in North Korea last week,” he wrote on Twitter. “Meeting went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed.”

Pompeo traveled to North Korea on Easter weekend, according to the Washington Post, that first broke the news. Although he is Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State, Pompeo is still waiting for a Senate confirmation vote.

On Tuesday, Trump expressed optimism that the meeting with Jong-un would take place in early June, during a series of meetings with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida.

“Details of Summit are being worked out now,” Trump wrote. “Denuclearization will be a great thing for World, but also for North Korea!”President Donald Trump confirmed reports that CIA director Mike Pompeo met secretly with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un.

“Mike Pompeo met with Kim Jong Un in North Korea last week,” he wrote on Twitter. “Meeting went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed.”

Pompeo traveled to North Korea on Easter weekend, according to the Washington Post, that first broke the news. Although he is Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State, Pompeo is still waiting for a Senate confirmation vote.

On Tuesday, Trump expressed optimism that the meeting with Jong-un would take place in early June, during a series of meetings with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida.

“Details of Summit are being worked out now,” Trump wrote. “Denuclearization will be a great thing for World, but also for North Korea!”TEL AVIV — As Israelis prepare to celebrate the country’s 70th anniversary starting at sundown tonight, the Israel Defense Forces are on high alert for the possibility of direct Iranian retaliation for a reported Israeli strike in Syria that targeted an Iran-operated airbase.

In an unusual move, Iran’s state-run media admitted that seven of its “soldiers” were killed in the April 9 strike.

Iranian officials have repeatedly vowed retaliation. On Tuesday, Ali Akbar Velayati, a senior advisor to Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, warned that Israel’s “crimes will not remain unanswered.” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qassemi further stated, “The Israeli regime’s aggression against Syria is a breach of this country’s national sovereignty and territorial integrity and runs counter to all international regulations and principles.”

Neither Velayati nor Qassemi mentioned that Israel allegedly struck the T-4 airbase near Homs after it was brazenly used by Iran to send an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) into Israeli territory in February before it was quickly shot down by the Israeli military. The IDF revealed on Friday that its investigation concluded the Iranian drone sent from T-4 was carrying explosives and was seemingly deployed to attack an Israeli target.

On Wednesday, the Wall Street Journal reported the T-4 base housed an advanced Iranian air defense system and drone hangar, underscoring Iran’s military expansionism in Syria as Tehran helps to lead Bashar al-Assad’s successful counterinsurgency against the rebels targeting his regime.

The Jerusalem Post reported that Israel believes that Iranian retaliation could come in the form of direct missile or drone attacks launched from Syria.

In a highly-cited New York Times oped, Thomas Friedman opined that Iran’s Al Quds Force chief Qassem Suleimani “could opt to strike back at Israel through proxies, either in the Middle East or against Israeli targets globally.”

Last week, this reporter analyzed the different possibilities for Iranian retaliation:

Iran could activate Hezbollah to target Israel, but that would risk massive Israeli retaliation and the ensuing clash would hamper Hezbollah’s continued ability to fight the anti-Assad rebels. In an all-out war, Hezbollah has tens of thousands of rockets that could devastate Israeli civilian population zones. Besides Hezbollah, Iran has other Shiite proxies in Syria and Lebanon that could be put into action against the Israeli Golan Heights. Tehran could use its terror proxies overseas to carry out an attack that would not directly bear Iranian fingerprints. It could also use Palestinian Islamic Jihad to draw Israel into a confrontation in the Gaza Strip or West Bank. And Iran can increase financing to Hamas and ride the current wave of violent riots at the Israel-Gaza border to further distract the Israeli military in the south.

As the extent of Iran’s military involvement in Syria makes clear, Tehran also has the option of direct, precision-guided missile attacks against Israeli targets.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.TEL AVIV — As Israelis prepare to celebrate the country’s 70th anniversary starting at sundown tonight, the Israel Defense Forces are on high alert for the possibility of direct Iranian retaliation for a reported Israeli strike in Syria that targeted an Iran-operated airbase.

In an unusual move, Iran’s state-run media admitted that seven of its “soldiers” were killed in the April 9 strike.

Iranian officials have repeatedly vowed retaliation. On Tuesday, Ali Akbar Velayati, a senior advisor to Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, warned that Israel’s “crimes will not remain unanswered.” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qassemi further stated, “The Israeli regime’s aggression against Syria is a breach of this country’s national sovereignty and territorial integrity and runs counter to all international regulations and principles.”

Neither Velayati nor Qassemi mentioned that Israel allegedly struck the T-4 airbase near Homs after it was brazenly used by Iran to send an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) into Israeli territory in February before it was quickly shot down by the Israeli military. The IDF revealed on Friday that its investigation concluded the Iranian drone sent from T-4 was carrying explosives and was seemingly deployed to attack an Israeli target.

On Wednesday, the Wall Street Journal reported the T-4 base housed an advanced Iranian air defense system and drone hangar, underscoring Iran’s military expansionism in Syria as Tehran helps to lead Bashar al-Assad’s successful counterinsurgency against the rebels targeting his regime.

The Jerusalem Post reported that Israel believes that Iranian retaliation could come in the form of direct missile or drone attacks launched from Syria.

In a highly-cited New York Times oped, Thomas Friedman opined that Iran’s Al Quds Force chief Qassem Suleimani “could opt to strike back at Israel through proxies, either in the Middle East or against Israeli targets globally.”

Last week, this reporter analyzed the different possibilities for Iranian retaliation:

Iran could activate Hezbollah to target Israel, but that would risk massive Israeli retaliation and the ensuing clash would hamper Hezbollah’s continued ability to fight the anti-Assad rebels. In an all-out war, Hezbollah has tens of thousands of rockets that could devastate Israeli civilian population zones. Besides Hezbollah, Iran has other Shiite proxies in Syria and Lebanon that could be put into action against the Israeli Golan Heights. Tehran could use its terror proxies overseas to carry out an attack that would not directly bear Iranian fingerprints. It could also use Palestinian Islamic Jihad to draw Israel into a confrontation in the Gaza Strip or West Bank. And Iran can increase financing to Hamas and ride the current wave of violent riots at the Israel-Gaza border to further distract the Israeli military in the south.

As the extent of Iran’s military involvement in Syria makes clear, Tehran also has the option of direct, precision-guided missile attacks against Israeli targets.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.STRASBOURG, France (AFP) — French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday launched into a spirited defense of his decision to launch airstrikes alongside Britain and the United States against alleged regime chemical weapons sites in Syria.

“Three countries have intervened, and let me be quite frank, quite honest — this is for the honor of the international community,” he said in a speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

“These strikes don’t necessarily resolve anything but I think they were important,” said Macron, who earlier this week said he had persuaded Donald Trump to keep US troops in Syria.

The French president also warned that divisions between democracy and authoritarianism in Europe were becoming like a “civil war.”

Setting out his vision of a reformed EU, Macron called on the bloc to resist the siren song of populism.

The young French leader’s call to arms comes after euroskeptic populists won elections in Hungary and Italy, and as Brussels confronts Poland’s right-wing government over the rule of law.

“There seems to be a sort of European civil war, where our differences and sometimes our national egotisms can seem more important than presenting a united face to the world,” the 40-year-old president said.

“There is a fascination with the illiberal and it’s growing all the time.”

Macron’s election victory last year against far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, and his ardent pro-Europeanism, have made him the poster boy for those aiming for a revived post-Brexit EU to battle the challenges of populism.

Macron said he was concerned by the growing sense of “doubt” in several European countries in the wake of the shock 2016 Brexit vote, which he said was creating divisions in the EU.

“I don’t want to belong to a generation of sleepwalkers, I don’t want to belong to a generation that’s forgotten its own past,” he told MEPs in the eastern French city.

“I want to belong to a generation that will defend European sovereignty because we fought to obtain it. And I will not give in to any kind of fixation on authoritarianism,” he added.

‘France is back’

His speech comes just days after Hungary’s right-wing Prime Minister Viktor Orban won a crushing re-election victory. Orban regularly clashes with Brussels but is a “hero” for US President Donald Trump’s former strategist Steve Bannon.

Macron’s words were welcomed by European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker, who told parliament afterwards: “The true France is back.”

In terms of his European reforms, Macron has struggled to win support across Europe for all his proposals.

His speech to MEPs is part of a charm offensive ahead of European Parliament elections in May 2019, the first after Britain’s scheduled departure from the EU.

Later this week Macron will travel to Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to try to boost flagging support for his plans for the future of the eurozone.

Macron said that France was ready to increase its contribution to the EU’s first post-Brexit multi-year budget, which begins in 2020.

EU reforms

But Merkel’s conservative CDU party pushed back on Monday against plans for deeper eurozone integration, including a separate eurozone budget and the expansion of the EU’s bailout fund.

Any reforms have to be “in the European and in the German interest,” CDU secretary-general Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer told reporters.

Macron separately proposed on Tuesday to create a European fund for communities that take in refugees in a bid to tackle one of the most politically toxic issues facing the EU.

“I propose creating a European programme that directly financially supports local communities that welcome and integrate refugees,” Macron said.

EU leaders are set to adopt preliminary Macron-backed plans for eurozone reforms and for an overhaul of its troubled asylum system in June, but there is still a lot of work to do.

Fighting to push through reforms at home in the face of mass rail strikes, Macron also faced difficulties in the European Parliament, where his domestic En Marche party is not affiliated to any political group.

Merkel is due to address the European Parliament in November, officials said on Monday.

She made a joint speech with then-French president Francois Hollande in Strasbourg in 2015 in which they urged unity in the face of the migrant crisis.STRASBOURG, France (AFP) — French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday launched into a spirited defense of his decision to launch airstrikes alongside Britain and the United States against alleged regime chemical weapons sites in Syria.

“Three countries have intervened, and let me be quite frank, quite honest — this is for the honor of the international community,” he said in a speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

“These strikes don’t necessarily resolve anything but I think they were important,” said Macron, who earlier this week said he had persuaded Donald Trump to keep US troops in Syria.

The French president also warned that divisions between democracy and authoritarianism in Europe were becoming like a “civil war.”

Setting out his vision of a reformed EU, Macron called on the bloc to resist the siren song of populism.

The young French leader’s call to arms comes after euroskeptic populists won elections in Hungary and Italy, and as Brussels confronts Poland’s right-wing government over the rule of law.

“There seems to be a sort of European civil war, where our differences and sometimes our national egotisms can seem more important than presenting a united face to the world,” the 40-year-old president said.

“There is a fascination with the illiberal and it’s growing all the time.”

Macron’s election victory last year against far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, and his ardent pro-Europeanism, have made him the poster boy for those aiming for a revived post-Brexit EU to battle the challenges of populism.

Macron said he was concerned by the growing sense of “doubt” in several European countries in the wake of the shock 2016 Brexit vote, which he said was creating divisions in the EU.

“I don’t want to belong to a generation of sleepwalkers, I don’t want to belong to a generation that’s forgotten its own past,” he told MEPs in the eastern French city.

“I want to belong to a generation that will defend European sovereignty because we fought to obtain it. And I will not give in to any kind of fixation on authoritarianism,” he added.

‘France is back’

His speech comes just days after Hungary’s right-wing Prime Minister Viktor Orban won a crushing re-election victory. Orban regularly clashes with Brussels but is a “hero” for US President Donald Trump’s former strategist Steve Bannon.

Macron’s words were welcomed by European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker, who told parliament afterwards: “The true France is back.”

In terms of his European reforms, Macron has struggled to win support across Europe for all his proposals.

His speech to MEPs is part of a charm offensive ahead of European Parliament elections in May 2019, the first after Britain’s scheduled departure from the EU.

Later this week Macron will travel to Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to try to boost flagging support for his plans for the future of the eurozone.

Macron said that France was ready to increase its contribution to the EU’s first post-Brexit multi-year budget, which begins in 2020.

EU reforms

But Merkel’s conservative CDU party pushed back on Monday against plans for deeper eurozone integration, including a separate eurozone budget and the expansion of the EU’s bailout fund.

Any reforms have to be “in the European and in the German interest,” CDU secretary-general Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer told reporters.

Macron separately proposed on Tuesday to create a European fund for communities that take in refugees in a bid to tackle one of the most politically toxic issues facing the EU.

“I propose creating a European programme that directly financially supports local communities that welcome and integrate refugees,” Macron said.

EU leaders are set to adopt preliminary Macron-backed plans for eurozone reforms and for an overhaul of its troubled asylum system in June, but there is still a lot of work to do.

Fighting to push through reforms at home in the face of mass rail strikes, Macron also faced difficulties in the European Parliament, where his domestic En Marche party is not affiliated to any political group.

Merkel is due to address the European Parliament in November, officials said on Monday.

She made a joint speech with then-French president Francois Hollande in Strasbourg in 2015 in which they urged unity in the face of the migrant crisis.In his most powerful statement to date, Pope Francis has urged authorities to spare the lives of two disabled persons due to be euthanized, Vincent Lambert in France and Alfie Evans in the UK.

“I draw attention again to Vincent Lambert and Little Alfie Evans, and I would like to reiterate and strongly confirm that the only Lord of life, from the beginning to the natural end, is God!” Francis announced before the crowds gathered in Saint Peter’s Square for his weekly general audience.

“And our duty, our duty is to do everything to preserve life,” he declared. “We think in silence and pray that the lives of all people and especially of these two brothers of ours are respected. Let us pray in silence.”

Wednesday’s statement stakes a clear Vatican position in the two cases and ups the ante for the officials responsible for the decision to euthanize both patients against the will of their respective parents.

Already on Sunday the pope had publicly called for respect for the lives of the two disabled persons whose lives are at stake, although on that occasion his language was more subdued.

“I entrust to your prayers people like Vincent Lambert, in France, little Alfie Evans, in England, and others in different countries, who live, sometimes for a long time, in a state of serious infirmity, assisted medically for their primary needs,” the pope told pilgrims in the Vatican on Sunday.

While noting that these are “delicate, very painful and complex situations,” the pope asked “that every sick person is always respected in his dignity and cared for in an appropriate way to his condition, with the agreement of family members, doctors and other health workers, with great respect for life.”

In Wednesday’s message, however, Francis took an important step further, reminding those responsible for end-of-life decisions that only God is “the Lord of life” from its beginning through to its “natural end.”

In other words, choosing to bring that life to and end sooner means playing God.

Last week, a judge in the UK ruled that Alfie Evans must be removed from life support against the wishes of his parents, backing the decision by Alder Hey Children’s Hospital to allow the 23-month-old baby boy to die.

In the case of Vincent Lambert, the Sebastopol Hospital in Reims, France, has ordered that their patient no longer receive food and water, which will cause him to die of starvation.

Vincent’s physician Dr. Vincent Sanchez ruled last Monday that continuing to feed and hydrate the patient constituted “unreasonable obstinacy” and mandated that he be euthanized within ten days.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeIn his most powerful statement to date, Pope Francis has urged authorities to spare the lives of two disabled persons due to be euthanized, Vincent Lambert in France and Alfie Evans in the UK.

“I draw attention again to Vincent Lambert and Little Alfie Evans, and I would like to reiterate and strongly confirm that the only Lord of life, from the beginning to the natural end, is God!” Francis announced before the crowds gathered in Saint Peter’s Square for his weekly general audience.

“And our duty, our duty is to do everything to preserve life,” he declared. “We think in silence and pray that the lives of all people and especially of these two brothers of ours are respected. Let us pray in silence.”

Wednesday’s statement stakes a clear Vatican position in the two cases and ups the ante for the officials responsible for the decision to euthanize both patients against the will of their respective parents.

Already on Sunday the pope had publicly called for respect for the lives of the two disabled persons whose lives are at stake, although on that occasion his language was more subdued.

“I entrust to your prayers people like Vincent Lambert, in France, little Alfie Evans, in England, and others in different countries, who live, sometimes for a long time, in a state of serious infirmity, assisted medically for their primary needs,” the pope told pilgrims in the Vatican on Sunday.

While noting that these are “delicate, very painful and complex situations,” the pope asked “that every sick person is always respected in his dignity and cared for in an appropriate way to his condition, with the agreement of family members, doctors and other health workers, with great respect for life.”

In Wednesday’s message, however, Francis took an important step further, reminding those responsible for end-of-life decisions that only God is “the Lord of life” from its beginning through to its “natural end.”

In other words, choosing to bring that life to and end sooner means playing God.

Last week, a judge in the UK ruled that Alfie Evans must be removed from life support against the wishes of his parents, backing the decision by Alder Hey Children’s Hospital to allow the 23-month-old baby boy to die.

In the case of Vincent Lambert, the Sebastopol Hospital in Reims, France, has ordered that their patient no longer receive food and water, which will cause him to die of starvation.

Vincent’s physician Dr. Vincent Sanchez ruled last Monday that continuing to feed and hydrate the patient constituted “unreasonable obstinacy” and mandated that he be euthanized within ten days.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeThe father of little Alfie Evans met with Pope Francis in the Vatican Wednesday and pleaded with him to help save his son, who has been sentenced to be euthanized against his parents’ wishes.

Thomas Evans flew to Rome to meet with the pope, and after their meeting Francis modified his Wednesday speech to pilgrims, adding a special appeal for the lives of Alfie Evans and Vincent Lambert, a Frenchman who is also due to be taken off life support.

At their private meeting in the Pope’s Santa Marta residence, Evans read out a statement in which he pleaded for “asylum” for Alfie, noting that the child “is sick but not dying and does not deserve to die” and that he is “not terminally ill.”

“Our hospitals in the U.K. do not want to give disabled children the chance of life and instead assisting in the death of children,” he said. “We now have realized our son’s life does not mean much to the NHS [National Health Service]. We plead to you to help our son.”

Mr. Evans said that he and his wife wish to bring Alfie to Italy, to the Bambino Gesù children’s hospital, “where we know he is safe and he will not be euthanized.” The Vatican-owned hospital in Rome has previously offered to admit the child, but British courts have refused to allow him to be removed from the Liverpool hospital.

“Alfie has not yet shown us he is ready to go, so we continue to fight just as he shows us to,” he said.

In his address to pilgrims later Wednesday morning, Pope Francis urged authorities to spare the life of young Alfie Evans, as well as Vincent Lambert in France, another disabled person due to be euthanized.

“I draw attention again to Vincent Lambert and Little Alfie Evans, and I would like to reiterate and strongly confirm that the only Lord of life, from the beginning to the natural end, is God!” Francis announced before the crowds gathered in Saint Peter’s Square.

“And our duty, our duty is to do everything to preserve life,” he declared. “We think in silence and pray that the lives of all people and especially of these two brothers of ours are respected. Let us pray in silence.”

In Wednesday’s statement, the pope staked out a clear position, reminding those responsible for end-of-life decisions that only God is “the Lord of life” from its beginning through to its “natural end.”

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeThe father of little Alfie Evans met with Pope Francis in the Vatican Wednesday and pleaded with him to help save his son, who has been sentenced to be euthanized against his parents’ wishes.

Thomas Evans flew to Rome to meet with the pope, and after their meeting Francis modified his Wednesday speech to pilgrims, adding a special appeal for the lives of Alfie Evans and Vincent Lambert, a Frenchman who is also due to be taken off life support.

At their private meeting in the Pope’s Santa Marta residence, Evans read out a statement in which he pleaded for “asylum” for Alfie, noting that the child “is sick but not dying and does not deserve to die” and that he is “not terminally ill.”

“Our hospitals in the U.K. do not want to give disabled children the chance of life and instead assisting in the death of children,” he said. “We now have realized our son’s life does not mean much to the NHS [National Health Service]. We plead to you to help our son.”

Mr. Evans said that he and his wife wish to bring Alfie to Italy, to the Bambino Gesù children’s hospital, “where we know he is safe and he will not be euthanized.” The Vatican-owned hospital in Rome has previously offered to admit the child, but British courts have refused to allow him to be removed from the Liverpool hospital.

“Alfie has not yet shown us he is ready to go, so we continue to fight just as he shows us to,” he said.

In his address to pilgrims later Wednesday morning, Pope Francis urged authorities to spare the life of young Alfie Evans, as well as Vincent Lambert in France, another disabled person due to be euthanized.

“I draw attention again to Vincent Lambert and Little Alfie Evans, and I would like to reiterate and strongly confirm that the only Lord of life, from the beginning to the natural end, is God!” Francis announced before the crowds gathered in Saint Peter’s Square.

“And our duty, our duty is to do everything to preserve life,” he declared. “We think in silence and pray that the lives of all people and especially of these two brothers of ours are respected. Let us pray in silence.”

In Wednesday’s statement, the pope staked out a clear position, reminding those responsible for end-of-life decisions that only God is “the Lord of life” from its beginning through to its “natural end.”

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeA Jewish teenager wearing a traditional kippah claims he was attacked on a Berlin street by a Muslim assailant who whipped him with a belt in an anti-Semitic attack.

Video of the incident shows the attacker – who was part of a gang of three – repeatedly whipping the teen with his belt while calling out, “Yahudi,” or “Jew” in Arabic, before he is stopped by a passerby.

The incident, filmed on the victim’s mobile phone, took place at the Helmholtzplatz, a public park in the Prenzlauer Berg part of Berlin. It can be seen below:

Antisemitischer Angriff in #Berlin – ein Mann schlägt mit einem Gürtel auf einen Mann ein und bezeichnet ihn wiederholt als “Yahudi” (arabisch für “Jude”). #Antisemitismus pic.twitter.com/YCHVgCF1ox — Jüdisches Forum (@JFDA_eV) April 17, 2018

Israel’s Kan public broadcaster later found the teen, Adam Armush, and interviewed him near his home. He said:

It happened right here, next to my home, when I was on my way to the train station with my friend. The truth is, I’m surprised something like this happened to me. I’m still in shock. We came out of our home, my friend and I, wearing our kippas, and walked down the street. We weren’t talking with anyone else. Three people came from over there … and started cursing us from over there. We didn’t talk to anyone, didn’t answer them. So when they kept cursing us, my friend asked them to stop cursing, and that got them angry. So one of them ran at me. I immediately felt it was important to film, because I didn’t think we could catch him before police arrived. I wanted to give police something to go on.

According to the Judisches Forum fur Demokratie und gegen Antisemitismus (JFDA), which monitors anti-Semitism in Germany, local police have opened an investigation into the attack.

“Just because he wore a kippa, a young Jewish man was reportedly attack on April 17th, 2018, at Helmholtzplatz in Berlin’s Prenzlauer Berg,” the group said in a statement.

Reports of a rise in anti-Semitism are increasing across Germany, with the Homeland Ministry recently agreeing with proposals from Jewish leaders to strip anti-Semitic migrants of their right to remain in the country.

Deputy Homeland Minister Stephan Mayer backed the chairman of Germany’s Central Council of Jews, Josef Schuster, on the matter as reported by Breitbart London.

German Lawmakers Seek to Deport Migrants Who Espouse Anti-Semitism https://t.co/ILydISkyNY — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 7, 2018

He added: “Those people thereby oppose the core values and beliefs of our democratic system.”

In January, CDU and CSU politicians prepared a new draft bill paving the way for the deportation of anti-Semites, stating that “absolute acceptance of Jewish life” is a “benchmark for successful integration” in Germany.

Germany has also been forced to appoint a new special commissioner to tackle the issue of anti-Semitism, and newly-arrived migrants have been warned they must reject bigoted views.A Jewish teenager wearing a traditional kippah claims he was attacked on a Berlin street by a Muslim assailant who whipped him with a belt in an anti-Semitic attack.

Video of the incident shows the attacker – who was part of a gang of three – repeatedly whipping the teen with his belt while calling out, “Yahudi,” or “Jew” in Arabic, before he is stopped by a passerby.

The incident, filmed on the victim’s mobile phone, took place at the Helmholtzplatz, a public park in the Prenzlauer Berg part of Berlin. It can be seen below:

Antisemitischer Angriff in #Berlin – ein Mann schlägt mit einem Gürtel auf einen Mann ein und bezeichnet ihn wiederholt als “Yahudi” (arabisch für “Jude”). #Antisemitismus pic.twitter.com/YCHVgCF1ox — Jüdisches Forum (@JFDA_eV) April 17, 2018

Israel’s Kan public broadcaster later found the teen, Adam Armush, and interviewed him near his home. He said:

It happened right here, next to my home, when I was on my way to the train station with my friend. The truth is, I’m surprised something like this happened to me. I’m still in shock. We came out of our home, my friend and I, wearing our kippas, and walked down the street. We weren’t talking with anyone else. Three people came from over there … and started cursing us from over there. We didn’t talk to anyone, didn’t answer them. So when they kept cursing us, my friend asked them to stop cursing, and that got them angry. So one of them ran at me. I immediately felt it was important to film, because I didn’t think we could catch him before police arrived. I wanted to give police something to go on.

According to the Judisches Forum fur Demokratie und gegen Antisemitismus (JFDA), which monitors anti-Semitism in Germany, local police have opened an investigation into the attack.

“Just because he wore a kippa, a young Jewish man was reportedly attack on April 17th, 2018, at Helmholtzplatz in Berlin’s Prenzlauer Berg,” the group said in a statement.

Reports of a rise in anti-Semitism are increasing across Germany, with the Homeland Ministry recently agreeing with proposals from Jewish leaders to strip anti-Semitic migrants of their right to remain in the country.

Deputy Homeland Minister Stephan Mayer backed the chairman of Germany’s Central Council of Jews, Josef Schuster, on the matter as reported by Breitbart London.

German Lawmakers Seek to Deport Migrants Who Espouse Anti-Semitism https://t.co/ILydISkyNY — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 7, 2018

He added: “Those people thereby oppose the core values and beliefs of our democratic system.”

In January, CDU and CSU politicians prepared a new draft bill paving the way for the deportation of anti-Semites, stating that “absolute acceptance of Jewish life” is a “benchmark for successful integration” in Germany.

Germany has also been forced to appoint a new special commissioner to tackle the issue of anti-Semitism, and newly-arrived migrants have been warned they must reject bigoted views.Police in the French city of Orléans will be making sure that Muslim worshippers cease using the public street to pray after residents wrote to the city’s government to complain.

The main complaint against the street prayers came from an angry resident living on the Rue de Limare on which the Ibn-Badis Mosque is located, Magcentre reports.

The resident sent a picture of Muslim worshippers praying outside the mosque on the street asking, “Is this allowed by law? If not, what will be your action to ensure that Republican law is respected?”

Deputy Mayor of Public Safety Olivier Geffroy is said to have immediately been in contact with the heads of the mosque to deal with the street prayers which are unlawful due to French public secularity laws, known as Laïcité.

“This morning I received the persons in charge of the prayer room. I told them the impossibility of prayers in the public space, with which they completely agreed,” Geffroy said.

Muslim Street Prayers Forced Off Paris Boulevard After Angry Clashes https://t.co/CJI6IyD8kj — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 21, 2017

“They told me that the phenomenon was very punctual and they would strengthen their presence at the entrance, on Rue de Limare, so that the phenomenon ceases,” he said.

“The vice-president of the Ibn Badiss association, Mr. Benhammou, told me that he himself would be present with two other people. They also pledged to reiterate the ban with the faithful, under penalty of exclusion of the mosque,” Mr. Geffroy added.

The deputy mayor also said that the police would also be on hand to make sure the street prayers stopped.

Muslims praying on the streets in French cities has been a consistent issue for years despite the practice being illegal.

Most recently, in the migrant-heavy suburb of Clichy, Muslims prayed in the street ever,y Friday for months following a forced eviction from a building they were illegally occupying and using as a mosque.

The protests were also met with counter-protests from politicians and supporters of the conservative Republican party late last year which demanded the street prayers stop.Police in the French city of Orléans will be making sure that Muslim worshippers cease using the public street to pray after residents wrote to the city’s government to complain.

The main complaint against the street prayers came from an angry resident living on the Rue de Limare on which the Ibn-Badis Mosque is located, Magcentre reports.

The resident sent a picture of Muslim worshippers praying outside the mosque on the street asking, “Is this allowed by law? If not, what will be your action to ensure that Republican law is respected?”

Deputy Mayor of Public Safety Olivier Geffroy is said to have immediately been in contact with the heads of the mosque to deal with the street prayers which are unlawful due to French public secularity laws, known as Laïcité.

“This morning I received the persons in charge of the prayer room. I told them the impossibility of prayers in the public space, with which they completely agreed,” Geffroy said.

Muslim Street Prayers Forced Off Paris Boulevard After Angry Clashes https://t.co/CJI6IyD8kj — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 21, 2017

“They told me that the phenomenon was very punctual and they would strengthen their presence at the entrance, on Rue de Limare, so that the phenomenon ceases,” he said.

“The vice-president of the Ibn Badiss association, Mr. Benhammou, told me that he himself would be present with two other people. They also pledged to reiterate the ban with the faithful, under penalty of exclusion of the mosque,” Mr. Geffroy added.

The deputy mayor also said that the police would also be on hand to make sure the street prayers stopped.

Muslims praying on the streets in French cities has been a consistent issue for years despite the practice being illegal.

Most recently, in the migrant-heavy suburb of Clichy, Muslims prayed in the street ever,y Friday for months following a forced eviction from a building they were illegally occupying and using as a mosque.

The protests were also met with counter-protests from politicians and supporters of the conservative Republican party late last year which demanded the street prayers stop.The number of migrants reporting themselves to German police claiming to be members of terrorist groups in order to avoid deportation is on the rise.

Public prosecutors’ offices in Stuttgart and Karlsruhe are claiming that the number has surged, saying they had seen 300 cases of migrants claiming to be members of terror groups for the entire year in 2017, compared to 159 cases in just the first three months of this year, Die Welt reports.

“These proceedings are a huge burden for the judiciary,” said Baden-Württemberg Minister of Justice Guido Wolf.

“I have no understanding when someone admits to a serious crime just because he hopes for benefits in the asylum process,” Wolf added.

Self-reporting now accounts for around half of the suspected terrorist cases in Germany, according to several German media sources.

Asylum seekers are confessing to murder to avoid deportation to countries with the death penalty. https://t.co/uYIRkHm0Rx — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 29, 2017

A spokesman for the Ministry of Justice said that many of the cases were particularly time-consuming because most of the alleged terrorist activity had occurred overseas in countries like Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, and Somalia.

The trend in the Baden-Württemberg matches that of Saxony where regional Minister of Justice Sebastian Gemkow claimed to have seen at least 36 cases of migrants claiming to be members of groups like the Islamic State or al-Nusra last September.

Asylum seekers, according to the U.S.-based Heritage Foundation think-tank, make up around half of all the suspects in actual terrorist plots.

The most infamous terror attack, the Berlin Christmas market attack in December of 2016, was committed by failed asylum seeker Anis Amri, which led many to further criticise the mass migration policies of German Chancellor Angela Merkel.

Last year, Breitbart London reported that asylum seekers were also admitting to other crimes, including murder, to avoid deportation.The number of migrants reporting themselves to German police claiming to be members of terrorist groups in order to avoid deportation is on the rise.

Public prosecutors’ offices in Stuttgart and Karlsruhe are claiming that the number has surged, saying they had seen 300 cases of migrants claiming to be members of terror groups for the entire year in 2017, compared to 159 cases in just the first three months of this year, Die Welt reports.

“These proceedings are a huge burden for the judiciary,” said Baden-Württemberg Minister of Justice Guido Wolf.

“I have no understanding when someone admits to a serious crime just because he hopes for benefits in the asylum process,” Wolf added.

Self-reporting now accounts for around half of the suspected terrorist cases in Germany, according to several German media sources.

Asylum seekers are confessing to murder to avoid deportation to countries with the death penalty. https://t.co/uYIRkHm0Rx — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 29, 2017

A spokesman for the Ministry of Justice said that many of the cases were particularly time-consuming because most of the alleged terrorist activity had occurred overseas in countries like Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, and Somalia.

The trend in the Baden-Württemberg matches that of Saxony where regional Minister of Justice Sebastian Gemkow claimed to have seen at least 36 cases of migrants claiming to be members of groups like the Islamic State or al-Nusra last September.

Asylum seekers, according to the U.S.-based Heritage Foundation think-tank, make up around half of all the suspects in actual terrorist plots.

The most infamous terror attack, the Berlin Christmas market attack in December of 2016, was committed by failed asylum seeker Anis Amri, which led many to further criticise the mass migration policies of German Chancellor Angela Merkel.

Last year, Breitbart London reported that asylum seekers were also admitting to other crimes, including murder, to avoid deportation.On Tax Day 2018, millions of Americans filed their tax returns, looking forward to a much better Tax Day in 2019 due to the Trump Tax Cut. They are already enjoying the smaller federal tax withholdings from their paychecks.

But Tax Day isn’t just about paying federal income taxes. It’s also about paying state income taxes. Despite the relief at the federal level, it remains a day when too many Americans fork over an increasingly large amount of their earnings to their states.

Every year at this time the American Legislative Exchange Council publishes its annual Rich States, Poor States report comparing the tax environment and business climate in all 50 states. At the state level, the differences between the low tax states and the high tax states are extremely stark.

At the good end of the spectrum, there remain nine states that do not impose any income tax at all. They are Alaska, Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming. Almost all are red states.

At the bad end of the spectrum, there are six states that impose income taxes at a top marginal rate of greater than nine percent. They are Minnesota (9.85 percent), New Jersey (9.97 percent), Oregon (10.65 percent), Hawaii (11.00 percent), New York (12.70 percent), and California (13.30 percent). All are blue states.

California’s 13.3 percent is truly punishing. And legislators in Sacramento show little indication that they will end their abuse of taxpayers. It’s having a predictable impact. Taxpayers who can move away are leaving in droves. Census Bureau data shows that, from July 2016 to July 2017, a huge number of California residents left the Golden State for states with lower taxes.

During that 12-month period, California experienced a net loss of just over 138,000 people. Where did they go? Zero income tax states Texas and Nevada saw a net increase of more than 79,000 people and 38,000 people respectively. Arizona (with a low top marginal income tax rate of 4.54 percent) experienced a net increase of more than 63,000 people.

When large numbers of taxpayers leave, that makes the situation even more dire for those left behind. The bloated budgets in states like California are shouldered by a shrinking number of people of who pay taxes. This, in turn, prompts the progressive Democrats who rule such states to react by raising taxes even more.

The Trump Tax Cut puts an additional squeeze on the high-tax states by limiting the deductions taxpayers can take for their payment of state and local income taxes. It’s yet another incentive for taxpayers to depart the Golden State for more favorable tax climes.

The exodus of residents and businesses from California is hard to miss. But what’s often overlooked is similar movement happening among the states in the middle of the tax rankings. When any state significantly increases its taxes, it loses residents and businesses to more taxpayer-friendly states.

Take my state, Kansas. Kansas had relatively low taxes compared to surrounding states in 2012-15, before a coalition of Democrats and liberal Republicans passed record-breaking sales tax and income tax hikes in 2015 and 2017, respectively. During that brief period when taxes were low, more businesses in the Kansas City metropolitan area (which is half in Kansas, half in Missouri) chose to locate in Kansas rather than in Missouri. Kansas saw 23 percent higher job growth than Missouri did. But the tax hikes in 2015 and 2017 subsequently killed Kansas’s advantage.

The result was that Kansas plummeted from 11th place in overall economic outlook in 2013 to 26th place in 2018. (In case you’re wondering, Utah is now #1; and New York is #50.) An out-migration of businesses also began.

Other states have moved in the opposite direction. Most notably, Indiana significantly reduced the income tax burden on its residents and has kept taxes low. In 2013, under then-Governor Mike Pence’s leadership, Indiana cut its flat tax rate on personal income from 3.4 to 3.23 percent. In 2014, Indiana cut its corporate tax rate from 6.5 to 4.9 percent. The lower taxes helped drive an economic expansion that has been better than the national average.

As a consequence, Indiana rose significantly in the state rankings of overall economic outlook. The Hoosier State jumped from 24th place in 2012 to 3rd place in 2018.

The bottom line is that state income tax rates matter – a lot. They can cripple a family’s budget or set it free. State income taxes have an equally important impact on businesses. Because relocating from state to state is a possibility for millions of households and businesses, they often vote with their feet.

State legislators and governors need to recognize that fact and do everything possible to reduce their states’ income tax burdens. If they don’t, they may soon find that they have fewer constituents. And those who remain won’t be pleased.

Kris W. Kobach is the elected secretary of state of Kansas. An expert in immigration law and policy, he coauthored the Arizona SB-1070 immigration law and represented in federal court the ten ICE agents who sued to stop President Obama’s 2012 DACA amnesty. During 2001-03, he was Attorney General John Ashcroft’s chief adviser on immigration law at the Department of Justice. He is also a 2018 candidate for the office of governor of Kansas. His website is kriskobach.com.On Tax Day 2018, millions of Americans filed their tax returns, looking forward to a much better Tax Day in 2019 due to the Trump Tax Cut. They are already enjoying the smaller federal tax withholdings from their paychecks.

But Tax Day isn’t just about paying federal income taxes. It’s also about paying state income taxes. Despite the relief at the federal level, it remains a day when too many Americans fork over an increasingly large amount of their earnings to their states.

Every year at this time the American Legislative Exchange Council publishes its annual Rich States, Poor States report comparing the tax environment and business climate in all 50 states. At the state level, the differences between the low tax states and the high tax states are extremely stark.

At the good end of the spectrum, there remain nine states that do not impose any income tax at all. They are Alaska, Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming. Almost all are red states.

At the bad end of the spectrum, there are six states that impose income taxes at a top marginal rate of greater than nine percent. They are Minnesota (9.85 percent), New Jersey (9.97 percent), Oregon (10.65 percent), Hawaii (11.00 percent), New York (12.70 percent), and California (13.30 percent). All are blue states.

California’s 13.3 percent is truly punishing. And legislators in Sacramento show little indication that they will end their abuse of taxpayers. It’s having a predictable impact. Taxpayers who can move away are leaving in droves. Census Bureau data shows that, from July 2016 to July 2017, a huge number of California residents left the Golden State for states with lower taxes.

During that 12-month period, California experienced a net loss of just over 138,000 people. Where did they go? Zero income tax states Texas and Nevada saw a net increase of more than 79,000 people and 38,000 people respectively. Arizona (with a low top marginal income tax rate of 4.54 percent) experienced a net increase of more than 63,000 people.

When large numbers of taxpayers leave, that makes the situation even more dire for those left behind. The bloated budgets in states like California are shouldered by a shrinking number of people of who pay taxes. This, in turn, prompts the progressive Democrats who rule such states to react by raising taxes even more.

The Trump Tax Cut puts an additional squeeze on the high-tax states by limiting the deductions taxpayers can take for their payment of state and local income taxes. It’s yet another incentive for taxpayers to depart the Golden State for more favorable tax climes.

The exodus of residents and businesses from California is hard to miss. But what’s often overlooked is similar movement happening among the states in the middle of the tax rankings. When any state significantly increases its taxes, it loses residents and businesses to more taxpayer-friendly states.

Take my state, Kansas. Kansas had relatively low taxes compared to surrounding states in 2012-15, before a coalition of Democrats and liberal Republicans passed record-breaking sales tax and income tax hikes in 2015 and 2017, respectively. During that brief period when taxes were low, more businesses in the Kansas City metropolitan area (which is half in Kansas, half in Missouri) chose to locate in Kansas rather than in Missouri. Kansas saw 23 percent higher job growth than Missouri did. But the tax hikes in 2015 and 2017 subsequently killed Kansas’s advantage.

The result was that Kansas plummeted from 11th place in overall economic outlook in 2013 to 26th place in 2018. (In case you’re wondering, Utah is now #1; and New York is #50.) An out-migration of businesses also began.

Other states have moved in the opposite direction. Most notably, Indiana significantly reduced the income tax burden on its residents and has kept taxes low. In 2013, under then-Governor Mike Pence’s leadership, Indiana cut its flat tax rate on personal income from 3.4 to 3.23 percent. In 2014, Indiana cut its corporate tax rate from 6.5 to 4.9 percent. The lower taxes helped drive an economic expansion that has been better than the national average.

As a consequence, Indiana rose significantly in the state rankings of overall economic outlook. The Hoosier State jumped from 24th place in 2012 to 3rd place in 2018.

The bottom line is that state income tax rates matter – a lot. They can cripple a family’s budget or set it free. State income taxes have an equally important impact on businesses. Because relocating from state to state is a possibility for millions of households and businesses, they often vote with their feet.

State legislators and governors need to recognize that fact and do everything possible to reduce their states’ income tax burdens. If they don’t, they may soon find that they have fewer constituents. And those who remain won’t be pleased.

Kris W. Kobach is the elected secretary of state of Kansas. An expert in immigration law and policy, he coauthored the Arizona SB-1070 immigration law and represented in federal court the ten ICE agents who sued to stop President Obama’s 2012 DACA amnesty. During 2001-03, he was Attorney General John Ashcroft’s chief adviser on immigration law at the Department of Justice. He is also a 2018 candidate for the office of governor of Kansas. His website is kriskobach.com.Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrived at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida on Tuesday for two days of meetings with U.S. President Donald Trump.

Abe finds himself in an unexpectedly precarious position back home due to a snowballing scandal as he faces an American president determined to drive hard bargains with both allies and adversaries.

Every handicap of the Trump-Abe meeting has been hastily revised as Abe’s political fortunes sink in Japan. Once seen as nearly unassailable in his popularity, Abe barely squeaked through a morass of corruption allegations and cover-ups tied to a land deal with a controversial private school, only to be hit with another favoritism complaint concerning an old friend who wanted to open a veterinary school.

In both cases, what has hurt Abe’s popularity is the slow drip of documents that cast doubt on earlier statements by his government and implicate lesser officials in cover-up operations. The new favoritism allegations directly involve the prime minister himself, whereas he was seen as a more peripheral figure in the school land deal.

Abe’s approval rating fell to a new low in polls released on Sunday. Once considered a shoo-in for a third term allowed under recent changes to Japanese law, which would make him the longest-serving prime minister since World War II, Abe’s ability to win his own party primary is now somewhat in doubt. The New York Times wondered on Monday if he could remain in office long enough for possible meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping and North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un in a few months.

Abe is therefore under tremendous pressure to have a successful meeting with Trump, although he arrives at Mar-a-Lago with concerns that Trump will “try to link vital security matters with touchy trade topics,” as Asahi Shimbun put it.

Tokyo is also worried that Trump could make a denuclearization deal with North Korea that compromises Japanese security interests if Trump’s proposed meeting with Kim Jong-un in May or June goes forward.

In particular, Japan wishes to avoid a deal where North Korea gives up long-range missiles that threaten the continental United States and Europe but keeps less powerful missiles that threaten Japan. Abe told his parliament a few weeks ago that a North Korean deal focused entirely on intercontinental ballistic missiles would be meaningless to Japan.

Abe will also want to secure a promise from Trump that he will discuss Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korea when he talks to Kim. Trump met with the families of abductees during his visit to Japan in November and promised, “We will try to get them back.”

Time predicts Trump will “lean on Abe to begin negotiations for a bilateral free trade agreement” that will be more beneficial to the United States than the multilateral Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)—a trade agreement Trump strongly criticized during his presidential campaign and withdrew from early in his presidency, but appears to be having mixed feelings about these days, as his economic dispute with China heats up.

Abe cannot afford to say no to Trump on trade, but might not survive saying yes. The key to threading the needle might involve building from Trump’s recent remarks that the old TPP was a bad deal for America, but he would consider rejoining a “substantially better” arrangement.

“We already have BILATERAL deals with six of the eleven nations in TPP, and are working to make a deal with the biggest of those nations, Japan, who has hit us hard on trade for years!” Trump wrote on Twitter last week. The ball is clearly in Abe’s court, if not flying directly at his face.

Abe’s advantages include what seems to be a genuine friendship with Trump, having met with him more often than any other foreign leader and enjoyed numerous rounds of golf together. Also, Abe can hope the U.S. president is aware of his dicey political position back home in Japan and will see no point in hammering out a tough trade deal that vaporizes Abe’s administration and leaves Trump dealing with someone else in Tokyo, possibly at the very moment he enters historic talks with Kim Jong-un.Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe arrived at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida on Tuesday for two days of meetings with U.S. President Donald Trump.

Abe finds himself in an unexpectedly precarious position back home due to a snowballing scandal as he faces an American president determined to drive hard bargains with both allies and adversaries.

Every handicap of the Trump-Abe meeting has been hastily revised as Abe’s political fortunes sink in Japan. Once seen as nearly unassailable in his popularity, Abe barely squeaked through a morass of corruption allegations and cover-ups tied to a land deal with a controversial private school, only to be hit with another favoritism complaint concerning an old friend who wanted to open a veterinary school.

In both cases, what has hurt Abe’s popularity is the slow drip of documents that cast doubt on earlier statements by his government and implicate lesser officials in cover-up operations. The new favoritism allegations directly involve the prime minister himself, whereas he was seen as a more peripheral figure in the school land deal.

Abe’s approval rating fell to a new low in polls released on Sunday. Once considered a shoo-in for a third term allowed under recent changes to Japanese law, which would make him the longest-serving prime minister since World War II, Abe’s ability to win his own party primary is now somewhat in doubt. The New York Times wondered on Monday if he could remain in office long enough for possible meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping and North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un in a few months.

Abe is therefore under tremendous pressure to have a successful meeting with Trump, although he arrives at Mar-a-Lago with concerns that Trump will “try to link vital security matters with touchy trade topics,” as Asahi Shimbun put it.

Tokyo is also worried that Trump could make a denuclearization deal with North Korea that compromises Japanese security interests if Trump’s proposed meeting with Kim Jong-un in May or June goes forward.

In particular, Japan wishes to avoid a deal where North Korea gives up long-range missiles that threaten the continental United States and Europe but keeps less powerful missiles that threaten Japan. Abe told his parliament a few weeks ago that a North Korean deal focused entirely on intercontinental ballistic missiles would be meaningless to Japan.

Abe will also want to secure a promise from Trump that he will discuss Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korea when he talks to Kim. Trump met with the families of abductees during his visit to Japan in November and promised, “We will try to get them back.”

Time predicts Trump will “lean on Abe to begin negotiations for a bilateral free trade agreement” that will be more beneficial to the United States than the multilateral Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)—a trade agreement Trump strongly criticized during his presidential campaign and withdrew from early in his presidency, but appears to be having mixed feelings about these days, as his economic dispute with China heats up.

Abe cannot afford to say no to Trump on trade, but might not survive saying yes. The key to threading the needle might involve building from Trump’s recent remarks that the old TPP was a bad deal for America, but he would consider rejoining a “substantially better” arrangement.

“We already have BILATERAL deals with six of the eleven nations in TPP, and are working to make a deal with the biggest of those nations, Japan, who has hit us hard on trade for years!” Trump wrote on Twitter last week. The ball is clearly in Abe’s court, if not flying directly at his face.

Abe’s advantages include what seems to be a genuine friendship with Trump, having met with him more often than any other foreign leader and enjoyed numerous rounds of golf together. Also, Abe can hope the U.S. president is aware of his dicey political position back home in Japan and will see no point in hammering out a tough trade deal that vaporizes Abe’s administration and leaves Trump dealing with someone else in Tokyo, possibly at the very moment he enters historic talks with Kim Jong-un.President Donald Trump met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday, hosting him at his club at Mar-a-Lago.

The pair of leaders spoke to the press about upcoming talks on North Korea, trade, and Asian foreign policy. But Donald Trump indicated that they might have time for a casual round of golf, despite officials not putting it on the schedule.

“We’re going to sneak out tomorrow morning and play a round of golf, if possible, if we have the time,” Trump said.

The president pointed out that world leaders enjoyed spending time at Mar-a-Lago to meet with him to develop “great relationships,” reminding reporters that it was once owned by the U.S. Government before he bought it during Jimmy Carter’s administration.

“Now it is indeed the Southern White House and again many, many people want to be here, many of the leaders want to be here, they request specifically,” he said.President Donald Trump met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday, hosting him at his club at Mar-a-Lago.

The pair of leaders spoke to the press about upcoming talks on North Korea, trade, and Asian foreign policy. But Donald Trump indicated that they might have time for a casual round of golf, despite officials not putting it on the schedule.

“We’re going to sneak out tomorrow morning and play a round of golf, if possible, if we have the time,” Trump said.

The president pointed out that world leaders enjoyed spending time at Mar-a-Lago to meet with him to develop “great relationships,” reminding reporters that it was once owned by the U.S. Government before he bought it during Jimmy Carter’s administration.

“Now it is indeed the Southern White House and again many, many people want to be here, many of the leaders want to be here, they request specifically,” he said.Thousands of Venezuelan workers quit the country’s state-run oil company Petroleum of Venezuela (PDSVA) following the installation of Major General Manuel Quevedo as its head, a report published this week revealed.

According to a detailed report from Reuters, Quevedo has already alienated much of the company, whose workers’ woes mirror that of Venezuela as a whole.

During a recent visit to an oil rig in Orinoco Belt, Quevedo ignored workers who wanted to discuss the company’s ongoing collapse and the constant depression of their wages.

“He didn’t get out to ask workers about what is going on,” union leader Jesus Tabata, told the agency. “That way it’s easier to keep saying everything is fine—and at the same time keeping us on like slaves on miserable wages.”

Dictator Nicolás Maduro appointed Quevedo as the company’s head last October with the aim of militarizing all aspects of the company’s operation, although the move immediately raised questions about his lack of experience.

He also arrested dozens of senior PDSVA executives on alleged corruption charges in a bid to tighten his control on the industry.

Following his appointment, Quevedo promised to launch a “crusade” against corruption and pledged to “consolidate the deepening of socialism” through the “total, absolute transformation of PDVSA,” although that transformation now appears to be running the organization into the ground.

Around 25,000 workers left the company in January alone, with many PDSVA offices now inundated with people waiting to hand in their resignation. In one office in Zulia state, human resources staff reportedly hung a sign that read “we do not accept resignations.”

Many of those leaving the company are vital to the company’s day to day operations, including high-level professionals such as engineers, managers, and lawyers that are almost impossible to replace.

Authorities are now keeping the company’s employment statistics as a closely guarded secret as part of a regime-led effort to conceal information from the public. Amid the employee exodus and a sharp drop in productivity, the company’s oil production has fallen to a 30-year low of 1.6 million barrels a day, compared to the 3.8 million barrels a day in 1999 that was used to finance Hugo Chávez failed socialist revolution.

This, combined with a worldwide collapse in oil prices, has massively affected government revenues amid an economic crisis that has left millions in poverty and without the necessary resources to survive. Oil revenue represents 90 percent of the country’s total export revenue.

As well as its internal challenges, the company is also struggling under increasing sanctions imposed by the United States banning Americans from dealing with it in any capacity.

Before his removal as Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, floated the possibility of blocking all Venezuelan oil imports into the U.S. in an attempt to further squeeze the regime, although some regional leaders fear that such a move would only worsen the country’s ongoing humanitarian crisis.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comThousands of Venezuelan workers quit the country’s state-run oil company Petroleum of Venezuela (PDSVA) following the installation of Major General Manuel Quevedo as its head, a report published this week revealed.

According to a detailed report from Reuters, Quevedo has already alienated much of the company, whose workers’ woes mirror that of Venezuela as a whole.

During a recent visit to an oil rig in Orinoco Belt, Quevedo ignored workers who wanted to discuss the company’s ongoing collapse and the constant depression of their wages.

“He didn’t get out to ask workers about what is going on,” union leader Jesus Tabata, told the agency. “That way it’s easier to keep saying everything is fine—and at the same time keeping us on like slaves on miserable wages.”

Dictator Nicolás Maduro appointed Quevedo as the company’s head last October with the aim of militarizing all aspects of the company’s operation, although the move immediately raised questions about his lack of experience.

He also arrested dozens of senior PDSVA executives on alleged corruption charges in a bid to tighten his control on the industry.

Following his appointment, Quevedo promised to launch a “crusade” against corruption and pledged to “consolidate the deepening of socialism” through the “total, absolute transformation of PDVSA,” although that transformation now appears to be running the organization into the ground.

Around 25,000 workers left the company in January alone, with many PDSVA offices now inundated with people waiting to hand in their resignation. In one office in Zulia state, human resources staff reportedly hung a sign that read “we do not accept resignations.”

Many of those leaving the company are vital to the company’s day to day operations, including high-level professionals such as engineers, managers, and lawyers that are almost impossible to replace.

Authorities are now keeping the company’s employment statistics as a closely guarded secret as part of a regime-led effort to conceal information from the public. Amid the employee exodus and a sharp drop in productivity, the company’s oil production has fallen to a 30-year low of 1.6 million barrels a day, compared to the 3.8 million barrels a day in 1999 that was used to finance Hugo Chávez failed socialist revolution.

This, combined with a worldwide collapse in oil prices, has massively affected government revenues amid an economic crisis that has left millions in poverty and without the necessary resources to survive. Oil revenue represents 90 percent of the country’s total export revenue.

As well as its internal challenges, the company is also struggling under increasing sanctions imposed by the United States banning Americans from dealing with it in any capacity.

Before his removal as Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, floated the possibility of blocking all Venezuelan oil imports into the U.S. in an attempt to further squeeze the regime, although some regional leaders fear that such a move would only worsen the country’s ongoing humanitarian crisis.

Follow Ben Kew on Facebook, Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.comA 71-year-old Australian nun was arrested in the Philippines on Tuesday for “engaging in political activities,” another indication that Rodrigo Duterte’s administration is cracking down on political dissidents.

Sister Patricia Cox was reportedly detained for “attending protest rallies and engaging in political activities” against Duterte’s presidency. She was later released, but investigations into the incident will continue.

Her lawyer, Jobert Ilarde Pahilga, maintained that Cox had “done nothing wrong that would warrant her arrest, detention, and possible deportation,” adding that National Intelligence Coordinating Agency complained she was an “undesirable alien” because of her involvement in anti-government activities.

“She is a human rights and a genuine agrarian reform advocate who tirelessly provided various social service to farmers including the farmers of Hacienda Luisita,” Pahilga said in a statement.

The arrest immediately drew criticism from government opposition, who expressed fear that the government is cracking down on opposition activists while describing Cox as a tireless human rights campaigner.

“The emerging trend on the crackdown against foreign activists in the country is alarming as exhibited by the harassment and casual arrests of the two human rights advocates, who were not even in protest activities or rallies when taken into custody,” the opposition Liberal Party said in a statement.A 71-year-old Australian nun was arrested in the Philippines on Tuesday for “engaging in political activities,” another indication that Rodrigo Duterte’s administration is cracking down on political dissidents.

Sister Patricia Cox was reportedly detained for “attending protest rallies and engaging in political activities” against Duterte’s presidency. She was later released, but investigations into the incident will continue.

Her lawyer, Jobert Ilarde Pahilga, maintained that Cox had “done nothing wrong that would warrant her arrest, detention, and possible deportation,” adding that National Intelligence Coordinating Agency complained she was an “undesirable alien” because of her involvement in anti-government activities.

“She is a human rights and a genuine agrarian reform advocate who tirelessly provided various social service to farmers including the farmers of Hacienda Luisita,” Pahilga said in a statement.

The arrest immediately drew criticism from government opposition, who expressed fear that the government is cracking down on opposition activists while describing Cox as a tireless human rights campaigner.

“The emerging trend on the crackdown against foreign activists in the country is alarming as exhibited by the harassment and casual arrests of the two human rights advocates, who were not even in protest activities or rallies when taken into custody,” the opposition Liberal Party said in a statement.International news outlets were abuzz Tuesday with the news that the Cuban General Assembly, the nation’s legislature, will vote a new president in to replace Raúl Castro, leaving the head of state running only the Communist Party.

While the man called “president” may no longer carry the Castro name—experts mostly agree that Vice President Miguel Díaz-Canel is the hand-picked heir to the title—the Communist Party is the supreme governing organ of the country, meaning the person truly running the country is the person running the Party. That name will not change this week, and is scheduled not to until 2021.

The Castro regime announced Tuesday that they had moved up the opening of the legislative session to choose a new president to April 18—the original date had been Wednesday, the anniversary of the massacre of Cuban refugees at Bay of Pigs. The constitution of Cuba is modeled after the Soviet Union’s and similar to modern-day China’s, meaning the legislature has full control over who becomes president and who joins his cabinet.

The only voting process granted to Cuban citizens is to choose their representative in the Assembly. The regime hand-picks candidate for each and every seat and blocks any individual contemplating placing their name on the ballot, either through disqualification, intimidation, or arrest. In November, the regime blocked all opposition candidates from appearing on ballots nationwide, resulting in a clean sweep for candidates representing the only legal political party in the country, the Communist Party.

With a legislature assembled, the Cuban regime must now appoint a president. Havana is calling the process a “transition;” most observers say Díaz-Canel will take the reins as president, even though the Castro regime has not confirmed this to maintain the appearance of competition for the position. Whether Díaz-Canel takes the presidency or not, power will remain ultimately in the hands of Rául Castro, the head of the Communist Party.

As in China—where the presidency is a weak title compared to Communist Party general secretary and commander-in-chief of the People’s Liberation Army—the Cuban presidency is heavily limited by the overarching power of the party.

Chapter I, Article 5 of the Cuban constitution makes the Communist Party “the superior directing body of society and the State, which organizes and orients the common efforts towards the end of the construction of socialism and advancement of communist society.” This makes the head of the Communist Party—Castro—the “superior” director of the State, above his future successor.

Who remains as commander in chief of the Revolutionary Armed Forces (FAR) of Cuba is not entirely clear from the constitution, as Fidel and Raúl Castro have typically been both president and comandante.

According to the Cuban constitution, the Assembly president’s powers include:

Presiding over National Assembly sessions

Convening National Assembly sessions

Organizing National Assembly dockets

Signing and regulating the publishing of the legislative gazette

Organizing international relations

Leading and organizing permanent work commissions in the Assembly

Attend cabinet meetings

Others the National Assembly can grant

The head of government’s powers are even more limited:

Represent the State and Government and manage general policy

Organizing and lead activities by the Council of Ministers

Control and attend to the development of activities at the ministries

Neither of these categories mentions the leadership of the armed forces. Raúl Castro was a longtime military man, acting in his younger days as the head of older brother Fidel’s executioner—officially “commander of the armed forces”—and it would stand to reason that he would still wish to retain much of the control of his preferred wing of the government. The FAR are also where many of the Castro heirs have found their careers. Alejandro Castro Espín, Raúl’s son, is a colonel and the head of the Ministry of the Interior. Raúl Guillermo Rodríguez Castro, the dictator’s grandson, is the head of personal security for his grandfather. Also floating around in the Cuban government bureaucracy is Raúl Castro’s daughter Mariela, head of the Cuban National Center for Sex Education (CENESEX). Fidel Ángel Castro Díaz-Balart, the oldest son of Fidel Castro, was a top government scientist before his suicide in February.

“Even after ‘resigning,’ Raúl will remain Secretary General of the Communist Party, the most important position in the government,” Otto Reich, former assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs under President George W. Bush, told Fox News. “Raul’s son, Colonel Alejandro Castro Espín, will remain in charge of counterintelligence (the political police) and therefore the chief enforcer of order, ideology, and loyalty to the dynasty.”

Díaz-Canel will have to contend with all these Castros if he wishes to claim any power with the expected receipt of the title of president. There is little evidence, however, that the hardline communist Díaz-Canel will try to reform the state.

Supporters claim that Díaz-Canel is “a cool guy” who enjoys soccer and alcohol and likes a good time. Observers of his statecraft note that “he has made clear he is not the man for change, that he has gotten to where he is by being a follower of orders par excellence,” as Professor Francisco Perdomo of the Raúl Roa Superior Institute of International Relations told Univisión.

The vice president openly boasted about suppressing opposition voices in last year’s legislative elections, arguing that allowing non-communists to run for office “would be a way to legitimize the ‘counter-revolution’ within our civil society.” He has denounced any policies that bring Cuba and the United States closer together. He reportedly relishes the role of suppressing dissident voices who wish to speak openly.

He is regularly trusted with representing Cuba to fellow communists, from receiving dignitaries of fellow Marxist countries to applauding mass murderer Ernesto “Che” Guevara at events commemorating his demise. “The colossal example of Che persists and multiples day by day,” Díaz-Canel declared on one of those occasions. “Che has not died.”International news outlets were abuzz Tuesday with the news that the Cuban General Assembly, the nation’s legislature, will vote a new president in to replace Raúl Castro, leaving the head of state running only the Communist Party.

While the man called “president” may no longer carry the Castro name—experts mostly agree that Vice President Miguel Díaz-Canel is the hand-picked heir to the title—the Communist Party is the supreme governing organ of the country, meaning the person truly running the country is the person running the Party. That name will not change this week, and is scheduled not to until 2021.

The Castro regime announced Tuesday that they had moved up the opening of the legislative session to choose a new president to April 18—the original date had been Wednesday, the anniversary of the massacre of Cuban refugees at Bay of Pigs. The constitution of Cuba is modeled after the Soviet Union’s and similar to modern-day China’s, meaning the legislature has full control over who becomes president and who joins his cabinet.

The only voting process granted to Cuban citizens is to choose their representative in the Assembly. The regime hand-picks candidate for each and every seat and blocks any individual contemplating placing their name on the ballot, either through disqualification, intimidation, or arrest. In November, the regime blocked all opposition candidates from appearing on ballots nationwide, resulting in a clean sweep for candidates representing the only legal political party in the country, the Communist Party.

With a legislature assembled, the Cuban regime must now appoint a president. Havana is calling the process a “transition;” most observers say Díaz-Canel will take the reins as president, even though the Castro regime has not confirmed this to maintain the appearance of competition for the position. Whether Díaz-Canel takes the presidency or not, power will remain ultimately in the hands of Rául Castro, the head of the Communist Party.

As in China—where the presidency is a weak title compared to Communist Party general secretary and commander-in-chief of the People’s Liberation Army—the Cuban presidency is heavily limited by the overarching power of the party.

Chapter I, Article 5 of the Cuban constitution makes the Communist Party “the superior directing body of society and the State, which organizes and orients the common efforts towards the end of the construction of socialism and advancement of communist society.” This makes the head of the Communist Party—Castro—the “superior” director of the State, above his future successor.

Who remains as commander in chief of the Revolutionary Armed Forces (FAR) of Cuba is not entirely clear from the constitution, as Fidel and Raúl Castro have typically been both president and comandante.

According to the Cuban constitution, the Assembly president’s powers include:

Presiding over National Assembly sessions

Convening National Assembly sessions

Organizing National Assembly dockets

Signing and regulating the publishing of the legislative gazette

Organizing international relations

Leading and organizing permanent work commissions in the Assembly

Attend cabinet meetings

Others the National Assembly can grant

The head of government’s powers are even more limited:

Represent the State and Government and manage general policy

Organizing and lead activities by the Council of Ministers

Control and attend to the development of activities at the ministries

Neither of these categories mentions the leadership of the armed forces. Raúl Castro was a longtime military man, acting in his younger days as the head of older brother Fidel’s executioner—officially “commander of the armed forces”—and it would stand to reason that he would still wish to retain much of the control of his preferred wing of the government. The FAR are also where many of the Castro heirs have found their careers. Alejandro Castro Espín, Raúl’s son, is a colonel and the head of the Ministry of the Interior. Raúl Guillermo Rodríguez Castro, the dictator’s grandson, is the head of personal security for his grandfather. Also floating around in the Cuban government bureaucracy is Raúl Castro’s daughter Mariela, head of the Cuban National Center for Sex Education (CENESEX). Fidel Ángel Castro Díaz-Balart, the oldest son of Fidel Castro, was a top government scientist before his suicide in February.

“Even after ‘resigning,’ Raúl will remain Secretary General of the Communist Party, the most important position in the government,” Otto Reich, former assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs under President George W. Bush, told Fox News. “Raul’s son, Colonel Alejandro Castro Espín, will remain in charge of counterintelligence (the political police) and therefore the chief enforcer of order, ideology, and loyalty to the dynasty.”

Díaz-Canel will have to contend with all these Castros if he wishes to claim any power with the expected receipt of the title of president. There is little evidence, however, that the hardline communist Díaz-Canel will try to reform the state.

Supporters claim that Díaz-Canel is “a cool guy” who enjoys soccer and alcohol and likes a good time. Observers of his statecraft note that “he has made clear he is not the man for change, that he has gotten to where he is by being a follower of orders par excellence,” as Professor Francisco Perdomo of the Raúl Roa Superior Institute of International Relations told Univisión.

The vice president openly boasted about suppressing opposition voices in last year’s legislative elections, arguing that allowing non-communists to run for office “would be a way to legitimize the ‘counter-revolution’ within our civil society.” He has denounced any policies that bring Cuba and the United States closer together. He reportedly relishes the role of suppressing dissident voices who wish to speak openly.

He is regularly trusted with representing Cuba to fellow communists, from receiving dignitaries of fellow Marxist countries to applauding mass murderer Ernesto “Che” Guevara at events commemorating his demise. “The colossal example of Che persists and multiples day by day,” Díaz-Canel declared on one of those occasions. “Che has not died.”Islamic State (ISIS/IS)-linked jihadists in northern Afghanistan reportedly decapitated a 14-year-old child for providing nourishment to members of the country’s U.S.-backed security forces.

Referring to the beheading, Afghanistan’s Khaama Press (KP) reports:

Local officials confirmed on Tuesday that the incident has [taken] place in the vicinity of Darzab district [in northern Afghanistan’s Jawzjan province], home to several ISIS militants. Provincial security chief Abdul Hafiz Khashi said the child, believed to be 14-year-old, was beheaded by ISIS militants because he was taking food and water to the security forces in the area. Khashi further added that the victim has been identified as x and was helping the security forces voluntarily.

ISIS has been linked to several beheadings in Afghanistan.

Despite a U.S.-assisted campaign against ISIS by the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF), the jihadist group has expanded its presence beyond eastern Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province, ISIS’s primary stronghold in the region, to the northern Jawzjan province where it has also encountered resistance from its Taliban rivals.

Under U.S. President Donald Trump, the American military has dramatically intensified airstrike operations against jihadist groups in Afghanistan, namely the Taliban and the region’s Islamic State branch, known as the Khorasan province (IS-K).

“Afghan and U.S. special operations coupled with U.S. airstrikes continue to decimate the heart of IS-K in [Jawzjan province’s] Darzab,” notes KP. “Afghan and U.S. forces have killed 90 IS-K fighters this year, a majority were eliminated in Darzab.”

As of September 2017, ISIS had spread its jihadi tentacles into seven provinces, according to the United Nations.

In addition to U.S.-backed ANDSF forces, the Taliban has been trying to push ISIS out of northern Jawzjan province. The clashes between the two groups have reportedly displaced thousands of civilians.

Voice of America reported in February:

Initially based in southern parts of eastern Nangarhar province, IS’s Khorasan branch, also known as ISIS-K, emerged in early 2015 in the mountainous areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan to cover the two states and “other nearby territories.” The group has since been trying to expand and find inroads to other parts of the country, including northern Afghanistan. As the Islamic State terror group is trying to expand from its traditional enclave of eastern Afghanistan to other parts of the country, Taliban insurgents are blocking them, sparking periodic and deadly clashes between both groups.

According to various news reports, ISIS established a presence in northern Afghanistan late last year.Islamic State (ISIS/IS)-linked jihadists in northern Afghanistan reportedly decapitated a 14-year-old child for providing nourishment to members of the country’s U.S.-backed security forces.

Referring to the beheading, Afghanistan’s Khaama Press (KP) reports:

Local officials confirmed on Tuesday that the incident has [taken] place in the vicinity of Darzab district [in northern Afghanistan’s Jawzjan province], home to several ISIS militants. Provincial security chief Abdul Hafiz Khashi said the child, believed to be 14-year-old, was beheaded by ISIS militants because he was taking food and water to the security forces in the area. Khashi further added that the victim has been identified as x and was helping the security forces voluntarily.

ISIS has been linked to several beheadings in Afghanistan.

Despite a U.S.-assisted campaign against ISIS by the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF), the jihadist group has expanded its presence beyond eastern Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province, ISIS’s primary stronghold in the region, to the northern Jawzjan province where it has also encountered resistance from its Taliban rivals.

Under U.S. President Donald Trump, the American military has dramatically intensified airstrike operations against jihadist groups in Afghanistan, namely the Taliban and the region’s Islamic State branch, known as the Khorasan province (IS-K).

“Afghan and U.S. special operations coupled with U.S. airstrikes continue to decimate the heart of IS-K in [Jawzjan province’s] Darzab,” notes KP. “Afghan and U.S. forces have killed 90 IS-K fighters this year, a majority were eliminated in Darzab.”

As of September 2017, ISIS had spread its jihadi tentacles into seven provinces, according to the United Nations.

In addition to U.S.-backed ANDSF forces, the Taliban has been trying to push ISIS out of northern Jawzjan province. The clashes between the two groups have reportedly displaced thousands of civilians.

Voice of America reported in February:

Initially based in southern parts of eastern Nangarhar province, IS’s Khorasan branch, also known as ISIS-K, emerged in early 2015 in the mountainous areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan to cover the two states and “other nearby territories.” The group has since been trying to expand and find inroads to other parts of the country, including northern Afghanistan. As the Islamic State terror group is trying to expand from its traditional enclave of eastern Afghanistan to other parts of the country, Taliban insurgents are blocking them, sparking periodic and deadly clashes between both groups.

According to various news reports, ISIS established a presence in northern Afghanistan late last year.Building on his recapture of the Eastern Ghouta suburb after a long and bloody siege that ended with an alleged chemical weapons attack, Syrian dictator Bashar Assad on Tuesday began the final battle for control of Damascus with artillery strikes on the last rebel positions near the city.

Reuters reports the Syrian military is moving on Yarmouk, formerly the location of Syria’s largest camp for Palestinian refugees. The camp was captured by the Islamic State (ISIS) years ago, prompting most of the residents to flee.

A commander aligned with the Syrian government—presumably an officer in one of the militia forces allied with Assad—told Reuters the operation in Yarmouk will target the remaining ISIS fighters, plus Nusra Front militants aligned with al-Qaeda. The commander claimed steps are being taken to evacuate civilians from the area.

“A recent uptick in violence, including exchanges of rocket fire have been reported. According to the recent reports, the Syrian Army has sent its 9th Armored Division, Tiger Forces and Palestinian units that support Assad to help retake Yarmouk,” the Jerusalem Post reported on Monday. The Palestinian Liberation Organization issued a “last warning” to rebel forces in Yarmouk giving them only a few days to leave before a ground operation begins.

According to the Jerusalem Post, there are about 18,000 Palestinians still living in Yarmouk, under conditions “bordering on starvation.” Some of those who fled found asylum in Europe, most famously including musician Aeham Ahmad, who became a YouTube sensation as “The Pianist of Yarmouk” by performing for children in the besieged city, until ISIS decided to ban music and set fire to his piano.

Moving further out from Damascus, Reuters’ contact claimed that Russia is working on surrender agreements for the largest remaining rebel groups. Turkey’s state-run Andalou Agency sees Assad rolling through Homs province on his momentum from recapturing Eastern Ghouta:

According to information obtained from Anadolu Agency reporters in Homs, within the past three days, regime forces have managed to capture the villages of Wadi al-Hubbiya, Wadi al-Qurbat, Ard al- Jassiya, Ard Kabir al-Sheyha, Zahrat Jebabi and Zahrat Jassiya. During the course of the regime’s ground operations, the Teblise and Rastan districts of Homs, Deir Ful, Camp Malluk, Musrefiya, Zarafani and Tirmala—all of which are home to large civilian populations—were targeted by regime warplanes, rockets and gunfire. Local sources say the regime’s main objective is to secure the Salamiya highway linking Aleppo to northern Homs, after which it hopes to seize a 600-square-kilometer area currently held by the opposition.

The final orders of business for Assad would be northwestern Syria, which Turkey is currently invading to fight Kurdish groups they consider terrorist allies of the Kurdish separatists on their side of the border, and eastern Syria, where Iran reportedly plans to help the Syrian military defeat Kurdish and Arab militias supported by the United States. Iran lumps all Syrian rebel forces together as “takfiri” terrorists, meaning false Muslims who perpetrate atrocities to defame Islam.

Institute for the Study of War analyst Chris Kozak told Canada’s CBC News on Tuesday that Assad’s recent victories are the fruit of his brutal “siege and starve” strategy:

Bombing raids destroy hospitals, mosques and markets, making existence in opposition-held regions untenable. The tactic involves fighters cordoning off opposition-held terrain and proceeding “to make life inside that terrain miserable” through a combination of sieges, cutting off food and medical supplies, waging airstrikes and ground attacks, “and keeping the pressure on those pockets until life becomes so unsustainable that people would agree to a reconciliation deal or evacuation,” he said. “There’s a method to the brutality,” Kozak said. “The Syrian Arab Army has been trying to avoid these painful, urban block-by-block fights, and instead they’re willing to be patient and to starve out these populations … until they cannot function.”

Other analysts quoted by CBC credited Assad’s ruthless focus on winning an existential battle for power, and probably his very life, while Western forces spent years searching for reliable non-terrorist allies in Syria and revising or refusing to define their ultimate objectives.

Another tool in Assad’s inventory is forced relocation, moving large populations across Syria or driving them out of the country entirely in a strategy that effectively weaponizes his own civilians. To this day, the Syrian government’s agreements with rebel forces almost always involve relocation of both fighters and surrounding non-combatants, constantly reshuffling the deck in conflicted areas until Assad draws a winning hand.

If operations in Yarmouk proceed as planned, Assad would regain full control of Damascus for the first time since 2012.Building on his recapture of the Eastern Ghouta suburb after a long and bloody siege that ended with an alleged chemical weapons attack, Syrian dictator Bashar Assad on Tuesday began the final battle for control of Damascus with artillery strikes on the last rebel positions near the city.

Reuters reports the Syrian military is moving on Yarmouk, formerly the location of Syria’s largest camp for Palestinian refugees. The camp was captured by the Islamic State (ISIS) years ago, prompting most of the residents to flee.

A commander aligned with the Syrian government—presumably an officer in one of the militia forces allied with Assad—told Reuters the operation in Yarmouk will target the remaining ISIS fighters, plus Nusra Front militants aligned with al-Qaeda. The commander claimed steps are being taken to evacuate civilians from the area.

“A recent uptick in violence, including exchanges of rocket fire have been reported. According to the recent reports, the Syrian Army has sent its 9th Armored Division, Tiger Forces and Palestinian units that support Assad to help retake Yarmouk,” the Jerusalem Post reported on Monday. The Palestinian Liberation Organization issued a “last warning” to rebel forces in Yarmouk giving them only a few days to leave before a ground operation begins.

According to the Jerusalem Post, there are about 18,000 Palestinians still living in Yarmouk, under conditions “bordering on starvation.” Some of those who fled found asylum in Europe, most famously including musician Aeham Ahmad, who became a YouTube sensation as “The Pianist of Yarmouk” by performing for children in the besieged city, until ISIS decided to ban music and set fire to his piano.

Moving further out from Damascus, Reuters’ contact claimed that Russia is working on surrender agreements for the largest remaining rebel groups. Turkey’s state-run Andalou Agency sees Assad rolling through Homs province on his momentum from recapturing Eastern Ghouta:

According to information obtained from Anadolu Agency reporters in Homs, within the past three days, regime forces have managed to capture the villages of Wadi al-Hubbiya, Wadi al-Qurbat, Ard al- Jassiya, Ard Kabir al-Sheyha, Zahrat Jebabi and Zahrat Jassiya. During the course of the regime’s ground operations, the Teblise and Rastan districts of Homs, Deir Ful, Camp Malluk, Musrefiya, Zarafani and Tirmala—all of which are home to large civilian populations—were targeted by regime warplanes, rockets and gunfire. Local sources say the regime’s main objective is to secure the Salamiya highway linking Aleppo to northern Homs, after which it hopes to seize a 600-square-kilometer area currently held by the opposition.

The final orders of business for Assad would be northwestern Syria, which Turkey is currently invading to fight Kurdish groups they consider terrorist allies of the Kurdish separatists on their side of the border, and eastern Syria, where Iran reportedly plans to help the Syrian military defeat Kurdish and Arab militias supported by the United States. Iran lumps all Syrian rebel forces together as “takfiri” terrorists, meaning false Muslims who perpetrate atrocities to defame Islam.

Institute for the Study of War analyst Chris Kozak told Canada’s CBC News on Tuesday that Assad’s recent victories are the fruit of his brutal “siege and starve” strategy:

Bombing raids destroy hospitals, mosques and markets, making existence in opposition-held regions untenable. The tactic involves fighters cordoning off opposition-held terrain and proceeding “to make life inside that terrain miserable” through a combination of sieges, cutting off food and medical supplies, waging airstrikes and ground attacks, “and keeping the pressure on those pockets until life becomes so unsustainable that people would agree to a reconciliation deal or evacuation,” he said. “There’s a method to the brutality,” Kozak said. “The Syrian Arab Army has been trying to avoid these painful, urban block-by-block fights, and instead they’re willing to be patient and to starve out these populations … until they cannot function.”

Other analysts quoted by CBC credited Assad’s ruthless focus on winning an existential battle for power, and probably his very life, while Western forces spent years searching for reliable non-terrorist allies in Syria and revising or refusing to define their ultimate objectives.

Another tool in Assad’s inventory is forced relocation, moving large populations across Syria or driving them out of the country entirely in a strategy that effectively weaponizes his own civilians. To this day, the Syrian government’s agreements with rebel forces almost always involve relocation of both fighters and surrounding non-combatants, constantly reshuffling the deck in conflicted areas until Assad draws a winning hand.

If operations in Yarmouk proceed as planned, Assad would regain full control of Damascus for the first time since 2012.